ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-10-0.u17671	We are continuing the work of the 26th session of the House. I find that 35 MPs attend the session. No one has justified their absence, which leads us to conclude that they will join us during the session. As you know, we interrupted the session by closing the debate on item 22 of the agenda. We are now left to discuss other points of the adopted agenda. Then we'll hold a vote on the materials discussed at this session, according to the House's conclusion. Moving to the 23rd point of the agenda: Ad. 23. Security status information in Bosnia and Herzegovina for 2007, with Information on the current state of security in BiH, at the conclusion of the House of 21st session I thank the Minister for being here. A couple of sessions we're postponing this item on the agenda. I also know it's a government meeting and I'd like to ask that if there's a need to take a few opening words. Here you go, Minister. Minister Tarik Sadović, Minister of Security.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-10-0.u17673	The Honored Chairman, the Honorable Vice-President, the Honorable Representatives, MPs of the Parliamentary Assembly of the House of Representatives, fellow ministers, respected representatives of the civil sector, representatives of the media, ladies and gentlemen, Parliament has decided to actually combine two information into one. I must say that this information on the current state of security that Parliament has requested at one of its sessions has managed to be made in about five days thanks to the extraordinary efforts of the ministry itself. However, because of the adoption procedure at the Council of Ministers, then in this commission and, of course, for the agenda of the dots, she came with quite a delay and I will briefly try to unite both of these points. Based on the information and knowledge collected, it can be said that there are still all threats and emerging forms that have an important impact on the security situation in BiH. It is important to say that in 17.2.2008, the Kosovo Assembly declared independence and this fact indicated the possibility of a reflection of the event and of a security situation in BiH. In several RS cities, protests have been held that RS police have largely kept under control. The issue of Kosovo, as the biggest regional problem in the Balkans, is evident to generate certain tensions in BiH itself. 2 A number of unresolved issues and public, often too harsh, findings that can produce a sense of civil uncertainty and uncertainty for the future are present on the political scene. If such a trend continues, extremism can be strengthened, mainly on a national and religious basis. Especially risky are those areas in BiH where there are already certain tensions and where certain forms of violence have been exhibited on these grounds. A particularly vulnerable category, and that should be said in this House, are returnees and their property, and religious facilities (under quotes),'mining communities in BiH'. The overall security situation in BiH is constantly burdening the heavy war legacy and the processing of war crimes indictees. Our own estimates of certain agencies say that about 10,000 people in BiH are suspected of war crimes committed. These people, as a rule, are trying to avoid criminal responsibility. Among other things, the fate of a large number of missing persons, because no numerous mass graves have been discovered and the remains of thousands of people are being born of certain frustration, dissatisfaction with their families. The illegal drug trade is a fairly widespread activity of criminal groups, whether it's part of an international illegal trade chain or it's part of local networks of dealers and traffickers. Some criminal groups also hold a monopoly in certain areas. Dirty money is washed in various ways and included in legal flows, and most often by investing in real estate. There's no way of knowing that drug money is directed to commit acts of terrorism. Operational knowledge also points to the presence of illegal trade in high-tariff goods, mainly cigarettes, in the area of eastern Herzegovina and eastern Bosnia. Also, one of the forms of organised crime, illegal arms trafficking and mine-explosives, and ways of smuggling are mostly known to law enforcement authorities. However, what concerns are the knowledge that the purchased and explosive devices are major destructive powers that can be activated by calling the cell phone. The data collected in the previous period, on the basis of which the security situation is being monitored and assessed, from the point of view of possible internal terrorism, shows that no terrorist act or terrorist threat to the citizens and property of BiH has been committed in BiH lately, as well as to the international institutions present in our country. Meanwhile, you are familiar with the media, that a certain group in Bugojn and Sarajevo has been arrested, but the investigation will show whether it was a concrete intention to commit a terrorist crime or whether it was an illegal possession of weapons and explosives. Also, numerous events have been registered that have, therefore, had a negative impact on the security situation in BiH. But these events basically represented the execution of various crimes – the planting of explosive devices, killings, criminal accounts, robbery, desecration of religious objects, monumental markings, illegal upheaval of property, especially returnees, verbal threats addressed to returnees, nationalist threats sent through SMS messages, violations of public order and peace, especially in catering facilities, which, to some extent, affects the overall state of security of citizens. The events that have had a negative impact on the overall security situation are therefore classic crimes, and lately such events have been registered slightly more in the Sarajevo area, including eastern Sarajevo, and some places that gravity in Canton of Sarajevo. So, I mean High, Kakanj. In a relatively short period of time, 3 more serious crimes have been committed, including killings, wounding, installing and activating explosive devices, which have caused, justifiably, fear and concern of citizens and upset the general public. In addition to the murders committed in a particularly cruel way, I will especially highlight this old woman's murder in Sarajevo, which was incinerated by minors, as well as that murder in the tram, also by minors as well as other crimes – the planting and activation of explosive devices under cars, catering facilities. A little more is registered in the narrow area of the city of Sarajevo, for example, at Dobrinja III near the bus stop where an explosive device was dropped from which three people were injured, then explosive devices planted under Viliams and premijer Minister's bookies, then the Palace when an explosive device was activated in front of the Omerta catering facility, which is located in the dilapidated bus station of which three persons were killed. Also, the activation of explosive devices in places, so at the Palace: Luke and Stambolic where one person... was injured. In addition to these explosions, which occurred in the Sarajevo area, similar activities have been registered in other areas of BiH in the previous period, and in most of the above cases, according to data which have not been confirmed, it has been one another's calculations with the criminal past they exchange, so let me say, each other's warning messages, cause fear, seek, therefore, to extort certain and satisfying their interests. The security situation was also affected by the criminal activities of individuals who manifested themselves through the desecration of religious objects, cemeteries, mesars, etc., which are all expensive, except giving birth to some disturbance, but here, in some ways, and producing evil blood among... ethnic and national and religious groups. So what can generally be said about events that have recently contributed to the negative sense of citizens for their own safety, it can be said that in the vast majority of cases it is about classical criminal... activities. Now let me give you a summary of the safety information for 2007 in the shortest possible lines. It's an extensive material that has about 50 pages. Here, I'll try to present it in a few minutes. This information therefore covers all security aspects, i.e. indicators of the situation and developments in society that directly affect the state of security. Accordingly, we receive data from institutions that are directly related to the implementation and monitoring of legality. In that sense, the Ministry of Security collects relevant reports, information from entity ministries, the MUP, the Brcko District Police, cantonal MUPs, state law enforcement agencies, courts, ministries and institutions that are in one way or another related to the... security issue. We tried this information to make a new approach to the security situation, so we divided the Information into 10 chapters, and that: Border Security; Crime that has sub-chapter: Organized Crimes, Crimes against Life and the Body and Minority Delinquency, then Public Order and Peace, Traffic Security, saradnja with The Hague Tribunal, Returns Security, Mine Management in BiH, Food Safety, Epidemiology and other 4 threats to security. Of course, I'm asking Parliamentarians, unless... something in this was covered, and they think it's... important, that... in that sense, they give specific orders to the ministry. The order of security issues covered by the Information was therefore conditioned by the state of security in 2007 and we also put... as a priority and conditions which... stem from the European Partnership with BiH document. So, the Information shows trends and progress in some security areas as well as the negative trends that occurred in 2007. They were also treated through statistics, key issues from the ministry's competence highlighted in the BiH Progress Report, which, at the end of 2007, developed by the European Commission of the EU... where progress has been identified in the following areas: progress in the field of visa management, progress in border management, progress in asylum procedures that are generally in line with international standards, then progress in the area of migration, in the fight against money laundering, as well as some progress in co-operation with neighbouring countries' police in the area of drug trafficking. We also concluded a strategic agreement with EUROPOL to strengthen funds to fight organised crime and terrorism. And it can generally be said that a certain progress has been made in the work of the police. The security situation in BiH, which is confirmed through the information provided, indicates that the following documents should be adopted intensively: the revised Integrated Border Management Strategy, the State Strategy on Migration, the State Strategy for Combating Drug Abuse, and that a body for monitoring the implementation of the Strategy for Combating Organized Crime and Corruption should be established as quickly as possible. Looking at the security of borders in 2007, it should be noted that BiH continued to represent a country of transit for illegal immigrants, whose ultimate destination is Western Europe. But lately BiH has appeared as well as a country of extreme... destinations and a place where new immigrants are recruited. So illegal immigration appears in various forms, either as a legal entry into BiH and then an illegal attempt to cross the state border to go to the Western European countries. Furthermore, illegal entry into BiH, an illegal attempt to leave BiH, legal or illegal entry into BiH, and an attempt to stay, so to abuse that stay in BiH, whether by seeking asylum or other options for staying. To BiH's competent prosecutors, the border police have filed 43 official reports for 43 crimes committed in the area of smuggling of various types of goods, against 31 people. The border police temporarily seized 146 vehicles and other means of transport, down 18.4% compared to 2006. The Directorate for Direct Taxation in 2007 submitted 576 requests for the initiation of the infringement procedure, which is more than 30% compared to 2006. The value of the taken goods is 13:45.293 KM. The border police have identified 1,041 persons for whom arrest warrants have been issued by the authorities. The competent authorities were handed over 542 foreign nationals, out of which BiH Foreign Affairs Service is 482 persons, and other bodies 36. An illegal crossing of the state border, entering and leaving, revealed 851 people. The service for foreign affairs is during 2007. 5 years in 539 cases revealed illegal immigration, which is 62% higher than in 2006. The Ministry of Security received 149 asylum applications in 2007 for 572 persons. And here's what I'm supposed to say is that the mah is talking about people who are in temporary reception status, who came to BiH from Kosovo in 1998, or 1999, and now, by seeking asylum, they want to permanently resolve their status in BiH. 329 foreign citizens were deported from BiH, which is more than 246%. 17 extraditions were carried out in 10 countries under international warrants. A readmission from BiH in Croatia has been carried out by 16 foreigners, including five citizens of Croatia and one citizen of Serbia, and from the Republic of Croatia, under the Readmission Agreement, 431 people were accepted, and of these, therefore, a person, 240 are foreign citizens and 191 citizens of BiH. General Crime data suggest that 38,078 crimes were registered in BiH in 2007, down from 3.4% compared to the previous year. So we have a reduction in the general crime rate. The downfall includes the number of most serious forms of crimes such as murders and heavy theft while, unfortunately, there is an increase in the number of muggings and crimes related to acts against gender freedom and morality. The percentage of the lighting of the crimes of general crime is about 64%. The number of organised groups suspected of committing crimes in the area of general crime, whose activity was cut down in the past year, suggests that there are more and more elements of organisation in this area, especially in the area of trafficking and trafficking in human beings, as well as in trafficking and drug trafficking. Each other's accounts and liquidations among organised crime groups often, therefore in public and traffic places, make it more difficult for the situation in this area, and therefore further efforts are needed to combat this form of crime and, of course, tighten criminal policy with the strengthening of pre-vetative action. Organised crime carriers in BiH are organised criminal groups dealing with trafficking in human beings and narcotics, stealing and selling cars, counterfeiting money, trafficking in human beings to deal with prostitution, robbery and abuse of official status, in order to financial machinations and money laundering. The work of the State Agency for Investigation and Protection has been focused on 11 organised criminal groups, so whose action is linked to the execution of the crimes prescribed by the BiH Criminal Law. The activity of five such criminal groups has been cut off, and the work on others is still in the phase of operational work, gathering relevant facts and evidence. It worries that economic crime is growing year by year in BiH, at a relatively high rate. In 2007, we recorded an increase of 9.2% compared to the previous year. A total of 1,493 crimes have been recorded. The number of crimes of abuse of official position has increased. What is really worrying – and over that fact we all need to be together to worry – is that only 14 corruption crimes were registered last year, only 14 corruption crimes, which is too little compared to public perception in that phenomenon. Economic crime, in particular money laundering, is characterized by certain weaknesses or gaps in laws and 6 insufficient financial supervision that enables... foreigners to bring in BiH finished money, dirty money that they have acquired in various criminal ways, and then, therefore, wash it in such a way, to put it into legal, legal flows and their imagination in this sense is very developed. Despite a number of concrete police measures, 1,494 crimes of unauthorized production and drug trafficking have been detected in BiH, which is 15.8% more than in 2006. So our country becomes not only a country of transit but in certain things and a country of producer and also a market for intoxicating drugs. So,... it is necessary in this area to take... significant steps because we see from the very rate of growth and, of course, the amount of money that revolves in this activity, where only certain assessments can be made, and never until the end exactly, that it is necessary to really take systematic efforts from all the authorities to... this problem or the escalation of this problem stop. In 2007, police cut off several organised groups of criminals, who alienated and trafficked vehicles, blackmailed owners, but the situation in this area remains unsatisfactory, as 2,146 cars were estranged, which is by 11.6% more than in 2006. It should be said that the situation in RS is somewhat more favourable than in the Federation of BiH and we all remember those successful actions in the area of East Sarajevo and Bijeljina. I can tell you that the Ministry of Security has already taken certain measures that we believe will greatly improve otherwise the detection of cars and documents that have been forged or which are... forged, and in this sense the National Central Bureau of Interpol in Sarajevo will therefore unite all existing databases on stolen vehicles through a single system, a database of stolen vehicles that is compatible with Interpol's base in the world, so that soon information will be available whether or not a vehicle has been stolen. As for crimes against property: 24,248 of these crimes were registered in 2007, which is 5.6% lower than in 2006. Major thefts were 13.172 or 21% lower than the previous year. In 2007, there were 26 armed robbery banks, post office and transport money, which is 18% more than the previous year, but if something can be found in that trend, it is positive that the amount of money that has been robbed has actually been halved relative to the previous year. So last year, 3,585,214 KM was robbed. Also, 227 crimes against dignity and morals were recorded last year, which is 24.7% higher. The most severe form of crime in this area is rape and 44 crimes of rape have been recorded in BiH, four more than the previous year. Of course, here you need to be careful because there's a certain number of rapes and they don't report to the police for any known reason. There are significant amounts of illegal weapons and ammunition still in BiH citizens who can be used in various criminal activities, starting with illegal trafficking, murders, etc. And in that sense, here we should appeal to pass the Law on arms and ammunition. We think on a state level, or harmonize existing entity laws. The BiH Intelligence and Security Agency did not find out that no terrorist act or terrorist threat to the citizens and property of BiH were recorded in the area of our country in 2007, as well as international institutions 7 present in BiH. In that sense, here I am calling you and to look at, I think today's press release, a report by EUROPOL, a very relevant organisation. So, from the domain of crimes against life and the body, 2,634 cases were recorded, which is less than 4%. So in BiH, there were 66 murders in 2007, which is 12% lower. The percentage of the lighting of these crimes is very high and is about 97%. Also, what may be a hit topic, for a reason, that BiH in 2007 had an increase in the number of minors reported compared to the year before, by 48 minors or 1.7%, so by 1.7%, the number of crimes committed by minors was increased. However, the degree of danger from crimes committed by minors from year to year is increasing, as minors are increasingly making and the most difficult forms of crimes such as murders, heavy robberies, etc. Unlike before when it was mostly theft, public order and peace violations, and so on, let's just say, easier offenses. It should be said that the percentage of juvenile delinquency, in the total number of crimes, is between 8 and 10%. So, from the total number of crimes: 8% to 10% are committed by minors. The absence of prisons and institutions for the resociation of registered juvenile delinquents, a large number of children left on the street, children without adequate parental ageing, abandoned minors etc. – are the main causes of the involvement of minors in crime in this area. It is therefore necessary to ensure, through competent institutions, that juvenile perpetrators of criminal offences are placed under the appropriate form of educational control. In this respect, of course, the strategic objectives set out in the document Strategy against Jurisdiction, in particular alternative measures and prevention system, should be taken into account. In the area of public order and peace: a total of 18,589 requests were submitted in 2007, down by 30%. In this area, it can be said that the situation is satisfactory, although, in our opinion, a law on preventing incidents at BiH level is needed. So, there are neither entities, I mean, nor cantonal laws, but I don't think that for certain sports manifestations that are of international character there is an appropriate legal regulation. In 2007, 33,905 car accidents were recorded, up 11%. 430 people died, which is more than 1.42%. Based on the analysis of the traffic situation, it can be concluded that there has been a further deterioration and for years we have had a negative trend in this area. Therefore, based on statistical data, it can be concluded that, despite more severe criminal measures, trends, poor trends continue and this situation is most affected by the non-discipline of traffic participants, harsh violation of traffic regulations, age of the vehicle, lack of roads, lack of adequate traffic signalling etc., etc. It also concerns a large number of vehicles excluded due to technical failure. Of course, I'm not talking about a huge number here, which is five times larger, severely injured, of material damage that I don't know if it can be measured, and indeed in that sense, radical demands must be made. War crimes research centres, SIPAs and departments in regional offices delivered 32 reports to prosecutors in 2007, covering 107 people. Also, 143 reports on measures and actions taken, while a number of intelligence data has been provided to other police agencies to act. By order of the prosecution, 30 people were deprived of their freedom because of the existence of, of course, reasonable suspicions that they committed crimes against humanity, war crimes against the civilian population and violations of the laws and customs of war. 8 As regards the area of vegetable safety, it should be said that some segments in the area of return are already surrounded by refugees and displaced persons. So we can say that the return process is almost over. However, some of the other essential problems related to the permanent and self-sustainable survival of those persons continue to exist. Therefore, although there is a marked trend in reducing criminal and criminal offences to the detriment of returnees and they still exist and can be used, therefore in terms of creating certain tensions, tensions etc., in order to act preventively in preventing such intentions, international trust should be built and to promote tolerance, and attacks on returnees and religious objects should be addressed effectively. We have information that 550 crimes have been recorded in RS at the expense of the returnee. Mines and unexploded killings killed 30 people, and eight people died last year. It has been estimated that the direct danger of mines threatens over 920,000 people. For the demining process, insufficient resources are unfortunately provided, and available operational capacities are only partly used. Here, and perhaps for the first time, let me tell you that based on the laboratory reports received by the Food Safety Agency from laboratories that analyzed food in BiH: a total of 135,000 food analyses were carried out and, therefore, it was, in accordance with the provisions of the applicable regulations, 94%; and that 9,291 were the result of analyses or 6,34% were not in line with the provisions of the applicable regulations. In 2007, 60 outbreaks of infectious diseases were reported in BiH. 12,239 patients were reported. And I have to realize that the epidemiological situation has deteriorated since 2006. What is particularly worrying is that brucellosis is getting worse last year, as almost 500 people in BiH got sick last year and we see trends in the first quarter of this year that are even worse. As for the other security threats, here I am at least counting them, because there's no time and no time for a wider elaborate. So in that, let me say, in these other threats, are, above all, threats that come about polluting the human environment, air, waste management, nature protection, water etc. So here there are huge shortcomings in the legislation itself, and in that sense, appropriate steps should be taken. Also, these waters, water pollution is a very pronounced problem and, of course, can affect the safety of citizens. Also, there are significant numbers of wild dumps in BiH. Here, let's say, that there are about 1,800 such wild dumps in the Zenic-Doboj canton alone, and therefore, by endangering the environment, man is also at risk. Of course, such dumps are also places where dangerous waste can be delayed, radioactive waste etc. There are only two arranged sanitary dumps in BiH. The danger of ionising radiation is determined by itself, in spaces, industrial systems where there are possibilities, therefore also equipment to control radioactivity. Also, we have a problem, it is also at the very borders where sometimes and can't respond properly in that sense, so such cases... radiation are revealed when they already reach the area of an industrial plant. Here, Chairman, thank you for your patience. I've really tried to make this as short as possible, but maybe I've been a little bit over-expanded. Thank you very much. 9
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-10-0.u17674	I thank you for this comprehensive and very interesting information. At the beginning of the session, we said we'd keep working tomorrow, in case we don't finish this today, so we've already been reported in a row. Dear MPs Jovičić, Raguž, Marković, Bahtić, Okolić, Rajilić. Here you go. You can do it electronically, you can do it like this. I'd prefer electronics. Here you go. Since there are no Jovičić, the next one, we'll wait.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-10-0.u17675	Dear Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, gentlemen of the Council of Ministers, gentlemen of NGOs, from the media, therefore, I did last year, when we had the Safety Report for 2006, said safety is a dynamic category, and we can't get a report for the previous year, I don't know, in July, but here's a little progress, so this year we got a report in April for 2007. Of course, the report itself is abundantly full of statistics that say nothing to ordinary people because the reduced rate in any area by 2-3% also says nothing compared to the previous year and we are not allowed to sneak in and say: the situation in BiH as regards security is good, but we must not even make drama, so we say that everything here is under the glass of various terrorist organisations, other criminal groups, which, of course, is causing great animosity among all BiH citizens. On some other issues, I said: the people may suffer even weaker to live economically, but no one will suffer to live under fear, under the eternal threats of these or those criminals and thieves, and that happens on every inch of this country. Of course, I don't want to blame Mr. Minister for immediately starting the report with a complicated situation because of... the illegal declaration of Kosovo to the Republic. Yes, it is true, there have been several rallys in RS but it is commendable that the interior ministry has kept everything under control and also political authorities in the RS who have said in advance that they will never allow anyone to violate the security of citizens. Another piece of information falls into my eyes, without these statistical percentages, when Mr. Minister says that over 500, I don't know how many crimes have been committed against returnees to RS. I'm going to say right now that I'm judging it harshly. And that's what the MUP RS has finely recorded, and I think all these cases have been brought in, as far as the ministry is concerned, to the end, but you know the pairs of ears immediately. There is no record of whether any crimes were committed against returnees to the Federation, over Srbin. They have two reasons. Either people don't come back at all, and that first one's probably there because they're not coming back, or there was no crime, and there was. You know, the system can't just keep this country safe. There must be other systems attached. And I will advocate amendments and additions to the Criminal Law that the maximum penalty provided for by the BiH Criminal Law is imposed for drug dealers...40 years for all those who are trying to commit terrorist acts, the most severe penalties. Why would we have some compassion here and not settle it legally, and then give these security structures the opportunity to do their job? 10 So, on the report, I repeat, it's hard to talk about numbers. They contain and abound with numerous data but I have to say that one or two major affairs or riots, we can't call an isolated incident like the murder of an unfortunate boy in Sarajevo. There's no man who didn't complain about that fact, convicted, and then something else happens, so this unfortunate event is used for political purposes, and then there's this demonstration in the capital of this country, where I need to think about whether I'm going to get to work safely. Or, I don't know, some other people. Obviously, the background was that it was political protests that wanted to replace the current government in the city of Sarajevo. Here, I don't defend, I don't know, not Zvizdić, not Borovac, not anyone, but it's calculated. That's what you saw. So let's organize the protests, here I will lead, I have experience, really, in organising protests, but which will yield results. Against whom? Against criminals and thieves! So there are some here, I repeat, data, I'm really worried about when once SIPA and OSA will come out with data that they've discovered one single tomb from the war past. Guys, let's not fool ourselves that wartime doesn't do everything in this country. Until we resolve it, there is no political normal environment that we can move into economic reforms. So you know, at some of these previous sessions, I've been repeating and asking the BiH Prosecutor's Office to prepare a strategy, to finish the whole story in five years. Just when a man's prepared, he's gone from that function. Now I have to ask someone else to prepare it, too, etc. So I ask the Ministry of Security to follow all these events and, when it does, - God Bog any more cases happen anywhere like in Sarajevo - to burn that old woman and kill a child, to have the government of this country react, not to have certain statements of shrewd state be in a passive state and the people wonder what will happen to this country. A terrorist act in the Palace causes such chaos that the people must not go out on the street, the state does not react. No press releases, no announcements, but no emergency session. An emergency session has to be when such an event happens, so we don't wait for it to happen somewhere else, so then, we're just trying to treat the consequences. We must do everything to predate all events that cause fear among the people. I'm saying no man can stand up in the morning with fear and some serious problems and animosity: can he go to the store and buy a newspaper? So these are general data and general findings because I don't want to get into these percentages, but please, Mr. Minister, you've done great here and the percentages are like that. But they don't mean anything, if it's a reduction compared to 2007, if it's happening again. Please, why should we hide when we know that BiH is no longer a transit area for drugs, but that's where the drugs are produced. Are we really going to do everything we can to stop that monster by the neck, to get those thieves and mobsters, who lead this people to the edge of fear, to stand by the neck? Why do we hesitate to step up or give security structures of authority to arrest thieves and mobs in the middle of the road, and beat - like in the so-called. democratic countries, where I watch every major on TV, beat them up, and tell us: "You can't beat a thief, go to EUPN to complain there."
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-10-0.u17676	Time!
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-10-0.u17677	Here I am, Mr. Chairman. So, I was talking about the general security situation. She's not good, but she's not so heavy that we're now warming up from Parliament 11 to the people of panic and saying, "Here you are today, you can't go to work like that!" That's not true. And in relation to some other countries in the environment, it may be better, but it can't get us to ignore it and, of course, what I said, Mr. Minister, I ask you to bring this parliament reports as often as possible, not for a year, security is, I said, a dynamic category, depending on one day, not for a year. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-10-0.u17678	Dear Ambassador Raguž. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-10-0.u17679	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear MPs, members of the Council of Ministers, distinguished guests, I reported for two reasons for the debate. The first is, to say, that it still deserves a certain kind of commendation. The fact is, today we have two information on the state of security. One full year ago, one on the state of play and that we have the minister, the minister, the minister, the minister, and even though he did significantly repeat what it says in the information itself, I think that both the public and the representatives today should have insight into what is the safety of the Bosnian-Herzegovian citizens, property, institutions. I would remind you, first of all, of the fact that those who remember in 2000, when we discussed whether we would have the Law on the Border Service, whether there would be one such type of institution, at BiH level, and all the political debates that have been held since then. We see that this security system is slowly being established in BiH and, I will remind you, from then on, except for the State Border Service, or the police, the Ministry of Security has been established which was not at all in any of the initial ideas in Dayton and after Dayton, then SIPA, then OSA, means that already significant levers have been created to run the strategy but to successfully deal with all the security challenges. And what I think is missing from this information is one analytical judgment as far as these elements of the security system are today enough for BiH to deal with this. And that's what we should have, one verdict here, and see what's the responsibility of the highest legislative body that and in terms of new legal solutions, here's what we've been having a debate about for three years, which we need to reform the police. Well, at least we have one such analytical judgment today before the decision: what is it that is still missing so that we can make good use of all kinds of crime? I think that's what's missing the most in this information. And I think there's also the responsibility of the Council of Ministers and the Ministry of Security that very soon, perhaps within some of the deadlines that we set today, they offer that kind of assessment. What I'm saying is that, regardless of all the weaknesses, a huge and institutional and organisational and real shift has been made. But some of the assessments that have been made primarily in this information on the current state of security, I will only list some of them, yet they deserve and I expect both from the competent minister and all of these institutions, such as SIPA, OSA and others, to qualify for certain grades much more precisely. Please, this information on the current state of security begins with this assessment: Based on the information and knowledge collected, it can be said that they are still present, be careful, all threats and occurrences that have a significant impact on the security situation. So it is said on the other page: data collected during the crucial period, and based on which 12 security situations are being monitored and assessed from the point of view of possible internal terrorism, show that no terrorist act or terrorist threat has been committed in BiH lately. So, we need to coordinate these assessments, especially in one important piece of information that this Parliament should accept. I basically welcome and consider it encouraging that there were no terrorist acts or terrorist threats in BiH last year, but there is no indication that there are threats and plans in such information, and that means the responsibility of those who are headed by these institutions, the security authorities, to stand behind these assessments, that there is no such thing in BiH. Oh, Bog, and everyone would say hello to me both to the citizens and to the public. The other thing I wanted to talk about is that professional and responsible institutions that have no political influence, and as far as security structures are concerned, can no longer expect grades like this: some criminal groups hold a monopoly in certain areas. What are these criminal groups, which are areas, in which areas and states and stages are the processing and processing of these criminal groups in terms of prevention, so let me also tell you the complete destruction and the message that crime can be dealt with firmly in this country and send a clear message to young people and everyone here that they can live safely and with dignity? So only in one area, and these are high-tariff goods, of all these criminal activities and potential spheres, is it only said that, when it comes to high-tariff goods, it refers to the area of eastern Herzegovina, eastern Bosnia, which is – God Bog it is, of course, not good that it is there – but also those assessments should be much, much more concrete. What I think should also be complemented in this information concerns the area of migration and I think that the minister should have given a part of his judgments about migration. I will remind you here, however, that is not exactly stated in this report, in the report, which I received from the State Border Service, it is said that BiH remains a country of high migration risk. During 2007, watch this, there is a registered difference of entry and exit of 3,320 people coming from countries: Serbia,... Kosovo, Turkey, India, China, etc. So we have information that 3,000 and some people have entered, no one knows if they've gone out, where, what about these people, what their real intentions are, what their impact on the security situation is, the potential... risk. Secondly, it is said that only police officers in the State Border Police Service - nearly 500 seats are not filled. Look, that's what the report says, over 500 police officers, so it's empty, unfulfilled, and we don't have one assessment of what it means for the overall quality of the work of the State Border Service and to achieve and deal with all these challenges. And the challenges, gentlemen, are enormous. From this migration process to what we have heard here and from the minister that BiH is no longer just a transit country for drug production, for drug trafficking, but that it becomes a country in which drugs are produced, so unfortunately, and I think that most of all need to be concerned, consumed to an ever greater extent, which creates one of the biggest challenges for our children, for all future generations. Will the situation deteriorate here and in many other segments, or will we successfully prevent it? And that's why I join those who support more rigorous legislation in all elements, not only when it comes to smuggling, but all other elements related to drugs. What I would say is, therefore, that this situation is related to the international dimension of crime that is also mentioned here and said: that out of 11 criminal groups as far as SIPA has located, God Bog there are only 11 of them and God Bog... that there are only six left that are under 13 treatments, what they say. I think those grades are pretty easy to give, and that looks like the beginning of the story and the creation of the picture the way we want it, not the way it's real. None of the international crime areas with international dimensions in this information has been precisely located, nor have any countries, from which crime groups from which countries affect the security situation and this type of crime situation in BiH. What I think, therefore, that we, as the House of Representatives today, need to say, on the basis of this information, is what measures will be taken by the Ministry of Security, all of these elements of the security system in BiH, in terms of repairing regulation, human skills, logistics, that they can deal with these challenges, in which terms, and that responsibility is taken over and determined in that sense, and not that we here only have read information that we ourselves as representatives have already read, and that we are more precisely located the assessments of which I and the other representatives are likely to say that the risks are more precisely determined and that, in some way, all this story about reforms, the security sector feels in the security of every human in BiH. Here, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-10-0.u17680	Thank you. Dear Member Marković. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-10-0.u17681	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear fellow Members of Parliament and MPs, honourable ministers, media representatives and all guests, I would like to make a few remarks about the information we have on the agenda today. First of all, I would like to say that in this information we have obtained valid material based on which MPs should be quality-determined and possibly take certain views or draw certain conclusions regarding the material and data that we are presented with. Also, I want to say that the Resort Ministry has indeed made an effort to deliver numerical indicators that are very important and important in this kind of information, but also in the most part of the segments, which fall under the sphere of crime, processing, to deliver numerical indicators that are very important and important in this kind of information but are also a comparative approach to institutions that participate in the repression of crime in one society, so there are parallel indicators of the results achieved on this plan and the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, the Government of the Federation, the SIPA, the OSA, all others, the Brcko District Police and all other relevant institutions that participate in the fight against crime in BiH. Of course, that approach is just missing in one segment, I'll say something later in which segment and I'll say my opinion on it. I'm not going to speak individually now from segments to segments, but I want to say mostly a few of my general observations. This information gives an overview of, in fact, everyone, to say, the appearance and events in the Bosnian-Herzegovina society that have an important impact on the general and individual security of people in BiH, and as a result of the fact that general and individual security in one society is an important factor in the stability of this society. What I will specifically single out and highlight are only certain segments that I specifically focused on by reading this information and analyzing it. First of all, the area of economic crime found in this information that was on the rise in 2007, and if 14 are taken, since usually commercial crime is most often manifested, that is, its consequences show how much damage this crime caused in monetary terms, it is said here that some 14.5 million KM has suffered damage in the past year based on this crime. I think it's a very difficult phenomenon, and it's a big one, to say, a destructive effect in our society, because economic crime works, it appears in one system, so in the economy as one activity of society and it... usually goes in a particular chain. So it's a crime where not only matters one individual, but the whole system and a certain number of people and faces. So, I think you should, that competent institutions should do more work to counter this type of crime, and here the truth is a good example of how it is, that the fight against the economic crime of design in the RS is done by the government of the RS. And that is, above all, the establishment of active co-operation between the Central Audit Service and the Ministry of Interior, the establishment of the Special Prosecutor's Office and, of course, the effective work of the Privatisation Review Commission. These are three segments that are very important, important instruments in the fight against economic crime. Then, crimes against property. These are robberies, abductions and other kinds of such phenomena, which are said to have fallen in 2006. However, I'm afraid that in this segment, but also in some other segments that are processed here, the data that are given is simply our daily practice, in some ways, deny them. I certainly do not, by what I've said, want to compare the data given in this information, but I'm afraid that our reality is much more in certain moments, to say, looks worse than it is presented here in this information, because we witness almost every week that in one entity, in another, in certain municipalities, such phenomena occur and I think that there must be a more active relationship just because it's said that in these criminal acts, the lighting of cases, so, it's been falling since 2005, so we're saying. The lighting of such cases in 2005 was 58%, in 2006. 45%, and in 2007. 38%. So this censorship of detecting such acts and fighting them is increasingly falling, and that's what we might be worried about, which we need to take very seriously after considering this information. What I am concerned about both as a man and as a citizen of this country and as a parent is a crime, that is, a crime against life and the body, which is said to be said to be down 4%. But in our society, there's such a horrible and difficult murder that the truth is that...in certain cases, the perpetrators are discovered and the perpetrators are brought to justice, but I want to ask the minister: what about the fact that the results of the discovery of those crimes, the crimes against life and the bodies where the perpetrators have not been discovered yet, and those acts date back to, say, about five or seven years ago, and even ten years ago. I'm afraid this silence, which is on the part of these crimes, is not saying that in some cases it may simply have given up, perhaps in some cases it is thought that there is simply no way and there is no method to reach the perpetrators, which can be very dangerous for our society as a whole. The crimes of juvenile delinquency are mentioned here, I don't know, public order and peace, and all that. Now, what's special to me, which I'm going to single out now, is a segment of co-operation with The Hague tribunal. For that segment I said, I did not highlight it but what I said at the beginning that in all segments a comparative approach was given to the results achieved by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, the Government of the Federation, the Police District of Brcko, OSA, SIPA and, I don't know, all relevant institutions, in this case it was given, and I am now asking the Minister: Why is it so done? Data have been provided on what the RS government has done regarding co-operation with The Hague tribunal and the commission formed there for... data collection and all the tasks it has given it, even the Brcko District Police have been mentioned what it has done and what results it has achieved, the SIPA, the OSA and everything else, but there is no mention of the Federation government or the Federation MUP – what it has done, what the results have come up with! 15 And I am now asking the minister: does this mean that you think that the Government and the Ministry of the Federation have no basis to act on this plan and that there should be no relationship between the government of the Federation and the tribunal of The Hague, do you think that this is just the sphere of action and work of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, the Brcko District Police, because you highlighted here in only one sentence and said that the cases handled by the cantonal prosecutors will be transferred to the BiH Prosecutor's Office and the BiH judicial authorities? There is no information at all: so, to what results, what did she do on the plan... co-operation with The Hague tribunal, what did the MUP and the government of the Federation of BiH do? And finally, since the minister... called us in his statement to propose or add to ourselves something that we think is left out in this information, what I am livingly interested in, and not given in the document – is information about the criminal acts of corruption and criminal acts of domestic violence. These two segments, I think, are important in our society, because neither corruption nor domestic violence is a mere rarity that is happening in our society but very much... phenomena that are common in our society, and, especially because of, in particular, I am undermining domestic violence. Here, a systematic and very high-quality, let's say, juvenile delinquency, but I think domestic violence is a crime that actually has a very common consequence of juvenile delinquency. And these crimes of domestic violence, I think they deserve to be processed in particular, to tell us, is it in the Porsche, is it in some kind of stagnation, what's going on on on that plan? Because we all know that domestic violence isn't really about individuals, it's about the whole family that needs to be a healthy foundation for every society, including ours. I believe that both this information and all the competent institutions must pay attention, give due attention to this segment of crime and crime, and I call on the minister, if possible, today orally to tell us something about it, if not, I will at some next session, so ask a parliamentary question and ask for an addition of this information regarding these two segments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-10-0.u17682	Thank you. A distinguished representative, Sadik Ahmetović, applied for the replica.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-10-0.u17683	Well, I don't know if I'd call it a replica, but here. So, to answer my colleague, since I don't know how long he's been following this story when it comes to the Hague tribunal or following it segmentally. So, the Federation of BiH, when it comes to indictments from The Hague, has respected all its obligations, when charged. Those who have not been arrested and have been charged with the most serious war crimes, are the commander of the RS Army and the RS president. So, if it's not telling you enough and why it's the priority responsibility of the RS MUP and why it's retreating so far, then you can see from it. So, no,... I don't want to amnest anyone when it comes to co-operation with The Hague tribunal, but I think, given that I will repeat, that even today at the RS MUP, since no Bošnjak can be a police officer in RS police stations, it may suspect that the current 16 RS police, in some way, do not want Bošnjak to be actively involved in the information... that police are coming to when they are responsible for war crimes. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-10-0.u17684	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect allegation: the esteemed representative Marković.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-10-0.u17685	Well, first of all, I didn't ask for an answer about this part of the information that's on the agenda from my colleague... Ahmetović, rather than asking for the reasons of the minister and the restoring ministry that was working on this material. First that. And secondly, that all this is so true, as you distinguished colleagues say the Federation government has fulfilled its obligations to The Hague tribunal, where, last or last year, the President of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and then RS President Čavić have had the relevant and evidence of the BiH Army General Atif Dudaković, who has turned out to be the material and all the evidence that has been filed is quite relevant and can be prosecuted against him. And I'm not going to talk any further about what the paper, what the media and the press are writing in the paper in that case, what happens next and what happens when that material is developed in the D.A.'s office. But if it's all so true, where it comes from, and don't let me give you another set of examples, and if I do, then the resolution minister knows, they also know the relevant institutions that are dealing with it, and so I asked why there's no such information in the information that's very well established.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-10-0.u17686	Correction of the incorrect allegation: the esteemed representative Rajilić.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-10-0.u17687	Dear Mr. Vice President, Mr. Ahmetović, you, when you are instructions on who is not arrested by the RS MUP, you know that all BiH security institutions have that obligation, not just the RS MUP. Secondly, in his quote, citing who should be arrested, you said: the president of Republika Srpska. I don't know if you mean Mr. Kuzmanović now, any president can, so let's go arrest them all because they're from the RS. And thirdly, it's your alleged, the fact that there are no Bošnjak police officers in the police, here I come from a town where there is, where they go on patrol, where they work in the services that they do. So, you made one, mildly said, false. Thank you very much. 17
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-10-0.u17688	Thank you. The first answer to the distinguished representative Sadik Ahmetović, then to your replica.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-10-0.u17689	Well, here's a colleague. I was talking about The Hague tribunal, I wasn't talking about the BiH Court, so don't replace things, confuse the public. I was talking about the Hague processes and what's known. These are issues charged with war crimes before the International Court of Justice in The Hague and what I know is that the process or investigation, when it comes to General Dudaković, is here in BiH and it is about the investigation. When it's over, then, we don't have to go in either you or me. The truth is, what I said was that there is an indictment of the UN tribunal for Karadžić and Mladić. And what my colleague Rajilić said, so I don't argue that the Bošnjak are working in the RS police, but check it out. So here's a chance to ask a parliamentary question here, to ask the RS MUP to tell you by dates, names, when a Bošnjak was a police officer in police stations in the RS. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-10-0.u17690	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect allegation: the esteemed representative of Bahtić.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-10-0.u17691	I'd like to thank my colleague, Milici.. However, as Krajišnik, I must say that legendary General Atif Dudaković has not yet been charged. In the BiH Prosecutor's Office, we have 30,000, 13,000 investigations. The investigation does not mean that someone is guilty and accused, unlike the commander, Mladić, who The Hag has convicted. And another thing to say is that General Dudaković is a decent, civilized man, free to walk around the city, throughout BiH, unlike Commander Mladić, who hides in BiH's gourds and forests. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-10-0.u17692	Thank you. The following is now announced for the debate by the esteemed MP Bahtić.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-10-0.u17693	Thank you. The security situation in BiH for last year and now, in my opinion, is partly good but there is much more to be done. This report is extensive, it's full of statistics. However, based on it, a detailed analysis should be carried out and certain actions should be launched. I'm going to base my discussion a little more on the economic field, from an economic point of view, because we still have a big grey economy in BiH. 18 From talks with representatives of the Border Police and Administration Unions, they say they can still collect 2 billion grey economies, and I guarantee there are 5 billion more. And people like that should be adequately supported, rewarded. Here, through this Law of Salutations, I call on everyone to come out to meet, and this is the most rewarding investment for those who collect incomes and prevent smuggling, organised crime, the gray economy, to be adequately rewarded. Also, I am glad that today a report has been published in the media... that BiH, when it comes to terrorism, is not on the list unlike the previous years when we were on the list, thanks to the installed processes of pogorelica, the alžirski group, is also known by whom I will not appoint it, is not here today, and it is known that pogorelica ended up in the BiH Court of Justice. That people are innocently accused and released. When it comes to the gray economy, I will bring out a colleague from the administration,... a colleague from the Administration and the Border Police, I will give them one..., that even today, believe me, brewers – Sarajevo, biaska – 100 percent hard, huge amount of beer, acidic water and juice sales for cash. We know it's excise goods. I think that's what needs to be put in place. We're getting rich people who robbed state property. That property is worth a billion marks. They need to take that, and they're still robbing this people. And they've raped themselves so much and spread their companies that they'll take political power as well. I will never accept it, and I will always publicly call them to pass this Law on the revision of privatisation and to take away what has been robbed. And let the management do their job, have control over the big ones, for the big ones, and let them go and make sure this is, this is easy to catch. It's easy to catch how much the bibian brewery pays to run the Communal-water company. Let's go through the papers and see how many beers he's shown, and you'll see that it's not a single prominence. Legendary boxer Marijan Beneš is in Banja Luka, here's the praise of the former system, arrested for having a cafe in downtown Banja Luka. And you know how he was arrested? The police went up to the tunas where they were sold... those bottles, they recorded as much as he needed, as much as he showed up, so many liters of beer and -- prison. That's how our police are supposed to do it. Security ministers, you still have support, but now more coordination with entity, cantonal, municipal levels. He's particularly worried about economic crime. We know that now, in front of the whole public, we are now selling, mass, state-owned tycoons to build residential and business centres into incriminating, and these facilities, it's the construction mafia in line with the government and, believe me, it's mostly done where the SDP is. I see it in Bihaq, you can see it in Tuzla and here in Sarajevo. It's got to stop too, everything's easy to prove. Can't someone get a plot for 30,000 marks, build a centre worth 7 million marks, and sold in advance and took an advance from a company. _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] How could he not? ... I'm sorry they... were called, but that's a fact, and that's so. When it comes to drugs, my predecessors said, not only are we a transit country, but we're also manufacturing. Believe me, I come from the Unco-Sancanton of the Sango Most, the Maltena, raised legally until a few years ago. But most tragically, USK police actions in Bihac 19 have always been broken into by lower police officers. And those drug dealers and... raise the forest when it's action. And there are things like that, and there's more to it. Those who are incapable, and in power are in police and construction structures, to deal with all kinds of organised crime: brother, let them resign! There are people who aren't afraid of organized mobs! We are organized by the mafia, in some segments stronger than the state. Well here in Sarajevo, gentlemen dear, stealing cars! I had stories from my Krajina people stole a car. Call the police, a cop gives him a phone there from another entity. The police can't do anything, and they know who's doing it there. What kind of state is that, then, and what security is that? I'll look back a little more on juvenile delinquency. Here I absolutely support my colleague Jovičić, there is a very dangerous trend for us and has become a serious social problem. The state and its institutions must take juvenile delinquency seriously and find an adequate response, and the best answer is to focus on prevention. We all know that there has been a juvenile delinquency and violence around BiH lately by the same. Many BiH citizens are therefore concerned about their safety and safety of their children, especially after the murder of Denis Mrnjavac, who was literally beaten in front of the eyes of the tram citizens. Violence must be a concern for all of us no matter where it happened: in school, home, street, etc. However, as MPs of the state parliament, I am concerned that there are certain political options with us and people who are suffering from government syndrome,... which use this to violently take power. It's nowhere in democratic states. We know what happened here in Sarajevo. I'll tell you the truth right now. A colleague of Lagumdžija came in at 2:00, he was there, I asked him, I say, in front of the Cantonal Committee of the SDP, across the street from the Presidency, a building that was robbed, a former Union of Communists, shared juices and yogurts. He says yes, yes, he says, they paid me, too. What does that mean, Minister of Security? How can it be that you don't know who the organizer is? ... It's easy to determine it just don't know... courage and strength. There, that's you... We know... the Hague and racquetical media. And it's always... it's potential here, conversations happen in a bar outside legal institutions, and it wants to take power by force, past institutions. There's no such thing. And, in the end, because of the citizens of the Sanski Most, because the only Sanski Most municipality, without a decision of the Municipal Council, without a referendum, has agreed to an open juvenile prison in the Sanski Most. I'm against it. All those municipalities refused. The sanski most is full of crime, drugs, murder because the city is open and has received refugees, displaced persons from over 30 municipalities. We have so many crimes, unsolved murders, and now we need that. That's it, thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-10-0.u17695	Thank you. Please don't comment. Dear Representative Bešlagić: Correction of the incorrect allegations.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-10-0.u17696	I really don't want to rephrase Mr. Bahtić, but he's made two false statements. If in a closed competition for land, the price of 2 million is given, and 8 million marks are given in closed competition, it is nothing negative. That's positive, though. I'm saying... 20 And the other thing, the replica that SDP organized... the demonstrations in front of the Cantonal Assembly was a pure lie, a lie, a lie, because I went there as a citizen, and, when I saw what was done, I retired. [[You don't understand.]] But there was no one there from the SDP to organize it. Therefore, his hallucinations about these things are things where Parliament must not go out like that.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-10-0.u17697	Thank you. Replication response: Honored Representative Bahtić.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-10-0.u17698	I haven't been able to say all the things about the crime and the SDP construction mafia, so now I'm going to take you out. Here, here at Marijin Dvor, across the street, Širbegović paid 32,000 marks, Hamamdžić, mayor of Sarajevo,... 55 million marks across the street. In Bihać Robotkomerc: there were threats to the members of the commission where he was also a member of the BiH Party Commission, for Tuzla, so you see that, where it is only fair... you are trying to crash, you are trying to bring it down. And what he says you're not standing, you're standing right there! I'm sorry, I'm sorry about the day we were duped here in Parliament to be supported, but I've been called by many fighting organizations, they say: so you support that, too, the people who were there. I don't support... Denis Bećirović because we are deceived, deceived. You know who went there, who took the picture. And your president said that... he's turning away from the microphone, he told me that in the hallway. ... These are the methods of your work.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-10-0.u17699	The following has been registered for discussion by the distinguished representative Okolić.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-10-0.u17700	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues and fellow Members of Parliament, members of the Council of Ministers, means of information, NGOs, international organisations, dear guests, I will look back on this information... which is for 2007, and I will be more concerned with this current security situation, because it is more normal for us to be more interested in what is at present than it has been and perhaps is no longer current. And don't you realize to me that, through this information, when I'm going through it, I'm going to go through it for the sole criticism of it, but to give suggestions, remarks, and some suggestions, and finally a conclusion that, if I think it's not properly respected, if we adopt it, then there's going to be a lot of criticism on my part, but that means another time. Here, I'll go like this. Here, you see this information says one, which my colleagues have already mentioned, a sharp finding, which is that based on the information collected, which we have already read, etc., and knowledge, there are still threats and phenomenal forms that have an important impact on the security situation in BiH, etc. So that, behind that in the same attitude, in the same paragraph, it actually happened in this information to such minor things that should be in the police bulletin, and that to the police station, maybe not the center, which is at the time of the incident that 21 are some embassies, etc. stoned and egged. It's very important for this information. We still had to say how hard the egg was, etc. It could have been defined the way it was defined. Until, again, trying to justify and seek justification in all of this, which is to sort out the situation, confessing illegal, what is self-initiative, recognition... Kosovo. Furthermore, it says in one section: Some criminal groups hold a monopoly in certain areas. Well, people, this is a finding that should not be spoken in rebellion, without something behind it, which is knowledge: what criminal groups are, what is taken against them, and what is further thought taken against them. Is it when you say some criminal groups, then the responsible know that they exist and they know about them, and you can reasonably suspect that. And it must not go as such a finding, because it is a derrogation of the very institutions that need to fight it. And yes, behind, the following: The ways of smuggling are mostly known. My people, mostly well-known, and nothing has been done, nor has it been taken to the extent to which it should be taken. He says: The collected knowledge and data suggests that individual foreign intelligence services show interest in BiH in a series of concrete developments and processes that take place on the assumption that the activities of certain intelligence services will continue with the same or individual intensity, that they can act to support the constitutional order or stabilise the overall situation. Now, strong grades, we're ex-SFRJ, the current Germany and Švajcarska with the Constitution that we've made, we defend it, and here we all strive with the international community to create a new constitution. We said ourselves that we should do something, and they would undermine the Constitution and so on. I think this is a difficult qualification for the international community, it can be said that some parts of the international community, but not official, but illegal, etc., but this is a little more difficult to qualify. Then, here in this information, I will now say what is not shown and processed, and that is no transit problems that are happening in BiH, because BiH is in transit between the Middle East and, call it what you will, down the South Balkans or Southeast, towards Central Europe, and it is indeed an interesting area to observe from this area. There is no meeting mentioned in Zenica that, let me say, was safely treated, and there are some gatherings that are mentioned in RS. Then there is no mention of what someone has already said, attacking returnees in the Federation, and there is one in RS. And I'm not going to tell you this time that it's trendy, but I'm just saying that someone didn't think of it, and that he didn't write it well and take care of it next time, because the safety information has to be real, it can't be trendy. There is no information on the robbery of Kargo center in Sarajevo, etc. There's no good information about sexual abuse, which has been recent this year, because we're doing information on the current security situation. So he says: The Directorate for Direct Taxation in 2007 submitted 586 requests – well, that's as much as it is – to initiate the infringement procedure as it is for 30.31 – and I congratulate them on that – compared to 2006. The total amount of goods taken away is 13.345,000, etc., which is more by 140.3% compared to the previous year. We're saying above that 30.3 is more and the goods have been taken away into 140 (the decimal point and some percent). We have to have a good time and think about it. 22 Let's move on. Says: In 2007, there were 26 armed robbery banks, post office and transport money in BiH, which is 18% more than in 2006. Come on, and we've got to deal with it, but, well, there's 18%. Compared to previous years, the percentage of lighting has dropped as well. This is what we have to do even more, from 58% in 2005 to 45% in 2006, and even 38% in 2007. Well, to get all this out, he says: the only positive thing at this point or trend is that almost half the amount of estranged money in the amount, now someone who doesn't matter, from 6.700,000 to... And stealing is stealing, whether it was 6 million or 3 million, it can't be an alibi for undetectable, or for reducing the degree of discovery, or for increasing the level of events. I say, that's why it's necessary to initiate law-making as soon as possible, and we always say so. It should be initiated, it should be taken without any concrete conclusions and imposing on who it is from which area it will take. Then it is said in one view: that over 920,000 people are threatened by mine non-exploded means of killing, and I think that figure should be avoided, because I say it is nowhere near that number that is compromised and it is threatened as many as there are inhabitants on the globe of the Earth. I have information that the girl from Zagreb, who had nothing to do with BiH and the mine-shine territory, was threatened by our mines because she was in the minefield of BiH at a given moment. In my view, therefore, all BiH residents are at risk and wider with these mine-explosive killings. It is said further: The BiH Food Safety Agency in 2006 and 2007, by the European Commission, in 11 cases of warnings on the existence of a risk to consumer health from food imported into the BiH market. And in 12 cases, etc. some other warnings. Guys, this is an alarming condition that we can't cross. I'm telling you, we now have the right information, that this is a far greater percentage, a far greater individual case than it says here, and we witness it every day in our supermarkets, the lowest shops around the expiry date, poisoning. The percentage of the analyzed products from the food stores that are in... meaning and therefore, in the end, my proposal will be what everything on it to do like, say, the percentage of the analyzed oil products and we... give a press release or journalists take and just write out 90 or 100 index points of controlled petrol pumps of them, of 90, 82 does not satisfy the quality of fuel, and it ends up. Now we're going to do something that, people, is very, very dangerous, very carelessly written in this information, and I don't think this is really standing. It is said: Of the 398 reported minors in the Canton of Sarajevo area, 93 or 23.4% are returnees in the course of crimes, minor R. I'm gonna check this out, so I don't think it's a secret and... it's got a full name and name here, at least his neighbor knows it's from this R. I need to get off the street: I'm sorry, Mr. minor, please don't beat me today, because there's something I'm not in the mood to defend myself because if I defend myself, because I'm a respectable person, I'm going to be convicted. He says: Reported for the execution of 128 crimes, returned to 128 times. And I'm asking you not to mention his name yet, so let's do what I suggested, a little bit in irony, that at least I run away from him because tomorrow it's my fault, or you, if you meet him, because we're public figures. So let's move on. Some kind of C.O. 73, and M.E. 68 times etc., well 66 and probably still didn't want to count and most of the works were committed as property... etc., etc. This is something that we have to deal well with and make good conclusions today. It concerns the fact of a minor, and you can see that they generally overcome years, from 14 to 16 years old, which is a step below some standards earlier and some 23 international standards, where it was from 16 to up, so on, the one called him, the older, the younger, etc., etc. ... For several years, more citizens, in fact, the percentage of juvenile delinquency in the total number of crimes in BiH is between 8% and 10% of the crimes committed, which means by these minors. Let's now reject these minors from the total number of residents in BiH, who are of age, so let's turn down the number of those who are not mature for their own life, or walking, or doing these works, so you'll see, the people who are this figure and who are this number in relation to those minors who are capable of doing this kind of part of... juvenile delinquency, that is, this part of the illegal activities and the people of BiH, because it has been proven to be more dangerous lately. It's not a problem when he steals a wallet, one person is damaged, in some part of the money there, it's not a problem when someone embezzles, but it's not that big a deal when someone embezzles a million tax marks, we're all a little damaged, so we don't even notice it. And when someone loses their lives, that's a big problem! There's no price that can bring back the lives of those who are lost now, etc. Nothing has been said here about the working hours of certain disputed facilities such as discotheques, cafes and others, etc.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-10-0.u17701	Time, time!
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-10-0.u17702	Time! On behalf of the club, I'm talking, so we'll keep that in mind. We also need to make order, do we have a concective determination of working hours from municipality to municipality. And what happens in one municipality? The municipality estimates it should not be working hours, i.e. spending youth from 23:00 to 04:00 in the morning, but should be from 20:00 to 23:00, to 24:00 and the other municipality does the opposite. And then, these children in their semi-indulgent state drive to a neighboring municipality, cause car accidents, cause death and an even bigger problem. So we need to settle that problem at the state level, too. We have no parallel data, not only with the countries of the environment, but with the EU countries.../a short break in the shooting/... I'm just going to say one example of traffic safety. Well, there can't be four tombstones on one corner! It is, then, at least four of them died without anyone being responsible for it, or seeing how much four lives died and material damage I won't talk about, in relation to the reconstruction, correcting that highway or the road or putting the police there on duty and warning that it is reducing speed, not hiding in some direction, where it doesn't matter whether the car is 80 or 120 and punishing itself for it, but that it also acts preventively. So you have to tell every task exactly what you'd have to do to get this information back to normal. I'd like to cut it short. Since, probably, __________(?) Is that a minister's recipe? It's not a minister's recipe, because these were all suggestions, because there's probably something going to be able to get out of this if it's wanted, because the information is really important, or the topic is very important. 24 Who thinks that this topic is not important and that this is something to be politicized about, it is an honor to him. I don't think so, and I want to be responsible here. I would suggest today that this home accepts this information, with an assessment that it cannot be even close to being satisfactory for BiH, for our citizens. The second conclusion is: To be in charge of the Ministry of Security, and I will now say what I am saying, the Ministry of Security to the House of Representatives of the Parliamentary Assembly, in as short a time as possible, deliver concrete proposals to improve security or to improve security in BiH on all grounds, and through this we will try to animate the general social awareness of the security of citizens, so that citizens can help us prevent all of this, and not let a citizen, who reports a thief or something else, be heard for 15-20 minutes why he was born, who is his father, who is his mother, then, says: people, I can't even do it because... that I did it, and someone will kill me. And this is what I suggested from this, he says: Taking into account the number of obligations arising from the strategies related to the Ministry of Security, we can conclude that the Ministry of Security has realised most of the tasks set up or is in the realization phase. I can't agree with this at all. What's been realized, so let's see what our status is? It is not the Ministry of Security - I fully appreciate their information and I do not think I criticise it - but it has not realised its work if it has gathered all of this together from the competent institutions, agencies, the ministries, and it has not finally reached concrete conclusions and proposed to this parliament that the agency, which we, as Parliament, will need, will do to improve this security situation in BiH. Here, I suggested these two proposals as conclusions. You'll get it in writing. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-10-0.u17704	Thank you. Now I'm going to read this log-in order, and I have to warn you that I have only three options on display, and then I get from the service of the others who signed up so that if there's any problem in reporting it's because of it. Means: Rajilić, Bešlagić, Križanović, Bećirović, Huskić, Lozančić, Džaferović, Halilović, Erić, Nanić. I will prepare and use Article 27.f (President's duties) to limit the discussion to five minutes, where, on behalf of the club, they can reach up to 10 minutes. Here you go. Dear Messenger Rajilić.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-10-0.u17705	Dear President, ladies and gentlemen, the guests present, I did not want to report to Mr Ahmetović again, because I do not think it was appropriate, first, that he was talking about what Mrs Marković was talking about, but, behold, since he said again that I was looking for information from the RS MUP, how many Bošnjak police officers are on duty at the station, here I will inform him of the following. 25 So, Mr Ahmetović, last year, I had very serious threats from the Federation of BiH, where a certain gentleman who escaped the Prosecutor's Office these days, or the forces of the Biography region, was making some threats to me, so the estimates were that some people needed to protect me. Now, one of those cops that you're talking about that you can't perform your duty is one big time in front of my house watching over me. Now, if you think it was a bad assessment of the RS MUP, wanting to, I guess, take me out somehow, putting the Bošnjak out front, then it's up to you to judge, but here it is, it's happening, meaning in the municipality of New Town. What I want to say - and here I mentioned, so I come from a border municipality which is one big transit center of all possible events, trade, resales, etc. - I was very worried about this fact that Mr. Minister is talking about the current state of security of BiH, but he said, it seems to me, and Mr. Okolić, the ways of smuggling are mostly known. If they're so famous, I don't know what they're not stopping. Secondly, I have knowledge that certain shops are happening there, of course from the tower, and I'm not saying they're true, because I'm not involved in an assessment of security or in my head, but here they say, I'm missing 500 DGS officers. I have to say, there's a story going on in my town that the border is not hollow like a sieve but worse than a grid and that there's mostly a DGS member missing there. Whether it is an expansion of the systematisation, whether it is the opening of a new station etc., should be dealt with, since it means borderline this area is also according to the Federation of BiH, as well as towards the Republic of Croatia. However, what I really wanted to talk about was much more traffic security, and it seems to me that from this report, which I read in that segment, that the increase in traffic accidents is not so great, but that the consequences of these car accidents are still on the rise. However, 1% has been said, but the consequences of all this, the rehabilitation of people involved in car accidents is quite difficult and demanding and it seems to me that not enough good measures are being taken to reduce the number of traffic accidents in BiH. We know that we have already had an amendment here and a supplement to the Traffic Safety Act that has been applied here for some time, and it seems to me that he has not brought any great efficiency, or reduction of traffic accidents, although we have come to the situation that driver training is done in a completely different way, that the passing of the examinations is done differently, etc. But apparently, that measure did not lead to a reduction in traffic accidents. What I have is the fact that when we register our vehicle – and we all know how old vehicles are imported, under what conditions, that we are not saying whether or not it is more than seven years, etc., it is another area of crime – they are going for a technical review. There's no technical examination there. A lot of us here know, I don't know who's ready to say that, that the technical examination consists of giving someone a traffic permit and coming back...
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-10-0.u17706	Time!
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-10-0.u17707	...back that same traffic permit, certified. I therefore propose that additional security checks be included in the technical examinations for any actual technical examinations. 26 And what I answered – I apologize, I will finish, Mrs Marković spoke of it – so, in this report absolutely no domestic violence was treated except on page 12, where there were said to be about 775 cases of domestic violence. I think it's a significant number and the question is how many such cases have not been reported. I therefore propose one conclusion to this House. It is the Ministry of Security that within a period of no longer than 60 days, the report on the state of crime and the crimes in the area of domestic violence, with a proposal for measures to reduce these phenomena. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-10-0.u17708	Thank you. Dear Ambassador Bešlagić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-10-0.u17709	Mr. Chairman, colleagues and colleagues, I must say that the report we received, the information Mr. Sadović gave is a reflection and a state of affairs, I would say, in the BiH organisational system. This report is part of reports from entity and cantonal SUPs, therefore, it cannot be any different than it is, on the other hand, and part of the organisation of the report directly, which is under the authority of the ministry. However, I would not like to talk about these things, except to highlight the two issues that I have noticed here and which I think... would be good, and according to the Minister's proposal that all initiatives, proposals, etc. Let us move to something that, with this report, would be the basis for making reports for next year, that is, this year. One question concerning one condition: it is a matter of terrorism, and I think that here, what everyone has found here, says: The Intelligence and Security Agency (OSA) did not find out that crimes were committed in the BiH area in 2007, etc., invited me to ask myself this question, or to ask myself a question, because a high-ranking member of the Council of Ministers in the German newspaper, just two days ago, gave a statement that uncertainty in BiH encourages the existence of terrorist groups from Islamic countries, means we are talking about mujahedians, who cannot be traced because they are constantly changing...the location of dwellings. I think it's a turn already for our OSA and our ministry to set this issue exactly, and to define for us in Parliament whether there are those groups, which are groups, where they are, and ultimately, as we are now bringing, or we have a revision, I would say, passports: let the audit be done and we should finish. So you have to give a specific task exactly. The second question, which is very important and characteristic, and here some of my predecessors have already spoken of this matter, is a juvenile delinquency. You see, I also read a strategy on juvenile delinquency, or a crime reduction strategy in BiH, and in that strategy we have... what studies are done. Well, then, everything here is said – this study, juvenile delinquency, rights and others, but one fact is that, which extends in all these reports, is that, in fact, against juvenile delinquency, which, according to these data and as Mr Okolić said – in Canton of Sarajevo it increased by 23%, 24% 27 can be said, means returnees of juvenile delinquency and, since it is also about Tuzlani Canton, they should give measures. Or to say that a project is to open up institutions to retrain children at the state level or, if it can't be done, it is then assigned to competent institutions, either entity, or cantonal, that they take care of these things. I would like to stress that we in Tuzla canton, in this area of northeastern Bosnia, are ready, or must be prepared to prevent juvenile delinquency, especially in terms of returnees in that delinquency. This is a very important task because, as mentioned here, it is a relatively large number of children who are constantly... And I'm going to give X examples in which, here's a question for us, when the convicts of the minors who committed the murder of the boy in Sarajevo, where are we going to send them to support the sentence? I think it's a question of questions, because if you put them with an elder, and by law you can't, then the question is, how are we going to raise them so they don't act in the future? If you put them in jail with the elderly, then in fact, I'm afraid they won't get worse than they are, than they are... Therefore, I think it would be good to do so in the next report or to prepare a report with a proposal on how to resolve this issue by the institutions. Here, these are...
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-10-0.u17710	Thank you. Dear Ambassador Križanović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-10-0.u17711	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues and colleagues, respected members of the Council of Ministers, I would like first of all to express my satisfaction that today we are in this house discussing such a serious matter as the security situation in BiH. I am pleased, therefore more, that after this... follows the debate on the report on the work of the BiH Prosecutor's Office which, in some ways, is a complementary topic with this. First of all, I want to say that today we have information that is a statistical collection of crimes committed in BiH based on data from various security organisations and authorities in BiH. And good, it is indeed in this sense very rich data that can point to a certain state of security in BiH, to certain trends. We, by the way, here's counterpart Bahtić has enriched this data by finding that SDP is the main factor in the threat of security in BiH. I wouldn't compromise with my colleague Bahtić on this subject. I'll just repeat what I told him once: that when a man of all tools has only a hammer, then every job starts to look like a nail, and I think he really thinks about it a little bit. You see, so we can read from this data, each one in our own way, and extract certain grades. A huge lack of this information that did not point to the main priorities, the main causes of uncertainty, or the security situation in BiH, which did not propose any plan to improve this situation. But, of course, I don't blame that Ministry of Security who, however, worked very hard in all of this, as well as her minister with this opening statement. I mean, security is one complex problem, and it's not just a matter of security services. It's a question of every society. Security in one society is, let me say, every 28 individuals and every segment of society, it is related to it and every reverse segment and individual can affect that state. Here, you see, in that sense, the lack of this information is that, considering this, the information, so the Council of Ministers was not manifested, except that it took note of this information. It is incomprehensible to say that he is at peace with this condition and that nothing is recommended for his overcomings. And the general condition indicates that we have a negative trend, or that we have a worse situation than last year, when everything in the global world would be taken away. And now, in the end, the question is, What is the point of considering this information in this home? What is the role of Parliament by analysing this information? I would like to say that Parliament's constitutional position as the country's highest legislative body is to exercise the control function and the state of execution of certain actions, tasks over the executive authority and, of course, bring to the court and recommendations for regulating general matters in BiH. So we don't have the opportunity to do our homework today. That is why I will propose that this information be returned to the Council of Ministers, with a request to be completed by evaluations of the fundamental forms of crime, which are most threatening the security situation in BiH. To mark these problems, to propose concrete measures to overcome this situation. For example, I'm just going to take this detail... of juvenile crime. The question arises: will BiH give priority to building a prison for minors or will it do something like society to eliminate the causes of such a huge, such enormous phenomenon of juvenile offenderism? You see, every tenth act committed in BiH has been done by minors.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-10-0.u17712	Time!
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-10-0.u17713	Club time.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-10-0.u17714	If it's on behalf of the club, then not everyone from the club can answer it.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-10-0.u17715	There's no rule.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-10-0.u17716	There are no rules, but here I am calling on a member of the Rules of Procedure as a limited debate. Please hold on to that.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-10-0.u17717	Well, you said on behalf of the club for 10 minutes.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-10-0.u17718	On behalf of the club, then the others don't answer.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-10-0.u17719	Okay. I'll be done, Mr. President. 29
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-10-0.u17720	We're not gonna make it there's ten more of them at least.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-10-0.u17721	I say, earlier, that this should be returned to the Council of Ministers to be rich, or complemented by these concrete proposals of measures. Because you see, the alarming situation is, we will now discuss in the next point, so the report on the work of the BiH Prosecutor's Office, which says: Every 100 citizens were indicted in BiH last year for some crime. And every 200 convictions. So we find ourselves objectively in a sick state that needs to be really seriously considered, discussed and taken certain concrete measures. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-10-0.u17722	Thank you. Dear Ambassador Bećirović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-10-0.u17723	So first of all, let me thank all my fellow Members who supported at one of the previous sessions of this initiative, which I have put on behalf of the SDP Club in the BiH Parliament today, to talk about this topic. I must say, I have listened carefully to the minister and read this information more carefully and other information that has come about this agenda item. And I believe, like every well-intentioned man in this country, that I share concerns against the information we've heard from the minister, and especially from those information contained in these documents that are before us, and nothing has been said so far. I must say that it is particularly concerned that 608 crimes of economic crime have been documented in the Federation of BiH in 2007, which in 104 cases is more in 2007 than in 2006 or 20.6% more in 2007 than in 2006, which also speaks of the full justification of the SDP initiative that the most effective way to fight economic crime should be launched. I must say that it also particularly concerns the fact that money laundering and money laundering are growing and that certain weaknesses affect it because financial supervision is weak in law. This information here also discusses increasing crime in the area of drug trafficking. In BiH, 11.6% more vehicles were estranged in 2007 than in 2006. So, crime growth is also in this area. Of course, in the short term, I have to cut back on my discussion a lot, but what I completely disagree with Mr Sadović is especially this part that talks about co-operation with The Hague tribunal, so it might be better if it were addressed as a non-cooperation with The Hague tribunal. The information here states, among other things, that certain activities are being carried out for the voluntary surrender of the remaining Hague indictees. I disagree with this assessment by the ministry and the Council of Ministers. It's not about the remaining Hague indictees, it's about the main and most wanted Hague indictees. I must say and note that for months in this country no one has spoken at all about Radovan Karadžić or Ratko Mladić. I must say that I was surprised by Minister 30 that he not only did not put a single sentence on it, but even in his presentation he didn't mention a single sentence about it. And so, while silent about the two most wanted Hague indictees, here, already, as we saw in the previous session, the story is about the White al-Qaeda, etc. I want to make it very clear that, in my opinion, the leaders of the White al-Qaeda in BiH are Radovan Karadžić and Ratko Mladić. No one's been talking about it for months. They seem to be no longer an interesting topic for anyone in this country. I am particularly concerned about the fact that 550 crimes are at the expense of RS returnees. I read it like 550 attacks on Annex VII. Also, I don't agree with the minister, and I don't know, when he prepared information like this for the RS area, why he didn't prepare the data when it came to the Federation of BiH, he only put it for the first half of 2007, where he listed 177 applications on this basis, and if it's to assume that so much has been done in the second part, then it's about 354 attacks on Annex VII and the Federation of BiH, and when you add it all together, you'll get about 904 attacks on Annex VII in 2007, 12, 13 years after Dayton. The question arises: Are we really going to talk about these essential, real problems, or are we going to avoid looking the truth in the eye? This country, at least if it cannot guarantee some economic privileges as EU countries, should guarantee the safety of BiH citizens. Unfortunately, these securitys are gone, and people on the ground often say that the situation was only worse in the war. So, you have a situation that in broad daylight, the old lady was burned, that an innocent child was killed in a tram, and we see what happens all over BiH when it comes to robberies! In broad daylight, a state airport is robbed, which is not available in any country in the world, and we still don't know who did it, whose warrant, why he wasn't arrested, what the authorities are doing, etc. However, if we take that information that Oli Ren delivered during 2007...
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-10-0.u17724	Time!
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-10-0.u17725	It's only now that I realize that man was right, because he already pointed to a worse security situation. Not to mention the Border Service where Mr. Sadović hasn't been answering my question for months: What is concrete about the returnees and rights of the citizens of Janje? What about the Raca border crossing and many other crossing points where BiH's state features are not seen but other features of BiH, etc.?
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-10-0.u17726	Time!
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-10-0.u17727	It's obvious that it's getting worse, to conclude, the overall security situation, it's obvious that criminals in this country have been encouraged for the last two years, because if they hadn't, there wouldn't be an increase in this kind of crime in this country. Obviously, the climate favors them, and I think we really need to take this issue seriously and try in a much more serious way to solve this problem. 31 And when it comes to my business time, Mr. Chairman, I think that you should read Article 27(h) exactly as it says, for there stands, among other things: that you may limit the discussion if necessary. I didn't see the need to shorten such an important subject as this one right now. And I especially didn't see the need to cut even in half the debate when SDP MPs speak, maybe it should have been reduced in principle at first, not just like this when we should be out. That's why my discussion is much shorter, but it would be good if you really told us what this is about why you cut the discussion short, right now when SDP MPs are speaking?
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-10-0.u17728	So it's not (a) but (f), it's my right. The debate we're having, we're not going to make it today's agenda to finish, and when you're in this place, you're going to determine some other right. Dear Ambassador Zorić is an incorrect allegation and a respected MP, Sokolović, also an incorrect allegation, a replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-10-0.u17729	Well, I'd like to correct my colleague Bećirović: it's not a short period of time because the MPs from some club speak, but because some MPs have begun to overstep the time of good, is it, behavior? Here, for example, when Mr. Raguž spoke, he also blended in at this time of five minutes. So, no one had the privilege and most MPs speak up to five minutes. Of course, that this Committee for the Making of Amendments and Supplements to the Rules of Procedure of the House of Representatives should respect what the chairman has now done and include it in the Rules of Procedure, so that a certain time can be spoken on behalf of the Club and representatives by the points of the agenda for a specified time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-10-0.u17730	Thank you. Dear Ambassador Sokolović: Replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-10-0.u17731	Thank you, Chairman. Fellow Members, here, when we talk about the state of security, here may be a replica of the several discussions that were here... and, when we want to comment on the report that the minister here presented to us, we or those who have so far spoken or most of them forget one fact, and that is: What are the powers of the Minister of Security? I, for these reasons, especially regarding Mr Bećirović's discussion, for the public watching this meeting, want to say that it is not the minister's jurisdiction all of this... that is written here in this information. It's going to be created or we're going to get one wrong picture of what the Ministry of Security or the personal minister has been doing so far in this period. Please, in order to have this information here, the Minister of Security should probably have asked the gentlemen of the entity and the police of the Brcko District to make a report and forward it to the Ministry of Security. The Federation ministry was supposed to ask ten cantonal 32 ministries to deliver information on these issues, so that it was further delivered to the Minister of Security, etc. So there are a lot of factors that define or worry about the security or security of BiH citizens at this point. And if someone wants to change this situation, well, here's a chance to change it. And exactly the position of the Party of Democratic Action is related to it through police reform. Let's get the Secretary of Security from top to bottom, and then let's say he's responsible for everything that's written in this report. Otherwise we'll go astray. Put those who look at us at this moment or who want to have security in BiH at the level at which it is needed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-10-0.u17732	Thank you. Dear Ambassador Bećirović: Replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-10-0.u17733	To clarify, therefore, Article 27(f) limits the duration of the debate on one or more issues, if necessary, in order to ensure that the adopted agenda is considered as a whole. If I heard correctly, and I think I did, it was announced at the beginning of this session that this session can discuss tomorrow, so there's no problem in jeopardizing the agenda as a whole. On the other hand, I must say, since SDP MPs are the proposings and initiators of this agenda point, that's why I reacted, why we are cutting discussions to five minutes. You will find it difficult to find any parliament, especially on such an important issue, in which one discussion is reduced to just five minutes. I spoke very clearly about it and pointed to it. And as for some MPs, I must say, based on certain reports of NGOs, they don't need to be cut short for five minutes, people don't speak at all.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-10-0.u17734	Dear Ambassador Bećirović, I think you should first appreciate the effort he made both to the Kolegijum and the Ministry on this subject and we could also finish this last time but we didn't want to, because we thought it was an extremely important topic and that we should put it as the first point of the agenda here. According to our Rules of Procedure, every MP has up to 10 minutes to speak, and I thought so, and then they were also warned, that in five minutes this situation can be explained quite enough. You are an initiator from the SDP but you are not rapporteurs, therefore you have no more reason or opportunity, than any other MP, to address here. I think it's just fine what we did. I consulted, although I didn't have to, and with the other members of the College. If you have to, and if you insist, we can even give the House to plead on it. Dear Ambassador Zorić had a replica. Here you go. That's your second replica. 33
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-10-0.u17735	This is not the second but the first... replica. Okay, but then you need to change the gender, you need to change the gender. This is the second call. So what to say after this nonsense Bećirović just said.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-10-0.u17736	Please... with respect.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-10-0.u17737	Well, you should have also intervened a moment ago to respect MPs who... speak briefly but wisely. So, not the length of speech measured, perhaps by some's civil initiatives or... SDP to federal television... maybe it's a standard, length of speech, quality of mind or quality of speech. I think smart people speak briefly, precise and quality. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-10-0.u17738	Thank you. Dear MP, second replica, Bećirović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-10-0.u17739	... Mr. Zorić took advantage of his two interventions on my exposure, and here I am taking advantage of my second chance and I am concluding with it. First, it is not good that through his discussion he attacked any medium in BiH, especially when it is done in an unargumented manner. And as for who is cleverly discussing or unwise, I must say that I do not know any MPs on the globe who are citizens who have chosen him publicly called here a forest.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-10-0.u17740	Dear First Vice-President, Honorable Ambassador Lozančić: Discussion. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-10-0.u17741	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen of the MPs, respected members of the Council of Ministers, I, at the beginning of this address, wish, above all, to thank the Ministry and the Council of Ministers for providing us with these two information over a very short period of time, and here is what has made an effort for us to still, on the basis of certain indicators, information, to discuss this very important issue. And I hope, on this issue, to establish certain guidelines, to draw certain conclusions and to define what our priorities are to make the situation in this area better than what the evaluations in this information say. 34 I'm not sure the way this problem is presented is a good way for us to get to this, which I think we should come to. What's this information for? To be aware that the situation is not changing, to be aware that the most difficult forms of crime are on the rise, to be aware that we are all concerned about the situation in this, that, and so on. The authorities. To continue to understand that we do not have the tools of quality, effective to combat corruption, to find that especially armed robbery, especially drug trafficking, especially... severe crime forms, are still on the rise. That we are constantly expressing concern. If that's the final range of this Parliament, I think we should get this kind of information, this type of information, but we shouldn't waste any time and free ourselves, what the people would say, if it didn't have any other effects. On these topics, we could probably discuss everyone's discussion, or replicate countless times, correct it, but it will not give an answer that the citizens of this country expect from us. I think... it's in this report by the competent committee and said that this information should be interpreted differently. These statistical indicators can be set in certain tables as an argument for evaluations, evaluations and a proposal for measures: why some measures are necessary in order to change these tables positively. There's almost nothing here to say about the causes of this condition. I think that's the key we need to talk about. Why are all these difficult forms of crime in our upward path? What's the real reason? Is this what Honorable colleague Sokolović said earlier, because the Ministry of Security except for co-ordinating roles and gathering information, and there is no other information on the ground. Is it because law enforcement agencies aren't technically equipped enough for us? Is it because they may not have been trained professionally enough to fight crime in quality? Is it because they're paid badly? Is it possible that because they are not well enough quality connected to other institutions of the system without which law enforcement agencies and not one ministry means anything if this stalemate arises in the prosecution or in the court? Is it because we don't have an institution to care for or resocialize minors? So there are a lot of questions, and from this information, or at least from the proposal for possible conclusions, we do not have an answer to what it is that this Parliament should do to correct the situation. How can we from this position from this home help the rest of the ministry to do its part of the job better, how can we help all BiH law enforcement agencies to do their part of the job better? How can we help all BiH judicial institutions to do their part of the job better? What about the Anti-Corruption Strategy that exists in this country? So, we can now every time direct some initiatives... to see if she's good enough, whether she's operational enough, whether she's doing it at all, or if we're going to bring strategies just to have a strategy, then it's just a dead letter on paper. There's a lot,...I'll go through one example, here are the assessments of the protection of the... the safety of the return population. So on one example, which I know is reliable, I'm going to say that in one space where there's one part of a significant return population there's one police department of 10 cops covering a space of about three hundred square kilometers, with a semi-regular motor vehicle that has a hundred liters of oil per month. This implies that approximately three liters a day or one shift of eight hours a liter of fuel. This is the relationship of this country with its authorities that need to ensure... security and returnees and all other citizens. Unfortunately, I'm not much convinced that the situation in some other agencies is much better, that they are much better equipped, that they have much more resources that are necessary for these jobs to be determined, and that part of us can demonstrate with quality proposals here at the adoption of the budget, here's hoping that 35 will show it through this Pay Act that all possible media media and I don't know what other dust is. And there we can influence that the situation in this area is better through better rewarding those who work to create a security situation. When adopting the budget and we and at all other levels can influence it to be better technically equipped, we can ensure that they are better trained professionally through training and education agencies, which is, again, the subject of some other laws, etc. So, I would like for future information to provide more quality expert assessments with a statistical basis for these assessments and with a proposal for possible measures that require the decision of this or another parliament. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-10-0.u17742	Thank you. Dear Ambassador Džaferović. Here you go. And first, the replica is Ambassador Novaković. Right? I'm sorry. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-10-0.u17743	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I want to replicate this story about the promoter, the length of the discussion time, etc. and as a member of this Committee for the Amendments and Supplements of the Rules of Procedure. That's a question we have to settle. But it would be quite logical if the proponent or, according to counterpart Bećirović, the initiator of part of this agenda point had proposed at least some material in terms of conclusions and a proposal for measures to improve the situation they insisted on. I think we'd have a more serious discussion in that part then and we wouldn't need long stories, that written material would be enough. I repeat, this says very often that we put and vote on the agenda, and we know in advance that we will not have any serious materials by the promoters, either of the clubs or individual MPs. And in the coming period, indeed... this issue that we must resolve through the Rules of Procedure, what Mr Zorić said, that necessarily the proposings must prepare material, rather than order the ministries to prepare for material according to the agenda, which is made acceptable to them at some point for discussion here in Parliament.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-10-0.u17744	Thank you. Dear Ambassador Bešlagić: Replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-10-0.u17745	Mr. Chairman, we've given the initiative with the task exactly to the Council of Commissioners, or the Minister to prepare the measures. Therefore, do not expect us to make suggestions when we do not have the material that we have received in this regard. Therefore, the ministry should have done so, I absolutely agree with you. 36
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-10-0.u17746	Thank you. Dear Ambassador Huskić. Here you go. So then: Džaferović, Halilović, Erić, Nanić, Lagumdžija, Mitrović, Lijanović, Izetbegović, Jamakosmanović, Kadrić.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-10-0.u17747	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear gentlemen of the Council of Ministers, honored guests, I will make an effort to fit the guidelines you've given us, hoping I won't cause any additional reactions. I expected this item of the agenda to start in a different way, i.e. after Minister Sadović submits the presentation, that someone would address the commission's name for this. I mean, if we had done that, in order to shorten the whole debate, but when it was like that... that we did it, I think we would have avoided the possibility that representatives of some parties, colleagues that I won't mention because they've spent time on replication, so we won't be able to replicate it.... we wouldn't be able to present this item of the agenda as our exclusive point, because the point of view is: Information on BiH's state of security for 2007 and I want to say here that this is the third or fourth time that this point with this agenda is considered as a regular matter of fact that on the Commission for the defence and security of this matter is regularly considered. Thus, no one can buy cheap points by saying that such an important topic has come to his initiative. Also, I want to say, also, I want to say that I belong to those who are not satisfied with this as it is written. I understand the position of the ministry, but for this information, in my opinion, you didn't need a ministry. This could be anyone who reads daily two newspapers: collects data from the black chronicle and makes this information! What I want to say, what I want to draw attention to, is this: the Defence and Security Commission, and this Parliament, in the 7th month of last year, discussed the 2006 Information and proposed certain conclusions. And when we were reviewing the 2007 Information, which was April 1st, we decided on the commission that we were not inferring anything, but only to repeat the conclusions of last year. It's, in my opinion, a splash to the Department of Security because they didn't follow the Commission's conclusions and the conclusions of this home. And Dom, among other things, has concluded a few things that I'm just going to mention here two. One of them says: When making the following information, the BiH Ministry of Security should establish a list of security priorities in BiH and draw up a proposal to resolve them for a certain period of time so that the BiH Parliamentary Assembly can control their resolution process. The Joint Commission on Defence and Security will provide the necessary support to the Ministry of Security in drawing up complete information in the section on the need to intensify co-operation between all BiH institutions and entities to participate in its development. And the next thing I know, there are seven conclusions, I'll only read two: In the process of drawing up the following information, the Ministry of Security should discuss the issue of corruption in BiH in detail and put forward a proposal for measures to combat such acts. 37 So these are the conclusions of this 7-month home last year that... The Ministry of Security and the Council of Ministers did not respect and I think that we now need – nor did they propose in this report a proposal for measures as mentioned by some colleagues, Novaković, as they did in previous years, and this is a lack of this material – I think we should now adopt this and repeat it, ask the Council of Ministers to make a list of security problems. What are we talking about? Everyone here thinks the most important thing is what... falls on him at a certain point. For someone the most important problem of security in this country, the holes in the road, for some are a large number of weapons and ammunition that are out of control, for someone is a drug, everyone has their own pains that plague him. I understand it's hard to make a list and I've spoken to the minister. He said on one occasion that Parliament should... come out with such a proposal. I don't think we should, that the Council of Ministers, or the Ministry, should propose both Parliament and the Commission that it can be included, but it really will have to make a list of some priorities... that can be shown as incorrect, but we have to come from something and, when we do, then we will be able to control the process. This is how we drive a car on an unmarked road without a tablet instrument, we don't know where we're going! That's what I was gonna say. And one more thing. I think the ministry and the Council of Ministers should say: Do they have enough legislative framework for their work and what should be amended and what laws should be passed? I know that for a year and a few days at the Ministry of Security, there's been a procedure in the Small Arms Act, arms transport, etc. to a significant extent, the political, security situation. There's no chance of a political will to do that, but that's what needs to be said. And there is also a strategy to fight drugs, a strategy to fight corruption, etc. All of this should be written here and we should identify what we are going to do and how we are going to do, or that Parliament should adopt a proposal from the Council of Ministers. It is also not clear from this information whether law enforcement agencies are qualified and to the extent that they are or are not qualified to enforce the law. So these are the things I expect to present to this House so that we can make quality conclusions. Everything else is an empty story. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-10-0.u17748	Thank you. The following has been reported for the debate by the esteemed representative, Šefik Džaferović.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-10-0.u17749	Mr. Chairman, colleagues and colleagues, I think that we should change the way we work, that is, our relationship with the issue of security in BiH, in the way we have treated it here in the BiH Parliament so far, because I think it should be one of the key conclusions of this session today. Because until now, it's been common: every year or every six months or every six months, or at the request of someone, we demand that information be delivered either regularly or separately, today we have a regular one for last year and a special one, as one item of the agenda, we apologize, we conclude something, and then we sit back and wait for the next year to come, the next information. I think it's a security issue... every second, and I think the practice has also shown events that have shown that this is not a good way to work. 38 I called to suggest the next thing. It is good that there are a lot of discussions today, and it is good and it will be good if there are also good quality proposals on how to improve the security situation in BiH. And it seems to me that on that trail Mr. Raguž who has spoken for more than five minutes, but, in my opinion, he spoke very nicely and I can join his... discussion. If today we here, therefore, make as many concrete proposals as possible that can be realised and then we charge the Defence Commission to sit down together with the Ministry of Security and make some plan that we will implement in BiH... by monitoring the implementation. The country's problem is inflation of conclusions, among other things. We have a lot of conclusions, we have a lot of stories and we have a little change in real life, a little change in the field. The issue of security is not only a question of whether there has been an increase or a decrease in the number of crimes, violations. It is, but a key security issue: Do the citizens of this country feel safe or not? And you need to answer that question. I don't think we feel safe in the entire territory of the country at all times of the day and night. Question: Are the goods safe when transporting? Is freedom of movement safe for people? So these are questions that we must give answers to and which we must follow. That's why I'm only going to say a few specific things now, fitting in in in these five minutes, of course. Should this have happened in Sarajevo, so let's see that we don't have an institution in BiH to treat minor perpetrators? I think we didn't need it and, let's say, the first of the tasks is for this commission and Parliament to see what the situation is in BiH and to urgently establish such measures. Did it take us four years to watch, and we voted for the Criminal Law and the Code of Criminal Procedure, that there are no adequate solutions in criminal law when it comes to unaccountable perpetrators of criminal offences? Well, since 2003, we've had unaccountable killers walking free through BiH cities! Because they are left to social work centres that are not prepared for such a type of work and general medical institutions that are not prepared for such a type of work. Well, now we need to change the Code of Criminal Procedure and Criminal Law. So these are specific things. Are our returnees to BiH safe as a special category for us to take care of when it comes to security? Let's see if when we go out for a walk in any city in BiH we can still put up with thugs who, when the speed limit is 40, drive 120... by city! Where are the cameras to track it? Are we going to start dealing with the question of reviewing existing police powers? I think the time has come for us to see where we are when it comes to police authority? Democracy, democracy, order, order, so there is a measure. And I think there's an unused space. That's why I support, of course, each of these discussions that has one of these proposals. Will we continue to watch when we enter BiH, and this is a security segment, for example At the border crossing in the Šcepan field near Foca in the morning at two o'clock in order to cut power from our border crossing, because we receive electricity, we get electricity from Montenegro... which we have here in BiH. Well, people can't do their job. Will we continue to observe the barracks at the border crossings and thus shame the faded flags of this country at the border crossings, and thus be ashamed when we enter or exit BiH or something we should do. I am therefore, therefore, to present today as many ideas as possible, to task our commission to work together with the Ministry of Security and to go before this Parliament and then to press the red button every day and say whether this is done or not? To realize something from what we have... concluded, and what we have been talking about here in Parliament. 39 So much, thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-10-0.u17750	Thank you. The following has been reported for the debate by the esteemed representative Halilović.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-10-0.u17751	Dear Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, I'm sorry to hear the minister's escape, and I wanted to say a few things to him. ... There goes my man, so I'll try to say it, but let's hope someone will pass it on. The minister dragged us all away here. I think Parliament is completely turned in the other direction than the discussion it should be having today at this session. It would be correct if the topic of today's, today's agenda: the state of security in BiH, not the Information on the state of security. I don't think it's just language gymnastics. It's also a fundamental difference when it comes to two. Secondly, the minister here gave us material, and from this, which he gave us here as material, gave us MPs as material in the Information that we are discussing today, and what the minister, according to my court, was too long, over 45 minutes... he should be called the Minister of Statistics, not the Minister of Security. I think that the time he had at his disposal and in the Information he gave us, and especially in this section he was talking about, he should say, to determine what powers the Ministry of Security has at the level of the state and to focus on: What the Council of Ministers or the Ministry has done on those issues for which it is responsible... The Council of Ministers and Ministers of Security? And what are the powers of cantonal, federal, entity and cantonal ministries? And finally, so I don't forget... the police of the Brcko District. And I'm afraid we're going in the wrong direction, because each of these points in the report deserves an all-day debate, not just as information, but as a part of the agenda or as a topic for discussion. Take, here's a few, because of the time limit, take just a few of these, I'll just take the cabbies, here's a few, as an example, count. Crime and corruption? Crime and corruption in BiH are a cancer that will destroy and destroy the BiH state and do not think that crime and corruption have nothing to do with these criminals spoken of by counterpart Džaferović in the previous exhibition. Even here in Sarajevo, and also in BiH, they know exactly, names are known, where they made hotels, motels, villas, buildings, houses and how they behave. And you know very well who their political sponsors are. So, there's no big crime without... crime and government, and there's no, there's still, unfortunately, no use in these rules for big criminals to take off their hats, and little criminals to take off their heads. The second question, which is directly responsible for the Ministry of Security, is the State Border Service and the security of the state border. And instead of alarmingly asking to fill those 500, 500, imagine, 500 police officers within the State Border Service and to protect over 400 crossings, means that there needs to be more than 500, we here listen to statistics on what happened, whether 0.2 or 0.6% is something like some percentage increase or decrease! So that's why it's directly competent to the Ministry of Security. Now there's a lot more to be said... to say, because from this comes that black market that the former prime minister, the former chairman of the Council of Ministers, spoke about, and we all know that this figure is between 4 and 6 billion marks that go into private pockets as a result of unhappiness, 40 exactly the work of the State Border Service and these agencies that are at the state level. Of course cantonal and entityal, but also these because it's all actually one whole. The black market, crime and corruption, robbery privatisation – all of this creates an ambience of uncertainty from which great criminals are born who are obviously taking off their hats. I don't agree with that part... when you're just talking about the safety, uncertainty of the returnees in the territory that's named after Dayton RS. The returnees are also insecure in the Federation territory. Don't forget the murders, the killings of Hrvat in central Bosnia and don't forget the difficult position of Bošnjak and Srbin in a territory once called Herceg Bosnia. And finally, we should have heard from the minister a few questions, a few, to answer us very directly. Because the whole world press on this White al-Qaeda buzz, terrorist cells around BiH, and we pretend, we pretend to be ignorant. And finally, in the end, we have a situation that our minister at the European Police Conference is not allowed to speak and we are not talking about it today. So, I just wanted to say, I'm going to throw a few questions like this that I think we should have a whole day-long debate, point-by-point, with very precise conclusions, and that it's exactly distinguished by the existing constitutional arrangement: What is the responsibility of this ministry? Because we can't the Minister of Security at the state level ask, "What about the murder in the tram?" Does he, man, have nothing to do with it? It has to do with some other minister and some other prime minister. So that, I think, in order not to go – I try to turn, turn in the right direction – so that we do not go in the wrong direction and that, that this topic has reason to debate it further and further. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-10-0.u17752	Thank you. Following the debate, the honourable representative Erić reported.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-10-0.u17753	Mr. Chairman, colleagues and colleagues, honored guests, since the discussions have been cut short, here I am going to try to fit in at this time of five minutes. I believe that this kind of discussion and what my predecessors said really merits the attention and information we have received is only the initial basis for what is called security in this country. I think we should continue this, not in this tone, means going back into the past, distracting, but really seeing what our condition is and what we're proposing and what we can do to improve it. Here, I'll go from... some positive things: in traffic killed 430 people, we don't know how many people with disabilities. Let's see next time why we reduced it and did it increase and what caused it? Stolen 2,146 cars. A colleague Džaferović has already said, so when we put cameras on the border crossings, more cars don't come out, they don't steal across the border crossings, they know they have cameras. So we have five or six cities where... 20 cameras, a couple thousand marks need to be placed, and we're done with the story. So we can solve it, we have a technique, but we're giving a lot of money. 41 Now the question is: juvenile delinquency. I'd just like to draw attention to the media. So when you watch a good science movie, you're going to try to do science, if you look at a good love movie, you're going to be in the mood, if you see heads cut off there, hands in an unscrupulous way, so you're slowly becoming... in that movie. And imagine where our children are and where education is. So, this is the next topic that we should link to the gray economy, drugs and, this, as well as fellow Halilović, really merits his discussion of attention. I'd just like to ask this question of mine, which is one of the big problems. Why doesn't our army we're paying participate at least in building minefields and when are we gonna... clear those mines? And why are we paying for agencies to clean up mines for another 50 years, and in fact we don't give those funds to the military that would double-time this part of the deal? And remove one piece of security. The question arises: Why does the youth move out? So, you need to listen to 50% of those and get information why they're running away from this country, then you need to open up here on that subject. When we look at how many cops, soldiers, it means, in our country, how much territory, how many residents, definitely every cop, every soldier, and when in a civilian, has an obligation to do his part of the job, he doesn't report and why citizens don't participate means we're safe. It's already been said, so they have fear, and all those people who tried have been punished, and now everyone's running their own politics, and now you've got a scene, and we, if you walk past the man lying in the canal, can't give him any help, don't you know what happened? So that's one big dilemma that we have to figure out, and it's definitely where people are paid to work on it. And in order not to spread, I suggest that the ministry does this, since this is... just the initial paper, it's insufficient. There are... a lot of gaps, for some further period to come up with this information, that we are discussing it means one of the next sessions, and I would suggest that the BiH Ministry of Security, together with the ministries of Republika Srpska and BiH, establish a unique methodology for making reports. That's what we need. We ourselves have seen that the information is meant to be diametrically opposite, and we need to reach a conclusion and the institutions that are carrying it out, surely it will bring back the diametrically opposite results that do not suit us. And I suggest that we discuss this in a few months, Mr. Minister, and that you, along with these institutions that I've already said, do that part of the job, and I think we should pay attention to this, and when we do that, then a lot of other questions will be easier. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-10-0.u17754	Thank you. The following has been reported to the esteemed representative, Nanić.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-10-0.u17755	I thank you, Mr. Chairman. My colleagues and fellow MPs, members of the Council of Ministers, here's my contribution. In the debate through the conclusions, through this information, in preparation, here we all got, a little bit of the statistics of some: 140 pages of material on the state of security through these three materials. And it really took, to get a full picture, to use a lot of time to prepare the discussion. What I can mention here, I would like to see here the directors of the State Border Police, the SIPA, the OSA, 42 Direct Taxation Administration, to hear these discussions and the problems that MPs point to, because this information contains indeed x-ray data on the activities of the Council of Ministers complete, with all agencies and services concerning both evasion and in the broadest sense of the word security of BiH. And, we have here a one and absurd situation that we have received information from the resolution ministry that has passed through the Council of Ministers and we are seeking responsibility for the situation and, at the same time, at this point, at this session on the agenda, the law on police reform in which the resolution minister is directly in charge of it disagrees and his view in the need of police officers in BiH differs entirely from what is offered and what is to be done in the perspective, which is how it is expected to be done. It's now one contradiction, I don't know how it's going to work any further. I want here to say one key point, what I've noticed, is in all of this statistical data: to take parallel indicators from last year and determine percentages. I really doubt it and I don't think it's a good indicator at all, that it's not a good solution to close parallel indicators, since these are many issues of security outside, national issues concerning regions and so on. especially these, means trade for both people and narcotics, that they need, probably exist, I'm not an expert on that, but some international standards by which they could make parallel indicators, not for one year but really for more aspects and for some of these international criteria. In that sense, I find the lack of a really high level of information in this information. What I would agree with my colleagues, MPs, especially Mr. Raguž, when he spoke of certain findings in the information itself, you see, here just to brief you: There are numerous unresolved issues of public and over-conference that can produce a sense of civil uncertainty, consciousness, etc. The conclusion – this is indeed a questionable finding for me – on what basis this decision can be made! Or the following conclusion: that certain estimates suggest that about 10,000 persons suspected of war crimes are not listed as the source. This shows that there is no co-operation with the D.A., which probably has these indicators, so in this information, that I'm not going into details, really many findings, I think, when it comes to security, that at least there should be a different formulation of these findings and the source listed and... of which the findings have been taken over. What is present throughout the information is that certain improvements or reductions in crime have been observed, and the need, as necessary, to further efforts to combat, among other things, crime, etc. but not listed, given that it is a Council of Ministers act, here it is indeed, I expected it to be stated: who and what types of regulations will adopt and that it will be, with a note that it is in the Council of Ministers' work programme for this year or next year. I have seven of these in this report, given the shortness of time, these things, among other things that should work. I'll just mention one. About the riots in the sports competitions. Do we need some serious riots with larger material and human casualties, so that we can pass a law on preventing riots in sports competitions, etc. Remember how it was resolved in Croatia, so remember the next case when it became evident in Croatia that the robbery of mail, so the banks, that the law was amended overnight, new regulations were passed which have been very limited... and reduced these phenomena. 43 Let me finish. We got into the Joint Defence and Security Commission report and there are seven conclusions that contain everything that most of the debaters have said here. We should support them and follow what my colleagues said, follow how it is realised, not just to determine the situation, so that next year we will not only have a consistent percentage of how something more or less happens in BiH.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-10-0.u17756	Thank you. The following has been reported by a respected representative of Lagumdžija.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-10-0.u17757	I thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues and colleagues, distinguished ministers, I think that, at first, there are a few positive things to say that are facts, so that with greater credibility, we can talk about what needs to be fixed. Let me remind you. We had the same agenda point 31.7 last year. So, with almost seven full months behind 2006, we had information that had the same name, just applied for the previous year. Here we are talking today, whether, as they say, twice as fast: three, three and a half months after the end of the year, in every sense, and so on security. And that's good. I think it is good that a few capital issues are being distracted here in Parliament. And that's the question of the safety of the returnees. The issue of economic crime in the highest sense, which includes money laundering. And I think it's good that the minister, I suppose, will commit it to his ministry, and especially the Ministry of Justice and the Council of Ministers as a whole, when he talked about legislative gaps in the area of money laundering, and that finding by the minister in Parliament cannot result only in a claim and I have solved the problem. I assume he will resolve this discussion of his and the next activities of his ministry and the Council of Ministers as a whole. And that such an argument is an introduction to the addition of legislation in the area of money laundering. What's good is the minister here said that the corruption issue was registered to 14 bodies last year. Some colleagues and colleagues have already spoken of this rightly. We'll also have some points that will... speak more from another aspect of these issues. That segment certainly deserves special attention, and it's not enough for us to talk about it. And the third segment... the minister warned about - is a drug issue. Speaking of which... the drugs didn't become transit anymore, but, did she focus on us not being transiters anymore but also producers, or worse, in fact, that this has become a country of drug consumption in a very rough sense. He also told us that drugs here are being invested in real estate and that this is the best way to launder drug money, which means that people who are dealing with it will soon become respected citizens of this society. I think the proposal that Mr. Raguž made is quite good, because he's trying to put some action into this whole area and get us some kind of offensive from the information on the registration of the past. 44 However, I would only ask and suggest that... his conclusion, I will not say supplement with new conclusions. Why don't I suggest new conclusions? For two reasons. First, because it would be good for the conclusions that have already been re-affirmed and to undertake to be fulfilled now. That's the first reason. And the second reason, I'm afraid, if I suggest something, is that it's actually as if, did Dr. Živković said last time: everything that comes from the SDP, while Lagumdžija is president, will not be accepted, so right away, I'm reducing the chance that even a smart conclusion will get support in this home and I wouldn't want to test anyone's brains here. So I will not propose new conclusions, but only, if necessary, will I mention which points of the Rules of Procedure oblige you to act in accordance with the conclusions that the House has made and are not realised. In fact, point 31.7 of point 28 was called, and that is: The information on the state of security, the truth, in 2006 and I proposed two conclusions, not to attack the whole, but because it was evident from that information that those two capital problems were illuminated but without any further plans of activity. The first question is drugs, let me remind you. Then that information said that in the last year... all possible institutions at all levels had confiscated about 4,167, it turned out, a gram, not a kilo of the hardest drugs. Even one institution captured 12 grams, so here someone... defiled, unfortunately, cruelly truthfully asked: that it didn't fall out of someone's pocket, because it was for personal use, so he confiscated his other colleague. I then suggested the conclusion and therefore remind you of him, who was adopted at session 6. 9th at the 14th session, point 6. That's when I suggested three conclusions. All three fell because my third conclusion did not receive support from the RS because I then proposed to consider... the introduction of a National Security Council. However, when I broke those conclusions, to vote separately on them, then two conclusions received support in this parliament. Conclusion: It is up to the Council of Ministers to make full information within 60 days on the state and criminal offences in the area of intoxicating drugs, with an action plan to combat organised crime and its consequences. Another conclusion: It is up to the Council of Ministers to make full information on economic and organised crime within 60 days, with an analysis of the work of certain institutions through data on how many investigative authorities have made the application, how many prosecutions have prosecuted and how many judicialally ended, with data on the confiscated assets arising from the criminal activities. And those conclusions were accepted by the great majority and I therefore do not suggest them again. They already exist in this House. I only appeal to the College that in accordance with, if I have to say, which members of the Rules of Procedure and, behold, I appeal to the Minister, he was only new then, so he was just taking over, and now he's already established minister here and it would be good to take the initiative today by these two conclusions, they are complementary to what his colleague Raguž suggested, because these conclusions mean that we will get an analytical basis for a quality action plan. I knowingly do not spread the atmosphere to more areas, but only to organised crime, with an emphasis on corruption, crime and the seizure of looted property and drugs, as two segments of this whole problem. 45 I don’t want to talk about the causes of political nature, and I think it’s very missing in this report, and I think it’s a good thing that we try to focus on a few points, not to attack the whole, because then we won’t solve anything. And finally, Mr. Chairman, I would like to ask you, since it is the custom in this House, since it is the custom in this House, Mr. Chairman, that, often in the agenda points, everything and everything is spoken of, I do not want to remind you of Article 27, 71 and 73. The Rules of Procedure, namely, have become a practice here that some colleagues use each item of the agenda to spit on other people, which has nothing to do with this agenda point. I call on Mr Belkić and Mrs Hadžiahmetović and their president, Mr Silajdžić, to let this man, with whom I have no communication, draw attention to him not to do so. I want to deny him here, one thing that was said here for this pay phone in Parliament, that I told him that we paid people to stone here in the city demonstrations in Canton. That's a lie for two reasons. First, which is a lie. And secondly, it's impossible for me to tell him that, even if I did, because I don't normally register that man at all, so I couldn't say anything. So whenever a man calls on me, it's just not true. I just can't do what others haven't done. And that's why I'm going to address his employers in the future. To begin with, I suggest you don't feed him to rotten bananas, or to be more specific, not to give him false information and not to give him instructions to behave the way he's been acting so far.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-10-0.u17758	Time, time!
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-10-0.u17759	He hasn't been deprived of his ability to do business and he's an adult, so sometimes a man needs to be distracted by who he is and what he is, but I think I've finished this part of the agenda and users of rotten bananas, especially their employers. I'll have a special opportunity to talk about them every time.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-10-0.u17760	Correction of the incorrect quote: Honored Chairman Dr. Milorad Živković.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-10-0.u17761	I was thinking, just a little bit, to commend... the man. He really listed here all the issues of returnees' security, economic crime, money laundering, corruption, drug issues, organised crime. Believe me, I was just going to compliment him, but what he's saying here, he's doing it in the act where he and his chiefs are in the municipalities.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-10-0.u17762	No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-10-0.u17763	Wait a minute. Comrade, give some parliamentary democracy. 46
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-10-0.u17764	No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-10-0.u17765	Sir, this isn't SDP.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-10-0.u17766	Please, please, just a minute. Mr. Bahtić, come on, please let's try...
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-10-0.u17767	The man brought out a lot of things here, here.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-10-0.u17768	...to try to finish this agenda in one tolerated atmosphere.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-10-0.u17769	I want to say that the Party for BiH is a domestic party unlike it, a party of free people. I've never been a criminal and I won't be. He can do it there with his clones. I'll never be able to. And, too, Mr. Lagumdžija, show it to work, the construction mafia where the SDP and your chiefs are.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-10-0.u17770	No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-10-0.u17771	Wait a minute, Mr. Bećriović, you can't throw it away. You lost your word. You can't throw, please. Please, everyone here's got their word. I asked you to...
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-10-0.u17772	Comrade Bećirović!
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-10-0.u17773	Please, Mr. Bahtić, just a minute, please. Let's try to bring this agenda point to an end. We have an opportunity for all of us to replicate, let's stay on the agenda, please. Allow me, help me run this session. You know how well it can be done. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-10-0.u17774	Thank you very much. I support all of this, just let the man show it in action, where his chiefs are in power and where the highest kidnapping of state property is done,...sales into invaluable building land, and under the auspices of this demagogue. Nothing more. That's it, thank you. 47
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-10-0.u17775	Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-10-0.u17776	Correction of the incorrect quote: Honored Chairman Dr. Molorad Živković.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-10-0.u17777	Thank you. The correction of the incorrect allegations refers to the replacement of the thesis in the sense that I said I wouldn't do anything by the SNSD, while Mr Lagumdžija is the president, to support it. I simply said that I believe that there are good people in the SNSD and that they work well but that the leadership that runs,...or in the SDP, the leadership that runs this, currently has no political support from the SNSD in RS and it was about the law on the confiscation of illegally acquired assets, where we showed political will in RS by passing that law... in the procedure, but we also have to say that we have no political will to cooperate with some who panic SNSD everywhere in the world. With regard to the Socialist International, we do not have the political will that when a member of your party's presidency wants to hit the president of a republic on the nose, we do not have the political will to work with a political party who wants to, under quotes, put on the foot of the EU and the European future of BiH and who, with a demagogue story here, does not say how much the salary of a member of the presidency is from your party, how much the salary of the head of the municipality is from your party, etc. Thank you. Dear Ambassador Lagumdžija. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-10-0.u17778	I thank you, Mr. Živković. If you think you explained what you said last time, because it was an opportunity to repeat it in a similar way, so if you wanted to say this time that you're willing to support some things that come from the SDP, well, if you've repeated what you said last time, well again. Doesn't mean you won't do it in a third way at the next session. I very clearly want to tell you, as party leader: so that's why you don't want to work with us, so that's what we know. I mean, it's a two-way street. We don't want to work with you. So there's no problem. We don't want to work with you and the office. Your policy is different from our policy. But I want no matter what you say about our proposals, anywhere, if you come across them, anywhere you come across them – this author of the forest flossule, I would ask him to shut up – so I would like very clearly, Mr. Živković, to know, regardless of what we do not want to do with you and to support your policy, every proposal that comes from anyone, I repeat from anyone in this country, if it is good, will have our support. From anyone! Any good suggestion will have our support. We're not sleazy about good suggestions. We're squeamish about bad policies and bad people. But that doesn't mean we won't support good suggestions. And that's why I want to make it very clear to you that you don't need to worry about the health of your relationship and our relationship, and that, in the world, we say that you are, as you say, not a socialist or, I don't know what, that's true. But we don't say it in the world, we say it here. And you can see for yourself that some people don't treat you like a democratic or even a social democratic party like that anymore. But time will show where we are and what we are.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-10-0.u17779	President-in-Office Milorad Živković: Correction of the incorrect allegations.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-10-0.u17780	I respect what you said. And the denial of that is that we have accepted more of your proposals here than we have accepted them. But you've overstepped what you're doing and as much support as you have in RS and, if measured by a statistical error, you need to measure yourself, not according to what you're saying here. Your support in RS is below statistical error. That should concern you, as the leader of a party. About the civil option and how you are a multiethnic party, we saw when you voted for ratification of the Serbian Orthodox Church Agreement. You didn't let your MP vote for that law. That's what I'm talking about. Dear Ambassador Lagumdžija. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-10-0.u17781	Just that I, Mr. Živković, am in business and in any other way possible allowed to turn again and I will not wait for these others, they are no longer of interest to me. You've made it perfectly clear the party's name is what's true. I want to tell you, therefore, that we have exceeded your standards, and I believe that. And I believe it's enough for you to no longer support anything that comes from us. By our standards, you've gone way too far. But I'm telling you again, and I want the public to know, no matter what you've done, where you've taken action, we'll always fight you. And where there comes a voice of reason from your party and anyone, no matter what you measure, we will support it, and it applies not only to you but to everyone in this House. I know they're following the salva attacks on me now, but, what is it, there it is. For me, this part of the agenda and what I'm about to hear is completely irrelevant.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-10-0.u17782	Thank you. The honourable letter, first, Marković, and then Dokić, if I am not mistaken, so Malić, it is not you, and well, then Malić, I apologize.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-10-0.u17783	Well, I answered the line, but this would sooner be an incorrect quote of Mr. Lagumdžija's exposure that SNSD has already felt that non-support from the international community and all the surrounding associates, as I now interpret it towards the SNSD. And I know, I'm convinced that you would give all the support of those white-world mentors you have as SDP to support voters and voters like SNSD. And that support as it is and as much as it is, it will be for a long time. As long as it's her, you'll have to face the attitudes and decisions of the SNSD, whether you like it or not, but it'll be reality and reality to you. 49
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-10-0.u17784	I apologize, the second vice-president, Mr. Belkić, asked for his word first. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-10-0.u17785	Dear colleagues and colleagues, therefore, this is also... the correction of the incorrect quote and replica and I address Mr Lagumdžija, not the SDP or the MPs of others. So, Mr. Lagumdžija, you have claimed that officials from the Party for BiH, Silajdžić, Hadžiahmetović, Belkić, etc., feed the rotten bananas of MPs, in this case specifically, Mr. Bahtić. That's not true. Our MPs are free men, chosen and therefore do not do so. I'm linking this immediately to the reactions to your performances. I advise you as an older man than you: listen a little to yourself when you speak. And do not wonder, then, how they sow, how you reap.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-10-0.u17786	Dear Messenger Malić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-10-0.u17787	Your Honor, Mr. Chairman, I apologize to my colleagues in advance, because I too appreciate them to participate in the stories of the ground floor, but this time someone seems to have gone too far. I was the initiator not to vote and to refrain from voting on a contract you mentioned earlier, because I too appreciate any religion to participate in the dances you've given us here. I am a Srpkinja, and it is to me... anyone, or my father who left it to me, or the president of the party to which I belong, can't order me to be or not to be. But I'm not professional. And please, don't do me anymore, and you've already said it publicly several times, not you, but the representatives of your parties, as an eclectic example of our alleged multiethnicity. I would pray that all people who have deep respect for their religion, respect that and their actions, and not just by belonging to the color of the red.../silently spoken word.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-10-0.u17788	Dear Ambassador Kalabić: Replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-10-0.u17789	So I accept -- this would be a confirmation of the exact quote -- that MPs, in accordance with their conscience, did not support the agreement with the Serbian Orthodox Church. So, no pressure, no nothing, so they decided to do it on their own, and I respect it. I mean, there was probably no pressure, if that's a personal decision. The Serbian Orthodox Church is much more important and older than all of us to judge and judge what is good for them at this time or not, in such a way, and not our party, let alone any other. 50 About what Mr. Lagumdžija said? It's a little awkward that he doesn't have any more replicas, and I don't like it. I mean, I don't like it and it's not, let's say, not knightish. I might be forced to give up the story from a further point of view, but I can't, and I can't say, if, if there were co-operation, if Mićo had a meeting in Doboj again. That's when it was said. You wanted co-operation. You have been told, "You are small, you are weak, you are not enough." Maybe one day we will, and one day ours will win in 20 or, I don't know, how many years, I don't believe we'll be in power forever. But you wanted to, you wanted to cooperate very badly. You've been told: at this point it's like that. So it wasn't the SNSD that was involved, it was simply not enough support for the citizens of this country to whom all and one of your MPs were invited in every discussion. Citizens of this country, citizens of RS are also citizens of this country, half of the country, think so. Respect these citizens, if you don't respect us. Respect their attitude. He's like that. Maybe, here I don't agree with them and I don't like them personally sometimes, I have the right to, but it's realistic that that attitude is like that and, while he's like that, I'd ask you to respect it, no matter what you think of us and our policy.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-10-0.u17790	Dear Messenger Malić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-10-0.u17791	I'm sorry, and I'm very sorry that my name is a matter of turning from the agenda, but I really have to say. Don't conclude what I was going to say, and on my behalf, no one has a right to do that. There's a tone of what I said. I was the initiator not to participate, not to be against it. I'm sorry, it's not true. That we don't participate because you can check it out, because it's being broken by the standards of good education. On such an important thing, what is the relationship between a religious community and a religious institution in this country, you have made a market. I had the right to have such an impression and I said: I too respect the religion of my grandfathers to participate in it. And don't, please, talk more about it, if it's going to be a reason at the sessions... at the same time the story and Mr. Živković/...
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-10-0.u17792	Dear Ambassador Jovičić: replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-10-0.u17793	The Honorable Chairman, when we ratified the Agreement, I said then, and I would not say today what I will repeat, when it comes to Mrs. Malić. Why didn't you say that when we ratified the Agreement that you were the initiator, we asked on the basis of the documents to see who voted against, it's not fair, or abstentioned who it was. Detained! You know, it's not fair, and no one's contesting your nation, your faith, anything you want to be. But here every time there's a story from your party, a multiethnic party is just you, you only represent all three people, all of you are those who are nowhere else, and, when I add it all up, I see that all of us in the SNSD, in the Party for BiH, in the HDZ, in the Party of Democratic Action, and even in the SDS are more in the RS than in you. There's nothing with you. And then don't tell the demagogue story here, we repeat it over and over again, not the public, the citizens, the public in Banja Luka is different from the public in Sarajevo. The public in Bilaqa is different from the public in Široki Brijeg. 51 And I beg you, when you have these topics, release the SNSD. But I will beg you, in the election campaign, use it, because you always use the media, attack the SNSD, we don't need any promotions. When Mr. Lagumdžija attacks us and says he doesn't want to cooperate, he won't do this, he won't do that. I was afraid for our ratings, and now that I'm back, since I sing well, I'm going to sing out of luck how our ratings only grew on the basis of a discussion by Mr. Lagumdžija. And no promotion is necessary here. So please don't mention SNSD...
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-10-0.u17794	Time!
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-10-0.u17795	...I'm finishing up in some negative context. We're not a remethyl factor, we're a constructive part of this country going forward.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-10-0.u17796	Dear Ambassador Kadrić: Replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-10-0.u17797	So, very briefly. When it comes to this relationship between social democracy and rocks, I just want to point out the next thing. So, the first protests held in front of the government of Canton of Sarajevo, we remember well here, for the public to know these things, we have here held a session of Parliament's House of Representatives. And on the proposal of Denis Bećirović, a break has been asked to go to the MPs who want to leave, attend, participate in the so-called Peaceful protests outside Canton of Sarajevo. And we voted here to take that break and some MPs went to attend so-called. The peaceful protests in front of Canton of Sarajevo, which have turned, we know what they've turned into. So these are some of the relationships between these things and the social democracy and the stones that this public needs to know.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-10-0.u17798	Thank you. Dear Messenger – let me see – Bešlagić. You've already had two replicas, you've had a discussion, yes. I'm giving you 10 minutes off. [[PAUZA]] The break was given to try a little cold head to get back to the agenda point. I appeal to the MPs to give up if they intended to report for replicas. If not, I won't take the right of anyone who answers. 52 And we should go according to the following reported order: Mitrović, Lijanović, Izetbegović, Jamakosmanović, Kadrić, Jukić and Zorić. Dear Ambassador Mitrović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-10-0.u17800	Gentlemen, the chairman, ladies and gentlemen, we have today this information on the state of security and we must bear in mind that we also have information on the work of the D.A. which, in my opinion, is closely connected to this information because, it seems to me, if we want to get some results, we have to be connected in some way and do what we want. One thing's for sure: that this information doesn't talk about the causes and reasons of everything that's happened here. There is also no proposal for measures that should have at least the end of this information. And this is a clean set of figures, according to me, which are text-explanatory as the minister put it behind the pay phone. So, everything the minister said here in this information, it does. Someone said before me that every segment, if we truly wanted to get into trouble, that only quality suggestions, that in some way we would start solving this problem, would be worth it as a point of the agenda, so that we could just really get closer to that matter. I will look back on just a few things, given that a lot is said, in a few segments, with some few examples that suggest that there is a much worse situation in this country than is said in this information and that in this country, things are done in the opposite direction, and it is no wonder that we get this kind of information and question when and what years we will get the right information with the right measures, to go into solving these problems. True, as far as crime is concerned, when it comes to war crimes, what bothers me is that there is a race here in this House, and probably in other parliaments, to prove that only one people are suspected of war crimes. I think it's about time, if we want this country to function truly and this country to function, to say that in all three nations there are people who are suspects, there are people in all three nations who have committed a war crime and should respond and we can't put a burden on today, to say, one entity police, one canton for the arrest of these people, it's already the burden of both the state and the international representatives who are here. I can't get out of all this, because they're very involved in all this stuff. So, in my opinion, it's crazy here that we blame each other here: how we're guilty and not the other. In my opinion, the second, in terms of crime, behind a war crime in peace is economic crime, economic crime. It's something that, in my opinion, in peace can be treated with crime at the time of the war. Because this crime, economic crime, is keeping us in this state and in this country, for that reason, and it's possible that everything can happen. That crime alone does not know the borders of the interstate here, in the area of the former Yugoslavia, shows enough and is no wonder that it does not know, normally, nor the entity borders. And I'll say a few things. One of the things that's said here is the alienation of motor vehicles. They happen organized with people who deal with it, let's say, illegal actions, people from the Federation, people from the RS, and one case we have, where people gather strength and courage to face 53 of these people themselves because when they steal a car, these same people through the police inform them that they should bring in some of the funds and return the money. I have a specific case in Zvornik: that the man who accepted to give part of the funds, it's about 3-4 thousand marks, the man was able to manage at that moment, he wrote the bill numbers, he returned the car, reported it, found that these bills and today the procedure is being conducted in... Canton. The question of when he'll get it back and whether or not he'll get it back! I don't think he'll come back and that'll be enough to indicate that we don't even have a judiciary, that we have a crime that's well-connected and, unfortunately, connected here to the judiciary. In my opinion, at the very least, if it was established, it should have been returned to those people. This is where they say...
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-10-0.u17801	Time!
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-10-0.u17802	Just two more things, very short. We have a case about the extortion, about the racketeering, here's the case, very fresh. I personally joined in and warned the RS Police Minister, and here's the specific thing about it: the name and the requisition of these people, in the end, it all ended with a misapplication! They're in a very awkward position for people who want to get involved in solving these problems, and I don't think they'll solve it. Still, privatization? Please, it's simple, for me it's what's being said about revising privatization throwing dust in the eyes of the people. Another example in which I was directly involved when it comes to privatising a single subject, again I say, here in Zvornik, where Mr Hejs has in due time requested documentation for the privatisation of the Mt. Bisect, which pays for electricity 75%, in the last few years, 30 million marks. So I ask the question: where is the D.A.'s office, I hand over those papers! Afterwards, the D.A. wanted to face me with all those thieves and criminals, where I don't think I'm the one who's supposed to give a head for all that. I think the D.A. should do his part of the job...
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-10-0.u17803	Time!
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-10-0.u17804	...so, in my opinion, here at the end, in the end, let me just say, all these reforms that are going on, gentlemen, all these things that we're doing, I don't think it's going to lead to a solution to the question. In my opinion, the answer to the question is to approach the Constitution seriously. Once we resolve the issue of the BiH Constitution, we will solve reforms, we will solve all these issues. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-10-0.u17805	Thank you. Dear Ambassador Lijanović. Here you go. 54
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-10-0.u17806	Dear President, colleagues and fellow representatives, distinguished guests, this report and this discussion show us that in BiH criminals, thieves, tax launderers are far more effective than the government, far more efficient than the ruling six, the team is working better and, for that reason, and we have this situation. Therefore, I would ask the ruling six to work a little more teamwork in the interests of all citizens of this country to make it faster than all these disasters and thus ensure better security for BiH citizens. I would also suggest one conclusion: the ruling six is required to improve its teamwork, to be more effective than the law breakingers, thus improving the safety of all BiH citizens. I think it's a real address because the ruling six has power at all levels and states and entities, and it's the only way that this can be realised properly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-10-0.u17807	Thank you. Dear Ambassador Izetbegović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-10-0.u17808	So, it's almost all said, so I'll cut it short. Bosnia is a country in transition. There's an inaccessible security system. We saw the police sign some... co-operation agreements with the D.A.'s office yesterday. It is, I don't think it happened anywhere except in BiH, that in such a way... cooperation must be ensured. We had one relationship between the international community and our police force, to express myself so vividly, that it struck the horns of our police force. So the cops felt after various interventions and shifts by the international community insecure and began to guard their position, that's their pay, is it? So the public began to remember those communist police, who pendejo sometimes for no reason, because today it became like a lion without teeth. It all opens up the crime scene. On the other hand, a high level of unemployment, then one postpartum psychological condition in society, post-traumatic syndrome, then the media. You have a huge offer where our children spend five hours a day with television, and we spend five minutes, I don't know, and there they have a huge offer of violence, cynicism, debauchery, evil. That's what raises them. It can't be much of an impact on that. When compared to the arrangement, richer, one-national Croatia, which also has a consensus on some important national and political security, etc. questions, they're not even much better. You see this crazy general, the recent murder of a priest, on Jarun they kill... a child there, and then a few days later a similar thing happened on that same Jarun, there's a drug addict, there's juvenile delinquency. But all of this I said, it's no reason to say, people,...it could be worse, it can't be better, because there's a big space inside our organization, which is to be fixed. 55 Sarajevo's forerunners both in good and evil, and in evil... in trends ahead of the rest of Bosnia. What you see in Sarajevo will be in other cities. Then in the provinces in the next few years. Here, he spoke for a moment by Šefik Džaferović, 100 per hour driving, 120 per hour, violent one brazen behavior, no police where he should be, criminals we all know well and who they are and what they are, you see him getting caught drunk, driving, finding his gun, or shooting, wounding someone. He's been walking around again for a couple of days. He's working with the police. A little benefit from that, something he's going to give up... some associates there, something he's going to give up some, cheap... state procedure, faster he's going to condemn, but the consequences are disastrous for the morale of the people who see it, as you, these people are actually... weighed down in this society of ours. ... You should consider that this, I don't know from which, I guess, the Anglo-Saxon law has passed it on to us lately, this deal with them, to consider pulling that thing back. The citizens are rightly looking for better. There's plenty of room to do better. Here's what we're gonna do. We're gonna fix the police's salary. I can put those cameras all over the place, yeah, I can make it close underage. We have one, one dissatisfaction, a wave of dissatisfaction... in the people. Some political forces abuse him, fight for power. Here, let's say, they're accusing Sarajevo of a mayor who has nothing to do with security. It's not even hers. They want her out of the way, and they don't ask some commissioners who are responsible for putting the police where they need to be. You don't ask them. So I propose to our minister, within his jurisdiction, that he now exploit this... wave of dissatisfaction and turn it in a positive sense. Now that they've put those criminals together, heavy capitalists won't let them get out. It'll be disastrous if people see them again, if they get away with it, you know. Let them make it, now is the chance, now this space is created to get the resources, to focus the priorities on it, to build these capacities, and you shut it down, and everything else... whatever it takes. Mr. Džaferović will, in that sense, formulate some conclusions, so I suggest you support them.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-10-0.u17809	Time!
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-10-0.u17810	About terrorism, all the terrorists, all the beards, some al-Qaeda, here I hear they're changing addresses there, here, just no terrorist acts. What kind of terrorist organization doesn't deal with terrorism? We've estranged few of them, these alleged terrorists, here we've heard the position of the Helsinki Committee, etc., what we've done to these people. So don't put that mortgage on Bosnia's neck. We've had enough of this. If there are no terrorists, don't make them up! And I'm going to use one more minute to think about something that might... in the future be our problem and have a negative impact on the security situation. We all love our religious and national symbols. But, exaggeratingly, here I will start with Muslims, he's too strong at 4 a.m. at 4-5 o'clock, not for us Muslims to raise us to prayer, but for someone else to show who's dominant. You know, moon and star, I love her, but if I make her 10 meters florescent, so I put her on a hill that's common, you know, Srbin and Hrvat don't feel good. Well, it's the same thing... and with that cross that reminds Christians of the mercy of Isus Krist. You shouldn't serve because: I'm there dominant, I'm... overcome etc. 'Cause they're going to start fighting, and they're going to go to the party, and we're going to keep fighting in our Balkan habit of whitening here. So I ask you to think about maybe passing one law, on everything that's 56 in common, don't put on a one-national, one-religious symbol, to calm down, this is BiH. We have to be smart people, in time to think about it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-10-0.u17811	Thank you. Dear Ambassador Jamakosmanović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-10-0.u17812	Mr. Chairman, colleagues and colleagues, from the information the minister told us, I will talk about a detail that speaks about the health aspect of security in BiH. The minister mentioned brucellosis: 500 people got sick. So that's very important. bruceloza was a controversial phenomenon in these areas. Now she's picking up and the media is giving her... great significance. She's being treated, she recognizes. However, apart from brucellosis in BiH, there is a disease called tuberculosis, of which 600 people per million people in BiH get sick every year. It's a much larger number. With tuberculosis, the health system in BiH is handled in a way and supported by the Global Fund's international community. The treatment system is in progress and the fight against it. What I'm trying to say is, what's the point of the state in all this? We were witnesses the day before yesterday, it seems to me that the day before yesterday, yes, in an interview in the village of Butmir, the woman said, "We will help them if they don't help us, therefore the authorities will draw water." Butmir is a water supply zone, the oak is a water supply zone, Ilija is a water supply zone, Railway is a water supply zone. The problem of dead, or sacrificed animals from brucellosis is a way of removing which is not regulated in the BiH state. It comes down from municipality to municipality or from canton to canton. The waist's slow about it. I'm speaking from the point of view of Tuzla Canton in which, let's not prison for minors, and we won't prison for adults but we won't, we won't, we can't determine where this material is going to be left, and everyone in BiH, regardless of their national and entity belongings, is exposed to it, if that or such women or people throw it in the water, we can get an epidemic whose damage will be significantly greater. As far as tuberculosis is concerned, apart from the existing struggle behind which the state stood, maintaining... the system, so the state at all levels has stopped, remains the problem of housing and providing treatment, if I can say so, for people who do not want to be treated, use their democratic right not to be treated, and the approach is only at the level of communal fight against infectious diseases. The state must make or give a regulation that will be unique to all the areas in BiH that everyone will adhere to so that everyone will be safe. I will refer the proposed measures through the club to the Minister of Civil Affairs, including the Minister of Security: to address this aspect of security. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-10-0.u17813	Thank you. Dear MP, we have the means by order: Kadrić, Zorić, Jukić and we have no more applications. Here you go. 57
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-10-0.u17814	I'm thanking you. I'm really gonna talk for a little while. I'll keep in mind the time ahead. So, I would like to remind you, first of all, that the Honorable Minister Sadović Tarik has really come to this task and I think he has done the job that is expected of him within the limits of his powers. So we have to admit it in some way. The other thing I would like to mention is... on the trail of what the honourable MPs Selim Bešlagić and Bakir Izetbegović were talking about, and this is about the story of terrorism in so-called "Terrorism". the possible and impossible terrorism of BiH, which is being manipulated in public. I just want to read a sentence from this report that reads: The OSA Intelligence and Security Agency did not find out that in the BiH area in 2007, crimes that could be classified as international terrorism were committed, either from the perspectives of possible internal terrorism. Therefore, here we really need to talk about these things openly and to suggest to the ministry that we may be discussing these matters in the future when it comes to the security situation and then we would come up with quality solutions. When perhaps, let's talk about juvenile delinquency, just one topic to be terrorism, crimes against... money laundering, etc. All these things that are related to the security situation. Therefore, we must speak openly, openly, clearly, and loudly about these things. When it comes to this case, a group in Bugojn. Immediately, some media came out the next day with information that a terrorist group was caught, and the minister said well that it did not necessarily mean that it was a terrorist group. The investigation will show whether it was a terrorist group or whether it was an illegal holding and carrying, holding a weapon. We have to remember, remember how it went... so-called. The pogorelica case, when people, for years, were prosecuted, eventually people were released, so it wasn't about any terrorist group. This country does not need to run away from opening one thematic session, to talk about these things as well as other matters in an open way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-10-0.u17815	Thank you. Dear Ambassador Zorić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-10-0.u17816	I welcome all present colleagues and colleagues, I welcome all media, of course, except for that media that calls itself public. And it's supposed to be public, and it's not public, and I don't think it's a medium. You see, when it comes to security or uncertainty and democracy, it's my first association to it, because here I am 47 years old: Communism. In communism, I felt indemnity and uncertainty. And the Association of Communism is my SDP, because if they want to inherit the buildings where communism lived, they should also inherit the political heritage. And it's funny for me, too, to praise them for proposing this agenda point, because this agenda point is every year. Every year we have annual reports on the state of security in BiH. But already, when I didn't have a chance to answer 58 to the lines, and even to throw some MPs and calling and quoting, is one word taken out of the context of my speech, in some other points of the agenda of today's session, and that's shush, I guess I have the right to say... what I meant when I was saying it. So, I thought it was those who commented on the central diary that I was going to say and comment on what my salary was, and I thanked Mr. Ekrem Ajanović in that context for saying what the salary was at the time of that totalitarianism, uncertainty and non-democracy. And that's all I said. And my voters know they're not shushes and they'll vote for me again, and they won't vote for the so-called Multiethnic Party. The security situation in BiH and the Security Information in BiH are similar and this means that information and the situation are missing. That was noted by my predecessors who talked about it, and I agree with the findings that the minister should have talked more about the measures that should be taken to improve security in BiH. I don't accept the safety of returnees from general security. Also, I wouldn't single out the offenders of the returnees from the other offenders. I must say, too, for who knows which time, when we consider this information, that there are no data missing, and especially the names and last names of criminals and criminals. Also, the media, mainly, publishes initials of criminals and criminals but generally publishes the names of victims, so that the information emissions of electronic media are increasingly similar to bad movies and black chronicles. As far as security at the border is concerned, which was discussed by distinguished counterpart Šefik Džaferović, I must say that four to five years ago I asked a parliamentary question but also discussed as part of information on the state of security in BiH, and that question is, here by colleague Džaferović, current today. I asked to shed light on at least the border crossings, because what my colleague Džaferović is asking us to introduce cameras is impossible to record in the dark. I used to say that I have a feeling when I enter BiH, especially from the Republic of Croatia, that I'm getting into the dark. The question of the vehicle and what was said by fellow Mitrović! I was talking about another thing that no one mentioned in the report or in today's debate, which is that I have information from my constituents, not from the shush, that, in general, when the owner of the vehicle gives up the insurance helmet, his vehicle is stolen. I'm saying it's not 100% but normally. I want to know if there's a rule here, and if anyone's calling it in when someone gave up the insurance helmet and then stole his car and then asked for a ransom, here's what my colleague was talking about. Also, interest rates and rackets are increasingly present in BiH. How to accept information that there are known groups that organize these or those criminal acts without being called. I-I find it unacceptable that the minister was not at the Defence and Security Committee, although I respect his efforts and commend certain things from the information, although it is a union of information from all institutions that follow this area.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-10-0.u17817	Time! 59
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-10-0.u17818	I should – here in a minute I am finished – need more assessment of the Ministry of Security and more initiatives and recommendations. I support all the conclusions that contribute to improving security in BiH. I support all those who are looking and I join them to expose the perpetrators so that possible new perpetrators will think well before they do something, because if the perpetrators remain anonymous, the new perpetrators will be multipled and then only, then not only will the police at the border be missing but they will need a lot more police officers in police administrations, and that's not good because I'm afraid most citizens will either be in police or in crime. I also appeal to judicial authorities, to greater efficiency, especially when it comes to the most difficult acts. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-10-0.u17819	Thank you. Dear MP Bećirović wanted to talk about the violation of the Rules of Procedure. Are you giving up? If you're giving up, we only have one more reported. Dear Ambassador Jukić and we are no longer registered. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-10-0.u17820	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Minister, colleagues and colleagues, here, after three hours of debate on this agenda point, which deserves perhaps more, because it is very interesting and interesting to all BiH citizens, firstly I would like to commend the Minister for the effort and his associates for making us one quite extensive and a little too extensive information with a lot of data, perhaps too much data, given that my main remark on the poor systematicisation of this data and the lack of any generalisation that would lead to clear conclusions, i.e. give a clear picture and security situation in BiH. Of course, to join those colleagues who believe that, however, at least in one part, although not bearing the title of this document, should point out what priorities are in the work of the Ministry of Security but, of course, other security institutions in charge of BiH. I think there's a problem here, and that's a way of collecting data and the methodology of processing that data from the field. So we have too much data that is sometimes contradictory to each other because from one data one can conclude one thing, and from another, or the other, or the other. For example. It is said on page 18 of economic crime compared to the previous year 2007. The Implicit Taxation Administration registered a decline in tax evasion by 44.6% but at the same time increased the number of non-taxing cases, money laundering, customs fraud and smuggling cases. This is probably the correct data, but this is the kind of information I would have led, it would have given us the right to conclude that financial discipline has grown very significantly in BiH, that economic crime has dropped significantly, etc. Which, unfortunately, is not true. And actually, the answer to one of these is the fact, this kind of reduction is the fact that we've introduced VAT, which is brand-new, as one significant reform in how to calculate and collect a significant portion of income. So those who break the law in this 60 area turned to other acts, which is tax evasion, money laundering, customs fraud and smuggling cases, especially customs fraud. Why? That's why once he makes a customs fraud and enters BiH goods without record, it's all settled. So, it's all settled, he has no obligations and everything else is actually just a matter of skill and its lucidity how and in what way he'll distribute these goods, of course, charge whatever they charge, and what he didn't actually pay the state any obligation at all. I think some more, here's an example, and for example. It is said that in 2006, there was no forest theft, which is amazing, at least to me, and in last year 2007, 153 forest thefts, etc. So sometimes these data are incomparable because I'm afraid they're not based on facts, so they're reflecting a real state. But what's more important is the lack of generalization, so we should still get out of all this data, the data forest, the most important thing and give some general evaluations, but, and when we have some general grades, they're pretty bad. So we have data that the increase in economic crime in BiH last year is 9.2% higher than in 2006 which is a very, very large increase in crime. And I think this should be worrying. At the same time, we have an increase in drug crime by 15.8%, which is also an even bigger increase and which is a devastating data, and which tells us all to conclude that one right to mobilise all those who can contribute to the reduction of crime of all kinds is needed. For a short period of time, I will limit myself to these visions and observations, and I will finally extend one conclusion: The BiH Council of Ministers is obliged to ensure in an appropriate way quality communication with all BiH law enforcement institutions, which have a direct and indirect relationship with security in a broader sense in BiH, and to ask for an indication, i.e. an opinion of all the bad, inaccurate or insufficiently clear solutions in the laws of their partial work. The obvious, or opinion, should be delivered to the Council of Ministers and the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH so that, in accordance with their constitutional, legal powers, they can make the necessary changes and additions to the law, which could then certainly contribute to a better and more effective fight against all aspects and forms of crime in BiH. And the reason why I suggest something like this lies in the fact that the Minister himself in the Report cited weaknesses in the law, or laws. So, and this boldly, therefore, he himself, that is, the ministry has seen that there are bad solutions in the law, and the direct responsibility of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly is to correct the laws, to make such legal solutions that will ensure an effective and quality fight against all types of crime. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-10-0.u17821	Dear Ambassador Križanović had a replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-10-0.u17822	Thank you, Chairman. Here, I've been lying lately because I say I don't like to replicate, but I really couldn't keep my mouth shut at my colleague Zorić's discussion. 61 You see, I fully understand someone's position politically towards a particular political party, according to a certain time in the past that can associate it with certain things but I can't understand that half of the discussion is dedicated to the SDP on this subject. And instead of I further elaborate this, I would suggest or I would advise my colleague Zorić to make some intellectual effort to understand the difference and see the difference between betterism, communism and social democracy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-10-0.u17823	Thank you. I have an obligation to the Minister at the end to give my word, if you're in the mood? Dear Ambassador Dokić, just a minute.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-10-0.u17824	A discussion, very brief. Right before the minister, if you'll excuse me.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-10-0.u17825	It's always more important what you say than how long you'll be. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-10-0.u17826	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, since many MPs praised the minister for his report, here I will finally do so, especially for that part of his report... where he very commended the work of the RS Police and I hope that here are the MPs and the party he belongs to, to understand that in the reformed police structures of BiH the crucial importance of the RS Police. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-10-0.u17827	Thank you. Dear Ambassador Kalbić, you have another replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-10-0.u17828	Well, very briefly, given that the minister will address, I will remind him of two details, so I would ask in that final address to explain a little because here in the Report it says: The collected knowledge and data indicate that individual foreign service intelligence shows interest in BiH in a series of concrete solutions and processes that take place. It is assumed that the activities of certain intelligence services will continue with the same or increased intensity and may act to undermine the constitutional order and destabilise the overall situation. I think this deserves some additional clarifications, at least to me. I think this is one qualification that I'm sure he deserves. And the other thing - I don't think anyone's going to replicate - in 1947 in a village in the impertinent municipality, the party organization sat down and made a decision that there was no Bog. They decide and say from tonight there is no Bog. If he shows up, we'll sit down again. There's a record of that. 62 When it comes to terrorism, we can make a decision that there is no terrorism and attitude and that we say there is no terrorism in BiH. We don't think so. However, we cannot relate the question to how it is tried, and especially to ignore it. When we talk about security assessments, there are certain standards and especially from the international position of BiH, from the international position of BiH, it is the most dangerous thing. I think that we should address it in particular not to allow any migrating, if we are in all variations calling for certain international organisations, their evaluations, their data, their attitudes, and here we are trying to oppose them. I agree that we resist them but argued, and not in terms, that's not true and that's to end it. We can't, we have to explain to serious institutions that we see how they're wrong, and if they're right, then we need to imagine what we're doing inside BiH. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-10-0.u17829	Thank you. Minister, I thought the minister would do it. Dear Ambassador Izetbegović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-10-0.u17830	No, I'll do it. You know, if there's any better denial to those international communities, listen to me to communities, organizations, than there's been no terrorist act for two years. That's what the report says today. I'm just against making up terrorism if it's not there. That's enough of Bosni's misery, so another one of those... imaginary terrorisms we have here. There are some people with beards, etc. But there are no terrorist acts. Thank Bog, they're gone. The only terrorist act was carried out at the mesar of the rickets of Alija Izetbegović, all in the last two years.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-10-0.u17831	I think it would be good to... to cut this communication now. You're still having a discussion, so you're left with her, if you're going to have a discussion? Come on, here's the discussion, you've got more discussion left.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-10-0.u17832	I will use it since this is a serious matter, Mr. Izetbegović, to prepare the criminal – this is a discussion – the preparation of a crime of terrorism, and you know how many people in the world have been arrested who have not arrived to commit terrorist acts! If we go by that practice to wait for the bombs to fly everywhere, to fly people, then, then we have solutions: what we catch, catch, they'll finish the job. I guess the point is to say. It's a serious crime: preparing terrorist, preparing, not executing. So, we have to, but again I say, some professional services have reason to say what it is and why it's accusing us. Either it's not true or it is! But it's not enough to say, I guess we can put a line there, if it wasn't, to see why they weren't there. If they weren't there, which they weren't even prepared and there aren't any people involved in these activities, great. But if they weren't there because they were somehow prevented, then that's another thing. Thank you. 63
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-10-0.u17833	I hope, Minister, that you will now have the opportunity to unite these discussions. Please try to be as brief as possible, so we can finish the session today. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-10-0.u17834	Thank you, Chairman. Here, thank you to all MPs and MPs in the BiH Parliamentary Assembly in this high house for showing a truly very high interest in this topic. Security is something that needs to be a constant concern for all authorities. And here's maybe this is the opportunity to remember the time I was... MP that the state of security was actually always a treat in terms of parliamentary discussions, performances, etc. Because whatever you say, you're right. And now if I were to say that one of these MPs who pointed out either in the details of the problems in some area, or those who debated in general, I couldn't say that someone was wrong. What should be our common task: this is actually to find a model, to bring some guidance, to make some plan of activity, to draw some conclusions, but I ask you to be concrete conclusions, those that can be realized, those that will be helpful both to the Ministry of Security and other security... structures in BiH, not to be lists of our wishes. I'm actually asking you most beautifully to do so... and to do so. There were a lot of questions, I'm not sure I can remember all these... issues, but here, perhaps in general to say to analyse the state of security, look for causes and look for ways to fix the situation, and at the same time... not keep in mind what our security system is like, as much as it's split up, in terms of jurisdiction, in terms of overlapping, in terms of the absence of what is fundamental to every police system in a regulated democratic state, which is, therefore, every police system is one kind of semi-military system. He rests on a very orderly hierarchy and subordination. In fact, we in our system have a dominant principle of coordination, not subordination. In that sense,...you can ask someone to do something. And you can't order someone. You can't replace someone. So,... as far as the Ministry of Security is concerned, it has both the Border Police and the State Investigation and Protection Agency and the Foreign Affairs Service. So the entire ministry has over 3.5 thousand employees. Each of these administrative organisations or law enforcement agencies, as you will, has its responsibilities, has operational independence. He's got a bag of his own, of course. So they have their budget, their powers, they are formally responsible to the minister, but let's change some director – here's the thing – unless it meets the tasks that are in his jurisdiction. After all, we've been trying to make this police reform here for four years now, so that, ultimately, as the ultimate result, we will have an improvement in the overall... security situation. Given our system, I'm from this place saying we have a relatively good security situation. It is here – although it is no excuse, especially no justification, nor do I want to provide any kind of illusion, I am aware of all the problems, at the same time as someone inside the executive authority – so at the top of a security pyramid, the instruments I have at my disposal are none. Absolutely nothing. And here, watch out, and now that I'm not opening the question, here's a later debate on... these laws concerning police reform, etc. Here, I can read you from the jurisdiction of the Ministry of Security, in Article 14. The ministry law and 64 other administration bodies, the ministry is said to be responsible for organising the alignment of entity ministries, internal affairs and the Brcko District's activities in achieving security tasks in BiH's interest, and this provision of the existing law is not intended to be done in these future police laws. So we haven't come to that stage yet to have at least co-ordination, if not subordination, as the ultimate goal of all police agencies. It's on a voluntary basis, if anyone will give you information, etc. You can't order, I can't order anyone! I can ask them, I can ask them, I can suggest and, of course, that co-operation is on one decent basis. Of course, we respect each other and contact and respect each other, etc. But we don't really have that real system. I remind you of some general data, because in every area you have problems. But what is, let's say, an important fact that the overall rate of general crime is less than 3.4%. And this is the relevant information for the general evaluation and for the general picture. Of course, there is a worrying situation in certain areas, especially in the area of the production and traffic of intoxicating drugs, smuggling, etc. Of course, organized crime is a big problem. Of course, corruption is a big problem. But here's how much our system, the overall system, is capable of responding to these threats, to these challenges, is something that can't be separated from each other. I'm asking you to, first of all, keep that in mind. As for insufficient resources, people mentioned 500 people were missing from the Border Police. There are even more people missing S.I.A.P.A. So, we've been planning on seeing these people for the next three years, in line with the budgets that we have available. And we're gonna get this job done for sure. I'm here to say that we've been in the Department of Security, at least since I came as Minister, received 550 people to the Ministry, so police officers, civil servants, it's an army of one people. Of course, we also need a better legal framework and a legislative framework and better equipment and better vehicles, etc. etc. But I express one hope, one belief that our security system is actually improving and that, therefore, it becomes better in that sense, more ready and more equipped to respond to all threats and all challenges. I, believe me, in conceiving this information, together with my associates, tried to, as we thought, systematicize certain areas, make a lot of information, let's say, piety, readable, which provides a good basis for conversation. We didn't mean to put priorities here. We believe that this Parliamentary Assembly can tell the Ministry of Security: these are priorities. But I'm also asking you to keep in mind what the specific powers of the ministry are. You can give me juvenile delinquency, you can put me in charge, you can relieve me, but I'm not in charge of it. I can't do those jobs. Or I don't know, some other crime... that they're in charge of... whether entity, Brcko District Police, control, etc. So I'm asking you to keep that in mind, too. There's something that's objective about what the priorities are from that so-called. the European road to BiH. The most important thing in Europe... in European security policy is terrorism, human trafficking, or illegal migration, pardon, it's... organised crime, and it's proleteration of weapons of mass destruction. Are these, I ask you, are these BiH priorities at the same time? Are we going to take the European priorities that are really their greatest need, so we are being delegated here to be our own, or are we going to identify along with them some of the special ones that we have as huge problems in this country? I'm asking you to help me in that 65 sense to say, here's the office, you deal with the team, but we in our country know what our biggest problem is, and we're going to use our resources to solve our biggest problems.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-10-0.u17835	Time, Minister!
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-10-0.u17836	Yeah. I thank you,... there's always a danger of getting into the story, because there were a lot of questions. Look, about any topic to be done as specific information: you put in charge, I'll do it with the associates. As for... these issues of intelligence services, there are indeed certain intelligence services and those in some segments and destructively functioning. In that sense, you can look for information from the BiH Intelligence and Security Agency and... get classified appropriately. As for terrorism,... we do not underestimate this danger, it is a global evil and, however, I find what is in BiH. You don't need to run away from one fact that really is the situation in, let's say, in some world public opinion, first and foremost in Europe, about that so-called. Islamic terrorism. It exists. We do laundry all the time. Not because we don't want to, that we want to hide any problem. We don't want to hide. At the same time, if you're going to constantly justify yourself to someone because you're Muslim, then it becomes a terrible story. Watch out, white al-Qaeda's a racist theory. What does the White al-Qaeda theory mean? So they've got some black ones out there, but damn it, these white ones, if the white ones come, they're white. So, I'm giving it my private opinion. And of course... and the Intelligence Service and law enforcement agencies pay enough attention and, believe me, the international community, which is very present here, is very present and takes care of that. There are no al-Qaeda cells in BiH, organised camps, etc. I'm handing over the law enforcement agency. These are current findings, based on them, I'm passing on that information to you. I'd be happy to prepare this information on domestic violence. I think it's a very interesting thing. And here, I have not mentioned certain people who are inaccessible to The Hague tribunal, here I say, neither Karadžić nor Mladić, who are inaccessible to The Hague tribunal. According to the Intelligence Service and other law enforcement agencies, they are not in BiH. Here, I can talk a lot more... but here's a thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-10-0.u17837	That's it. Thank you, Minister. I'm closing the debate. Moving to the 24th item of the agenda: 66 Ad.24. Information on the work of the BiH Prosecutor's Office for 2007 I remind you, this information on the work of the Prosecutor's Office has been downloaded from the agenda of the 24th session, due to the inability of the applicant's representatives to attend the session. On 14 March 2008, the Constitutional Legal Commission delivered a Opinion on Information that suggests to the House that information on the work of the Prosecutor's Office should be taken into account, with the opinion of the Constitutional Legal Commission. I'm opening an information debate. Here, in front of the BiH Prosecutor's Office, is Mrs. Jadranka Lukić, deputy chief prosecutor. If he's in need of information, if he doesn't, I'm opening a debate. Here you go. Dear MP Bećirović, Novaković, Dolić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-10-0.u17839	I'll be brief. I'm taking the opportunity, and there's also a representative of the D.A.'s office to ask one question to the D.A. I'd like to get an answer to during this debate. In 30 days, it will be the exact month or first anniversary since one of Tuzla's most prominent citizens, Mr. Ilija Jurišić, was arrested. And, here, for almost a year, a man is in a Belgrade prison, although there is no serious evidence that he is guilty of anything. I have also asked several times the question to certain ministries, above all the Ministry of Justice, the Ministry of Human Rights, but here I am now using the opportunity, the presence of a representative of the BiH Prosecutor's Office, to answer me what the BiH Prosecutor's Office has done so far in relation to this case, especially in terms of communication with the Prosecutor's Office of the Neighbouring State, since this report also discusses the active regional co-operation of the Prosecutor's Office in the area of the southeast of Europe, and particularly in the field of ex Yugoslavia.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-10-0.u17840	Thank you. The next thing you know, the esteemed representative, Novaković, signed up.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-10-0.u17841	Mr. Chairman, colleagues and fellow Members of Parliament, the distinguished representatives of NGOs, the media, you see, before I begin to discuss this, I must say that I have heard in this high house several times that some in front of some prosecutors are being tried without argument. I really want to know if my colleague Bećirović saw the file, and based on that file, he finds there are no valid reasons for the case, so. And it would be good indeed if, in such a way, we were to make an argument as to whether we were the ones who could assess the validity of the reasons of some of the prosecutions or courts. Or whether we have these capacities to decide whether something is valid or not is a valid reason. Of course, counterpart Bećirović has the right to a political attitude and a personal attitude and a human attitude and, however you will, a party and any other position on the issue, but I think we have at least the right to comment on whether the reasons that the prosecution has are valid or not. 67 But, of course, I didn't answer for it. I volunteered to try to make some contribution, as far as I can, to discuss the work of the D.A. in 2007. First, I must say that I have discussed all the reports of the prosecution's work before, and I must say that I have observed these reports very often. And today I'm going to do it just like that. I'll deal with, first of all, the work of two departments in this prosecution. One is Special Section II as indicated here. So it's a division dealing with organised crime, economic crime and corruption and the I Department dealing with war crimes cases, or the War Crimes Department. When it comes to this other department, I have to say that there is one conclusion in the Information that in 2007, this department received 130 items and inherited from earlier years 230 items, which makes up 360 items and solved 96 cases. If it works at this rate, then the number of objects from year to year will increase. In other words, this department does not carry out its part of the work in accordance with the needs. And the needs are, at the very least, at least 130 solved items plus at least some residual items. I'm not an expert in this area, and I can't say if these objects can go out of date, but if they can, then the tragedy is bigger. I don't think I can. And that the only thing that's comforting in this story is that I can't get old. Otherwise, if I could, it would be really disastrous to have what we have in these facts. But I have to say, when I read the page before that, it seems a little bit like there are a lot of reasons why it's ineffective, or that the greatest responsibility is on that prosecution. I will only read two sentences, he says: During 2007, Special Section II made further progress in the fight against organised crime, economic crime and corruption compared to the previous period. With this in mind, in March 2007, the Special Department began implementing the criteria for the distribution of cases. Dear gentlemen, is setting the criteria for the schedule of cases a significant advance in the fight against crime? Or I guess it's something that had to be done as a previous question and I guess it shouldn't be in this report, unless, of course, it's considered a very serious job. Also, on the same page, we have a sentence: The creation of the Internal Regulation of the Special Department will regulate the internal work of the Division and will be in line with the BiH Prosecutor's Office's Internal Organisation Regulation. So that same department doesn't even have its own rulebook! Of course, I suppose the people in the department also have objective reasons why the situation is like this, but it would be logical to have a proposal for measures but indeed one action plan, not just those ideas, but one action plan to solve the problems that exist in the area in order for this part or this division to work more effectively. The first division or the War Crimes Department, within this prosecution, is a special story for itself, dear gentlemen. In the part of RS, or in most RS, there is the view that this department works exclusively to process and determine the war crimes of a nation. Unfortunately, this prosecution has contributed significantly to that attitude. I asked and prayed that by this session more details were delivered to the MPs about the cases in front of this court, so that we could, after all, know quite clearly what cases were being handled, the date when these cases were processed, 68 when they came to the Prosecutor's Office, and finally, both the national structure and the victims and the accused so that we could fully verify the prosecution today, that it does not work in the way it thinks, here is one part of BiH. However, I didn't get or we didn't all get that information until today, so I'm not sure that then exactly because I didn't get it and I'm wrong. What's clear or what's visible? You see, the media could read that by the end of 2007, the Ministry of Justice had filed 705 criminal charges against 6,701 people, on grounds of reasonable suspicion that they had committed one or more war crimes, at the expense of 21,000 victims. A number of these cases are in the BiH Prosecutor's Office and, unfortunately, we have no information on what has been done so far. And that's what I was looking for on the commission.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-10-0.u17842	Time!
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-10-0.u17843	There is no strategy and priority criteria in this area. It's a key problem. Simply, no one can convince me that it is not fully conscious and deliberately avoided to adopt one strategy and set criteria for the processing and monitoring of these and research of these subjects. Namely, there must be clear criteria, so mass murder, forced evictions, time to commit a crime, way to commit a crime, etc., now not to list what is possible. I, given this, continue to doubt the prosecution's sincere intentions and I fear that the prosecution is very often under political influence. Creating a distorted picture – I will finish, the chairman, you do not need to remind me more – the distorted images of the war conflict in BiH, with the ultimate goal of dividing into good and bad guys, of which the good guys are always the same and the bad guys always the same. Some of this, though, was denied by the D.A.'s office's last activity a few days ago. I hope that in the coming period this prosecution and all other institutions will do more at this job to gain full confidence in all BiH citizens in each part of BiH. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-10-0.u17844	Thank you. Dear Ambassador Bećirović: Replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-10-0.u17845	Well, I've got to fix anything that's been caused by a colleague, Novaković, who felt the need to correct my allegations. For this reason, I would like to remind myself that I have made it very clear and asked the BiH Prosecutor's Office: What have they done to protect the human rights of the BiH citizen and, as I said, one of the most prominent citizens of Tuzla, Mr Ilija Jurišić? Since information on the work of the Prosecutor's Office is also part of this international co-operation, it is evident that in the case of Ilija Jurišić, the European Convention on Legal Assistance in Criminal Matters is being violated, and this is no longer just my finding, it is also the founding of 69 competent ministries in the BiH Council of Ministers. Even the BiH Ministry of Justice sent a note asking the Republic of Serbia to carry out its obligation to carry out international contracts. Therefore, Mr. Novaković, therefore, I have made it very clear that I have called for certain international contracts, certain legal provisions. A strange human and, to put it this way, an honest dimension that Mr. Ilija Jurišić, behold, will already be in prison for one year on 11 May, and two of the most wanted Hague convicts, Ratko Mladić and Radovan Karadžić, are still at large.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-10-0.u17846	Thank you. Dear Ambassador Novaković: Replica.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-10-0.u17847	Well, you see, my colleague Bećirović answered me what I didn't ask him. And he said what I didn't replicate. So I asked my colleague: did he have any insight into the case? When he can talk, so he or I can talk about someone sitting there who's innocent. So I can't talk, I'm not a lawyer and I haven't seen a subject. I asked him, "Is he a lawyer and is he a visual object?" Secondly, what does it mean to compare Ilija Jurišić with Radovan Karadžić and Ratko Mladić? Will we compare Ilija Jurišić to several hundred Srbin in various trials in various courts today? I don't think it's necessary, and I don't think it's necessary, unnecessarily, after all. Is it correct or not? It's the thing of whoever compared it but it's an unnecessary comparison.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-10-0.u17848	Thank you. Dear Ambassador Okolić is first, then Bešlagić.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-10-0.u17849	Well, Mr. Chairman, poor information about the prosecution's work... BiH if, through the Information on the work of the BiH Prosecutor's Office, we bring it down to one or two names. We here need to talk about the Prosecutor's Office and its work in the past period, in the interest of all BiH citizens and all cases concerning BiH. I propose for anyone who thinks that there is damage to one court, another court, a third instance, a fourth statement to international, highest courts and that we once interrupt the practice of defending individuals here, in this parliament, when it comes to one general problem about the work of such an important institute as the BiH Prosecutor's Office. And what will our citizens tell us then: that we have reduced this information and the work of this prosecution to assess whether its work is good through one or two or possibly three names throughout BiH. Thank you very much. 70
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-10-0.u17850	Thank you. Dear Ambassador Bešlagić: Replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-10-0.u17851	...now Mr. Okolić has given me the opportunity to replicate him and Mr. Novaković. We haven't said for a moment whether he's guilty or not. We only asked that Ilija Jurišić return to BiH and be prosecuted before the court. And in that sense, we asked what the prosecution had done in contact with the Prosecutor's Office in Serbia to have the man return to the BiH Prosecutor's Office. Nothing more. Let him stand trial. Niko said: I'm clean, he's not clean. Therefore, I beg you, there is not one man. It's about protecting civil rights. And nothing more. There, that's all there is to it.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-10-0.u17852	Thank you. We've exhausted the replicas with this. We have reported: Dolić, Džaferović, Halilović, Križanović, Bahtić, Mehmedović. Dear Ambassador Dolić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-10-0.u17853	Gentlemen, the chairman, esteemed colleagues and colleagues, distinguished guests, I have not applied for a discussion at this previous point, information on the state of security, because I consider these two points related. We therefore have quite a pragmatic report on the work of the BiH Prosecutor's Office in 2007 which accordingly provides quite a pragmatic picture of the state and work in the Prosecutor's Office. The work of the Special Department for War Crimes and the Special Department for Organized Crimes, Economic Crime and Corruption is of particular importance. When we see statistical and analytical indicators in the work of these departments, then I personally am not satisfied with the results of the prosecution's work, especially these departments. The D.A.'s Information states problems in the work of the D.A. who, as an MP and a human, were more concerned than the statistical indicators themselves about the state of the case and the state of the D.A.'s office. I am particularly concerned about those who directly address the problems they cause and who can also solve the institutions of this country, which are, above all, the problem of financing investigations, the prosecutor's office said, was insufficiently engaged by state and entity bodies in delivering the requested documentation, and it is said that despite the regulations, the Prosecutor's Office is waiting for documentation for several months. It has already become a practice for such reports, especially the judicial authorities, to impose a problem with an insufficient number of prosecutors, investigators and expert staff, and the fluctuation of personnel and frequent changes in staff, which reduces the efficiency of the prosecution. Afterwards, the problems are particularly highlighted by citizens, institutions and so on. 71 The D.A.'s special weight is carried by the Special War Crimes Department. I think this department of the D.A. is objectively having major problems in the work and, if this department is no longer institutionally helped, this department will have to work for the next 50 years and will not do its job professionally again. The processing of war criminals has a strategic significance for normalisation and the future of life in these areas, and therefore I personally find it difficult to experience the difficulties mentioned in the work of this department, and the particular weight has these difficulties in which the flow of time stands, the paleness of memory, the death of witnesses, and then the pressures on witnesses who, in my opinion, are far greater and more content than those who point out and who can grow here in this report. The witness's readiness to testify and frequent changes in the testimony and, in particular, obstruction in the collection of documents, including by the official institutions of the state. I have to ask a public question to the applicant of this information, which I couldn't find answers to in this information. First, what is the co-operation of the BiH Prosecutor's Office with other judicial posts, investigative authorities and law enforcement bodies in BiH? Here's what I'm reading in the media, so yesterday some of these bodies signed cooperation agreements. Secondly, what is the cooperation and trust within the prosecution itself and within the BiH Court? And the third, special question, are political pressures and influences of political and criminal lobbies present against the BiH Prosecutor's Office? I claim that these pressures are the biggest brakes for more professional and efficient work of the D.A.'s office. I have a lot of examples, including direct statements from prosecutors, investigators and other people in the D.A.'s office. A colleague, Bahtić, cited the pogorelica as an example of a mounted process. I, and counterpart Bahtić, cite as an example of political pressure on the court, as an example of pressure on witnesses, as an example of obstructing investigations by official institutions in BiH, as an example of changing witness statements and by many other things. The real picture of the situation in the BiH Prosecutor's Office I received from a recent answer to one of my parliamentary questions. I asked a question in this house: at which stage is the investigation of a quadruple murder that took place in Bihac in '93. A year? I've cited the circumstances of this monstrosity act.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-10-0.u17854	Time! Keep going, but try to finish.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-10-0.u17855	Okay. The question is, therefore, the circumstances of this act and the name and last name listed those who committed this cruel murder. 15 days ago, I received a reply from the Council of Ministers that an investigation into this quadruple murder was opened in '93. the year, that it has been completed several times and that at the end of 2005 the investigation was taken over by the BiH Court of Justice. Please, the first investigation is being conducted in Bihaq for 12 years! And here is the case in the BiH Court of Justice for more than two years! To remind you, it's a quadruple murder that has been known to the perpetrators for almost 15 years, and so far there's no charge! This is an example of how much politics, mobs and criminals affect the work of the D.A.'s office. Why don't the citizens trust the D.A.? Well, just because of cases like this or because of the fact that in one place in Pecigrad, the municipality of Cazin, for four post-war murders, no perpetrators have been known to date, which in the entire former state of Yugoslavia has not been the case in a year. Distrust and even fear of the citizens of the prosecution and the court, then they're not even weird! 72 Finally, I am very concerned about the work of the BiH Prosecutor's Office and should not be easily moved over the findings presented, especially through those relating to problems in the work of this institution. The BiH Prosecutor's Office and the BiH Court are important segments of BiH's legal and security system and therefore deserve more attention and more support in professional performance. I'm not going to talk about the measures proposed, because in the normal rule of law, all these measures are meant to be, and it's unfortunate that here is the D.A.'s office asking that laws be respected. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-10-0.u17856	Thank you. Replica: Honored Representative Bahtić.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-10-0.u17857	I told Mr. Dolić that the pogorelica was installed as a terrorist camp, so the judicial authorities proved it wasn't. It was an attempt to call on BiH to train terrorists. So, the court has said theirs, people are innocent indictees. It wasn't a terrorist camp. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-10-0.u17858	The word has a distinguished representative, Dolić.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-10-0.u17859	Oh, here's just one sentence. I mean, whoever knows that object well, the burner as a camp is just one segment of that case. Even so, I have a different opinion, but of course my colleague Bahtić has the right to think of this as he will and that is his problem. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-10-0.u17860	The following has been reported for the debate by the esteemed representative Džaferović.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-10-0.u17861	Mr. Chairman, honourable colleagues, ladies and gentlemen, I would now like, first of all, to try to propose to Parliament that my debate on this subject sits within a framework called the BiH Parliament's Parliament's indictees when it comes to this kind of report. So it is known that the court, the BiH Prosecutor's Office and all other BiH judiciary institutions are independent, that they have their principles of action and, therefore, we do not have the right today to adopt or not adopt the Information on the work of the Prosecutor's Office. In fact, this is information, we have the right to take it into consideration and discuss it, but not to politicize it, we continue to confuse the Prosecutor's Office and other judicial institutions, but to see what it says in that information, and what we are obliged and obliged to do. 73 In that context, within these five minutes, if this point applies for five minutes, as well as for the previous one, I will say a few things, because watch out, I mean, there are far too many debates over which people from which there are reported, accused. The crime and the criminal have a name and a last name, there's a criminal, there's a victim, there's a reported victim, and there's a prosecution obligation that where there's evidence of prosecution and where there's no evidence or based on some other legal elements it doesn't take. Therefore, there is a problem when, for example, there is a problem. The prosecutor has evidence, and he doesn't take the heat, and the problem becomes when the prosecutor has no evidence, obviously, so there's no evidence and he's taking the heat, and we can talk about those categories, but this isn't the place to discuss it. We can't talk here about the balance of war crimes persecution in BiH, because there were no balances on committing war crimes either. Anyone who committed a war crime should be prosecuted and that's just the way it is. That's what it says in our laws. And the prosecutions and courts need to act that way. I want to point out three things here that I think we can help the BiH Prosecutor's Office work more effectively. All three things are in a certain way written in this information. The first thing concerns the BiH prosecution's capacity. Let's not forget it's not the BiH Supreme Prosecutor's Office that has jurisdiction over all other BiH prosecutors. Many other prosecutors have, this is one specialised prosecutor's office or special prosecutor's office, which also operates within the special court, the Court of BiH, because neither the BiH Court is the Supreme Court. And if we're going to help them, we need to stand up here in this room. I know that we do not have the proper consent to do so, but I am convinced that it is in the interest of all people in this country, of all citizens, of all people, of establishing in BiH a Supreme Court institution that would have jurisdiction over, of all matters, a certain kind of jurisdiction over all cases being processed in BiH, even if it was a third degree, even if it was not me who, now, I do not invent. Of course, the BiH Prosecutor's Office should also play such a role. It's the first thing that we need to start thinking about here, because there's no equal protection for human rights and freedoms in one country, unless there's one institution of that kind in that country. And so that's the key thing I wanted to say here publicly in Parliament. One day the moment will come when BiH will have it, believe me, whether I agree or disagree at this time. The second item is written in the report, i.e. Information on the work of the Prosecutor's Office, which concerns the problem of dual citizenship. We therefore have the situation that many BiH citizens: those who are suspected of war crimes, including those who are here in the process, have citizenship and other countries and then avoid criminal persecution by hiding in those countries. These are neighbouring states of BiH, and these countries have constitutional obligations to their constitutions, as they are, as their citizens, to protect these citizens and not to hand them over to BiH's judicial authorities on this principle. I think, however war crimes don't go out of date, by conventions or by our law, it's not written by chance, as long as everyone who committed war crimes is alive, he has to be responsible for it. There is a deep justification that, in an appropriate action by the Bosnian authorities, not only the prosecution and the court but also the Parliament and the Council of Ministers and the BiH Presidency with the UN tribunal and the European Commission have resolved this issue and that those who avoid justice in BiH, hiding behind the citizenship of other states, are bringing justice to BiH. The question has not been done what is necessary to do... 74 And the third thing I want to say is a question that concerns, by my deep conviction, a violation of the sovereignty of this country. There are several principles in criminal processing in the so-called. The validity of the Criminal Code – here I end...now – even with these crimes. The principle, therefore, is that for all crimes, all crimes committed in one country, every country wants to judge them regardless of who committed them domestically or foreign citizens. The second principle is the personal principle: that every state wants to judge its own citizen if it has committed a crime whether committed in that country or in another country. That's two basic principles. There are two more. I think there's space, no matter what I know there's so-called. Universal principles, that BiH takes action that what has been done on its territory or someone is suspected of having committed a crime on its territory, should only be prosecuted by an international instance formed by the Security Council, the UN, so..., The Hague tribunal or our domestic court. In that direction, I think that BiH authorities should take action and this cannot be done, this problem cannot only be presented by the Prosecutor's Office and the Court of BiH. It takes action from all of us. That's it, thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-10-0.u17862	Thank you. Dear Representative Okolić: Correction of the incorrect quote.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-10-0.u17863	Well, colleague Džaferović said one word, one sentence that I understood as I'm about to say. If it's any different, make it right. But if it's like this, I don't agree with this. One moment he said that we cannot look at the balance when it comes to the processing of war criminals because they are not under the same measures and done, or in the same number of done. I translate it this way: if some people or representatives of some people who have committed more war crimes than some other people will not be prosecuted, they will wait there, if they may have done some order as members of a people less of these war crimes, because it is simply less war crimes committed by that people. It's inadmissible and such a statement is inadmissible. War crimes, war crimes, whether it's one man, whether it's a hundred people, whether it's one man or any man, I don't know how many people. They must be processed as soon as the conditions are obtained for him, so be it, whoever it is. There's no balance and there's no waiting, let's go 30 of these, so we'll wait with this, which might be worse than these 30. When we've finished 30 of them, then we'll process him. The bottom line is that all who have arguments that can be prosecuted and tried at the same time, and how many will be, is as much as they deserve to be prosecuted as war criminals. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-10-0.u17864	The word has a respected representative Džaferović. 75
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-10-0.u17865	I mean, Mr. Okolić, that your initial statement with the interpretation of what I said and what you finally said were two different things. ... So, I believe that crimes should be handled by all, therefore, who have committed crimes and prosecutors in BiH, should take action. I've been discussing... the predecessor realized that the predecessors are asking questions, so the predecessors are asking questions here in Parliament about the ethnicity of war crimes suspects and I said that these are categories they don't deal with in the prosecution, and we can't argue here. We can deal with the war crimes suspect, we can deal with... the crime, the victim and, please, let the BiH Prosecutor's Office do it. So that's the essence of what I was going to say.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-10-0.u17866	Next up for debate, distinguished representative Halilović signed up for debate
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-10-0.u17867	The Honorable Chairman, fellow MPs and other guests, this was a complex question and I don't know if we should be having any discussion about this at all. If we have an independent prosecution and an innocent judiciary, then we should just take this as information and we shouldn't talk about this. If we have an independent judiciary and a prosecutor's office?- I'm sorry. I don't think we have an independent judiciary and a prosecutor's office and I think that despite what we've done to that High Court and Prosecutor's Council, inside BiH, we cannot narrowly oppose crime and corruption, war crimes and all other forms of what the prosecutor should deal with, while inside BiH we have four legal systems... which... often exclude each other. We are here today through the discussion and I would not like to challenge some special, with my discussion of some special replica, and today we have heard from colleagues Novaković how many MP RS have filed criminal charges against certain NN persons for... persons, there are very specific... persons for certain crimes. To bear it, they filed it, that's true, but they didn't bear it, neither did they reveal any, any crime, or any crime against returnees who were 550 only last year. No murder has been discovered on RS territory, nor has the Federation Ministry discovered here in Federation territory, I don't think I'm trying to get into this trap where you are. So, I think our prosecution, if this state's attorney's office hadn't been filled in enough personnel, not financially independent, not politically independent, because if that were the case, it would have reacted differently. I'm just going to try to say this here to try and explain what I think through one example. These days... we watch, we read through the press that the Cantonal Prosecutor's Office in Sarajevo has launched an investigation into a group of ministers there, from the Federation Prime Minister, the Federation Government, through ministers to certain persons within the Federation government. So what they suspect is about 3.5 billion euros, i.e. 7 billion marks, that there are some marifetteluks there, which is why... an open investigation. And another example. A few years ago it was launched, and I apologize for mentioning the name, the open investigation, and the man was tried and released for abuse of official position for 10,000 KM. The man's name is Hasan Čengić, and at the time he was Deputy Defence Minister. What are these, gentlemen, the criteria by which you raise criminal charges? Is that what you choose by beauty or by weight or by height? 76 And my second question to you is, for example. Third case: Tuzla Bank. Is the capacity for embezzlement, what the Cantonal Prosecutor's Office is doing to Tuzla. What are these amounts when a state court is engaged, or a state prosecutor, when a federal prosecutor is either cantonal or municipal? So, I want to tell you through this that you have no criteria here! But, obviously, throw the hook so whoever catches it, and usually, when you throw a hook like that, then the big edges pass, because your hooks are obviously still small. Because if you had good hooks, then you wouldn't be talking to me here in vain. Then open an investigation against me. In this parliament, I have argued that the parliamentary commission of this parliament has found that 8 billion and 600 million donations have been embezzled for BiH. So I've been saying it here, and here's the tenth time I've said it, you keep your mouth shut, keep your mouth shut, all the prosecutors at the state level are silent. We have talked here many times about various thievings within BiH that are measured by millions of figures. You should follow what's done with robbery privatisation, that people are brought... to the beggar stick. And overnight, millionaires or billionaires were made. And you know exactly how and how it is done and, in the end, that the cantonal prosecutor is running an application for 3.5 billion euros, i.e. an investigation, and the state's prosecutor for embezzlement for 10,000 euros. And I have no trust, neither do I... and, finally, I will tell you specifically on my example. I was tried at the highest international instance in The Hague, because the cantonal prosecutor, at the time the district attorney, didn't do his job. I was suspected of commanding responsibility because, I will speak with names and last names, then cantonal prosecutor Šljivar, after which Mustafa Bisić, after which Ismet Mehić and their deputy Branko Šljivar did not order those who knew they had committed a crime, although then the Service of Military Security gave them all the information, the court prosecuted them after 10 years or after 15 years. And now they're these people, and now they're these people in jail. It's an identical case with these people... when I speak, Delić, Hadžihasanović and the others. Because you failed to do it, because someone winked at you: don't do it for this... reason. What happened to these people? Mustafa Bisić is an assistant state minister of justice. Branko Šljivar is currently a cantonal prosecutor. And while Branko Šljivar is the prosecutor in Sarajevo, criminals can sleep peacefully and I'm responsible for saying it here. Because I know dozens of cases he missed. And I know some cases where he was pushing the big bear, and in the end, it didn't turn out to be anything. What I, what I stand for, would be that this parliament, and only this Parliament, could do so, would we finally get a legal system in BiH, not four. And to really make an effort to get an independent judiciary and an independent prosecutor's office and give them full support, because there are a lot of honest people out there who will, and they can't fight this evil facing BiH: crime, corruption, war crime, terrorism, I think there's also trafficking in these intoxicating drugs and people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-10-0.u17868	Thank you. The following has been reported for the debate by the esteemed representative Križanović.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-10-0.u17869	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. First of all, I want to say that we have started to create an unnecessary dilemma whether this Parliament should discuss this information and take certain opinions on it. And if that 77 wasn't the case, then he shouldn't have come to us, they could have mailed us... And the discussion of this information has far more effects than we think. A lot of things can be read from it. It can be read whether this parliament estimates: Does the Prosecutor's Office meet its social task, in accordance with the law and needs of this society? What's our criminal policy? And, arguing, criticising such things, is not interference with the judiciary. I don't see who else could do it instead of this Parliament. Anyone else involved in this would be meddling in independent justice. So, what I'm saying is that this information, looking at the methodological, content, is well done. I agree that there are unnecessary details that burden information, but now it's another thing that we're satisfied with what's written in that information. Due to the limited time of debate, I will remain only on this one segment which speaks of odjel II.. It's a special department for organised crime, economic crime and corruption. But before that, I want to say that I see the quality of this information that has given the summary state of crime in BiH, the total, from which it can be seen, I said in the previous debate, that this can surprise us, concerned. That there were 35-36 thousand received applications. If we turn that into a citizen, then it turns out that almost every hundred citizens have been processed. And that the verdict was reached in 19500, which corresponds roughly to every two hundred BiH citizens that they were convicted of a crime. You see in this section, odjel II., it is said that 230 cases against 819 people have been received over the past year, that the new inflow of 130 cases against 346 people. And not to go any further, he says: 96 cases have been completed and 81 indictments have been brought against 150 people. And now that you're further developing it, then there's a record that 26 prison sentences have been imposed, 41 suspended prison sentences, 30 fines of 712,000 KM and that the confiscation of assets of millions and six has been carried out. When you turn that into an average by... object, it is therefore obtained that 30 persons were fined, with an average of 23,000 per case or 16,000 per case taken away. Of course, in this information is missing one important piece of information: how many lawsuits actually contained, what is the amount of this, to say the critical, suspicions of the convert marks of millions in relation to what was decided to be taken away? I'd like to ask if you can register it so if you can answer this question. It is characteristic of this department that the constant increase in the inflow of cases, and the capacity of the prosecution is very low and that we will have a huge accumulation of unsolved cases in the future. Also, the characteristic is the slowness in cases, delays in the process and the trial itself. Let me quote only what the prosecution states as basic problems in the work. It is said that the problem of communication, especially investigative actions, and then, the problem of timely location of witness insurance, the problem of the resolution of scheduled hearings before the Court of BiH, etc. So all of these are one, I believe, real, true warnings about what we, as through executive bodies, could react to create more favourable conditions for the prosecution's work.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-10-0.u17870	Time!
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-10-0.u17871	Let me just say that I welcome these seven strategic objectives that have been set here and seven appropriate measures. I particularly welcome the honesty in the recognition of Prosecution 78 that there is no capacity to determine illegally acquired assets in the process of confiscation and management of this property and that, as I understand it here, is seeking the help of the state to assist the prosecution. I also have correct and other measures, but I am asking the question of who they refer to and who is in charge and what deadlines to implement them. Thank you, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-10-0.u17872	Thank you. Dear Ambassador Bahtić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-10-0.u17873	Thank you. I'm glad that today is on the agenda Information on the prosecution's work. In my discussion, I will base myself on the work of the Special War Crimes Department, whose work, I say immediately, I am not satisfied, and I will explain it in my discussion. I've already said there have already been over 13,000 investigations in this department, which means the investigation doesn't mean it's someone's fault. All those who committed a war crime, they have to answer, no matter who they refer to. But believe me, I've received hundreds of calls after these recent developments in the Bosnian province and Bihac, and that's my obligation, and that's how I share the opinion of those who put me in charge. As an MP for this parliament in front of the USK, me and my party... are not satisfied with the work of the BiH War Crimes Department. The entire public saw here a few days ago that three former members of the V Corps of the Republic of BiH were arrested, speculating that these were related to the action of the Croatian Army in July '95. or action... '94. We are shocked by these arrests, because we in Krajina – here is fellow Halilović said and I support him, absolutely all his discussion – it is not clear to me on the basis of which criteria prosecutors in the War Crimes Department are pressing charges, especially if known – I was born in the Sanjski Mosto, there and living, residence in Bihac – which crimes were committed on the plains of the Ljudnoga Valley and the Sanja Valley in '92. A year. Thousands of civilians were killed, known by the name and last name of who did it, it is known that these criminals are now walking freely through the towns of RS, Bijeljina, even Banja Luka and Prijedor and Serbia. So let's see if she's... older in '95. Year or '92. For years, this one defended the state was surrounded, and he attacked, killed in the house, built camps and walked free. It doesn't make any sense to me. I think this is how the D.A. tries to level the victim and the aggressor and balance it out. There's no balance. Whoever the bad guy is, he's got to answer. Also, isn't it clear to them: daily caves are being dug there, dug throughout BiH. You know who they are, witnesses are known, criminal charges, campers are filed, nothing is done! I don't know if it doesn't have any courage? This way, believe me, not what all BiH citizens expect is achieved. I wouldn't want it to be misunderstood that I want to defend some war criminals here, no matter what side they were on. I've already said, I'm even seeing it... maybe it's a good thing that these V Corps members show up in court and light up what was going on out there in the Un-San canton and the Krajina and create a real picture. It can be created that way, because now we probably don't. I've already said we have a bad example and for the pogorelica, colleague Dolić here disagrees, we understand each other well, I didn't want to rephrase him, I appreciate his work. However, it has also been shown in Pogorica that people are innocently accused. As far as crime and corruption are concerned, I will end very briefly – tax evasion: crime, corruption, capitalists, gentlemen of the world, my colleague Jukić said they are still free to walk, drive expensive cars, as the foll directors of some large companies, eat, create jobs in a luxury restaurant and here in Sarajevo. We're all looking at it, no one's doing anything, and believe me, it's still being done at the expense of the state, and it's...
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-10-0.u17874	Time!
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-10-0.u17875	Here's a very short one and my recommendation is to the BiH Prosecutor's Office: we spent six months on audit reports; there are a lot of irregularities, illegal, criminal acts, we sent it to the D.A. last year. The former prosecutor, I don't know if he's ex or future, currently, I don't even know who the prosecutor is anymore, I wish he had answered, says they have a shortcut job, that I can't, couldn't get the audit reports in order. Now, that's why my recommendation: establish a department for audit reports, receive two or three people, believe me, it'll be the most efficient investment that all those who spend uncontrollably... public funds know they'll fit, and it'll be the best effect for all of us here. That's it, thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-10-0.u17876	Thank you. Dear Ambassador Novaković: Replica.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-10-0.u17877	You see, counterpart Bahtić just said what I took as an assumption when I spoke in his discussion. In fact, the finding that the attempt to equate those who are aggressors and those who are victims implies that on one side and always on the same side are only victims, and on the one hand, only criminals are always on the same side. And it's that dangerous thesis that we can't talk about in this way. I have advocated, my colleague Bahtić, for criteria and for strategy, and I have suggested a conclusion here: that we seek that the court, or the prosecution bring strategy and criteria, so whoever falls into that hole, regardless of which nation, from which religion he belonged to the people. But there's got to be a strategy, and that's where we absolutely agree.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-10-0.u17878	Wait a minute, wait a minute, Your Honor, so Bahtić. This is the answer to the replica. Right? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-10-0.u17879	Yes, it is, here's a very short one. A kolega of the SDS, Novaković, was replicating, and I don't think he got it right or he wasn't listening to my discussion. Just now, the SDS crisis headquarters in all municipalities were in Krajina, crisis headquarters that made lists, names and names of all 80 of those members of the SDS who arrested overnight... camps and killed innocent people. There's a name and a last name. It's all in the county of Krajina, who was in crisis headquarters. That's what you need to do... and believe me, they're walking around the Bijeljina and the Prijedor. That's what I thought. Oh, he didn't, let anyone amnesty, colleague Novaković.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-10-0.u17880	Dear MP Bećirović replica and Halilović the same replica, is it? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-10-0.u17881	I volunteered for the replica because I cannot continue to listen to one of these two-faced policies represented by Mr. Bahtić. Namely, I'm sorry to say this right away, that he had a discussion and that he spent his two replicas, one on Mr. Dolić, and the other on Novaković, so he won't be able to respond, but there will be future points of the agenda, so remember what to say. Why do I say it's two-faced? This is about the commanders who defended BiH, among other things, about General Dudaković, and all the good in this country know that the campaign against General Dudaković began first in Belgrade's "politika“. And to Belgrade's "Politici", where at least ten to twelve years, no Bošnjak had an interview from BiH, Mr Bahtić was given the opportunity yesterday, to repeat, in Belgrade's "Politice" he received a large space and made his interview. And I don't know why Mr. Novaković is replicating him, since Novaković probably can't get the space in "Politica" either, but Bahtić can. People should imagine themselves well, which is why and for whom both the warrant and whose agreement Mr. Bahtić can throw even to Belgrade's "Politicals" there to give the interview yesterday, which is why the BiH citizens do not know, and here to defend BiH generals who have just gone to the initiative of Belgrade's "Politicals".
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-10-0.u17882	I have recorded, Mr Bahtić, that you had two replicas and Bećirović and Novaković and thus you lost your right to do so. And the following remain: Mehmedović, Nanić, Jovičić, Ahmetović, as reported, but before that, the honourable MP Halilović had more replicas. Here's the second one for you, is that right, or is it the first one?
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-10-0.u17883	First.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-10-0.u17884	Okay.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-10-0.u17885	First. I reserve the right that if she happens to be second, I'll be very brief. ... Here is often used in this House... a term of attempt at equalization, a balance in crime. And I think everyone who goes that way is trying to politicize someone's... misfortune and someone's grief and misfortune, I disagree with Mr. Novaković, and that's why I got up to replicate, only in 81 of the part where he says that someone and somewhere has to establish the criteria. For the D.A., the criterion is proof. So, for the prosecutor, the criterion is proof, and what would you, Mr. Novaković, want? Now to determine 30% of these, 60% of those. In fact, that's how you try to bring in a small door... to establish the criteria by which someone will fit. For the prosecutor, for an independent court, the only criteria are proof. And let the rest of the story go. Come on, get the D.A.'s office up and running, get it up and running, get it up and running, and give it a free hand, and you'll see and don't talk about equating. Let them do their job, so in five or ten years, we'll see,...then you'll see how and how that crime biography is going to be, so we don't present from here. I advocate, and I pray, here's a public plea for the Sarajevo prosecution, and the state and cantonal and federal prosecutor's office to finally enlighten the defendant, one monstrous indictment of the murder of 5 to 10,000 Srbin, depends on when and how many nationalist circles it takes, because some nationalists would have little if all Srbin were accused! And, on the other hand, some, few and other nationalists, there would be little if all Bošnjak were accused. Let the courts work, I ask them to finally resolve that question, I stand at their disposal for each individual case, not for each...for the total number, for each individual case... to provide them with all the necessary assistance, to once remove this topic from the door of the people of Sarajevo, because here someone is trying to equalize Srebrenica with Sarajevo. There was no Srebrenica in Sarajevo. You must know that. I led the multiethnic Army of the Republic of BiH, which numbered 30% of Srbin and Hrvat. There are units in Sarajevo, these days you heard or I talked about it, said Dragan Vikić, a unit containing over 50% of Srbin and Hrvat. Those units aren't able to do that. I'm asking you to do it once to get it off your back. And the criteria for prosecutors are the only evidence, and no agreement between political parties, leaders, etc. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-10-0.u17886	Time, time! Mr. Novaković, I wasn't there the whole time of this debate and I have written that you had two replicas. If so, it is not, it is not called directly, please don't let us treat each other in another way. If you had two replicas, you should have kept it. I ask that everyone be on the same principle. Did you look for a replica? Dear Ambassador Raguž. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-10-0.u17887	Indeed, I didn't mean to answer, but here's the esteemed Mr. Halilović, I suggest we discuss the character of war, legality and legitimacy in particular, not at this point in the agenda today. Here, thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-10-0.u17888	No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-10-0.u17889	I, just a minute, please, I was at first saying that I wasn't here all the time, I say I've been enrolled. I don't know if you did or didn't. Did the other MPs agree to 82 that he didn't have two replicas? Wait a minute, wait a minute. Mr. Bahtić, I certainly know that you had two replicas. I don't know about Mr. Novaković if he had another replica. Please, please, I suggest we start on the agenda. Dear MP Mehmedović, so Nanić, Jovičić, Ahmetović, Genjac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-10-0.u17890	Gentlemen, the chairman,
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-10-0.u17891	What do you say? _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] Please, on behalf of the SDS MPs' club, break for 15 minutes. [[PAUZA]]
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-10-0.u17894	My colleague tells me, my colleague Zorić suggests that I was mistaken when I asked for a break. So, I checked. I took a break on behalf of the club to check out the actual number of replicas and I have to say that I had two replicas and, of course, I apologize to the service that kept the records neatly. I lost a replica from my record.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-10-0.u17895	Thank you. Dear Ambassador Mehmedović has a discussion. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-10-0.u17896	Gentlemen, the chairman, ladies and gentlemen, I don't mean to deal with individual cases, but I would like to make a few points to note that this information on the work of the BiH Prosecution. In fact, I can't help but notice that the D.A.'s work strategy and their work information are dominated by the fact: don't touch anything, it's good! And that means: it's a good law on criminal proceedings, and that means good, don't change anything, and we know that in the phase of the amendment and the addition of the Code of Criminal Procedure, which should, at the very least, resolve the shortcomings in the current work and the approach of the Prosecutor's Office in the process of the perpetrators' crimes. 83 Why am I saying this? In the proposal for measures and strategic objectives, I did not see the prosecution resist politically motivated and mounted processes, which, unfortunately, BiH has. Some of the colleagues talked about these cases, but at lower levels it's a far more pronounced phenomenon. I hope that at the level of BiH there will be no such phenomenon and that through a public debate on amendments and additions to the Criminal Procedure Act, we will avoid such...options. I must say that... the public impression is that the prosecution, of course with the support of certain media, is the strongest political factor in BiH. Why is that? Because someone said no names and last names or initials are published, etc. Names and last names should not be published, not facial images, etc. They know that in the D.A.'s office before they do, do they, before the verdict is passed. However, in a pre-crisis procedure, that is, in criminal proceedings before the trial, we are in a position to give people judgments already through electronic media, before man even appears before the court. I think such a practice must be interrupted, although it says in this information that certain journalists are being educated to be able to report with these, is, sessions, but in any case, it's obvious that the situation is not good for us. Also, in the Information I did not notice a connection, i.e. with the RS Special Prosecutor's Office. Why am I bringing this up? Of course, that's not the level of BiH. Has there been a overlap of jurisdiction, that is, whether the prosecution's jurisdiction has been taken from the BiH Prosecutor's Office and whether the BiH Prosecutor's Office will judge only one part of the people in BiH? I wish I'd found that information in this information, but unfortunately, I don't. I would like to express my disdain when it comes to the work of the Prosecutor's Office, that is, certain prosecutors and pressure on witnesses, blackmail, and even including some BiH embassy employees involved in certain processes, precisely because of the political elimination of those political factors that do not want to be on the political scene in BiH. I believe that this practice must be interrupted, and I hope that the public debate on amendments and additions to the Criminal Procedure Act will contribute to the introduction of provisions into the law that both the Prosecutor's Office, or prosecutors whose trials fall, or to the release of judgments, have a certain kind of sanctions in the sense that, if nothing, criminal points, such as drivers have in the making of the offence, there are ten criminal points and can no longer be a prosecutor after that. Of course, I'm not alluding to being someone, anyone, removed because his acquittal is acquittal, but the prosecutor shouldn't go into proceedings unless there's valid and solid evidence that the verdict is ultimately going to be sentencing. That's why I want to point out my disdain and, of course, I couldn't support this kind of information. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-10-0.u17897	Thank you. Dear Ambassador Nanić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-10-0.u17898	I thank you, Chairman. So in preparation for a discussion on this agenda point, I'd, and starting a discussion, so I'd like to quote a little here here... one of the things listed in the conclusions. So, after five years of forming the Prosecutor's Office after the High Representative has declared the establishment of the Prosecutor's Office and after five years of work, it is established that, then, the BiH Prosecutor's Office has put the process of creating assumptions for the ultimate goal, i.e. on the list, fully and functionally in the country of the home 84 institution, which will be ready and able to fulfil the tasks of its competence for the benefit of all BiH citizens - is still under way. After five years, it shows enough serious people, responsible people in the country how serious this is work and responsible work. This document that we have received as MPs – I appreciate that few of the documents I have received have been better done methodologically, with clear indicators and with a clear end and goal. Through these strategic goals, seven and 29 measures in these objectives, I really see that we as the most legislative body in BiH have made it impossible for the prosecution to do its job. So they have enough resources in their budgets. How much they were looking for, they got, it was filled with 196 employees in the D.A.'s office. Unfortunately, here I would like to – given the topics that are here from most MPs and listed as a problem, is this criterion, is this segment of the work of the Prosecutor's Office about war crimes, is the story of 10,000 cases – that we do not have, therefore,... this strategy and this programme, this way of getting out of it. How much money does it take, how many prosecutors, do you still need it or don't need it? And how long does it take? I would like to have that information and I would like and believe that I am giving the opinion of the majority in Parliament that we are in favour of this definitely ending so that we can say about the 90% solution to these problems to relieve BiH of these problems, that whoever committed war crimes, who is responsible for the war crime, should be prosecuted and accused. Here I would just like to say, that I would not repeat many of the things that have been said here is the way of arrest, here, in the last days, I... that come from Krajina, the way that human dignity is very, very problematic, not to say the worse word, the way that arrests happen. I think these people were available to the BiH Prosecutor's Office and to all institutions and could have been brought in without a problem in a nice, dignified and human manner. Now, I want to point out that, behavior, means, in the arrest of the defendants who will prove in court whether they did or didn't commit a crime. Here I want to mention one more thing in the end: it is that Dr. Irfan Ljubijankić's murder of BiH Foreign Minister and today, after 13 years, there is no record that the BiH Prosecutor's Office has launched anything under the procedure. There may be – what is available, how much media is presented – the Croatian judiciary is leading some activities. However, there is no activity in BiH on this issue. Since it was BiH's foreign minister, I think the BiH Prosecutor's Office is indeed obliged to initiate the procedure for determining responsibility for the BiH foreign minister's murder.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-10-0.u17899	Thank you. The correcting of the incorrect allegations was reported by the distinguished representative Okolić.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-10-0.u17900	The replica is very short and it's good that they have no more rights than twice, so we'll go faster. Here in this story is thought or said and compared the following, and that, mentioning some parties, among them, and SDS in some sphere of organization and some members or people at the time who committed war criminals. However, people, let me tell you, comparing parties with individuals who have committed a crime is not even close to common sense, because there is no such party, it seems to me in BiH, at the time of the war conflicts, from which there were no people who committed war crimes, but it is their individual matter, their consciousness. And it also doesn't mean that if from some party or 85 of any association or belonging to anyone, someone committed a crime that this party is completely criminal like that individual, neither has a good and bad people, but there are good and bad individuals who have committed war crimes within that nation. So we have to figure this out: the crimes committed start from an individual or from someone who gave him a warrant, it's an individual again, it can't be taken as the thesis that it's some kind of organization or some kind of people, etc. Here, when we talk about the criteria by Mr. Novaković and Mr. Sefer Halilović, they probably didn't understand. Is it as far as I can understand what Mr. Novaković was going to say, it was said here about the following: if there are 10,000 or 50,000 to be processed, that they cannot be processed at the same time or on the same day or the same month because of the scale of the work for technical reasons. Mr. Novaković thought that criteria should be made for making time distances among those 50,000, which will start to process first, which will come last if they cannot at the same time, and it is evident from this report from the state of the prosecution as it is, that they will start all at the same time. Well, in that sense, it was an explanation and a replica.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-10-0.u17901	Thank you. The next is the distinguished representative Jovičić.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-10-0.u17902	Dear Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, I will begin again from the finding that nothing in this country can be said against the prosecution and the courts and the media. Because they're independent institutions. I fully support independent institutions from politics and should always stay. But are they independent of these people and the citizens who pay them? Are they independent of anyone? So that's the first finding. Secondly, each information is a set of data and what it means if it is said to have transferred a number of cases from 2005, 2006, 2007 and no end is seen. That, I would say, is at the forest, especially as there is a painful issue here, and the issue shows a harsh reality or factual state or the real truth that we in this country are Srbin, Bošnjak, Hrvat and others on the issue of war crimes, which is the main theme of the court's report, shows personal perception and the relationship of each individual with this issue. From the point of view of the truth, those of us who represent, first, our peoples, and that's what I publicly say, well, then, of course, entities and parties, we have to be honest, don't howl. And at least I'm in this parliament, and you can see in the stenograms, I said a dozen times: I'm never looking for a balance in the amount of crimes committed but a balance in the amount of justice for the victims. Once again, it is not a balance in the amount of crimes committed against one, another or third people by individuals or groups, but I am looking for a balance in the amount of justice for victims. It's the essence of the existence of a judicial system. Furthermore, when it comes to war crimes, of course I repeat, we will always have that picture, and until we resolve the issue, we will always turn around but we will fool ourselves and lie about how we have made huge reforms in BiH and how we are looking forward to signing the agreement and we have solved everything. We won't solve it, we won't solve it! The mother of Srebrenica Bosniaks, the mother of the Srpkinja woman from Prijedor, the mother of the Hrvatica woman from Livna who lost three sons, the interest, the fate of her children who is still... discovered and not interested in any reform. And if anyone thinks that there's a delusion here, that's 86, that's what puts these people's interest on the margin, he's wrong, he's wrong. If what I asked for last year, when we were... the 2006 report, I'll just remind you, I asked Mr. Jurčević directly for this pay phone and I suggested he make a five-year strategy and, he says, I don't know how much, but he needs to do with his associates, I need 100 prosecutors, 50, 200, I don't know how much, and for this country it's worth paying, to finish in five years. I agree with the gentlemen who here say... war crime never gets old. Guys, it's getting old. I'll just tell you that last year 42 RS campers died or committed suicide, key witnesses in court. What if it comes in 10 years, who's going to testify? Does anyone take care of such processes? Does anyone keep in mind that the ultimate truth will never be found out? That's why... The D.A.'s making a terrible mistake. I begged Jurčević, before you I received a promise that he would do it, he later in the media repeated it, that it would be the prosecution's strategy and never any of it. And of course, I respect every MP here, and I've said countless times, the true Bošnjak is greatly respected, the true Hrvat, the Srbin, I don't respect cloned people and this new term in politics that would be under the guise of some civil rights and freedoms to advocate the interests of only one man. And this does not apply to my friends from Tuzla, Mr Bećirović and Mr Bešlagić, but please, Mr Bešlagić, when you are principled, stick to the principle. At least here you and Mr. Bećirović, as fellow citizens of Mr. Jurišić, mentioned it 40 times, but you said in the discussion that you advocated the protection of human rights. Now, I'm going to ask you, Bog, for not mentioning here 10 people from Zvornik who are citizens of this country and citizens who are being tried in Belgrade. Are they citizens of this country? But here you gentlemen applauded in Tuzla when they were taken to Belgrade. And that didn't work out for you. I don't think you personally, but Tuzla is not far from Zvornik, not Tuzla in Madagascar. I followed it all, not you personally, don't take it so personally, but Tuzla applauded and was on her feet when 10 people were taken from Zvornik, given the circumstances of the Srbin. And if they're guilty, let them be convicted, I won't get involved in it. But don't talk to me about your principle, because you're principled when you're only trying to protect your fellow citizen and under civil rights you forget these people. Until proven guilty, please, until proven guilty in court, the man is innocent. Therefore, it is your principle and, please, take care. Just... you mean once, here you are to be a multiethnic party.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-10-0.u17903	Time!
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-10-0.u17904	And of course, to finish, so what's important, I'm going to repeat it for every next item of the agenda, and we've shown on this one who we are and we should, so to speak, please don't tell me here in a big multiethnic story, a unity of someone, and every single one of us would just watch as many Srbin as possible. I, of course, want to... The Bošnjak now come to order, I can't wait for it, but those who are guilty, not to accuse an innocent man, because I'm not the prosecutor, I'm not the judge, I'm the one who has evidence. And most importantly, here I will never interfere, nor have I asked the D.A.'s office to prioritize someone, but it's really strange, strange, incomprehensible, if C.J.B. East Sarajevo, which is a unique centre for the entire Ministry of Interior, has delivered 354 items and none has seen the light of day in the Prosecutor's Office – what are you talking to me about? I'm not asking you, nor am I pressuring you to accuse an innocent man but at least make it public: these people are not guilty, there will be no charges, there's nothing to end this story. 87 So, once again, in the end, gentlemen, we need to resolve this matter through the prosecution and the court, which is a painful wound to this country. Everything else we'll fool ourselves, lie, everything else we won't be honest with, and we won't be able to move on to Europe as we wish. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-10-0.u17905	Thank you. The following has been reported for the debate by the esteemed representative Ahmetović.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-10-0.u17906	Dear Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, I'll take a few sentences. So, I would like to say that this story about the Prosecutor's Office or this Information on the work of the BiH Prosecutor's Office should go at some point before the adoption of the Budget of the BiH institution, since most of these conclusions or objectives, as the Prosecutor's Office said at the end... this information also implies a larger number or higher budget for the BiH Prosecutor's Office. The BiH prosecutor's office, therefore, has a great responsibility and today's session of this parliament, so this testifies, as it faces a very important task, especially his War Crimes Department, to tell the truth about what has been happening in the BiH area since '92. '95. A year. Therefore, the capacity of the Prosecutor's Office, or this Department of War Crimes, must not be a problem for the BiH state, nor should it be a problem for the prosecution to double even in the coming year so that the war crimes process or process in BiH goes at least twice as fast as the earlier period or this period that we have in BiH. I welcome the opening of the Department of War Crimes in Srebrenica, and I believe that this is the most difficult task the Prosecutor's Office has in BiH, since the International Court of Justice in The Hague has said that genocide took place in Srebrenica, and genocide is the most disgusting form of war crimes. That's what I'm explaining by the fact that he's mostly being kept secret, cover-up, denied or revalitated. Genocide is an extremely difficult process. It has its beginning, its course and its end. This process is managed, it is organized, coordinated, with one goal only. Therefore, I do not think that the capacity of both this department and the Department of War Crimes should, undermining, be a problem of money or any other part that will provide the truth about what has been happening both in Srebrenica and in BiH since '92. '95. A year. Therefore, I repeat, and what the former state prosecutor said in this House: that BiH needs a strategy to process war crimes. So, in these objectives or conclusions of this information, there is no and I would like to see a strategy for the processing of war crimes in BiH come before we adopt the next budget, so that in the Budget of BiH we can predict the means for this strategy to begin to be realised according to the plan. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-10-0.u17907	Thank you. I don't have any more reports. Dear Ambassador Lagumdžija: Replica. Here you go. 88
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-10-0.u17908	So, the replica is not for Mr Ahmetović but for his previous debater, and the reason why I use the right to reply is because my colleague Bešlagić and counterpart Bećirović are not able to defend themselves financially, because of the mention of Ilija Jurišić. To accuse colleagues Bešlagić and Bećirović of doing this because they defend members of their people and that the reason for the defence of Ilija Jurišić is of ethnic nature, it is mildly said, even at a technical level, absolutely pointless, because I think the public is well known that Selim Bešlagić and Denis Bećirović are not the same ethnicities as Ilija Jurišić. We in this parliament have taken Ilije Jurišić as a symbol, as this parliament has been discussing in its own time the detention of selo Bešlagić on application from another country. I want to remind the public once again that there's no need to tie everything to anything because in the end it's going to be nothing to do with anything. Ilija Jurišić is a man who, as a citizen of BiH, is arrested in another country and is tried in another country without knowing about the existence of the indictment in that country, and that the country's competent institutions, here is the minister of justice who was in Belgrade and who found that he could not do anything and that Ilija Jurišić was a man who, among other things, was a symbol of the citizens of BiH, who the institutions of this country were unable to protect his rights as well, and that he was tried before the institutions of this country if there is a basis for such a thing. And finally, Mr. Chairman, why did I say we shouldn't tie things up that aren't connected? Well, the speech case is indeed specific to the arrest of Ilija Jurišić in another country. And if you want to open that debate, whose citizens are people who are so-called. The case, whether only BiH citizens, who BiH institutions have participated in taking them, or bringing justice to Belgrade, is a subject we can also discuss. There is no reason, if someone starts it, that we are not ready to participate in it, but any comparison with the case of Ilija Jurišić is not correct.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-10-0.u17909	Dear Jovičić: a reply to the replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-10-0.u17910	I did not, Mr. Chairman, attack Mr. Bešlagić or Bećirović, I only said about their principle. I am neither a prosecutor nor a judge, to say whether Mr. Ilija Jurišić is guilty or a Zvornička group, it is on the judicial institutions. I was just talking about a principled commitment to the protection of the human rights of citizens and citizens of this country. So, as long as the court doesn't say whether someone is guilty, by a judicial verdict, I can't say whether or not they are. The court will prove and bring the case to an end both for Mr. Jurišić and for this not so-called because they are not so-called the same living people, the people of Zvornik. Some have been arrested in the BiH area, worse still, and led to Belgrade, and Mr. Jurišić has been arrested in Belgrade, some of the group have been arrested in Belgrade. I really want to be clear and direct. I'm not saying if someone is guilty and I don't have that right, nor do I want to get involved in the justice system, I'm talking about the principle of the Lord who protected the interest of his fellow citizen. And I don't dispute their right either, but then, when we bring all this into the context of the protection of the human rights of all BiH citizens, of course I'll be unhappy, because at least 89 here's how much I don't know but not to overdo it, twenty times the case of Mr. Ilija Jurišić has been mentioned, and so be it. I'm not contesting anyone. But once, here's to mention the rights of the citizens of Zvornik. They're still innocent, until the court proves they're guilty. So, clearly what I stand for. For BiH citizens, whether it is a Hrvat, Bošnjak, Srbin, that they are in the same case, they are in the case for the conduct of war crimes proceedings before another country's court. So they're in the same status. Is he going to be freed from this, that, that's not my business. That's not what I'm talking about. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-10-0.u17911	Dear Ambassador Lagumdžija. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-10-0.u17912	Mr. Chairman, Ilija Jurišić was not defended by Mr. Bešlagić and Mr. Bećirović because he is their fellow citizen. They, under the circumstances, were most involved in this in front of the SDP. The SDP and the entire MP club defended, through Ilija Jurišić, every citizen of this country's right to be protected from the institutions of this country and brought to justice by any other country. We're not talking about innocence or guilt. We are talking about it, and we wanted through the case of Ilija Jurišić to draw attention and, in the end, that what we said was that the ruling structure and the Council of Ministers felt that the protection of one fellow citizen, one man, or a party matter, so that half of the Council of Ministers would not be ordered in efforts, at least in front of the cameras, to advocate resolving the case of Ilija Jurišić. And in the end, no matter what it is that bothers you, you can probably think of what we can do, so we listen to it... so you will also hear the name of Ilija Jurišić very often in this House.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-10-0.u17913	Since there are no more reported,
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-10-0.u17914	No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-10-0.u17915	What? Business intervention.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-10-0.u17916	No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-10-0.u17917	I have to give you my word on business intervention. I don't know what you're gonna say. You asked for business intervention. Here you go. 90
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-10-0.u17918	Well, here I can call her a businessman because it's impossible or one or the other to apply, so I'd ask, perhaps at this rate, since we should vote for these conclusions that are proposed, she can't stand and there are more of these proposals right now, and then, as soon as possible. So you have to say, either in the shortest time or set a deadline. If there's something right now, right now we need to get out of here, then we're going to get counter-collision when we vote, then because of some of these pointless things, we can't vote for a conclusion. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-10-0.u17919	Thank you. Is there a need from the D.A.'s office after this?
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-10-0.u17920	No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-10-0.u17921	Dear MP Bećirović, a business intervention. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-10-0.u17922	It's directed to you. I must tell you, when the SDP asks for business intervention and reminds you, you are looking very precisely at the end of what is called a business intervention to say which member of the Rules of Procedure is violated. That's when the SDP requires business intervention. Now the man has asked for business intervention, has not called on any member of the Rules of Procedure and you just shut up. I invite you to really try, when it comes to business intervention, to treat everyone equally. [[Common discussion]]
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-10-0.u17923	Is there anyone else in business? If there's any other business interventions, go ahead. Did you from the D.A. want to say something? Dear Deputy Deputy Attorney General Jadranka Lukić, is that correct? I'm asking you to, here, see that we still have time to lose, that we should give a break for lunch and so on. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-10-0.u17924	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. 91 Gentlemen, representatives of international institutions, NGOs and the media, here I am again, after something was around the last name, to present myself. I am Lokmić Misirača Misiraca, the deputy chief prosecutor of the BiH Prosecutor's Office and the head of Section III discussed at least today in this assembly. I'll try, I wrote, here are some questions and I'll really try to give some answers. I've got some papers here, I guess I'll figure it out somehow. Here, I'll start from the beginning. As for the conduct of proceedings by the District Court of War Crimes against Mr. Ilija Jurišić, I can only say the following. As far as the BiH Prosecutor's Office is concerned, it has taken over everything within the legal framework and possibilities, within the prosecution's jurisdiction. As far as mutual co-operation with this council and the D.A.'s Office of War Crimes is concerned, he does not refer to these situations. This co-operation and agreement relate to situations of exchange of evidence. And as far as this case is concerned, the D.A. has put in an initiative for extradition. According to the European Convention on Legal Assistance, all witnesses of Mr. Jurišić's defence as well as witnesses proposed by the prosecutor's office in Belgrade heard. It's the only thing the D.A. could do. The prosecution's jurisdiction is determined by the D.A.'s Law. There was nothing we could do about it. As far as the D.A.'s War Crimes Department is concerned, and you could see that on page 8, there are six teams in that department. The teams are divided territorially, so the entire BiH area and all teams are equally investigated as much as possible and as much as the prosecution's resources allow. I really must say here that I have no record of the national structure of the defendants, of the suspects, of the victims. We don't run registers by national structure. If this meeting does require it, we can do it eventually, but I want to say, from this pay phone, that prosecutors in the BiH Prosecutor's Office are professionals and that for them a crime and a crime is a crime and that they are acting and pressing charges the moment they find that there is a reasonable suspicion that someone committed a crime. As far as the strategy... for the processing of war crimes, work on this strategy is under way. In this part is the BiH Ministry of Justice, my colleagues are some members of the task force and I think that this draft will be drawn up very quickly, and we in the Prosecutor's Office expect, indeed, that we will have the support and this together to start working on the implementation of this strategy. That's the way those two questions are. As far as I'm concerned, here's what I'm gonna do. I have to tell you, I don't have much experience at these meetings. I have a lot of experience in the courtroom.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-10-0.u17925	Let's help you out a little bit, then... don't do much about it because you'll cause a storm of replicas, and then we'll hold a little longer session than we should. 92
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-10-0.u17926	Okay. Then it'll be a little longer. Okay. I, so all the questions, I'd just like to say one more thing which is one problem in the BiH Prosecutor's Office, which is the audit reports. I'll tell you I was at a seminar where some English gentlemen were just talking about the audit reports and there was someone from the review committee and they were auditors. Only in Japan were the audit reports delivered to the prosecution a few years ago, and that stopped. And I'm going to ask you to make a decision that the audit reports are being delivered, possibly, to the State Agency for Investigation and Protection, which will lead to suspicion that a crime has been committed. Therefore, the very methodology of the work of the auditor and the adoption of audit reports cannot be the basis and basis for the conduct of the criminal proceedings. So, I'm asking you, we've got 52 audit reports, we've divided them into prosecutors, we've read them and where we've found that there are some basic doubts we've re-delivered to the State Investigation and Protection Agency. So this would shorten one procedure and speed up maybe the work on those audit reports. I, here, since I've been warned by the chairman, will no longer be in debt. I thank you for your remarks and for all those who supported the prosecution. It's a very difficult job, which you're doing right now, at this session, and I've written down all the remarks. I'll transfer them to the D.A.'s College and thank you for your interest in the prosecution's work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-10-0.u17927	Thank you. We're closing the debate on the 24th agenda. In consultation with my colleagues, they convince me that this next item of the agenda will not cause so much discussion and I suggest we finish it, and then we take a break for lunch and then open a debate on CEFTA, if that's okay with you. I'm opening point 25, Ad. 25. Report on Bosnia and Herzegovina's Ombudsman's work for the period from 1.1.2007 to 31.12.2007 On 5 March 2008, the Ombudsman provided a report on the work for 2007. The Constitutional Commission delivered its opinion on 28 March 2008. The Commission proposes to Dom to adopt a report on the work of the Ombudsman. I'm opening a debate. Dear Ambassador Džaferović, briefly. Here you go. 93
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-10-0.u17929	Very short. So we've reviewed this report, it's made up in accordance with the methodology of how the real report is, we supported it, we propose to the House to support it, and just, I wouldn't answer to say anything, but I have to say this. On 25 April 2006, it was the day before the amendments to the Constitution fell here in the BiH Parliament, two deputies, I measure, I measure by that time, Mr Belkić, to know, among other things, whether, among other things,... the two deputy lawyers were appointed to other duties. There are no deputies in this country for two years. Look, for me, it's one horrible fact. The D.A. was mutilated in their work, they did what they did, we support the report. I think it is time for this home to come to one conclusion, it has the conclusion that Mr. Mehmedović is looking for a appointment within 60 days. We'd finally have to start dealing with concrete things when it comes to this, uh, obvious, communication. 'Cause, look, I mean, this is more than a commo, two years I can't name two people. Why is it, how it is, that we finally start to... manage... the things and processes in this country. I suggest you try to come up with some conclusion in that direction as a College. It would be worth investigating. The D.A.'s office sent a letter in time, two years of procedure, no deputies. To know why. I think that's inadmissible. We can't stay deaf and dumb on that fact. That's it.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-10-0.u17930	Thank you. No more reports. Dear Ambassador Halilović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-10-0.u17931	I am opposed to accepting this report by the D.A. and I advocate that they are given a negative assessment for a very simple reason why, not to read now... which are the responsibilities, I will read only one sentence: From the above, it is concluded that BiH's primary role is to protect BiH's property and property interests from courts and other competent authorities both in BiH territory and outside BiH's territory. We should not repeat here how they protected BiH's assets, both in BiH and out of BiH, and in any case I support the conclusion that they should be strengthened, teamed up, financially made independent to do their job. Like this, the property is slowly evaporating, and we're all watching, and now we should adopt this. So I'm against adopting a report like this.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-10-0.u17932	Thank you. He's here in front of the D.A.'s assistant, Nađa Hozić. Do you have a need? There isn't. No more reports. We're closing the debate and we're taking a break until 6:00. I would ask MPs, club chiefs to use this lunch break in each other's voting consultations because after the end of the agenda, there will be only a five-minute break and we will start voting. Thank you. 94 [[PAUZA]] Dear MPs, we've gone and called a representative of the ministry. Before he arrives, allow me to make a few preliminary remarks. Namely, we're on the 26th point of the agenda: Ad. 26. Consideration of the Programme of Measures for the application of the CEFTA Agreement
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-10-0.u17935	Gentlemen, predominant, esteemed colleagues and colleagues, distinguished guests, CEFTA is a finished story for BiH and we remain to analyse the results of CEFTA's application and, within the framework of the agreement, use incentive and protection mechanisms in exchange with CEFTA signatories and incentives and protection of domestic production. It is obvious that the first results of the CEFTA per BiH are negative and are reflected in the continuing increase in trade exchange deficits and now it is obvious that the mechanisms available for incentives and protection are not very slow or not institutionally used. BiH's attitude towards the use of CEFTA and its consequences for domestic economy and domestic production reminds me of that joke when a man comes to the parking lot in his car and cannot park a car between other cars. It was watched by a local wanderer who was a little stuttering and began to assist him and show him the hand of yot, yot, yot, and this one hit the next car, which the wanderer would then do, let's see now that you've done. I'm afraid that's the case with us, and it's just a matter of how long we're going to look at what we've done and how quickly we're going to take steps to eliminate the negative effects of CEFTA and turn them in a positive direction. The fact is that our governments have been asleep in the past and we are completely unprepared to welcome the signing of the CEFTA Agreement. Instead of concrete moves, and the transitional period we used to politicize and outwitting about what CEFTA is, what are the effects etc. Liberalisation is a global process and I do not know the country that has made progress by liberalising, in the way BiH is trying to do it. The liberalisation implies approximately the same conditions for the competition, and we keep trying to win the Ferrari race. I personally cannot agree with the findings in the opening remarks that on these occasions one of the dominant reasons in trade reform, or one of the dominant exits in trade reform, is. I don't know a single country, and especially a country in transition, which has provided trade reforms with economic boom. The store has always been an interest in the rich, and I'm afraid that formula is not in play with us. In our case, trade reforms can only be complementary mechanisms in achieving development objectives. The main mechanisms, however, must be to use and protect domestic resources and domestic production and to encourage exports. In these situations, it is the cornerstone of all economic development strategies, with clearly 96 defined comparative advantages and development priorities. We have, apparently, a coherent development strategy that we hold as much as we do to last year's snow. Personally, I find the Programme of Measures useful at this point, despite the belief that most of these measures are proposed at random, without precisely programmed effects of their application. I would like to have reason to believe that these measures will be institutionalised and operational within the deadlines provided for in these materials, although we know that we are already these deadlines, including those relating to the conclusions we have made here, that we have already significantly exceeded them, and every day, not to mention shorter, is very important for the survival of domestic production and domestic producers. I see from my personal experience and knowledge the only short-term effective measures in this situation: if it relates to liberalisation, then it is the liberalisation of imports of repromaterials and equipment, in the maximum incentives of exports and, of course, in the protection of domestic production, in particular of those in which we have comparative advantages, starting with agriculture and some other branches of industry. This material has been well diagnosed, but I think we're still wandering when we find therapy. It is good that they have given incentivisingly short deadlines in the material, and I hope that their adherence will be one of the top priorities in the work of the Council of Ministers and in the work of the restoring ministry and that this home will be able to control those deadlines. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-10-0.u17936	Thank you. Dear MP Mehmedović, pa Halilović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-10-0.u17937	Gentlemen, the chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the MPs, appreciating the time we have at our disposal, I will be very brief. In principle, I support the measures proposed by the Council of Ministers and by the Commission's report. But I want to say a few sentences on the addition of these proposed measures. The proposed measures are difficult to put into the context of neutralising the negative effects of the application of the Free Trade Agreement (CEFTA). This is actually an update of the obligations arising from the agreement itself. There are no specific measures that farmers expected and which the Council of Ministers has promised for the past year. Laws adopted or adopted in the process will not be expected to take a more significant step towards positive effects in the field of agrarians because the laws, which are mentioned, are in fact just a framework that confirms entity measures and activities and institutionalises them at BiH level. In point 26, identify priorities, comparative advantages and food production. How many years does it really take to establish priorities? It takes too long, and forgets the author of this material that there are entity strategies of agricultural production that have been adopted and which have identified priorities. 97 Also, point 21. The Council of Ministers announces the Strategic Development Plan for Agriculture in BiH. With these two points, 21st and 26th, farmers get nothing, and this Council of Ministers is, unfortunately, recognizable by large titles, small or no effects, at least as far as agrarians are concerned. In point 24. The Council of Ministers announces: an agreement with entities with a view to greater redistribution for agriculture, in accordance with their... What about the Council of Ministers, how much and what will they single out for agriculture? Under harmonised agricultural development laws, nothing will happen. The sensational announcements are certainly unfounded because this is what the Council of Ministers means by the use of EU agriculture funds, then, if he thinks, he is wrong because there is a long way to use funds, and what until then. When we agreed to the Agricultural Production Act, the Council of Ministers rejected one of the amendments that provided for the possibility of State intervention in terms of protecting the prices of key agricultural products. Unfortunately, there was no hearing about such a thing, and then at point 27, there was an obligation for entities to prescribe market-price policy measures. So I suggest a few additional measures, so I'll briefly list them: 1. Free diesel for farming from excise duties, so-called Blue diesel. 2. Training and accreditation of laboratories necessary for food quality control, i.e. the implementation of the rules adopted in this area, and for the certification of food products of potential bh. the exporter. 3. To train the Emergency Veterinary Office, the Animal Marking Agency as well as other institutions dealing with this problem. 4. Bring in the Action Plan, though, indicative, in order to protect against brucellosis. We all had this issue on the agenda today and in the debate on the security situation. 5. To adopt the State Organic Production Act and 6. Create a program, along with entities, to use unsanitary surfaces, i.e. oranics. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-10-0.u17938	Thank you. Dear Ambassador Lijanović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-10-0.u17939	Dear President, colleagues and fellow representatives, distinguished guests, it is evident that the ministry has made an effort, to decipher a large number of problems that plague our agriculture and economy in general, and to propose these 50 measures that should be implemented in the coming period. And if most of them are implemented, it will be a significant shift. Unfortunately, much of these measures are not in the power of the Council of Ministers and they will probably not be able to implement them, and lower levels of government by, behold, the practice of the past few months have also shown that they are not ready to implement the proposed measures. 98 So we can take for example the incentives in entities for this year. In the Federation of BiH, 50% were reduced compared to the Federation's adopted Agriculture Development Strategy, which means 50% of the money, rather than planning their own development strategy. In RS, there is something better but not significant, and the CEFTA members who compete with our producers, we can take as an example Croatia that has set aside 6 billion kunas this year for agricultural incentives: it is somewhere around a billion and 600 million marks and when we add all the incentives to both entities, then we see that it is only 10% of the amount that Croatian producers will get. And in that, we can freely call it an unequal competition, where one gets a billion and 600, the other gets 10 times less pre-games decided and it's known who's going to be the big loser on that market and who's going to have big consequences in such a bad situation. A similar situation is in relation to Serbia. The deficit in agricultural products is covered, actually the exchange is covered below 20%, the export coverage is below 20%. It's all telling us how hard we have a situation. The CEFTA agreement is an agreement and it favours strong economic operators but unfortunately large and strong economic operators in BiH have very little. We can count on the fingers of one hand whose agreement will really bring positive effects because they will receive export markets and will be able to place products in other countries but small producers, young producers who should be born in BiH and developed, will be stopped by this situation and will not be allowed to be born at all, to develop at all. And from other CEFTA members, where strong companies have already evolved, they will essentially exploit such a situation. How unequal is the position of our producers in relation to other members also tells us that if a citizen, a resident of the Republic of Croatia or of Serbia or of a third country wants to build a production plant in BiH, he is free of customs on machinery and equipment for the same factory. If the same is to be done by a BiH citizen, he is denied the right to do so. He has to pay customs on those machines and equipment for that factory. So we have practically discredited the citizens of BiH and given the right to the citizens of other countries far greater than the rights that BiH citizens have. And I think something has to be done in a hurry, actually, to change the foreign trade policy in that area. This Parliamentary Assembly has ratified the CEFTA Agreement and is practically the most responsible in this area because if it had not ratified it, it could not have entered into force and that responsibility could not be removed from the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH and transferred to the Council of Ministers or to some levels of authority of another. We need to look ourselves in the eye and look ourselves in the eye with our producers and do something that will create a more even match. I, as the chairman of the Agriculture Group at the Committee on Foreign Trade and Customs, plan to call on the Commission in the next period to reconsider the whole situation and, in accordance with the responsibility of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH, to re-launch one law as the one on the application of the CEFTA Agreement, which we adopted in this House last year but unfortunately it was not adopted in the House of Peoples and could not enter into force, so that in the coming months, this very bad situation, we would try to further fix, as far as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-10-0.u17940	Thank you. 99 Dear Ambassador Novaković. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-10-0.u17941	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues and colleagues, I'll be very brief. I think we've worked a lot of time today, a lot of time, and we've worked a lot and we're tired. Namely, I just want to pay attention to all of us for a few facts. First of all, when we discussed the CEFTA Agreement and the negative effects of the CEFTA Agreement, let me remind you, our conclusion here was that the Council of Ministers prepared a... programme, let's say,...the measures to protect domestic production and mitigate the negative effects of the agreement. So we have already defined that there will be negative effects of the agreement and that it is necessary for the Council of Ministers to make a programme. The result is, therefore, the program that we have here... and which, in some sense or in a certain sense, has certain measures that, if nothing, at least realizes that there are some possibilities with which, possibly, negative effects can be changed. Here,... that we, who did not support the CEFTA Agreement, were right, here is the opening part of the document that talks about the overall exchange of BiH in 2007, which clearly states: One of the basic problems of the ever growing foreign trade deficit lies in the slow recovery of the economy, especially the manufacturing sector, in the very structure of the economy and goods that participate in exports, and the lack of adequate foreign trade policy but at the same time the growth of competitiveness in the international market, etc. etc. So, exactly what we were insisting on then and why we were then and what we were warning about: that this kind of economy like our economy, this oriented economy as our economy is, will not be able to withstand the consequences of the agreement, and we see that today it really is. We will support the Commission's proposals that require a practical supplement... Action plan. Of course, we think that they could have been much more specific in some elements but I also believe that when the Commission considered both the Action Plan and the Report, it had a whole, in front of it, possible and the consequences but also the positive effects of this, this agreement, that is, this Action Plan. What I do not understand is that I do not understand the Commission's position to ask the Council of Ministers to make efforts to train and equip state institutions necessary for smooth exports. I would like someone from the Commission to tell me what was meant by making efforts to train and equip state institutions. Does that mean, I don't know, or I don't know, vets, those institutions, so when we talk about standardisation or I don't know. So if you're thinking about it, then I don't need an explanation, so if you don't think about it, I'd like to know what you're thinking. We still think that the conditions for joining CEFTA should be created first, and then CEFTAs should be accessed. It seems to me that we would treat this condition more easily than the resulting condition that we have today and that we are going to treat, I mean, under much more difficult circumstances. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-10-0.u17942	Thank you. Next for the discussion? Did you give up? Is it? It's not! Dear Ambassador Jukić. Here you go. 100
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-10-0.u17943	Thank you, Mr. President. I'm going to be very brief, and first of all I'm going to say that I support the Programme of Measures made by the Council of Ministers. I think he is good and useful and I would point to one need, so to focus on the part of those measures directly responsible to the Council of Ministers and the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH, which is part of the measures that are within the competence of the BiH institutions. A part of these measures is certainly not from the BiH institutions' jurisdiction, but from the authority of lower levels of government, and this raises the question of the possibility that BiH institutions can direct and in some ways support and have an impact on the speed and dynamic implementation of all the proposed measures. However, it is a factual state that is conditioned both by the constitutional structure and otherwise by BiH. So, I believe that the Council of Ministers and the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH must, as soon as possible, adopt or complete the adoption of the Customs Tariff Act, because after BiH has joined the CEFTA, our complete economy or much of it has become an uncompetitive competition in the environment, because we have maintained, to a significant extent, customs duties on imports of equipment and repromation, raw materials, while this does not exist in our environment. Thus, the products of our producers, our industries, become more expensive and are not competitive in the environment. One of the significant shortcomings, we all agree when we evaluate BiH's economy, is the fact that investment is relatively small, that unemployment in BiH is large, and I think that especially those measures that will be stimulating to increase investment would be a priority in their adoption, and these measures certainly include regulating customs and customs policies in a way that re-promaterials and equipment will be released from customs, because this will stimulate investment. Agriculture is certainly a very important part of the overall economy in BiH that has additional problems. In addition, I think the biggest problem of agriculture in BiH is the fact that competencies are not at the level of the BiH state but at lower levels. We have, unfortunately, the occurrences that the funds intended for primary agricultural production are used unintendedly, and that is, to a very significant extent and percentage, and this is a big problem and we actually have a situation that those whose resources are intended to remain without these funds, and that at the same time is encouraged, in some way, by some industry or some other activity outside primary agricultural production. I think this is a very significant failure and we are not helping primary agricultural production in this way, but I will say responsibly, this is how we damage the development of primary agricultural production, and we are not helping to develop this primary agricultural production. Of course, when I say this, then I should keep in mind, repeat, the powers, or competences of the BiH government institutions, but certainly that the competent ministry, the Council of Ministers and the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH should also know about these phenomena and be aware of these measures that will make it impossible to make this available to primary agricultural production.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-10-0.u17944	Thank you. Next, I have a registered, honourable MP, Selim Bešlagić. Here you go. 101
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-10-0.u17945	The esteemed chairman, respected colleagues and colleagues, when we adopted the CEFTA, then there were big debates and our heads hurt, some cried out that CEFTA had to be adopted and it was adopted. But it has also come to the conclusion that what CEFTA is bringing is being analysed, and what should be done is that in the primary production of CEFTA there are no such negative consequences as here today, it is already stressed that there are consequences. Unfortunately, from that analysis you only have on page 17. I mean, this textually written, further, I would say, worsening if customs were lifted, and that, they say, would reduce the income of indirect taxation of 74.584 million marks. But here is the encouraging fact that this reduction, i.e. the reduction in revenues in the budget, means the state, could lead to an increase in jobs because it makes it easier for imported materials to be introduced. So, as far as this is concerned, I wish we could get an analysis before this measure is introduced, an analysis of the state of real employment in BiH so that we can monitor whether this effect, if introduced, is going to lead to an increase. I'm afraid without such an analysis, we're going to create ourselves that we simply and what this means is that we're going with 74 million, and it all goes into some hands that aren't on the good side of these citizens and BiH. On the other hand, here you have a large number of data that is disappointing, I wouldn't want to get into these things, but it's definitely clear that in fact with this analysis that was made about our imports and exports it's about that our exports are being dried up. Compared to the amount given on a percentage basis, it is slightly and even, however, this is about that the values related to imports are far, far, greater than the values related to exports. And, therefore, there are no measures here that could and quantified show how these measures are, how these measures will affect domestic production. And just one little remark I'd like to be given an explanation, because I thought it was a mistake. However, in Table 12 and Table 12, I apologize only to see what the number is, and Table 16 repeats. To prevent us from being accused of having atomic reactors, here in this table 12 says: Nuclear reactors: exporting 37 million 16 000 from Serbia and importing 82,480,000 thousand, with Croatia, we have the condition that these nuclear reactors are 28,470,000,000, and we import, we export this, and we import nuclear reactors 184,630,000. I'd ask you to get here to make a certain clarification, maybe it's material for production, I guess, and not nuclear reactors, because it seems to me it might make a mistake, so we won't have a commission from the Atomics of Vienna, El-Baraday. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-10-0.u17946	Thank you. I don't have any more logs. I'm asking the minister? Dear Ambassador Lagumdžija. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-10-0.u17947	Mr. Chairman, I honestly thought about it as well as another number of us that maybe we're not getting into this scenario that's clearly prepared, because I assume you know that the public has already been informed by means of information and people are asking us what we agreed on to police reform, because the public has already been informed by means of information. 102
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-10-0.u17948	You can agree on the agenda point.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-10-0.u17949	Yeah, yeah, so.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-10-0.u17950	Please, just a minute.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-10-0.u17951	I had no doubt that you would stop talking about the agenda point that the public is looking forward to with impatience, which you have managed to extend to... tonight at some point on the agenda. But since this is too important a question, the question of CEFTA, I just want to say and take advantage of the opportunity here and the Prime Minister and the Minister. We, when adopted, or ratified CEFTA, had several suggestions and objections and did not dispute CEFTA as such, but we warned that we were unprepared for CEFTA. Now, practically five months, if I'm not mistaken, almost after the entry into force, or the ratification of CEFTA, we from this programme, and especially from the report of the commission supplementing a very precise programme, and then from some conclusions that I would not comment on here that I am not wasting your time, which are also, there are very good conclusions here that are proposed and, in fact, this whole CEFTA programme, which is ahead of us, the proposal for additional conclusions, in particular the Commission's report suggests that we, unfortunately, have not done a lot of what we should have done, and what has been promised to do, is even a number of MPs from the ruling party, the largest ruling party, will then accept ratification in the belief that the conclusions that we have done then and that they have even offered that these conclusions will practically edit this area, that we will welcome the CEFTA. Today's debate and commission's report, and the programme itself and the time it's been to get this programme, shows unfortunately that we're not ready today. We will see similar things tomorrow when we sign a Stabilisation and Association Treaty which, thank Bog, will be signed very quickly, regardless of whether you adopt this or not. But the Stabilisation and Association Treaty will be signed and then... by signing it it will begin to type a taximeter under the agreement, i.e. very soon the economy will come into a position resulting from the negotiations of the technical ones that have been completed, and yet we did not have the mechanisms to welcome it. Naturally, it is not a reason not to sign, on the contrary, to sign the Stabilisation and Association Treaty, but it would be good to take the opportunity on the CEFTA example to welcome tomorrow's implementation of the Stabilisation and Association Treaty. In that light, I have two suggestions, Mr. Chairman. That, and I have no doubt, by seeing a smile on the face of even the chairman of the Council of Ministers, seeing the serious face of the Minister in charge, these two persons together speak the same and that they want to come out of the problem that is ahead of us, and therefore it is my suggestion that in a period of no later than three months, since this will pass, this programme, you have enough hands, respecting the Commission's report, respecting the conclusions that are made here, that by... the summer at the latest, after six months, you will have some accounting period, you will see where it goes and trades, you will see the concrete effects of this all – to come out with 103 practically one report on how these measures give effects, or what should Parliament give you that green light to go on. My suggestions, therefore, without intending to suggest a conclusion, suggest that you formulate it as your conclusion or perhaps the chairman of the Council of Ministers, respecting the smile on his face: to come out with one proposal, that in a few months we have a really real analysis that will be up-to-date, completely up-to-date and which, when it's finished, we have on the agenda. I would also suggest, Mr. Chairman, this is what I propose as a conclusion. I am sure that you are familiar, and I have no doubt that the President of the Council of Ministers is familiar with Council Decision 2008/211/EC of 18.2.2008 and with its realisation plan. The "Official Journal of the EU" issued a decision called the end of last month, and it has already come into force. And in that decision, I'll talk about it later when that police point is spoken much more in detail,...there stands some 126 short-term obligations. And it's about 50 long-term commitments. Short-term commitments are over the past year, and long-term commitments until the end of this parliament's term. There are very serious over 170 obligations. One of these obligations that falls under the short term is the establishment of the Ministry of Agriculture. I therefore propose that, with this programme today, we adopt the conclusion: That the Council of Ministers prepare and open the procedure for amending and supplementing the Council of Ministers Act and preparing the Ministry of Agriculture. The reason is very simple. This is one big moment which is full of the mouth of European integration and what Europe is looking for and this is a good time for all those who want police reform to support the decision of not a high representative or some bureaucrat but for the decision of the Council of Ministers of the EU to come out in the "Official List" 2008/211. That's why my proposal for a conclusion, sir, is preside over this conclusion that I don't suggest, which I believe the chairman will find appropriate to formulate him in some way, that in two months we have a serious analysis of this. My concrete conclusion is that, in accordance with the decision I mentioned to you, the Council of Ministers is tasked with preparing the establishment of the Ministry of Agriculture, in accordance with our obligations under the EU Council Decision 2008/211 EC of 18 February 2008 which came into force 15 days ago. I think today's big moment for, at least, 22 MPs is a good opportunity to show up at this agriculture ministry how you really want to continue reforms, not end reforms. There, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-10-0.u17952	The chairman of the Council of Ministers, and the resolution, first. Resolute Minister Mr. Puhalac wanted, please, we have to give him a word. Then the honourable Member Azra Hadžiahmetović applied for the discussion. Unless you want to wait, Minister, or do you have to wait now?
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-10-0.u17953	I can wait. Here you go. 104
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-10-0.u17954	Here you go. You see how we are from SNSD. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-10-0.u17955	I don't know what kind of SNSD you are, but I know what Mr. Puhalac is like. Thank you, Minister. Maybe it'll just be useful. I've appreciated your suggestion that I speak first. I had no intention of having a more meaningful discussion in the direction of CEFTA to direct, but I was initiated by some discussions, starting with a discussion by my colleague Dolić, who mentioned that trade is such a left economic activity and that no example of any country that has become rich in trade is known. Here's simply... my call doesn't really allow me to...repel, so I must really say that since 2000, or even earlier, the value of world trade has exceeded the value of world production, which speaks of the value of trade and the importance of development. Here we are even presented that today the value of world trade is about 60% of the world's GDP, so we're not going into the debate of that kind, but... I really needed to correct it. Secondly, most of the discussions here, with the exception of my colleague Lagumdžija, have been directed towards CEFTA's criticism as if we already have some results of CEFTA's application which are so disastrous, is it, which here is supposed to be presented to us. Well, here's my colleague Lagumdžija mentioned well that CEFTA started using, with something maybe less than five months, of which you should remember that three and a half months in 2008, here is the freshest data for 2007. So, of these five months of application, maybe one month of application in 2007 if, if at all, these data are included here. And I don't think it should be easy to give such qualifications, the more CEFTA 2006 and preparations for CEFTA are for those who can read what it says here, not only in numbers, etc., the more the CEFTA countries show that, firstly, the CEFTA countries are our second partner of importance, that BiH has a very concentrated geographical structure and imports and exports, especially when in the second stage of the importance of a group called CEFTA in which we participate, it means a lot and talks about the importance of CEFTA for BiH. Furthermore, I will just mention and, let's say, trade goods in the agro-industrial sector, as mentioned here, and in that sense I have one question. ... On the side of the imports it recorded a 14.6 growth while it was bh. exporting the same recorded a 24.5 growth. And here I'm asking, by the percentages, is it, I'm asking now, why do we have a separate agross sector here? Or, why not, besides the agross sector, why we don't have, say, computer equipment, information equipment, anything to apply as far as possible before society, let's say, the Information Society or... modern technologies, and in this direction whether we can possibly use CEFTA a little bit more, with much, of course, respect for the agross sector. I thought my colleague Lijanović would say something about it, because he's a little bit more on the ground... some kind of industry, so we're constantly potentiating the agross sector, thinking about classical agriculture, and what about our related industries and higher stages of processing. Well, I guess we're not going back to some original community to talk just in that naked sense about primary agricultural production. I am here, reading among other things and this data, frankly, was also found that the structure of our deficit has shown the greatest participation in the deficit of three product groups, and that is: mineral fuels and products 18.5, appliances, etc. 11 comas something other than rail vehicles all other vehicles 11.5. I don't see a real diesel here, a colleague of Mehmedović, so I don't know why 105 would we release that diesel from excise duties, maybe it's too much for us to release something else, or make it a kind of relief, which is much more important for agricultural production, because I don't see a real diesel here. And here's really initiated a little bit of these suggestions of conclusions that I've already had a chance to read earlier in a single review of the Association of Farmers and their suggestions, but here, since this is officially going to be a statement, I really can't help but wonder that, let's say, we, with full right, are really standing here training, let's say, a laboratory that we have, and then training the Emergency Office of Veterinary which has been working since 2001, the Animal Marking Agency that has been around for several years, whose practically recent director has become now the new Director of the Veterinary Office. So, training institutions. So I ask myself, "How long will we really train our conclusions to train state institutions that should have been walking long ago?" So, to be students, with full respect for all this you suggested. But I'm just saying what it means to strengthen capacity, institutional capacity in BiH, and I think maybe we should deal with it. I would only, initiated by some discussions today and at the time we discussed the CEFTA for the ratification of the agreement, ask the Resort Ministry to when, or the Council of Ministers, when they first quantify the effects of CEFTA to parallel with such quantification make a brief evaluation: What if we hadn't approached CEFTA and all the others traveled naturally by their journey to CEFTA? Or how much would we pay for staying out of all this, counting on our speed to train the institutions for eight years, and... maybe to train another ten years, and only then to enter the CEFTA, if at all then CEFTA exists. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-10-0.u17956	Thank you. Dear Ambassador Dolić: Replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-10-0.u17957	... Hadžiahmetović slightly twisted my discussion. I said I didn't know any country that got rich only at the store, without strong technology and domestic production, and if she knew, I'd like her to tell me. ... I don't need Professor Hadžiahmetović's instruction on the trend of trade participation in the GDP. If nothing else, it's... I keep following and at least I know how to track it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-10-0.u17958	Thank you. No more replicas. The Honorable Minister Puhalac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-10-0.u17959	Mr. President, gentlemen of the Parliament, I will begin to oppose the Commission. We received the conclusion of the House of Nations in late November of the month, and we submitted this program in January, so we weren't just late for relaxation. Otherwise, I'll start from the last discussion. Agrar 106 broke out in the first place in the face of circumstances, which you are also witnessing. Deserved or not deserved, of him directly or indirectly lives around 50% of BiH's population, not to say that he is probably also credited with the representatives present here and their problem and the problem of the area they represent came first. I'll start with Mr. Dolić, his questions. The deficit isn't just ours. The deficit is the specificity of our environment. Serbia has 11 billion deficits on 33 billion foreign trade exchanges. Croatia is 15 to 39. One powerful 17th economic power Turkey has 60 billion foreign trade deficits, these are ours in KM. So the deficit is recorded. The time we've had since CEFTA is the time of the rise in energy and food prices. It's a shock that even more powerful and stable couldn't get over so easily. And to open up here the real truth and the real theme. CEFTA has not delivered any negative effects at this time. It was Ratifikovana on November 23rd, and still today we illegally use protection measures for agriculture that should not be used. So, nothing else has changed, except that there's been a chance that, through the diagonal cumulation of the origins of the industry in a way, we have some positive examples, let's say, of the producers of those who use polyesters and others. So they've already felt the effects of CEFTA in some way. And otherwise our area of CEFTA is covered by two of our largest partners in Serbia and Croatia, which account for 90%. The rest are Albania, UNMIK, Macedonia, Moldova and Montenegro. It's a symbolic exchange, and there's no saying that something significant has changed. What am I saying? The bilateral agreements that have established this have been inherited. We inherited CEFTA's negotiated heirloom. The Stabilisation and Association Agreement, and I hope there will be some positive news here and a better mood, we also inherited the negotiated one. All three agreements are customs concessions, and that's the price of our entry into Europe. All these agreements cost something, and what it costs means to lower customs, it opens up the market, but you're gonna get the effect of getting out. If we think domestic production can be protected by intrusion and taxes, it can't. Just subsidies and investments. And agriculture is so deficient in investment that even European funds, if we approach them quickly, will not help us so easily. So we need to be aware of what's going on. If good news is heard tonight, it is happy: in a month we have a free trade agreement with the EU in force and concessions begin. You should be aware of that, some of those concessions might come well, and I know this gentleman who was the head of everything we had before... as an obstacle to CEFTA, I think it will help him. It will help some others, but it will be a new sobering for us. So love has a price, I just want it to be known, and my statement here is primarily motivated: bilateral agreements, introduction to CEFTA, CEFTA negotiated, shame was that the state did not ratify it. CEFTA is a visual copy of the Stabilisation and Association Agreement, and the first measure to take effect 30 days from the date of signing is the Free Trade Agreement with the EC. I have here a letter from Mr. Kurkulas, when there was pressure to increase domestic production through imports of repromiums and equipment to a more favourable position, when it was pressure, we of these 74, Mr. Bešlagić, increased the proposal to 124 million customs concessions, meaning for our domestic production. And we got a letter from Mr. Kurkulas, he says: Gentlemen, you mustn't lower it so much, you still have to give these effects positively to the EU, but not to the other partners who work with you. Although we have everything, I think about 15% of the exchange with the rest of the world. As for Mr. Mehmedović's remarks, they immediately go to agrarian and as far as agrarians are concerned, he is a big pain in BiH and there are no fast solutions, there are long investments and separation of rural and commercial business in agrarian. It will also be a painful process and will not pass without you and without your decisions. When it comes to the registrations of land, then goods producers will register and they will likely be more accessible funds and funding and everything else, and the rural will be our obligation to help them through social measures and through others, in a way and through the construction of infrastructure, bring them into a more favourable position. I'll go on. As for Mr. Lijanović, he said the Council of Ministers does not have much authority. I can refer to Mr. Sadović who also spoke about his serious Ministry of Security and said what he was. Our role is in many things coordinating and we are trying. In some ways, I wish it had been noticed, that we had almost doubled some of our efforts to encourage farming in entities. That we have constant contacts and constant co-operation, that here and in this procedure, a series of agencies and institutes that act as independent administrative organisations whose functional connection is nevertheless the subject of something deeper that must be realized. It is not the responsibility of the ministry or the Council of Ministers to catch someone by the hand, but it is certain that this coordination is the subject of something we must reach in due course. With that in mind, we started farming. We were in some way initiators and coordinators to sign a contract with the World Bank and donors worth about 50 million marks for the equipment of food safety laboratories, for the Veterinary Office and for the Plant Health Authority. You know what the mechanisms are that slow you down in actions and us. I've been here, two weeks and 48 hours, waiting to come to order, which means that in many other places, time is a limit, and with us time is something that's going on, and we can't possibly take it as a limiting factor. As regards Mr. Novaković (protection of domestic production?) – only through subsidies, only through subsidies and training of domestic institutions. Our domestic control institutions, and you know that the veterinary control state only keeps the border and the entrance, that everything else is in entity inspection bodies and these bodies have relatively good coordination, but they have to be well equipped and agreed in various ways to allow the way in which we have control when we export across the border. I will mention the question of Mr Jukić, who said the same thing, measures by jurisdiction from the House of Representatives and relations with lower levels, and as far as customs tariffs are concerned, we have proposed the best possible and the best possible reliefs for equipment and re-promatter, but I have warned you of a letter and the attitude of the European Commission which is as I have said. And as for the Bosnian-Herzegovina economy, you know what a painful point is for us. It's a low degree of processing. In ten export products, we have in fact semi-products or low-treatment products or electricity. We used to have, you know, a wooden complex, wood processing, dedicated production, investment forms of action through Energoinvest, Unioninvest, Union building, etc. What's gone. It's hard now to replace the processing industry from what's left of those gigans or what's left of those systems. Until we do, it's certainly not something we can do overnight. So, in my opinion, the structure of BiH's economy is such that we need a lot to overcome everything negative that it carries. As far as agriculture is concerned, we don't have Slavonia, we don't have Vojvodina, we don't even have a firm, we have a 15-year-old Lijanović, and on the other hand, "Gavrilović" of 150 or one combination from Serbia or so. which are also 100 years, 108 150 years, etc. That's what we have to deal with. But we have a chance at fruit growing, we have meat, we have production, we have fruit and vegetables, and there's something waiting for us that many of us are not aware of, and it's a landscaping, and others from legal to technical regulation that would provide it. I'll just point out to Mr. Bešlagić that atomic reactors are customs nomenclature and that's how it stands on the head, otherwise I think they... are really confusing, but make sure we just copied, and we're not all. Well, as far as I'm concerned. What?
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-10-0.u17960	Wait a minute, wait a minute.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-10-0.u17961	I have to say, this is a rare opportunity for me, and to Mr. Lagumdžija, we're not unprepared for CEFTA, it can't be otherwise. What we've done so far, we've done, we've suggested what we can do. I agree with your suggestions, you need to analyze, improve, and as far as the Ministry of Agriculture is concerned, I work where I feel best, and not just agriculture, you have a series of other ones. When the political deal and when the change will be, I really can't say it, you know it better. MPs Hadžiahmetović thank you for your recommendations and for your support. Quantifications when possible but also positive and negative, and I think they'll be positive.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-10-0.u17962	I thank you, Minister. If we open a series of replicas now, we'll have a big problem. I think we just said everything we had to say. And he only answered the questions. I thank the MPs. We're closing the argument and we're going to the 27th point: [[Common discussion]] The chairman of the Council of Ministers, Mr Špirić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-10-0.u17964	Gentlemen, the chairman, the esteemed fellow Members and fellow Members of Parliament, the distinguished guests, I think this is the time when we must, and otherwise, the time to open up the opportunity and persceptive. I just can't understand that we don't want to, we don't want to believe in the possibility of this country. It's just not good. I think that to this extent, we will insult the European idea with citizens that whatever we do will not be enough. So please don't do that. So, the European idea, the idea of membership in the NATO Pact, the CEFTA, have no alternatives. 109 There are countries that led an open economy, a liberalised economy, which were not even similar to BiH, which today have a successful economy. Why don't we give you a chance, why you doubt the good intentions and measures of the Council of Ministers. We take all the good other measures. So let's open up this country's perspective once. It is impossible for the country to achieve a stable rate of economic growth, real in 2005, 2006 of 6% in 2007 and not have any concerns at all. That's impossible! I've been listening, I've read almost one analysis where it's said: this real rate of 6% or 9% of industrial production can be without governments, but we're telling citizens to decide who they choose in the election. If he can do without a government, the election is an aimless thing. But I beg you, therefore, let us support the measures of the Council of Ministers. We must once believe what the minister was talking about. We don't have any alternatives. We have to say that five months after ratification, we're not in the use of CEFTA, so we're not in the absolute application of CEFTA. It's another thing. Bosnia and Herzegovina's companies, which have learned to market 4.5 million, cannot be saved here by debates, must learn to market 120 million. Some will fail. MPs can fight as hard as they want. Those who manage to fight on the market will be liberalised companies of reputation for BiH. I ask you to believe what the Council of Ministers can and the Resolute Ministry will do. But don't make every idea that moves towards Europe and NATO more offensive to the debates. Say, I beg you, say a concrete measure, which you think the Constitution belongs to BiH, which the Council of Ministers has not proposed. Come on, what is it? If the minister says we've been talking, so we've moved the incentives by 100% in entities, it's a process, a process. We won't reach the ground in a year. But, therefore, the process, and it's called the accession process, I don't need to tell you. I think it's perfectly logical that we do six months of analysis, three months. There will be fractures and curves on this road. The price of integration is paid. To enjoy the benefits of a market of 120 million or 300 million, the price must be paid. If anyone has a free ticket formula, let them tell me, but I ask you, if the country's non-governmental sector has asked Parliament and the Council of Ministers and all government institutions not to close the door to the European perspective of this country, let us not do so. And don't every time we discuss European projects, we tell citizens it sucks, it's a waste of time, that power is irresponsible. It's not a good message. Tell us what the Council of Ministers could have done, and it didn't. What... of the measures available to the Council of Ministers did not do? I'm begging you, so please, you'll have a chance, I understand the pain of both yours and ours, so here we have to say that this is a process and that this is not a game for one company, for two companies. I think my colleague Lijanović spoke well. The Council of Ministers worked on the measures at its disposal. Talked to the entity governments. I beg you, let the process last half a year. You're looking for an analysis, you'll get an analysis. But also stand up as Parliament, commit the Council of Ministers to apply the CEFTA. There will be negative effects, it will be, but we need to apply the agreements and thus become serious partners, especially credible when we pay the price. What does it mean to implement the Free Trade Agreement for six months and ratify CEFTA? So we must... but I beg you to support these measures. We'll run an analysis, open up a perspective on this country, change the Council of Ministers. Open your eyes to this country and replace the Council of Ministers. Tell me, what of the measures we didn't mention in this document? Thank you very much. 110
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-10-0.u17965	Thank you. Since – all honour to the Council of Ministers – but I am here chairing the House of Representatives and the MP is the last to speak his word. Dear Ambassador Lijanović had a replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-10-0.u17966	I only wanted one correction, a correction of an incorrect quote and a reference to the company Lijanović. The minister mentioned 15 years, 25 is tradition and nothing else. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-10-0.u17967	Thank you. If there are no more reports, I'm closing the hearing. Moving to the 27th point of the agenda: Ad. 27. Giving consent to ratification: (a) "eSee" Agenda plus for the development of an information society in South East Europe – SEE 2007-2011) Agreement between the Member States of the North Atlantic Treaty and other States participating in the Partnership for the Legal Position of their Forces, the Additional Protocol under the Agreement between the Member States of the North Atlantic Treaty and the other States participating in the Partnership for Peace on the Legal Position of their Forces and the Further Additional Protocol under the Agreement between the Member States of the North Atlantic Treaty and other States participating in the Partnership for the Legal Position of their Forces. The Commission for Foreign Affairs held on 1 April and delivered a positive opinion on these agreements. We will unite both debates. I'm opening a debate. Here you go. If no one's answering, I'm closing the argument. MPs at 7:30 here for a statement on the agenda. 111 [[PAUZA]]
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-10-0.u17970	Dear President, fellow Members of Parliament, members of the Council of Ministers, if there is anyone who does not know, may I remind you: three legislators who are in parliamentary procedure have reached an agreement on a single text, and in that sense, I, as an authorised legislator of the first two laws, am withdrawing my proposals. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-10-0.u17971	Thank you. We just have to go dot by point. I'm closing the debate because there's nothing to discuss, the request has been withdrawn. We're moving to the fourth item of the agenda. We must vote on Azra Hadžiahmetović's request to discuss this law by emergency procedure Please prepare for the vote. You can vote now! "For" 20, "against" 18, "restricted" three. I understand we've adopted the request. I'm opening a debate. Since Honorable MP Hadžiahmetović withdrew the proposal for a bill, we have nothing to discuss. We're moving to the fifth item of the agenda. We are voting on the request of MP Drago Kalabić to discuss the law Please prepare yourself. You can vote now! "For" 21, "against" 19, "abstained" two, with a sufficient entity majority: I find that we have adopted the request. I'm opening a debate on this law. Dear Ambassador Kalabić. Here you go, as a proposer.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-10-0.u17972	The Honorable Chairman, given that everything is familiar here, and since there will be various withdrawals tonight, I am withdrawing these two draft laws from the procedure.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-10-0.u17973	Thank you. We're closing the debate. 113 We move to the sixth point: The request of MP Drago Kalabić for the Proposal for a Law on Directorate Please vote on the request. Prepare to vote. Vote now! "For" 21, "against" 19, "abstained" two, with a sufficient entity majority: I find that we have adopted the request. Since the proposer is withdrawing the law, we have nothing to discuss. We move to the seventh item of the agenda: The request of MP Niko Lozančić for the Proposal for a law on independent and supervisory bodies Glasmo on the request. Please prepare to vote. You can vote now! "For" 21, "against" 19, "abstained" two, with a sufficient entity majority: We adopted the request. We're opening a debate about the law. First Deputy Chairman-in-Office, Ambassador Niko Lozančić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-10-0.u17974	Thank you, Mr. President. As my proposal was aimed at seeking a compromise solution, as we have achieved it, a compromise solution, I am withdrawing the bill and the same reasoning and for the next law, not to go out again. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-10-0.u17975	Thank you. I'm closing the debate. We move to the eighth item of the agenda: The request of MP Niko Lozančić to discuss the Proposal for a Law on Directorate. Please vote on the request. Prepare to vote. You can vote now! "For" 21, "against" 19, "abstained" two, sufficient entity majority: I find that we have adopted the request. We're closing the debate, given that the motionor has withdrawn the bill. 114 We move to the ninth item of the agenda. Given the large number of amendments and notifications sent by the working group to Parliament, you saw that we could not find a compromise solution. There is nothing left for us but to vote on the amendment by amendment, asking all those who can help by withdrawing their amendments. First amendment, amendment of Honorable Member Momčilo Novaković, amandman i to Amendment VII of the Constitutional Commission. You know the amendment. Please prepare to vote. You can vote now. "For" 12, "against" 21, "abstained" six. This amendment did not receive the required majority. I withdraw all my amendments. Let's move on. Dear Ambassador Džaferović: amandman i moliti prepare for the vote. You can vote now! "For" 19, "against" 11, "abstained" nine. Insufficient entity majority. We have no consent in the College. We're moving on to the second round of voting. They all vote, the votes "against" count. Please prepare for the vote, round two. You can vote now! "For" 21, "against" 11, "abstained" nine, the RS has more than 10 "against". We find that this amendment has not been adopted. Let's move on. Dear Ambassador Belkić: amandman ii moliti prepare for the vote. You can vote now! "For" 22, "against" 12, "abstained" seven. Insufficient entity majority. Since there is no agreement in the College, I call on the House to go to the second round of voting. Please prepare to vote. You can vote now! "For" 22, "against" 12, "abstained" seven. The amendment didn't receive support. Momčilo Novaković changes to the bill: there are six amendments, seven. Are you withdrawing your amendments? Thank you. 115 Dear Ambassador Sadik Ahmetović and Honourary Ambassador Remzija Kadrić: amandman ii moliti prepare for the vote. You can vote now! "For" 22, "against" 11, "abstained" six. Insufficient entity majority. We're going to the second round of voting. Please prepare to vote. You can vote now! “For” 21, “against” 11, “abstained” eight. The RS "against" more than 10; this amendment did not receive a majority. Dear Ambassador Sadik Ahmetović had his amendment. Please prepare to vote. You can vote now! "For" 24, "against" 10, "restricted" seven. Insufficient entity majority. We're moving on to the second round of voting. Please prepare to vote. You can vote now! "For" 25, "against" 10, "restricted" five. This amendment didn't get most of it. We have another amendment from Sadik Ahmetović, which refers to Article 18. The bill of law, that was now.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-10-0.u17976	This was general, it's...
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-10-0.u17977	All right, please prepare for the vote. You can vote now! "For" 23, "against", 11, "abstained" seven. Insufficient entity majority. We're moving on to the second round of voting. Please prepare to vote. You can vote now! "For" 25, "against" 11, "abstained" five; insufficient, or 11 "against" from RS. 116 This amendment did not receive the required majority. We're moving on. We have the amendment of Honorary Ambassador Jerka Ivanković to Article 16. Please prepare to vote. You can vote now! "For" 37, "against" one, "abstained" one. This amendment has received great support. SNSD MPs' club: Article 60. The bill is deleted. Please prepare to vote. You can vote now! "For" nine, "against" 20, "abstained" eight. This amendment has not been supported. We no longer have amendments in the Professional Service. Is there anyone there maybe? They're gone. We are now voting on the bill proposed by the Interresor Group with the amendments adopted and the Constitutional Commission Report, which is an integral part of the law. Please prepare to vote. You can vote now! "For" 23, "against" 16, "restricted" three. Insufficient entity majority. We have no consent in the College, we move on to the second round of voting. Please prepare to vote. You can vote now! "For" 25, 16 "against", "abstained" one; 11 from RS; this law has not received support. We move to the 10th item of the agenda: Proposal for a law on the movement and residence of foreigners and asylum (second reading) Please prepare for the vote. You can vote now! "For" 36, "against" was not, "abstained" four. Enough entity majority. We've passed this law. We move to the 11th point: Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Act on Foreign Affairs (second reading) Please prepare for the vote. You can vote now! "For" 36, "against" was not, "abstained" four, with a sufficient entity majority, I find that this law has been passed. 117 We move to the 12th item of the agenda: Proposal for a Code of Conduct of MPs We have a report from our committee proposing that this House extend the deadline for the amendment and bring this law into line with the Law on Conflict of Interest which is next to the vote. Please let us vote on the proposal and conclusion of our commission. Please prepare to vote. You can vote now! "For" 41, "against" was not, "abstained" was not, sufficient entity majority. They practically all voted. Does it fit to be by the end of the month? I think by the end of the month there's plenty of time to get it together. Thank you. We move to the 13th item of the agenda: Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on conflict of interest. The promoter is the Interresor Working Group. It's in the first reading that this law is. Please prepare to vote. You can vote now! "For" 32, "against" was not, "abstained", eight, with a sufficient entity majority, we passed this law in the first reading. Now we have two more things to put to the vote. It is one of the initiatives proposed by members of the Interresor Working Group. Please prepare for the vote. We're voting on initiatives. You can vote now! "For" 28, "against" was not, "abstained", 10, with a sufficient entity majority, I find that we supported these initiatives. And now we are voting in favour of the Interresor Working Group Report, with a decision that needs to be made in this home to continue working on this law and to pass a new law, and I would give myself the freedom to propose that date by 1.10.2008, if it is an acceptable date. Please prepare to vote. You can vote now! "For" 35, "against" was not, "abstained", six, with a sufficient entity majority, we adopted the decision-making report. We move to the 14th item of the agenda: Proposal for a law on medicines and medical means (first reading) Please prepare for the vote. You can vote now! 118 "For" 37, "against" was not, "abstained", four, with a sufficient entity majority, we passed this law. We move to the 15th point of the agenda: The draft law on salaries and fees in the institutions (first reading) We have three conclusions, where the honourable MP Lagumdžija has proposed a conclusion, the honourable MP Ivanković and the conclusion of the SDA which makes sense to vote on it after the statement of the law, and these two conclusions will be voted before the law is declared. First, we put: The conclusion of the honourable MP Lagumdžija to the vote. It means: Under the proposal for a law on salaries and remuneration of employees in BiH institutions, the House of Representatives concludes that the debate and activities at the adoption of the Law on the responsibilities and rights of members of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly will not lead until BiH has obtained EU candidate status or a new BiH constitution is adopted. Please prepare to vote. You can vote now! "For" eight, "against" 31, "compatible" three. This conclusion didn't get most of it. Let's go to: The conclusion of the honourable MP Lijanović Is there a need for me to read it? The Committee for Finance and the Budget is hereby tasked with drawing up a formula to attach the salaries of representatives to the results achieved in the area of the external trade deficit. For example, for each deficit reduction by 1%, the increase in the pay of MPs from 10% to maximum 200%, and for each deficit increase by 1%, the reduction in representation salary by 5% to 90% maximum. Please prepare to vote. You can vote now! "For" three, "against" 32, "restricted" five. This conclusion didn't go through. Now we're voting on a bill of wages, please prepare for the vote. You can vote now! "For" 30, "against" seven, "restricted" one. With enough entity majority, please listen a little bit, this law has got most of it. We're going to the "SDA's conclusion." Is there any need for me to read this conclusion? 119 1. The Commission for Finance and Budget and the Ministry of Finance is hereby tasked with carrying out a detailed analysis of the proposed payment classes and coefficients in Articles 8, 9, 10, 12, 13, 14, 16 and 17, taking into account the social situation in bh. They propose new coefficients to maintain a more realistic and fairer wage ratio in BiH institutions. 2. It is up to the Finance and Budget Commission to exempt the salaries and fees of judges, prosecutors and certain categories of professional staff in judicial institutions that need to be regulated by a special law in the amendment phase of the Law on Payments and Refunds of BiH institutions. Please prepare to vote. You can vote now! "For" 16, "against" 14, "abstained" 11. Insufficient entity majority. Since we do not have agreement in the College on this conclusion, I would ask Parliament to make a statement in the second round of voting. You can vote now! "For" 17, "against" 18, "abstained" six. He doesn't have a general majority. This conclusion didn't go through. We move to the 16th item of the agenda: Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Single Parent Number Act Please prepare for the vote. You can vote now! "For" 37, "against" was not, "abstained" three. I find, with enough entity majority, that we've passed this law. We move to the 17th item of the agenda: Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Personal Card of Bosnia and Herzegovina (first reading) Please prepare for the vote. You can vote now! "For" 36, "against" was not, "abstained" four. I realize we've passed this law. We move to the 18th item of the agenda: Proposal for a law on amendments to the Law on residence and residence of citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina (first reading) Please prepare for the vote. You can vote now! "For" 36, "against" was not, "abstained", five, with a sufficient entity majority: we passed this law. 120 We move to the 19th item of the agenda: The draft law on the Fiscal Council of BiH, with the conclusion of our Finance and Budget Commission, will first vote on this law and then on the conclusion. Please prepare to vote on this law. You can vote now! "For" 31, "against" three, "abstained" six; sufficient entity majority: we passed this law in the first reading. We are now voting on the conclusion of our commission. Please prepare to vote. You can vote now! "For" 32, "against" three, "abstained" six, with a sufficient entity majority: I also find that we have adopted this conclusion. We move to the 20th point of the agenda: We have a proposal for a law on the Agency for Control and Security of Forced confiscation of property acquired by criminal acts before we have a proposal for a conclusion of the SDA: 1. It is up to the Council of Ministers to analyse the coherence of the solutions proposed in the law in question and with the solutions and mechanisms on which this issue is treated in EU countries, and 2. Only after meeting the House of Representatives with the results of the analysis referred to in the previous conclusion will the House approach the vote on the support of the law in the first reading. Please prepare to vote. You can vote now! We're voting on the conclusion of the SDA. "For" 22, "against" 10, "abstained" 10. Insufficient entity majority. We don't have an agreement on this. We're moving on to the second round of voting. Please prepare to vote. You can vote now! ‘For’ 20, ‘against’ 11, ‘restricted’ 10; from RS 11 ‘against’. This conclusion didn't go through. We are now pleading on this law. Please prepare to vote. You can vote now! "For" 10, "against" 23, "abstained" seven. This law didn't get the necessary majority. We move to the 21st point of the agenda: Proposal for a framework law on secondary vocational education and training. We vote in the first reading, with honourable MP Zorić asking for 121 to extend the amendment phase but we must vote first in the first reading, and then your conclusion to extend the amendment phase. Dear Ambassador Zorić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-10-0.u17978	I'm giving up on the conclusion, because I'm going to be against this law. I can't fix what's been done to the amendment.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-04-10-0.u17979	Thank you. Please prepare to vote. You can vote now! "For" 26, "against" four, "abstained", 12, with a sufficient entity majority, we passed this law in the first reading. We move to the 22nd item of the agenda Report of the Joint Commission on Efforts to reach an agreement on a bill on amendments and additions to the Law on Travel Documents of BiH. We're voting on the Joint Commission's report. Please prepare to vote. You can vote now! "For" 31, "against" was not, "abstained", eight, with a sufficient entity majority we adopted this report by our commission. We're moving on to the 23rd item of the safety information agenda. The Kolegijum discussed the very contentious debate that was held here – can you just let me say three sentences, please – and proposes that this House of Representatives, the House of Representatives receive the Information to the knowledge and to task our competent commission to make these conclusions... overlapping and which in some ways coincide, and also to make the conclusions that we make here at the House of Representatives, the College proposes that the House be made known in this way. If there are any other suggestions, please, but this is a proposal from the Kolegijum? Thank you. Please prepare to vote. You can vote now! "For" 36, "against" three, "abstained" one, with a sufficient entity majority, we accepted the Kolegijum's proposal. We move to the 24th Point of the Agenda Information on the work of the Prosecutor's Office of BiH. The College proposes to the House of Representatives that we deal with this point of the agenda in the same way. Please prepare to vote. You can vote now! "For" 31, "against" five, "abstained" three. I figure we did the same thing with the previous agenda. At the 25th point of the agenda we have a report on the work of the Attorney General 122 Votes for adoption of the Report. So we're voting on the report, not taking it to the knowledge. Please prepare to vote. You can vote now! "For" 13, "against" 19, "abstained" eight. So, this report on the work of the D.A.'s office was rejected. And honourable MP Džaferović suggested that given that there is also the chairman of the Council of Ministers and the Kolegijum to find a way to fill the seats of the deputy defence attorney. We in the College can only promise to see what's in our jurisdiction so we don't get called up tomorrow. We move to the 26th item of the agenda Consideration of the Programme of Measures for the application of the CEFTA Agreement. We've had a few conclusions about this proposal. Dear Ambassador Šemsudin Mehmedović had the conclusion and Honorable Ambassador Zlatko Lagumdžija had the conclusion. Do you need me to read these conclusions, or do you know, since it was fresh? We vote first on the conclusion of the honourable MP Šemsudin Mehmedović. Please prepare to vote. You can vote now! "For" 22, "against" 11, "abstained" seven. Insufficient entity majority. We didn't achieve consent in the College. We're moving on to the second round of voting. Please prepare to vote. You can vote now! “For” 23, “against” 11, “abstained” six; from RS 11 “against”. This conclusion didn't go through. Dear Ambassador Lagumdžija, is there any way we can vote on your conclusion after the vote on the programme, or do you want to do it now? Please, well, we're voting on the conclusion of the honourable MP Lagumdžija. Please prepare to vote. You can vote now! "For" 28, "against" 10, "abstained" four, the insufficient entity majority do not have consent. We're going to vote in the second round. Please prepare to vote. You can vote now! ‘For’ 28, ‘against’ 11, ‘restricted’ three; from RS 11 ‘against’. He didn't come to the conclusion. 123 And now we are voting in favour of the CEFTA Programme of Measures, with the opinion of our committee that has also proposed conclusions. So we're voting together on both sides. Please prepare to vote. You can vote now! "For" 29, "against" one, "abstained" nine, with a sufficient entity majority we adopted proposals. We move to the 27th point of the agenda The granting of consent under a) we first declare. Please prepare to vote. You can vote now! "For" 37, "against" was not, "abstained" three, with a sufficient entity majority we adopted, we gave consent to ratification. And we're going to give consent to ratification under b) of today's agenda. Please prepare for ironing. You can vote now! "For" 34, there was no "against" five. Enough entity majority, we adopted that, too. So we exhausted the agenda and the vote on the agenda. However, honourable MPs, so...the Secretariat of our service has come two proposals for the 127th member of the Rules of Procedure. I'm taking a break for 15 minutes and we'll continue the next session at 20.45. The seat's finished at 8:35.
