ParlaMint-BA_2008-12-29-0.u22612	Ladies and gentlemen of the MPs, honored guests, continue the 42nd session of the Parliamentary House of BiH. Our regular guests were invited to continue the session, with the exception of MPs: a respected member of the BiH presidency, Dr Haris Silajdžić, was invited especially for the agenda item in the UN General Assembly and the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe. We also invited the president of the National Assembly of Republika Srpska Igor Radojičić. I warmly welcome all present and thank you for the presence of the session of this house. According to the service report, there are 33 MPs present at the session. For health reasons, the Honorable First Vice-President, Mr. Beriz Belkić, is rightly absent. We wish him a successful treatment and a quick recovery. Also, the absence from our session was announced by distinguished representatives Jozo Križanović and Jerko Ivanković, and the distinguished representative Vinko Zorić announced a delay. We have a quorum for full-time work and decision-making. Ladies and gentlemen, I remind you that our agenda has left four points unrealized, 16th, 17th, 18th and 19th points of the agenda. 16. Report on the participation of members of the Armed Forces, police and civil servants of BiH in foreign peace support operations for the period from 1. 3. 2008 to 30. Six. 2008; 17. Discussion on the subject: Council of Europe and its activities (the basis for the debate is the report on the work of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly delegation at the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe in 2008); 18. The debate on the presentation of BiH Presidency Chairman Dr. Haris Silajdžić, when addressing the UN General Assembly in New York and the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe in Strasbourg (additional Initiative of Representative Branko Dokić); 19. The debate on the National Assembly of Republika Srpska's resolution on the goals and measures of Republika Srpska's 14th special session, held on 15.10.2008. (Accepted Initiative of Representatives of Remzija Kadrić) We also informed you that it is possible to reopen the debate on the Proposal for a Law on genetically modified organisms, second reading, and the Proposal for a Law on the Agency for the Development of the Information Society of BiH, second reading if the competent committees consider new aspects by the session, as concluded in the first part of the session. 2 We received from the Committee on Transport and Communications, December 24th, the agreed amendments of the distinguished representative Branko Dokić to the Proposal for a Law on the Development of the Information Society Agency, and we could now open the debate and end the procedure on this bill. I would like to remind you that these amendments to the honourable representative Dokić have been submitted in new aspects and the College has allowed the debate on them. This was the fifth item of the agenda, so if there were no other proposals, I would open a debate on the Proposal for a Law on the Agency for the Development of the Information Society. Before this, I would like to inform you that the College of the House and the Extended College of the House prior to the continuation of this session and the expected start of the next 43rd session had their own sessions at which the agreement was reached to give you all the recommendation to be discussed in the 42nd session on all five points that we will consider today on behalf of the clubs to address one representative of the club – this is a recommendation. So if any of the MPs would like to speak besides that, we'll give him a chance to keep all of you together from the replicas. But, so... according to the Rules of Procedure, all those who express their wishes will be given the opportunity to replicate. It is planned, if we stick to this agreement and these recommendations, that we end the 42nd session no later than 13.45 a.m., and that we continue, that we begin the work of the 43rd session at 15.00 hours, means after the break that you can use for lunch or other obligations you have. I ask you, here, try to follow the recommendations of the College and try to do as rationally as possible. You've got the agreed amendments. It's about seven amendments. I am reopening the debate on the fifth item of the agenda, which is: Ad. 5. Proposal for a Law on the Agency for the Development of the Information Society of BiH, with the agreed amendments of the Committee on Transport and Communications
ParlaMint-BA_2008-12-29-0.u22613	Can I just make one suggestion, Chairman, and I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-12-29-0.u22614	Here you go, distinguished representative Slavko Jovičić.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-12-29-0.u22615	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable representatives of the Council of Ministers, NGOs, of course, and the media, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to suggest that while this session continues, we form a delegation of four or five Members and, officially, on behalf of this house, visit Mr. Belkić. I certainly meant to do it in private, and many of you may have been, but here's to assign this house to one delegation, I say of four or five MPs, and that during the course of the continuation of this session we should make that visit. I suggest, of course, myself into that delegation.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-12-29-0.u22616	Here, I will inform you, which means that the College of the House planned at this stop of 14:00, on behalf of all of you, to visit Mr. Beriz Belkić, and which does not exclude your ability to visit him whenever you want, but, given that it is still a recovery after the operation of 3 procedures, here doctors do not suggest too much visitation and excessive tiresomeness of our colleague. I hope we can convey your greetings, which doesn't exclude your ability to visit Mr. Belkić, so here's what we planned at this stop between 13.00 and 14.00 and do on behalf of this house. Let's move on. We've already opened the debate, so the fifth item of the agenda. Dear Representative Branko Dokić.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-12-29-0.u22617	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, distinguished guests, this time I will discuss on behalf of the Communications and Transport Commission. So, the Commission for Communications and Transport is most of the amendments that I have brought into line. We've modified certain amendments so they can be acceptable to everyone, not disrupting their basic essence. Of certain amendments that were not essential in character, I have also given up, so here, I can say that more than 90% of the amendments that have been submitted, counting both before and this one now, I, as an amendment promoter, have been satisfied with that, with the fact that the basic objective of these amendments has been achieved. First, the text has been significantly corrected, on the one hand, and, on the other hand, are excluded from the law of that thing which is indicated so that they could pose a threat to the jurisdiction of individual institutions. So now from that point of view, here, and to the commission, and to me personally as the amendment promoter, this law is acceptable and I think it will be useful if this home adopts it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-12-29-0.u22618	Thank you. I don't have any more logs. I'll take advantage of the occasion, hopefully they've given us this manual for the use of the delegate's unit, so yes, here at the next agenda points try, in accordance with the possibilities of the delegate's unit, to sign up for both discussion and replication, and you'll have the opportunity to see the order reported on the big monitor. No more reports. I'm closing the debate. And now we move on to the realization of the remaining points of the agenda. 16th point: Ad. 16. Report on the participation of members of the Armed Forces, police and civil servants of BiH in foreign peace support operations for the period from 1. 3. 2008 to 30. Six. 2008 In 24.11.2008, the foreign ministry delivered the report from this point. The responsible Defence and Security Committee delivered an opinion on this report. In its opinion, the Committee of the Houses of the Parliamentary Assembly proposes to decide on 4 justifications for participation in peace support operations for 2009, as follows: the UN Peace Mission in the Democratic Republic of Congo, the UN Peace Mission in Liberia, the UN Peace Mission in Sudan and the UN Peace Mission in Cyprus. The Commission also proposes to adopt a report from this point, by obliging the applicant of the Report to submit a proposal for a level of participation in those operations before the debate at the House. Number of mission members. During the first day of this session, the foreign ministry submitted an update to the report and determined the number of members of the mission so that the UN Peace Mission in the Democratic Republic of Congo has five members of the Armed Forces of BiH, a UN Peace Mission in Liberia 12, a UN Peace Mission in Sudan seven and a UN Peace Mission in Cyprus four members. I'm opening a debate. I don't have any charges to argue with. I'm closing the debate. Moving to the 17th point of the agenda: Ad.17. Discussion on the subject:The Council of Europe and its activities (the basis for the debate is the report on the work of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly delegation at the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe in 2008)
ParlaMint-BA_2008-12-29-0.u22621	So, we regularly after each session, and four such sessions annually, delivered a report, and now we have compiled it, with another additional comment. I won't comment on everything contained in the report. I hope you've read it. I'll just pay attention to what I consider the most important. For one thing, these are the obligations, the post-admission commitments that BiH has made in relation to the Council of Europe which we have not met and which I think we should appeal to be met. One, it's a ratification of the Charter of Regional and Minority Languages. But it's up to this parliament to do that ratification. 5 Under two, the filling of BiH's vacant seats in various bodies of the Council of Europe. First of all, it is the Venice Commission, then the European Commission against racism and intolerance, then the Advisory Committee for the Framework Convention for the Protection of National Minorities and finally the European Committee for the Prevention of Torture and Inhumane Procedures. This has been, by July of this year, in the Council of Ministers' office, and the processes were led by the Ministry of Human Rights and Refugees and would have taken the presidency's decision from July this year. So, I think this home should appeal to the Presidency to finally fill out these vacant places. We have been warned several times by the Council of Europe and the warning came in Resolution 1626 of this year in this resolution, whether, which speaks of respect for BiH's duties and obligations. Secondly, we have received a warning these days that an underactive delegation, or members of the BiH delegation, to the Council of Europe. We have a five-member delegation that has taken over commitments in about 10, maybe more committees. Delegations such as Russian, German, numbering 30-40 people, can serve it much easier, especially if they are more of a country, so they can send, over the year, to different destinations of their members; the Bosnian delegation comes down to the fact that at the time of the meeting, which I say is four times a year, we attend the meeting of these committees. What could be done is to ask the members of the delegation, which I am leading, not to go beyond those obligations at the time of the meeting, and there is that. So it comes to Strasbourg, and then it doesn't go to committee meetings. There's one exhausting pace out there. It starts at 8:00 in the morning and usually ends at 7:00 p.m. And it's not easy to catch up, but, as far as we're concerned, I think we should attend at least at a time when we have that possibility. And I think, in that sense, we need to draw one conclusion here and assign the delegation to one such relationship. And finally, most importantly -- at least for BiH, which was decided and discussed by the Council of Europe in 2008 -- is this Resolution 1626, which concerns respect for the duties and obligations of BiH, so the Monitoring Team. A team monitoring report, I think, came three times in 2008 to BiH, held meetings with various important representatives of BiH, from the Council of Ministers, the Presidency, these delegations, Parliament, etc. and made a quality resolution that really is a cross-section, one picture of the situation in BiH and which is a bit of a concern. So, they found, in that resolution everything is important, I'm not going to count everything, but I'm going to point out what I consider to be the most important. They have found, of course, that there has been a stalemate in BiH's reform process, above all, in constitutional reform. They ask us to restart the elections as soon as they pass, in October 2008, with the help of the Venice Commission – constitutional reform. In doing so, they warn of the entity's voting brake and of the excessively wide-ranging framework of vital national interest in the House of Peoples. They also appreciate that without constitutional reform there will be a stalemate in police reform, and then a stalemate in the Stabilisation and Association Agreement, and we all witness that this is indeed the case, that these are friendly warnings. They are concerned by the nationalist rhetoric, the RS National Assembly Resolution, which mentions the possibility of a referendum on self-determination, calls for the suspension of the undermining of state institutions by entity authorities in RS, calls for reform of federal institutions to make it more economical, simpler institutions within the Federation, call for further reform of local self-government, to continue public broadcasting system reform, to continue judicial reform, to fight more strongly corruption in co-operation with GRECO, to seek to allocate more significant funds to implement Annex VII more effectively in the next three years. Also, they are seeking proportionate representation and access, regardless of their national membership, to every BiH citizen through Decision 6 on the constitutional court's consistency of the people, to ask the de-certified officers to be allowed to apply to the seats in the police, to finally stop at the end of ethnic segregation in schools, two schools under one roof. They were worried about the attack during the Queer Festival held here in Sarajevo, so one point was brought about preventing discrimination against homosexuals. They want to finally resolve the status of foreign savings and finally organise the 2011 census, to move towards serious preparation, according to the separate data method. So, I suggest that today we draw conclusions about what I have stated or, possibly, something else that my colleagues are looking for here, but make a commitment to carry out post-op, to make an appeal to the Presidency, in that sense to ask the members of the delegation to be more active and finally to receive the knowledge of Resolution 1626 and make a commitment to honor the most important part of it. The Council of Europe resolutions are not binding. But it is said to the Council of Europe that it is the EU's hall. So we don't have to listen to what they advise us, what well-intentioned friends, who may see better from that distance in BiH than ourselves, advise us. However, it does not have to join the EU either. You don't have to do anything. The problem is those who do not follow the recommendations of the Council of Europe. So I think we should really understand them most well-meaningly and go after those recommendations. I'll suggest some conclusions, so please support yourself. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-12-29-0.u22622	I thank the esteemed representative Izetbegović. Are there any more people in charge of the hearing? Dear representative Milica Marković.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-12-29-0.u22623	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I have reported on this agenda for the presentation of the chairman of this delegation, Mr Izetbegović, in one part. Not because there would be something added or taken away in this report. The report is a list of our obligations that we have carried out and our presence at the meetings that were held in the past year, so in 2008, I don't have much to add or subtract to this report. He is who he is, and there are only some things that have been identified as how they have separated, or how much we have participated. What I have reported more is precisely from the assumption that members of the delegation are asked to be more active in terms of being present on the Council of Europe committees in which we are allegedly not present, not allegedly, but it is true that we do not attend, but I think that we should mention some reasons that were objective in nature why we did not attend those committees. In 2007, so the first year when our delegation started to participate in this composition of the Council of Europe, we received calls for meetings in the work of committees that were indeed taking place in different destinations, or in different destinations in Europe, and we were to attend here and actively to participate in the work of these committees. And when I was interested, I was a member of the Committee on Education and Science and a deputy member of the Committee on Legal Affairs and Social Protection, when I was interested in attending one of these committees, so at these working sessions which are actually the same thing as our committee here in Parliament, from the College was not allowed to attend these sessions, with reasons that there are not 7 financial resources enough to finance it and that, for material, or financial reasons, it is not possible for us to attend. So after that, we didn't even get calls anymore, because people saw that we weren't involved and we weren't responding to those calls. And it is true that committees meet always in the morning, usually 8.00 – 8.30, before the start of the regular session of the Council of Europe, but these are meetings of committees where things are finalised on topics and materials already processed at some previous sessions between the two meetings of the Council of Europe. Then the committees declare any amendments, determine who will be the rapporteurs of the committee on certain topics, and all the material being discussed, which is discussed and discussed, takes place at committee meetings between the regular meetings of the Council of Europe, so that I would not want anyone, as a member of the delegation, to blame me for being inactive and not participating in those committees, because it was not for subjective but objective reasons, and that is the situation with all members and deputies of our delegation, because five or ten of us are all members of one committee and alternate members in some other committees. And what I still want to say, which is not highlighted in this report, is the finding on some committees that discussed this report that our delegation, and that was an observation by some fellow Members, is not unique at times when it votes or when it discusses certain topics at the Council of Europe. That's absolutely true, and I wouldn't be opening that topic right now, because there's a wide range of reasons why that is. But I'm just going to say that about those topics that are considered difficult or that they are considered very disputable for each individual in the delegation that we don't even take the position of the delegation before we go to the meeting and before we agree on how we will plead, but in principle it's just a negotiation of who will discuss and who will answer for the discussion, who will take the word, so participation in the discussion at the session itself. I would no longer say anything about it because about everyone in Parliament is more or less known why the delegation cannot be unique when it votes and discusses. And to hear the dissonant tones between us at the session itself and in the discussions on certain topics, that is correct, but I think that this situation will last until the end of this delegation's term, which is in the Council of Europe. So much and thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-12-29-0.u22624	I thank the esteemed representative Marković. Dear Representative Martin Raguž.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-12-29-0.u22625	I thank you, Mr. President. Well, I think it's a good thing we have this report on the work of our delegation at the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe. It is good that we have also heard from the chairman of this delegation an evaluation, and it is good that some important questions are raised in the debate. One of them is: how competently our delegation of this Parliament, responsible, so here it is, and complicitly participates in the work of this important body. It is, everyone we know, and I believe we all know it, a roof democratic institution, not only in Europe, it is an EU lobby, and that is, I would say, a kind of purgatory through which all countries, especially countries such as BiH, should pass through and show that 8 on that path can practice standards and criteria established by the Council of Europe by its resolutions and conventions. I, from this report which, in some ways, gave a correct review of the sessions, topics and participations, still do not see one real assessment of what it is that the members of the delegation, in some ways, in terms of political affirmation of what has been done in BiH and in this Parliament have done and what the contribution of all members of the delegation, and in this sense I believe that the following reports should contain that dimension. Without it, this will be just one fact-finding examination that isn't enough for us to discuss competently. We, who have had this happiness and the privilege of being in some previous mandates of members of the Council of Europe, have not had such a situation as it is now that so many talk about differences in the performances of the members of the delegation at the meetings of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe, I responsibly argue, in the previous term. I'm afraid that today we should, in some way, give a kind of warning but a recommendation that this practice, in some way, be put into one reasonable, democratic framework of different interpretations and opinions, but if it is so presented in four years in continuity at sessions of such a significant body, then you know what can be an effect, and you expect that body to be constantly at your hands with its instruments, help, monitors, etc. I think it's one minimum, and I ask the members of the delegation to make additional efforts to agree on all issues, not just who will talk about which topic. We also discussed the content of the discussion, we used to talk, and I think we should go towards that effort to sort of detach these differences there, sort of, amortize and do as little as possible, regardless of all the depth of the problems and crises that we have here. That's the one thing I answered. The second thing is the fact that since the age of eight, already on 24 April 2002, BiH has become a full member of the Council of Europe, today it is eight years, that is enough time to give one full assessment. I think that we need this overall assessment, we don't have it here, which we have through here, let's say, just 64 conventions ratified and accepted BiH from the Council of Europe, which is an effective democratisation of BiH, the construction of institutions and the overall implementation of reforms. For those eight years, that grade needs it. And another thing, I need something that I think is actually the point: we have here in the recommendations for Resolution 1626,... 23, where the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe is asked to co-operate with the BiH authorities to develop an action plan, to develop new targeted programmes and cooperation in the areas, and says:'strengthening democratic institutions, local regional democracies, reforming the capacity of the judiciary, fighting corruption, human rights,... media, education'... I would like to have an insight from the delegation: to what extent it is working on this action plan, whether it is realistic and in what measures that this action plan should be, as it is said here, 'accompanied by new funding opportunities, including funding under the pre-accession assistance instruments'. This is one important question that, in addition to what I said earlier, I am running to be in the domain of lobbying and active roles of our members in the Council of Europe. And the third thing that I'm going to end up with is so important, no matter what they're not binding resolutions. The fact is that any kind of positive accreditation that BiH wants will only be able to achieve if it respects what the contents of this resolution are, no matter how painful and difficult it sometimes looks. No matter how much we think we can do with that story European, Bosnian, or Herzegovic. We can sometimes replace and delay the execution of these difficult obligations and reforms. I don't think we've made enough synergy between our participation there, these institutions, our institutions, the transparency of work, and, if this discussion and this report is in hand, 9 that in regular cycles we meet these issues, we check ourselves, then we should welcome it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-12-29-0.u22626	I thank the esteemed representative Raguž. Dear Representative Savo Erić.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-12-29-0.u22627	Gentlemen, the chairman, colleagues and colleagues, honored guests! Here I am, as the deputy of this team who regularly goes to Strasbourg, to make a contribution from my corner and a proposal to this Parliament to make things right in the future. What has been happening so far has certainly given its effect and all the shortcomings ahead of our delegation have been minus, meaning for this Parliament, and also for the state we presented there. My colleagues have already said some shortcomings, some issues that have been well addressed, and we have also highlighted some issues that certainly had negative connotations in our presentation and presentation in the Council of Europe. What we should change about ourselves in the future is taking attitudes before going there. It is an ugly scene when the delegation makes different views and the delusion is that anyone will point to their views or impose some of their views in order to present the story of the group that we represent. I think we need future plan action, synchronisation of the problem here, and I especially suggest to the majority, because we have been going for a long time without the Presidential Delegation, and we have been through it later and have given the immediate effects of the very performance in the Council of Europe. And for this reason, in the future, I propose that we really create one action plan and try through regular sessions already planned and on the agenda set up in the Council of Europe to find room for presentation and ask questions that were raised by colleagues Raguž. So, through committees, we try to impose some points on the agenda that are related to our country, and basically every year, two points of the agenda are related to our environment or directly to the country that we represent. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-12-29-0.u22628	I thank the esteemed representative, Erić. The following is the registered honourable representative Denis Bećirović.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-12-29-0.u22629	I would like first to say that I expected from the representative of the delegation of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH in the Council of Europe and from the chairman of this delegation to say something concrete about the concrete results and effects of our delegation in the Council of Europe. We, besides the House of Representatives of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly, have both the right and the obligation to say something about the work of the delegation and to say whether we are satisfied or not with the work of the delegation in the Council of Europe. 10 I think it would be good if our delegation in its work in the Council of Europe had in mind a document called the General Principles for the Making of Foreign Policy adopted by the BiH Presidency. From this report, which has been delivered to us on the parliamentary benches, we can very clearly see that there has been no synchronised and coordinated neither work nor agreement within our delegation. Moreover, there were totally conflicting views of members of our delegation before the Council of Europe. Probably no delegation in the Council of Europe has worked and acted as the Bosnian-Herzegovina delegation did. Therefore, the question can be rightly asked: Who were the representatives of our delegation representing? At a meeting of the Foreign Affairs Commission, which discussed this issue, I also proposed two conclusions to the Commission, but the Commission did not, however, accept my proposal. I proposed that the Foreign Affairs Commission express dissatisfaction against the uncoordinated action of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly delegation in the Council of Europe, and I suggested that we give one assessment that this is the way our delegation has done, in my opinion, political damage to the presentation of BiH. The two conclusions were not accepted by the BiH Foreign Affairs Commission. However, however, here today it should be said that this way of functioning of this delegation is absolutely unsustainable. It is particularly unsustainable after the signing of the Stabilisation and Association Agreement. We here must say whether this will be a delegation of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly or whether this will be more delegations within a delegation of BiH, as, unfortunately, individual members of the delegation acted. I must say that it is quite clear that it was the only delegation in the Council of Europe that discussed the internal problems of its country and which was all dirty laundry, so to speak, before the Council of Europe. Is this politically wise, politically justified, especially is it politically useful for the BiH state? We should probably bring the court here to Parliament as well. In any event, if they were to assess the work of the Delegation, on a scale of 1 to 5, this delegation would have received a clean unit for the work so far (1). I must say, I disagree with the chairman of the delegation who said he had several conclusions. I think we're getting a little bit and insecure with all the conclusions we're making here, but no one's doing. Here, I will give just a few examples: The European Parliament resolution we discussed here at the session and reached conclusions. Those conclusions are clearly not binding on anyone. We have a Stabilisation and Association Agreement, it's not being implemented. We've got PIC conclusions, they're not going through. Here is the conclusion of the 35th session of the House of Representatives, held on 24 September and 7 and 8 October 2008. When we adopted those conclusions, and on the basis of those discussions of both Houses of Parliament, on July 30th of this year, we reached some conclusions. Among other things, we then said that the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH obliges, i.e. tasked the Council of Ministers, to submit an action plan for implementation of the Interim Stabilisation and Association Agreement to the House of Representatives within 30 days at the latest. Not that it's been 30 days, it's been 90 days, and we still don't have, unfortunately, any action plan. Not to add to the obligations of the Council of Ministers adopted unanimously by this parliament, but it is not on the benches. We are not dealing with apparent fundamental issues, especially those which arise as our obligations on the road to the EU, we are not having formal conclusions, so the question arises: What new conclusions on the conclusions can help us if we are not to implement, or if, in this particular case, the Council of Ministers of BiH in a number of cases, as well as this one, does not want to respect Parliament's conclusion and deliver such an important document, which is an action plan for the implementation of the Stabilisation and Association Agreement. 11 We, in any case, but not to spread the debate now, shall have to say what we shall do with this Council of Ministers. Here, we had a discussion about the Council of Ministers' shift, etc., about the vote of mistrust. The majority voted that the Council of Ministers still has the trust of the ruling six, but if it trusts the ruling six, then at least it should do a minimum of what is expected of the BiH state. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-12-29-0.u22630	Correction of the incorrect allegations, distinguished representative Milica Marković.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-12-29-0.u22631	A colleague, Bećirović, stated here that it is little to say that it is an incorrect allegation, could more be said that this is a pure accusation unthinkable and unfounded on account of the BiH delegation. He said the members of the delegation discussed all the dirty laundry from BiH at the Council of Europe's meetings on the internal problems of BiH and the Council of Europe, and that is why we deserve a clean unit. Now, what he said was that we deserve a clean unit, it's his subjective assessment, but what he accused us of wearing all the dirty laundry, I have to ask him, or I have to tell him, that if he thinks it's an economic policy, that it's a matter of human rights, that it's a matter of refugees, that it's a matter of getting people back to their places of life and housing from before the war, that it's a matter of war crimes and all other sensitive topics from BiH, if it's dirty BiH laundry, then I'm telling you now responsible that you're definitely lost in politics. And you have to think a little bit more and think about it when you answer and when you're talking, because these are huge findings, and none of us can accept from the Delegation of this kind of flat-rate. That's one thing. And secondly, you talk and judge what we did, what we talked about, and you are neither a member nor a deputy member of the delegation, you have not attended any Council of Europe sessions, and you speak and you bring out all of this sort of serious stuff.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-12-29-0.u22632	Dear Representative Bećirović, a reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-12-29-0.u22633	Oh, well, 90% of this replica doesn't deserve to be replicated at all, but that's that a man doesn't stay to say anything at all. First, a colleague made a mistake in the alphabet of politics, so here she said what some people like or don't like. We have our own standard, we show it in the election. In particular, whether someone has strayed into politics or not is decided by BiH citizens who choose us. You look at the number of votes that you have entered Parliament with and look at the number of votes that I have entered Parliament with and then we can talk about what people thought, whether someone has strayed or is not here in Parliament. But this other thing I want to say is perhaps more important. In fact, it is good that at least here in the BiH Parliament we see such a performance by some of the members of the delegation defending this delegation of Bosnia and Herzegovina in the Council of Europe, who thus attack on, specifically, opposition MPs. It would be even better if you were so complex in legal matters, in the 12 presentation of BiH as a serious and democratic state, and what I was talking about, both at this session and at all previous sessions, the citizens of BiH know very well, and you do not need to change the thesis on this.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-12-29-0.u22634	Dear Representative Bakir Izetbegović, replica.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-12-29-0.u22635	So we have good human relations within the delegation. We hang out, we sit together and spend those six or seven days together. And there's never been a... there's a fight within the delegation before the Council of Europe. We've never raised a tone there, opposed each other, replicated, etc. Each one expressed his views in a decent, cultural way. And attitudes aren't the same. Here we are today, today this house has been called by Dr Silajdžić because he thinks something should be discussed about his performances in the UN and in front of the Council of Europe. If we succeed here today in having a common position on this, here is a delegation that will be very happy to represent it before the Council of Europe. Also, we will have a agenda point concerning the resolution of the National Assembly of the RS on the possibility of a referendum on self-determination. So we had different views up there before the Council of Europe. Well, if we have a common position here today in this House, that delegation will represent it as a common position. And finally, the dissonation was related to the secession of Kosovo, with the right to secession of Kosovo. Serbian delegates have expressed their position on this in a decent manner. The rest of us have abstained. I don't know, if you make it here, so about these three questions, here's a common position, you put us in charge, and we're going to put that attitude up there. And finally, here it is said that the Committee of Ministers, and in the Committee of Ministers is our foreign minister, Mr Sven Alkalaj, so this Committee of Ministers will co-operate with the BiH authorities to develop the 'Action Plan' to... develop new targeted co-operation programmes in the area of strengthening democratic institutions etc., etc. So, it is now up to the Committee of Ministers to co-operate with BiH authorities, it is not at the delegation. We can show an interest in what's going on. This parliament can today be one of the conclusions being to ask Mr Alkalaj, the foreign minister -- at what time it is. Did something happen, etc.? That's what we can do. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-12-29-0.u22636	Thank you. The following has been reported by Honorable Representative Mirko Okolić.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-12-29-0.u22637	Mr. Chairman, distinguished colleagues and fellow Members, representatives of the Council of Ministers, NGOs, international organisations, means of information, dear guests, this topic and agenda item is welcome and should certainly be discussed in order for our delegation to be more expedient in the next assembly, i.e. having the best effects of 13 of its presence and participation in the work of the Assembly. They did there what they did, maybe it could have been less, and maybe it could have been more, but this report shows that maybe it could have been more, as it was seen at a time of a certain session through the means of information and the press that they had different attitudes, and it's very ugly and listen and, I don't know what else to say, and enough is just to hear it. Because one delegation of one state, if it has different views, is indeed not something that is in the spirit of democracy, that is, in the spirit of the objectives and tasks of the EU Parliamentary Assembly. That is what worries me most, and it seems to me that they will be able to contribute more at the time of the BiH meeting if they adopt, perhaps, this conclusion that I will suggest, which is that they can have different opinions, as is normal, until they leave and begin the session. But at the time of the meeting, they must have concerted views in BiH's interest, and there is no way that opinions can be expressed individually, because they are the BiH Delegation and where it says that the report on the Council of Europe's debate and activity is actually a debate on the report on the work of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly delegation in the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe. So it doesn't say here that they are representatives of neither entities nor people, nor parties, nor I know who, but BiH. And I fully agree that these views will sometimes not be able to be... easily agreed, but let them sit for 10 days, 15, 3 days before the assembly and have to go with the official concerted attitude, the attitude that was written, so that what happened to us at the next point where we should discuss Mr. Haris Silajdžić, the chairman of the BiH presidency, does not happen to us. So that's my proposal in terms of the conclusion and if they have such concerted views then it can't happen that it's in BiH's interest to discuss it differently. Now, as they get along, whether they're all happy or not, that's their thing, let them do it in preparation. And it is also necessary that all those views that will not be able to agree before leaving, because they will likely arise from discussions in the Parliamentary Assembly at the time of the break, i.e. at some time before the decision or before their appearance, to bring those members present there to the meeting of this assembly. Now, if it is respected in the coming period, I am convinced that both representatives and other delegates of the EU Assembly, the EU Parliamentary Assembly, will indeed see this delegation and BiH itself as more serious and important and they will realize in fact that BiH knows what it wants with its presence in the assembly. This is how it is evident that we are not fully aware and that we do not fully know what we want there if we have different attitudes. I hope that this discussion of mine will contribute to this delegation's future position before leaving and that it will probably contribute to better work and better BiH's independence in this assembly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-12-29-0.u22638	Thank you. The next is distinguished representative Hadzhi Jovan Mitrović.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-12-29-0.u22639	Gentlemen, the chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, the guests! I do not intend to give any assessment of this report on the activity of this permanent delegation, but it is sufficient to indicate from the presentation of the chairman, deputy and member of this 14 delegation that one picture of BiH's political situation we are in, because what we should do is not a fault on this delegation, I think it is the fault of the politicians living, who exist in the BiH area. The debate on BiH's commitments is one real indicator of what we should do in this country, that we should not rely on sightings on what it should look like, that politicians here should solve many problems, that our delegation should be unique in views of BiH. There's one thing that we don't want to face, one problem to solve, and obviously we can't because there are two here diametrically different concepts, which is when it comes to reforming the Constitution. I think it wasn't hard to guess where the problem lies, that it's a problem in the reform of the Constitution, in a commitment that should have happened a long, long time ago, that it's been a long time and that because of that reform a lot of things are happening here in this space. I think that the conclusion that none of my colleagues here suggest that our delegation should be unique, that it leaves here unique will be realistic except that politicians, political party representatives, simply resort to solving this problem when it comes to constitutional change. To see realistically what the BiH constitution should look like, that in this problem, all things are being solved in solving this problem. To forget that there can be winners and winners here. The constitution must look so that there are no winners, that there are no winners, and that there is BiH as a state, and that all three people live in that country, and it will simply be the only condition in which these people will be able to go there uniquely, is that by then all the records will be so worthless. That's it, thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-12-29-0.u22640	I would like to thank Reverend Hadža Jovan Mitrović. Next is the distinguished representative Slavko Matić.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-12-29-0.u22641	Mr. President, distinguished colleagues and fellow representatives, respected guests, this is the point of the agenda really ambitious, but here is what we have in some way assumed in the debate at the Committee on Foreign Affairs that what was placed in the bracket will serve as the basis for the debate, and this is the report on the work of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly delegation will actually be the whole debate and awareness of that, although the ambitious point, as I have already said, reads a little different and a lot more widely - the Council of Europe and its activities. But since the debate only comes down to what was said to be the basis and I'm going to get a little involved in it. First of all, I don't agree with those who say that the principle of unity is a delegation or a delegate principle, I don't know what to call it, something that is an imperative set before us who are members or deputies there. It is not an imperative that sets up the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe, nor is it an imperative set up by the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH before us. I must also say that I am deeply aware that it would be much better if I were able to reach consensus and unity on all issues. But let's be realistic in these conditions! It is a pure utopia to expect that this BiH delegation on very serious issues, particularly regarding the situation in BiH, will have a consensus. Such a situation within this delegation is, above all, a reflection of the internal opportunities and relations in BiH. We simply, as representatives of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe or as an delegation of BiH, have no precondition to have a consensus. These preconditions are that BiH must also have 15 new functional constitutions that will be equally satisfied or dissatisfied representatives of all three peoples and all citizens of BiH. As long as it is not, it is not realistic to expect some consensus in representing BiH in the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe. My colleague Mitrović spoke on the trail, and I agree that – I would not agree with the assessments that the work of this delegation is for one – this work is neither worse nor better than the situation and relations and opportunities in BiH, only a realistic picture of the situation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-12-29-0.u22642	I thank the honourable representative Matić. The next is a respected representative of Azra Hadžiahmetović.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-12-29-0.u22643	Thank you, Chairman. Allow me, although I may repeat a part of the discussion from previous debates, just to remind you that today's item of the agenda of the 'Council of Europe and its activities' and to express and regret that most discussions focused on the debate on the report on the work of the Delegation, although after each meeting of the Council of Europe, the report on the work of the delegation has been delivered to every MP in this Parliamentary Assembly. So there have been opportunities and occasion and before that, possibly, someone is critical of someone's discussion, work or nelados in the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe. But what is particularly important and much more important for the parliaments of all the member states of the Council of Europe is to discuss the activities of the Council of Europe in one calendar year. And I will just remind you that, especially those who think they know a lot more about the Council of Europe, that it is made by the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe, that it is made by the Committee of Ministers, that it makes up the European Court of Human Rights, that it is made by the Council of Europe Development Bank, the Venice Commission and other bodies, which are all under one umbrella or layer, to say, the Council of Europe. I am sorry that we have avoided the debate of this kind, moreover, that, judging by the agendas of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe, the session changes something in the position of the Council of Europe within the European institutions, that we do not have any more content discussions on some issues, issues. That meetings of the Council of Europe are much, i.e. the Parliamentary Assembly and... now richer with large guests, less with some topics, resolutions that have specific weights, etc. So, I expected that there would be more debate in this regard, but here is hope that it is also perhaps instructive that next time the College also consider separating discussions on the work of the Delegations, as well as on the activities of the Council of Europe. Secondly, allow me to express my dissatisfaction with the criticisms that are being addressed today as a member of this team of the Parliamentary Assembly of the vijeće of Evorpa. Of course, it can be subjective, but here I will tell you that no delegation in the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe works on a delegate principle. So, we are all members upstairs, I ask Mrs Malić to explain this to the members and to her colleagues at the club, that no delegation works or votes per delegate's principle, that we are all delegated to the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe, but our mandate is confirmed by the Parliamentary Assembly. So we act completely on our own as Members of Parliament. Likewise, I would like to remind you that there are no delegations 16 up from a country that is always unique to all points of the agenda, and I would ask those interested to pay attention, there are also on the website and on the Internet when the session of the Parliamentary Assembly is to look at, let's say, just the work of the British delegation. It is said here, for example, that no delegation has worked as a Bosnianhercegovina. I don't really know what the bullets are in, so I would like more in the function of the future work and better work of this delegation or in some modified composition to draw attention to what the rules of error of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly delegation are, that this is an unsustainable way of working. Likewise, I think it would be good to hear what a sustainable way of working is. And here it is said that the different attitudes expressed above from BiH are that they are not in the spirit of democracy. I would not agree with that either, because different attitudes from the same countries up there are in the spirit of democracy and we hear. But what you might recall here when it comes to the work of this delegation, so just as one part of today's debate is that we didn't agree on some things and attitudes and grades, which may well prove ourselves there that we don't leave a fake play, or a fake picture, and, fellow Martina, nothing more than in the previous session, here's just to mention, because I've been in the middle of the circumstances before. And in that sense, I appreciate that it would be a good idea that, here, last time I suggested that this point be a permanent item of the agenda at least once a year, that the reports of the meeting and the work of the delivery delegation be held after each session of all Members of Parliament. Here, I'll suggest something else. From now on, when we get the draft agenda of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe, and we deliver the draft agenda to all members of this Parliament, so if anyone has any suggestions for all the members of the delegation to do so before the sitting. Likewise, I appreciate that a monitoring report, namely a report or document relating to BiH in that phase before the adoption of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe, might be good to meet with members of all parliamentarians here. Likewise, I will only remind you that, when it comes to the work of our delegation, we have had in this year, a calendar year, as we have every five years, a vice-presidentship of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe. Mr Mladen Ivanić, our colleague Mladen Ivanić, was Vice-President of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe. We could also discuss the activities and from the point of view of a member of that one body, namely this college, to say, the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe. And here, let me remind you, we will also have the beginning of February and a visit to the Presidency of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe here, which will probably also be accompanied by the address of the President of the Parliamentary Assembly here both homes for delegates, or MPs of both homes. There may also be opportunities to draw attention to this subject eventually to all those who are participating in the work of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe. But I ask that in the future, at least when it comes to work, here I will say my work in the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe, to focus really on what I did, what I did wrong, what I missed out on, etc. Here, I will just tell you that as a member of the Committee on Economic Affairs at almost every session, during the Council of Europe Parliamentary Assembly meeting, that I am part of a team tasked with participating in the preparation of a resolution of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe which has nothing to do with BiH. We do not, of course, participate, here, as counterpart Marković mentioned, in the work of these bodies outside the meeting of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe for reasons of limited resources, etc. But here may be the opportunity to suggest that the College no longer approves of the monitoring trip by the elections of certain countries, but that it may approve the participation of members of the Parliamentary Assembly in the working bodies of the Council of Europe. Here might be a small contribution, but please, I appreciate that the agenda item of the Council of Europe and its activities deserves a different debate than it is today. If it is necessary to separate the work of the delegation, I ask it to be so in the future. 17 Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-12-29-0.u22644	I thank the distinguished representative Hadžiahmetović. Dear Representative Denis Bećirović, replica.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-12-29-0.u22645	I would first ask some colleagues not to try to send other MPs inside the club that they explain things to them when we know very well what we're talking about and how things are. In fact, 'there is no delegation that is unique', my predecessor literally said so. We're not talking about complete unity here. The point of my discussion was to point out that the delegation should have at least the smallest possible minimum common denominator in BiH's presentation in the Council of Europe, not to have diametrically opposite views. We can also debate in this way, fully relativise the problems, completely minimise the problems, hide the problems from the public, and here in this case from Parliament, but in such a way we will certainly not achieve an improvement in the work of neither this delegation nor this Parliament nor this state. In particular, I have to say that this part of the discussion, it says, "we didn't get along," so I quote, "we got along in some things." That's completely incorrect. There's no dissension here about, as they say,'some things', here's disagreement about essential things. I must remind, if I should remind you, of what Mr Izetbegović signed, as the chairman of the delegation, Mrs Marković said: "The progress in constitutional reforms has not been made because of the absence of support from certain Bosniak political parties led by Mr Silajdžić." One grade. The second grade, '13 years since the signing of the Dayton Peace Agreement, we are facing the consequences of its non-implementation in RS', Mrs Hadžiahmetović. Well, not to mention some things that are no longer just essential differences, but serious material errors or material untrues are being made before the Council of Europe, which no one has responded to from the members of the delegation. Here in this record, I will now read you what it says, if you don't believe, on the old 10. The report stands for Mr Ivanić's discussion. You mentioned that out of 14 MPs from the RS in the state parliament, only two, but you did not mention, I quote, "there are no Srbin of the 28 MPs from the Federation of BiH". One heavy lie to the Council of Europe! How can Mr Ivanić be right, and why no one has responded from the delegation, that in such a way he addresses the Council of Europe and spreads such untruths.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-12-29-0.u22646	Thank you. Replica, the esteemed second vice president, Dr. Milorad Živković.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-12-29-0.u22647	Thank you, Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen, I wanted a discussion, but obviously, it's impossible to discuss here, not to say that it's not a problem in giving views. It is no problem that man 18 has a different view, the problem is that in the way that these positions are expressed here in this House, where they are being demeaned and undermined by anyone's work, thanks to the only recommendation that has given him so many votes and I don't think that's appropriate here in Parliament, because perhaps it should be calculated on a percentage basis in relation to the electoral body as much as anyone has received the percentage. It's not okay to compare a Tuzla canton with a Latvian canton, etc., etc. And on the basis of that, to talk about how much who got the votes and I don't think that the limitless amount of cynicism fits one young man here in this House, and I'm not going to talk about it. I wanted to say a few things about this report. First of all, I think that this report has been properly done, methodologically well done, to reflect most of what was happening in the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe and the way our delegation worked, and in relation to that, I have... a positive opinion on this report and I recommend that we vote in favour of this report. On the other hand, I would like to talk about the responsibility for not fulfilling the part of the obligations that is constantly being mentioned in the resolutions of the Council of Europe. I don't think it's right to say that it's the Parliamentary Assembly that hasn't ratified a document. There is no document in the Parliamentary Assembly drawer. It is not about the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH that has not come to us. This calls for people who are obliged to prepare these documents, in the way that it is legally established, and to deliver it to this Parliamentary Assembly. If the Parliamentary Assembly is the one holding these documents in a drawer, then we are responsible. It is necessary to distinguish that responsibility already once, it cannot be constantly held accountable to someone who is unable to carry out that obligation. And so I suggest a few conclusions, so besides saying that this report is adopted, under: 1. That the Parliamentary Assembly, i.e. the BiH House of Representatives, is calling for the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, the Council of Ministers and the BiH Presidency to make an additional effort to meet the post-accession commitments in the Council of Europe from its domain, and the longest until the next meeting of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe. I know it's a short period, but how else do you give people the obligation to do something? We can call after you haven't done it. When are you going to do this, at least let me know when you can do it? Under: 2. It is the delegation of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH in the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe to attend and participate actively in committee meetings at plenary sessions and to make a list of activities during the year in each of the Committees for each of the delegations individually in the 2009 work plan. So let's see how many of these meetings, who in the Delegation should all attend, what importance these committee meetings are, and that Parliament can ultimately decide how much resources it has and what activities it has priority. Under: 19 3. The BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives took note of Resolution 1626 of the Council of Europe and will continue to work on meeting obligations on the road to the EU listed in this resolution. We give our commitment that these obligations mentioned in that resolution will continue to be fulfilled as a House. But I agree, we have made a list, at least to the BiH Parliamentary Assembly, most of the obligations are outside this institution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-12-29-0.u22648	Thank you. The next is the distinguished representative Mirjana Malić.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-12-29-0.u22649	Dear Chairman, fellow Members and colleagues, considering, in preparation for today's meeting, whether to take part in the debate on this, I must say that I have been limited by the fact that I am not a full member of the delegation and in some way, since all five members of the delegation in full capacity in the Council of Europe make up members of the positioning political parties, and I also personally did not have any special objections to the report, which has been very correct and very comprehensively done by the Chairman of the Delegation, today, at the end of the debate, I have come to appreciate both our time and tasks today, and I really promise that I will not be long. But I really need to say something. BiH is a member of the Council of Europe... full, as one of the few relevant bodies. In all other institutions we are somewhere on hold, candidates etc. And it seems to me that in principle, regardless of the activity that one MP has the right to evaluate like this and another of our members, we ignore the basic fact. The basic activity of the Council of Europe Assembly takes place through political groups and through committees. I have given myself the right to steal these two, three minutes of your time and your attention precisely because I am a member of one of the committees in which I have tried, in as many times as I have been allowed to take part in the meetings of the Council of Europe, to make my contribution maximum. I am not a person who likes to point out this very strongly, but I must remind my colleagues here in this House that as an active member of the Equality Committee of the Council of Europe's Parliamentary Assembly I have, I think, also by my engagement in this committee and in contacts managed to contribute to the maintenance and joint meeting of our committee, our home, to equality. To do the task that this House has set before me and in the great action led by the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe for over a year, despite our late involvement in the fight against domestic violence, and that I did not have a problem with putting our country's attitude in the fight against such violence. But my point is that I wanted to ask – and here comes the vice-president, I really thank him – so it would be really important if we were expected to lobby for attitudes, to promote our country, to do so at least in the political groups that we belong to and what are the bodies of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe, which are committees. It is simply impossible and colleague Marković said so and colleague Azra emphasized it – it is impossible to participate once, twice or all four times a year on two working 20 summating meetings before the committees plead. A complete course of debate on any issue in the Parliament of the Council of Europe takes place so that the representatives of political groups are first declared, and then representatives of the referent committee. We cannot participate in this unless we are active participants throughout the year in the committees in which we are in charge. And in that sense, I would really welcome the chairman of our home who in some way gives us a chance that we no longer have an excuse that we are not active where we are delegated. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-12-29-0.u22650	I thank the honourable representative Malić. Replica, a respected representative of Azra Hadžiahmetović.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-12-29-0.u22651	Thank you, Chairman. It's not a replica, but you don't have a technical option, correcting the wrong quote. With attention, I have read again and looked at my speeches, or performances, from their speeches. I know I don't usually never mention entities outside BiH if I don't have to, because I don't think they deserve special attention, and I know I didn't mention it in the Council of Europe or the Federation or the RS. And here, I would ask my colleague Bećirović to tell me where I am and when and in what speech did I mention that the Dayton Peace Accords were being violated in the RS? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-12-29-0.u22652	...respected representative Bećirović spent two replicas. _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] You can answer this. No, no, you can answer if you want. _________(?) /me turn on the microphone/
ParlaMint-BA_2008-12-29-0.u22656	Mr President, I thank you, as well as all MPs who have allowed this item of the agenda to finally come to the agenda of this Parliament. Secondly, at the very beginning, I would like to say that this story that I am about to present, which will try to explain why Mr Silajdžić's speeches, at the time of the BiH presidency, were harmful to BiH, that it refers exclusively to BiH Presidency Chairman Haris Silajdžić. No, so on Haris Silajdžić, a BiH citizen, or Haris Silajdžić, the president of a significant party whose MPs significantly participate in this parliament. I'd beg all my colleagues to understand what I'm about to say in that context. I would probably never, on some other occasions, use the data that I am about to use, that they do not serve to show how harmful the way that Mr. Chairman, how the BiH presidency chair, at that time Haris Silajdžić, uses or abuses data to naturally send the image of BiH as he imagines, which is wrong, which is incorrect and which is harmful to BiH. For the first time in Parliament, I am speaking on the basis of the text I have previously prepared. I have done this by appreciating you, appreciating your time and afraid of going beyond the subject, because there could be many, many more stories on this subject, and after the speeches mentioned in New York and Strasbourg. So, I made sure you didn't go any further before or after. So why is exposure to Haris Silajdžić, the BiH presidency chairman at the time, in New York and Strasbourg harmful to BiH? First, he ignored the BiH presidency's institution. Neither the platform for BiH's presentation in New York and Strasbourg was agreed, nor did it have consent to its speeches. So he performed in personal capacity, not on behalf of the BiH presidency as chairman. It has violated such fragile trust in BiH institutions as well as trust among international officials, which is both harmful to BiH. His speeches as harmful to BiH were also assessed by High Representative Miroslav Lajčak for the UN Security Council, also in New York, noting that, I quote, "A member of the BiH Presidency Haris 22 Silajdžić has constantly advocated his private political plan using his position and international forums such as the UN General Assembly to question Republika Srpska's right to exist" (closed quote). 'And on other occasions it has been confirmed,' I quote, 'his unwillingness to respect the constitutional organisation of BiH' (closed quote), the UN Security Council High Representative said. Anyone who believes that a high representative, such as the BiH presidency, has not agreed his speech with those with whom he needs to bring him into line. Haris Silajdžić's performances are harmful even to some of the views advocated by his party and he himself. So, for example. If someone in the RS has so far been willing to talk about one BiH president after his unilateral appearances, every story about this will be a waste of time. Bringing out data on injuries during the last war, least of all, is no use for BiH's future. First of all, that data is not true. I do not dispute that they never circulated as data in international organisations, registered during the period of the media war that Silajdžić successfully led during the war period, to such a extent that it was successful to say freely that now, using these data, he quotes himself. The rhetoric and dictionary,'mass killings, crimes, rapes, torture, exorcism, robbery, genocide, apartheid', could seduce any well-intentioned and think it was a mistake and that one of Haris Silajdzic's Silajjdžić in the UN during our unfortunate wartime. Unfortunately, there is no error, all said by BiH Presidency Chairman Haris Silajdžić at the end of 2008. It's precisely because it says, at that moment, a man at the highest political post in the country -- it's harmful for BiH. Politicians should open up the pages of the future to their speeches, not to argue with the past. It's long known that whoever fights with the past is left without a future. Politicians should leave the past to historians, read their analysis, learn lessons, and travel paths for a better and happier future than we've had in the past. But the problem with us seems to be that a good part of our politicians doesn't read anything except what they say or possibly write. Silajdžić is an obvious example. Now you're passing data from the '92-95 period. The years, which he himself promoted for the same speakers during that period, are best said to be still in the war movie, so he uses every opportunity to wage a media war against a BiHSrbin constituent nation. And every war is equally harmful to everyone in BiH. A dictionary containing genocide, apartheid, and so on are repeatedly harmful to BiH. By bringing these words into context with the entity vote, it is clear that it has nothing to do with the way the BiH Assembly vote is voted, but that the author's intention is quite different. He continues to seek sympathy from the international public about the victim and the threat of Bošnjak. What I'm saying is that this text was prepared for last session, as you know, and then here's this session is a similar terminology used when it comes to his speeches here in Sarajevo. So, he continues to seek the international public's compassion for the sacrifice and threat of Bošnjak, while at the same time causing the Srbin to feel condemned by declaring them genocide. An unfounded and eyesless rhetoric about RS as a genocide, and in Srbin, an even greater sense of threat is created. If we add that Croatian political officials also publicly point out that Hrvat in BiH are unequal, which in other words means threatened, then it turns out that in BiH they are all at risk. And it has long been known that the sense of danger is a very dangerous state of mind and individuality, especially of the people. Consciously and even more subconsciously threatened builds a defense mechanism ready to defend itself with all means, to attack, even insidious. The sense of threat to all three constituent nations is not only harmful but very dangerous to BiH. Haven't we learned enough what happens in this country when someone attacks someone openly or insidiously, anyway? A policy that leads to a people feeling threatened by other peoples in their country not only being harmful but being dangerous for that country. Silajdžić is very cynically accusing others of what he is most guilty of. He charges that BiH is the only country in Europe whose constitution does not comply with the European Convention on Human Rights. The finding is correct, but who he's accusing. He made a key contribution to reject the April package of constitutional changes that had been removed. As he accuses 22% of Srbin in the BiH Parliamentary Assembly of obstruction, I am giving myself the right, on behalf of all of them 22%, to support, by the end of this year, the harmonisation of the BiH Constitution with the European Convention. Isn't this kind of performance by the BiH presidency also harmful to BiH? Noting that, I quote, 'only 22% of MPs, using entity voting, are blocking the census law', Haris Silajdžić is eyelessly misleading the world public, as 22% of lawmakers in the last five or six years are persistently and unsuccessfully trying to pass the census law. Haris Silajdžić has persistently obstructed the list by blaming the supporters of the peace ethnic cleansing list. Such advances to such significant international speakers are a kind of delusion of both the domestic and the world’s public. Since all of them have been read long ago and have no effect on anyone, they are now harmful to everyone in BiH. The specific issue is Silajdzic's manipulation of accurate data. This is a typical example of the abuse of mass communication theory or the use of the known four principles of media..., selection of emphasis, abandonment and elaborate. Like him. states that "for the sake of the 1.3 million people in the BiH Parliamentary Assembly, there are only two non-Serbs." That's right. The message is clear – Republika Srpska prevents the return! And you can figure out what kind of message would be if we were to sort out the following, too, exact data. "In the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives of the Federation of BiH, which has twice as many residents as the RS, there are twice as many Srbin as the RS non-Serbs." Or the same but with an even more drastic message: "In the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives there is 200% of RS' non-Serbs from the number of Srbin in the Federation of BiH. If we take entity parliaments, for example, out of 98 MPs in the Federation of BiH's House of Representatives, only two Srbin are, and in the National Assembly of the RS of 82 lawmakers are seven Bošnjak. More than that: 350% of Bošnjak are in the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia compared to the number of Srbin in the Federation of BiH's House of Representatives. I am merely illustrating what the world's data looks like at that moment, and I am stressing once again, the chairman of the BiH presidency, Mr Silajdžić, therefore, that from this data as I have now lined them up, which are also true, would not unequivocally draw the conclusion that the only return is being obstructed by the Federation of BiH. This just shows how one-sided playing numbers is, even if they're true, the least we can say is very dangerous and extremely incorrect. So such one-sidedness is harmful to BiH. BiH Presidency Chairman Haris Silajdžić insists that the "great parts of the country remain ethnically clean" and advocates, quote, a "modern constitutional state that corresponds to its multiethnic character" closed quote. Since the Federation of BiH is not apostrophe anywhere in its speeches, the unlisted could conclude that its multiethnic character is an example for the model, and this is what the model is about. First of all, who is who and how much banishment can serve the data set out in the article of Prof. Dr. Vukšić Vuksic, published on the internet portal in October 2008, entitled 'Whose is Bosnia'. Professor Vukšić uses research by the 1990 Kajtaz Bishop Conference, which rely on data from... the then Ministry of Social Policy, displaced and escaped persons of the 24th Federation of BiH. So, none of the data I quote has a source from the RS, that's what I've been keeping track of. According to these data, about 170,000 expelled and displaced Hrvat were expelled and displaced from the territory under the control of Bošnjak, and 142,000 from the RS. Depending on the ministry's data, 430, about 430,000 Srbin or 31,7% and 485,400 Bošnjak or 25.8% were expelled or displaced in BiH. According to the Secretary of the Ministry of Human Rights and Refugee Dragomir Kovač, published..., I stress, published 28. Seven. In 2008, only 3% of Srbin live in the Federation of BiH, and 21% before the war. In Sarajevo alone, about 400,000 people remained fewer than 7,000 Srbin, and there were more than 160,000. Less than 2% of Srbin were employed in the Federation of BiH. Kovač points out that no Srbin (Federal Ministry of Transport and Communications, e.g.), there is only one working in some (Federal Ministry of Education and Science, the Federal Ministry of Agriculture), and in Canton of Sarajevo there is only 3.7% of Srbin employees. And when it comes to Sarajevo, its multiethnic policy best depicts a subtitle in the Sarajevo weekly "Days" of 22.8.2008, which I quote, "The conversion of Sarajevo into the Bosniak capital is the result of a policy that immediately called upon Srbin, Ilidža, Grbavica, Dobrinje and other re-integrated areas," and this was placed in them under quotes,'remained in their houses if they are not Chetniks, a policy that patiently from year to year obstructs everything that does not have a prominent prefix of Bosniakism, a policy that does not liaise with aggression on kindergartens where small skys will be patiently sitting in the corner, while his parents are learning lessons from Ilmihal', closed quotes. If this multiethnic character of the state advocates Haris Silajdžić, then it is harmful for BiH, because not only the celestials, but also many Bošnjak, which confirms and mentions the article in the Days. Haris Silajdžić, both in New York and Strasbourg, points out that RS is ethnically clean and obstructing its return. The public is well known, however, that the RS has also paid the last mark for 2008 in the Fund for Reconstruction and Return at the state level, and that the Federation of BiH has not paid a single mark until today, I checked this morning. On the other hand, two more minutes, on the other hand, according to official and current data from the Ministry of Human Rights and Refugees, there are 24,557 families or 81,866 persons waiting for return to the Federation of BiH and 20,374 families or 68,228 persons in RS. That Haris Silajdžić, the chairman of the BiH presidency, cared about accurate data, could have received them from the minister of the said ministry that is a member of his party's presidency. However, in his private political war against the RS, he serves only what suits him and uses every opportunity to lead the war.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-12-29-0.u22657	Time!
ParlaMint-BA_2008-12-29-0.u22658	This private policy reminds me of Cato, the older one, who in the Roman parliament ended every speech with the words: 'Cetrum censeo Carthage esse delendam/Although I think Kartagin should be destroyed'. If this were done by individual Haris Silajdžić, it would no longer interest anyone, but when it is done by BiH Presidency Chairman Haris Siladjžić, it is not only harmful for BiH then it is dangerous for BiH. 25 For all that I have stated, and I am ending, but also because of the fact that many international and domestic political officials have both condemned the speeches of Haris Silajdžić in New York and Strasbourg, I ask that the House of Representatives of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly be made known on the following proposals: 1. The BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives is being built on the contents of BiH Presidency Speaker Haris Silajdžić's speech for the UN General Assembly speakers in New York and the Council of Europe in Strasbourg and considers them harmful to the vital interest of BiH. 2. The BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives will put any unanimity beyond the borders of BiH on the agenda of any member of the BiH presidency and identify itself on its content. Thank you for your patience.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-12-29-0.u22659	I thank the esteemed representative Dokić. Here, you see the list of applications for the hearing yourself. The first one was announced by a respected representative of Azra Hadžiahmetović.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-12-29-0.u22660	I thank the chairman. Here, let me begin by mentioning on behalf of the Party for BiH MPs' club that we were really pleasantly surprised by the great interest that counterpart Dokić showed for the speeches of Dr Silajdžić, the chairman of the presidency, especially when he initiated that everyone was telling the delivery to all MPs. And in particular, I must convey, indeed, the availability of Dr Silajdžić to be here for clarifications and possibly answers to the questions asked, available to all MPs during the debate on this agenda point. So, let me really express my regret. First, as the discussion has shown, it is the discussion of the initiators of this agenda point – it is to turn today's debate into a courtroom and to express, indeed, the protest of using such intentions and dictions as it used in its opening debate, which has exceeded indeed all the business opportunities, qualifications it has given, arguments and numbers that it has presented to this Parliamentary Assembly, etc., the way it mentioned the name of which it is, that I should indeed express a protest on behalf of the Party for BiH's Club of Representatives on his behalf to turn it into a trial. Secondly, by forgetting that Mr Silajdžić had more than 300,000 votes behind him, that he was a member of the presidency, that he was the chairman of the presidency at the time, so let us consider the institutions a little bit. And to say right away, at the beginning, if we had given, of course, the advantage to the motion of this initiative to explain, but if we knew what we were going to do now, we would have done it at the very beginning, which is that we do not want to participate in this debate today, the more Mr Silajdžić is not here. Secondly, that we do not want to be part of this courtroom, as Mr Dokić intended. And thirdly, that we do not want to participate in the discussions, evidence or shooting down some called arguments, lies or obstructions, as Mr Dokić called it all here. And here, let's just say we'll be out of this room. When this point of the day is over, we are at our disposal for our full participation in the continuation of today’s session. Thank you. 26
ParlaMint-BA_2008-12-29-0.u22661	Correction of the incorrect allegations, distinguished representative Branko Dokić.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-12-29-0.u22662	In my presentation that was a little longer, I didn't mention the word lie to any of them. I'm an obstruction, of course.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-12-29-0.u22663	The following is reported by the esteemed representative Rifat Dolić.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-12-29-0.u22664	Gentlemen, the chairman, esteemed colleagues and colleagues, distinguished guests, I must admit that today, as a rare time, I am in a dilemma whether or not to speak about this topic. The reason for my dilemma is not our daily face-to-face with the tragic past of BiH citizens and their cause. There's no dilemma in my life, there's no tragedy and there's no need to forget, and the guilty and the criminals have to face justice and punishment. My dilemma was caused by two reasons. First, I have always had a disagreement that tragedy and people's suffering are auctioned for political goals and political profit, regardless of who it came from. Unfortunately, on our political scene, auctioning and politicising with tragedy and the misfortune of BiH citizens was too much and, unfortunately, it has been collected regularly and still reaping high and secure political profits. Another reason is that in this time we have far more serious issues and topics on which this home should and should discuss from what Haris Silajdžić, Milorad Dodik or some other high-level official said somewhere. BiH Presidency Speaker Haris Silajdžić's speech at 63rd. The UN General Assembly would probably not have caused so much controversy among the domestic and international public that what he said was on a political stand as political party leader. But if his speech to the UN General Assembly is put in context that Silajdžić spoke as the president of the collective head of state, if he did not have a consensus with the other two members of the presidency from the other two constituent nations, if that speech comes before the UN General Assembly at a time when BiH is catching the last train for Europe and reforms, which will need more trust and a lot of consensus, then for me, Haris Silajdžić's speech is an example of how no collective head of state should function and how none of his member can behave when he represents collective head of state. In order not to be unilateral, this inappropriate excursion of Silajdžić may be at the farthest and diplomatic level, but similar trips of less weight were among the other two members of the presidency, and others representing BiH in their performance. In BiH, the practice and rule of conduct that the official representatives of the BiH state have acted as if it were a private state or that the state is the exclusive property of the party from which it comes. There are no rare cases of denial and demeaning of the BiH state, and then it is no wonder that we are all together where we are. In particular, I think that Haris Silajdžić's speech at the 63rd session of the UN General Assembly is not an appropriate function as president of the collective 27 heads of state and is not suitable for the time and challenges BiH faces today. I do not know what Mr Silajdžić is specifically encouraged to call on the past in this way and in this place, but I am sure that these speeches do not contribute to building the trust and atmosphere of the consensus, which is so necessary to intensify reforms on the European path of BiH. I did not realise this debate today about the speech of Haris Silajdžić in New York and Strazbur with the intention of condemning only Haris Silajdžić, but this is only a reason and an opportunity to publicly invite all BiH public officials to stop any form of privatisation and denial of the BiH state and to focus maximum on building trust and the atmosphere of consensus, which BiH needs to catch the last train to Europe. In this context, as a growing debate on this issue, I propose that this House draws the following conclusion: 'The House of Representatives of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly calls on all elected and appointed representatives of BiH institutions to rule out any form of privatisation and denial of the BiH state, and to refrain at this important political moment from moves and activities that can negatively affect the building of mutual trust between citizens and the atmosphere of the consensus, which is necessary on the European and reform path of BiH and its citizens.' I will not discuss the next item of the agenda, because the debate in the RS Assembly and this item of the agenda are initiated and motivated as a policy rule against the intruding government model in BiH. This part of the agenda I'd talk about the same way and I'd spare you that. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-12-29-0.u22665	The correction of the incorrect allegations has a respected representative, Milica Marković.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-12-29-0.u22666	Kolega Dolić said this example of Mr Silajdžić's appearance went the farthest in some negative context and in diplomatic terms how inappropriate it is, but said it was not the only one and that the other two members had such performances. I responsibly argue that this is not true when it comes to Mr Nebojša Radmanović as a member of the presidency in front of the Serb people. And that this is true of the fact that we have not so far, here for these two years of their term of office, it has not happened that Mr Nebojša Radmanović spoke on behalf of the Presidency or performed in international institutions and that one of the other two people had objections to his presentation or at least had no public or in this home had no objections to his exposure. And I don't think he could have, because his speeches are balanced and his speeches are well designed when he comes forward on behalf of the Presidency. And, of course, about the third member of the Bureau, who is believed to be a member of the Presidency in front of the Croatian people, there must have been objections and we are such remarks of instructions, at least to his steps and speak on behalf of the Presidency, at least as far as the SNSD Club is concerned, we have had many objections to his presentations. Thank you. 28
ParlaMint-BA_2008-12-29-0.u22667	I thank the esteemed representative Marković. Replica, distinguished representative Selim Bešlagić.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-12-29-0.u22668	I'd just like to say that I didn't want to report on this point, because the suggestion was to get this point off the agenda because it's back in the past. On the other hand, Mr Dokić explained it nicely, but he used a lot of words to attach to Haris Silajdžić, and here they are worse than Harris' words. And the third thing, Mrs. Milica Marković literally opposes the law when a third member representing the Croatian people says. Please, he's chosen like that and don't even talk about it. I ask you, then, not to insult anyone and I suggest that these things return to the institutions that need to be discussed. The presidency is the one who needs to discuss it, agree, and we have the right to ask the Bureau to file a report. I think that's the essential thing to discuss. The same applies to the next item of the agenda for one simple reason why we got the answer from the chairman... that he considers the debate here too high and I respect him. Therefore, if it was too much for him and for me, it's even too much and I wouldn't want to discuss it, because I think that's the only way we're going to continue to discuss what we said we wouldn't go back to the past. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-12-29-0.u22669	I thank the esteemed representative Bešlagić. The next is Honorable Representative Momčilo Novaković.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-12-29-0.u22670	Mr. Chairman, fellow MPs, I must say that I am not sure what will be the result of this debate today on this agenda point, but I am sure that no citizen will live better after today's session. That no one will get a higher salary and that we will not hire anyone more than we have employees today, as no one has received a higher salary after the appearance of Haris Silajdžić, nor is anyone more busy after his performance at the UN. ... first I think that Mr. Dokić has really seriously prepared his discussion today and as the promoter and initiator of this point indeed in one exhaustive and long discussion gave enough elements that now I do not have to say some things on there or some copies of the spoken Mr. Silajdžić warn. I'm looking at something different. Namely, I think Mr Silajdžić had a direct need to explain his relationship to constitutional changes several years ago and to potentially create conditions of pressure on negotiators in a new round of constitutional changes. And he did it in a familiar way, at least known to us here in BiH, and I think he is also known to the representatives of the international community. 29 What I can thank Mr Silajdžić is that no one has united the Serbian people as much as Mr Silajdžić. I mean the Serb people in the RS. And that no one has ever made the views of the need for the rest of the RS stronger than Mr Silajdžić. Even some who are not according to their party definition on that background, after these and these speeches were on this side. And I don't see by the Serbian people any of the consequences of this speech. The international community's relationship to Mr Silajdžić after these speeches is best discussed in the range of this speech. Its isolation is not part of BiH, since it is a member of the presidency, but it shows another relationship between the international community, which is that not all those views that clearly produce new conflict situations in BiH will be tolerated, wherever they come from. Of course, I think that this speech is actually an example of how you shouldn't work in BiH and that it would be good to have fewer of these and similar speeches, no matter where they come from. I'm not sure, I repeat, that in today's debate we can make some effects. I'm not sure we'll agree on Mr. Dokić's conclusions, which I usually support, but I'm not convinced we'll all support them. But I would also like that, after this debate, we no longer need to discuss such speeches and topics at Parliament. If that's not the case, then this debate had its own meaning and then this time we spent here today is not a waste of time. I'll say it again in the end. We will support the proposals of Mr Dokić's conclusions, because we believe that in conclusion number 2 is actually promoting our position, meaning that these issues and these things do not happen in the future, not that after their events, they are being debated here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-12-29-0.u22671	I would like to thank Reverend Novaković. The following has been reported by distinguished representative Denis Bećirović.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-12-29-0.u22672	Unlike the predecessors, who said he wasn't sure what the point of this agenda was, I have to say that I'm absolutely certain of the outcome of this agenda point and I said that twice before this point comes to the agenda. This is a complete failure for the simple reason that at the end of this debate there will be no conclusions within those who decide in this Parliament about anything. Therefore, any discussion or any debate that ultimately results in no results is meaningless. But here comes the agenda. I must first illustrate one fact, and that is what total political defension this second part of the ruling coalition is in relation to this part of the coalition led by SNSD and PDP. You see, RS allows itself to discuss the work of BiH presidency members. And it's all like normal in this country. Here, today, we are discussing in Parliament the work of a member of the Presidency. However, when the same in this parliament as last time we ask this parliament...to hold a debate and see what we will do about killing a Bosnian prefix in the remaining two RS cities, then we cannot discuss it in Parliament. So how far has this country and the authorities of this country arrived?- I'm sorry. 30 I think colleagues from the BiH Party made a mistake leaving this agenda point, if not for any other reason, then at least because they had mechanisms to keep this from happening at all today. However, they did not use it, they let something be discussed here again, and when it comes to discussing the protection of the name of the BiH state, it can no longer be discussed in the BiH Parliament at all. Well, that's just an illustration of the situation we've been brought into. As far as Mr Silajdžić's speech is concerned, I found here official information shared with the MPs of the RS Assembly presented by Mr Kuzmanović and Dodik, and that information was eventually adopted at the meeting of the RS Assembly. No matter what contains countless false allegations, etc., no one, interestingly, has reacted seriously to it in this country. Here, I'll just list some parts. 'The establishment and establishment of the Republic of the Serbian people in BiH was an expression of democratic will and its population.' What democratic will are we talking about when 45% of the population of the territory today called RS - were Hrvat and Bošnjak? Did anyone ask them anything? Especially if he asked them in a democratic way, and we know exactly what happened since '92. '95. A year. Then position (2) says: "Serb nationalities as legal and legitimate representatives... adopted the decision on 24 October 1991 to set up the Serbian People's Assembly in BiH." Has anyone asked other peoples anything about it? October 24, '91. A decision on the stay of the Serb people of BiH in the common state of Yugoslavia was made in the year. It's a completely illogical, incorrect thesis for the simple reason that in October of '91. Slovenia and Croatia both became independent states and could no longer be talked about Yugoslavia. Look, for example, here he says: 'The Serbian Republic received a full international, political and legal recognition in '95. as a constituent and state-owned entity of BiH.' How does someone get the right to violate the BiH Constitution so flagrantly? Here is the Constitution of BiH, a member and the Constitution of BiH, saying that the Republic of BiH is the official name of BiH, etc. The BiH composition: consists of two entities: the Federation of BiH and RS. There's nothing to talk about the statehood of any entity. But it can all go away! I am talking about the official interpretation adopted by the RS Assembly on what we are discussing today, and it has nothing to do with this. Or to publicly ask the question as possible, let's say, in the same information, but before that in the declaration, it says that RS, here's the only part I'm going to quote, 'including its right to refer to the citizens of RS'. Will someone finally answer a few questions here in Parliament or in this country? First, why the right to a referendum in the RS? Second, where is that right written down? Third, on what basis is that even based? Let's get one official answer. Here, I'd like to ask some of the representatives, if they can really give us an answer to that question today. Of course, there are no answers to such insinuations and such ineffective things that are in line with the BiH Constitution. However, I will finish the discussion with what I started. It is unfortunate that for more than two years, we have a situation in which two parties in the ruling coalition are completely dominated, while other parties in the ruling coalition are in an entirely defensive, passive political role, and BiH stands or stagnates more and more.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-12-29-0.u22673	I thank the esteemed representative, Denis Bećirović. 31 Replica, distinguished representative Drago Kalabić.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-12-29-0.u22674	Here, although I had the need to point out, according to an agreement at the Extended College, to try to discuss both this and other points; so Mr. Dokić said in the name of the club what we support and what we stand behind, and I didn't need to specifically expand the debate; but here, since in his manner, Mr. Bećirović took advantage of the opportunity not to speak at all about this item of the agenda, not getting into the situation as it was on the agenda, he spoke, as usual, of quite a tenth. And when I asked myself why the Party for BiH comes out of the assembly benches, then I just realized that they left their lawyer and their representative who defended today's speech Haris Silajdžić here and I think that Mr. Bećirović's position in this situation is best suited to the head of Mr. Silajdžić's cabinet, because he was not involved at all, he had the opportunity to make that speech or justice or not, given that it is on the agenda, or that he is not talking about it, but again his favorite topic is the same as his idol, Mr. Silajdžić, his favorite topic is the RS and what RS representatives are doing. It may and may be the next item of the agenda, but he was very impatient and he didn't have time to wait but to repeat it now; I mean, if we're going to end the agenda and if we're going to deal with it means what's on the agenda, if we're going to honor that kind of arrangement. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-12-29-0.u22675	Thank you. Dear Representative Momčilo Novaković, replica.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-12-29-0.u22676	I don't think it's right that by criticising the exhibit or putting these points on the agenda some colleagues then make their contribution by still dosing some issues that have nothing to do with it. Thus, counterpart Bećirović made his contribution by going back to history and talking about the position, so at some point, the socialist moment of the '90s. years, who, why, was making decisions, whether he was right or wrong. And now I should talk about why the Serbian people at their assembly made the decision they made, so I should tell him why and who had the first statements at the referendum, which is why there was a second referendum and so now we're back in history. I show him that I know that part of history, too, but with a little bit of another point of view, not the one he's looking at. But the two of us are just going to show that we're looking differently at these questions, and I guess that's clear to everyone that we're looking at different questions from the '90s. A year. And not just the two of us, but all of us here together. So I don't think we need to open new questions. I thought it would be better if we closed these questions as soon as possible, and in that direction I discussed, so I didn't go into any details of anyone's discussion so I didn't just open any new questions. It would be good if we all tried not to open a new one but to close these questions in a possible way. I have to be honest not to see how we do it, but here, if anyone sees it, then it would be good to suggest other conclusions, different from these Mr. Dokić, so we can make a statement about them. Thank you. 32
ParlaMint-BA_2008-12-29-0.u22677	Thank you. The next call was made by Ambassador Slavko Slavuj Jovičić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-12-29-0.u22678	The Honorable Chairman! The very speech of Haris Silajdžić we have is, of course, subject to various, I will say, criticism. It is not a problem what is said when we have a speech, the problem is that it has gone on the air and what officials in the UN and Strasbourg have heard. So now there is no longer even a possibility if we had a double Silajdžić in the Serb people so that somewhere when he gets the opportunity, everything he says in contrast to Silajdžić, what Mr. Dokić stated in his discussion. So there's no such possibility anymore. And I am sure that Mr. Radmanović would never do so because, behold, his second term as chairman of the presidency is running, and I don't think he has done any harm to BiH by his actions or speech, because he respects the consistency of all three peoples. So, about that so much. And the replica to Mr. Bećirović. Well, you know, I've been lucky or unhappy, and now I don't know what's more important than every session I've attended here in Parliament in some other function, and I might know a lot more about you than all the rest of you sitting here. Now I should ask questions like Mr Bećirović asked us, although we are not called to give answers, but here. On March 1st and 29th, no one ever verified the results anywhere, so I should ask who was sitting on those election committees, whether there was any Srbin, at least here in Sarajevo. Well, then, why at least two-thirds were not according to the Constitution enough votes to separate BiH from Yugoslavia but 64.6%, so it was not 66.4% as necessary. So I should ask all kinds of questions here. Why did Serbian MPs leave Parliament? I'm really sorry that my colleagues from the BiH Party have left, which is, of course, their legitimate right, but I don't want this to go into practice. I appeal to be heard, respected, even when we don't understand each other. It'll be easier to come up with some deals. Of course I will support the proposals of Mr Dokić's conclusions for a simple reason, if nothing else is achieved today, and there is no point in this debate, then the following cases... should be warned. We have local cases that will never come to the agenda, because this was really at the highest level. And now, in order for me not to cause replicas, it is not appropriate not to accept the country's neighbouring minister because he did not bring Mr. Jurišić, and no one here in Parliament, I was just asking that question, does not show interest in also ten of our citizens from Zvornik who are also being tried in Belgrade, etc.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-12-29-0.u22679	Time, time! 33
ParlaMint-BA_2008-12-29-0.u22680	So, gentlemen, let us respect each other and discuss everything, if necessary, what Mr Bećirović has asked these questions so that we can open them all once in Parliament, because no one has ever opened them or verified them or talked about them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-12-29-0.u22681	Thank you. Next for the replica, Ambassador Denis Bećirović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-12-29-0.u22682	Very short, since I have three minutes. First, I stress, I was against this item of the agenda, but when people put the agenda in the agenda, there's a stenogram here, this is a public debate, and certainly I have a duty to say a few words about it. I have to say that when it comes to the speech of Haris Silajdžić and what came after that speech, I have not talked about anything but the official interpretation of this speech that has been accepted by the RS Assembly and I have listed some things and here I still do not believe that I can get an answer to the question that stands here at all today in the information offered by the RS Prime Minister, which is - on what basis can the RS organise a referendum on secession?, which is officially in this document. I'd like someone to tell me where the law is written so we all know what it's about. As for the referendum, Mr Jovičić, the referendum was verified by the European Union on 6 April 1992 and in the UN on 22 May 1992, receiving BiH as a full-fledged UN membership. Not to mention that in '92, the government of the RS itself sought an interpretation of whether certain peoples in BiH and Croatia were entitled to self-determination and that I am not now talking about the answer of the arbitration commission. About that, so probably some other time. And as for this part about law enforcement, it is a compliment to me if someone tells me that I am the political lawyer of those people who are fighting for the BiH state, for the equality of all its peoples and citizens. Such lawyers in this country are all SDP MPs, Srbin, and Hrvat, and Bošnjak, Rom and others. All other insinuations are pure replacement of thesis and do not match the facts.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-12-29-0.u22683	For the replica is Ambassador Slavko Jovičić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-12-29-0.u22684	Well, like this, Mr. Bećirović. I remember well who verified those results of the referendum but there are no more Genšer, nor... nor Kola, and we know how politics was then conducted and what was done in that time. But I want to tell you something else, not to tell you, but to try 34 to understand that BiH belongs to the Serb people, but no one can force us out of it all the time; and that, the referendum, here, I'll try to give you an answer, I don't know if you'll be happy. That is correct, I participated in the pre-election campaign when I was a candidate for MP in 2006 and then we said, I will repeat today -- a referendum will be if the survival of the RS in such BiH is threatened and never again and for nothing more. What does that mean? So we have to have some defense mechanism if someone really wants to counter-constitutional, illegal, or forcefully abolish the RS. But since it is recognised as an integral part of BiH, and we know what an entity is, do not fear the referendum, there is no referendum. So it's completely clear to everyone. RS operates in its constitutional capacity, in its territorial organisation, has its institutions, does not endanger anyone, is not a remethylative factor and will not decide on a referendum, because everyone is clear in the RS, including us here in Parliament, especially that it is only an entity. We know what a state is, we're not in law school so now we're learning a theory of what a state is. And don't ever use that story without any use again - there will be a referendum - to scare the people! Here, I tell you, it won't. But I also add to you -- if someone tried against the constitution, violently, by force, or I don't know how, to abolish the RS, then expect, not a referendum, we don't have time for a referendum, but expect our withdrawal from Parliament and all institutions. But if I don't say that, it will never happen and don't fear the referendum. Republika Srpska will be, BiH will be and we will go together to Europe and what is the problem. _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] And the Federation? All right, Federation. I don't want the Federation, because you haven't solved the solutions yet, I see, these three cantons, so what's going to happen, make a deal. Here, we'll help you. [[Common discussion]]
ParlaMint-BA_2008-12-29-0.u22686	The following came to the debate, Ambassador Martin Raguž. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-12-29-0.u22687	Thank you. Here, if I start, I didn't mean it, and I'll talk, but I really do. But when things go away, then a man calls to try to make this day, which we should all rationally use, results in something too much. I think the legitimate issue raised by Mr Dokić and to see that BiH has come to a mature stage of democracy is that we have this debate at Parliament as well. But also, I'm going to say my position now and my colleagues, Zorić. In preparation for this we have discussed and it really shows how dangerous it is, I will not say, and how rational it is not to view certain important issues for this country in a partial way. I really think this debate would only make sense if we take as representatives the document I have ahead of me, these are the general directions and priorities for implementing BiH's foreign policy. It is an official document by which BiH should conduct its foreign policy. The document was adopted by the BiH presidency on 29.3.2003. I also have the conclusion of the House of Representatives, signed by Mr. Šefik Džaferović, as 35 of the House of Representatives, that the House of Representatives is taking note of this document and that a transcript of the debate from Parliament is being submitted to the BiH presidency. And in order to really give a relevant assessment of this, on these issues that have been raised, I think it was minimum to ask the BiH Presidency for a report on how this policy is implemented, which are weak and good points of the foreign policy position of BiH, which are the instruments available, which are priorities and what are potentially obstacles to achieving this foreign policy position. Unfortunately, neither counterpart Dokić left the post, which is also a legitimate right. He took one dimension, Silajdžić's speech, then as chairman of the Presidency at the General Assembly's plenary ceremony and in the Council of Europe, and it is certain that it is a serious issue as to how the BiH presidency's institution is represented. And I can accept that as one very serious and responsible dimension that is open and launched here. But we are not prepared to support a partial approach and a fragmented approach that can create a completely different picture of what the real problems of BiH are in and out of the world and which would be priorities for how to solve it. I really don't think this house should fall into a trap if others have fallen into a trap of partial accession, but rather on the contrary. Therefore, my proposal for a conclusion will go in the direction of the House of Representatives to request a report on the implementation of the document General Directions and Priorities, which is a document of the Presidency, to call before the public all members of the Bureau here to submit a thorough and reasoned report and therefore to conduct an open and reasoned debate that will not go beyond these issues that were raised here by Mr Dokić. But, you see, and those questions when they open up about Mr. Haris Silajdžić's very speeches, as chairman of the presidency, should then be taken into account the whole of the speech. This is where I heard—and I never intended to defend anyone, nor did I act like one—the estimates that this speech was only obsessed with the past. I think I'm a good interpreter. But in this very speech, I found, in front of the UN, one very message in which I see nothing controversial, so because of the correctness of this whole story about these speeches, I'm going to quote that part of the speech that says, "We can't revive the dead but we can give sufficientness and justice to the survivors. What we say today is not about the past but about the future, and not just BiH, we owe it to not only victims and survivors, humanity at all, the message that should be sent to all potential perpetrators, meaning potential perpetrators of crime on behalf of twisted ideology must be crystal clear. Don't even think about it." See, that's part of the speech. He has nothing to do with the past. He has one positive message. So let's look at everything, both the good and the bad, let's hear the people who said it, let's get into the depths of the Bosnian-Herzegovina story and let's make the right decisions. I am certainly one of those people who is against all taboo topics, against the privatisation of BiH institutions, right here to determine, and the phenomena that lead in this regard and against the use of foreign policy stages to conduct an internal political fight, which is what it has. And that is why we are in this situation of defamation because BiH's foreign policy is not being promoted as a whole but rather as part of the foreign policy plan is trying to achieve a partial party or other interests. And it's not just Mr. Haris Silajdžić's case, so here's what I'm saying. And it deserves a serious debate. I think if we want to get out of this so one topic is not spent, I think it's a logical conclusion that we get a report, that we can discuss it based on a document that we've already given an opinion once when it's adopted by the Presidency and when the Presidency 36 delivered it to this home. And the minimum is to get a single relevant report on how this document is implemented, with all the good and bad sides, with the responsibility of those who are... The Bureau members are the most responsible, as the constitutional dimension given to them is the implementation of BiH's foreign policy. It is no one else's body and it is therefore a special responsibility and... in this they can agree: it is a special responsibility for members of the Bureau when they speak at such important forums to have a balanced and harmonised approach. And the important question, which Mr Dokić raised, was the question whether these speeches had the presidency's consent and whether they were balanced. That's an important question. But don't let us get just one black-and-white picture from that question like we often do here to live in a black-and-white world, but let us request a report, conduct a debate and fulfill our constitutional role as a supervisory authority in all of this. Here, thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-12-29-0.u22688	I thank the esteemed representative Raguž. The following has been reported by distinguished envoy Hadzhi Jovan Mitrović.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-12-29-0.u22689	Gentlemen, the chairman, I did not mean to apply, however, when it started like this, these discussions about this initiative, and the next ones that will be, for me today should have been removed from the agenda or what is possible to go through these initiatives as soon as possible. But who knows by which way these initiatives simply, such discussions, all happiness has no television, food to the citizens, to say the people living in BiH, so that they lose the time in which they live and the topics that we should discuss and the topics that each individual is concerned about in the next period. The way of the crisis that caught Europe and the world, and thank Bog it's held us back from the '90s. A year here, so hopefully, we're in a situation like this, we're not gonna get hit by anything special, we act like nothing's gonna happen. And today we're discussing an initiative that I don't mind being on the agenda, but I'm against having more discussion about it, than how to overcome this crisis or welcome what awaits us in February, March, April and all year round. Today we do this way and this kind of communication with the public. We today, who knows which way, show that we care more about those pre-election promises to citizens, which, in my opinion, are purely political, should at least be, and just as declarative as pre-election activities. But obviously here it says that we intend to prepare ourselves, and this year is also the next year, that it will be a pre-election year, that we will continue to have a story about BiH's internalisation and will continue to have a story about the secession of certain parts of BiH, aware that neither will be able to come or see the light of the day. What are we doing? I think we do one evil thing to our people by driving people out of here, pushing the youth, and fighting for the youth. By pushing the youth, we prepare ourselves and prepare ourselves for the future beyond the borders of this country here. I'm also against some of the discussions here. Someone said, I don't know, there's 300,000 votes behind it. I don't think there's an individual there, because there's no number of votes that have the right to lead this kind of policy, no matter who it is, out of this country, against anyone's interest. He has the right to vote in 37 of those 300,000, I don't know, 100,000 of one people, 100,000 of the other, not to say quite ideally, and 100,000 of the third people. ... In fact, there's no political option here that's so set up and about that the way we run politics, the question is, will there ever come a time? Individual political parties can say, those they have, I don't know, in their ranks of a Srbin, I don't know, one Hrvat, one Bošnjak, etc., as if they were multiethnic. We still function in another way, and that's another thing that needs to make us serious when we make statements, that is, when they make statements from people beyond the borders of this country. It's an even bigger obligation because of other people living in that space. So I think that this initiative, in addition to being legitimate, is found on the agenda, we can say that this is not the only statement of one man, here, Mr Silajdžić that these performances have violated some principles and are not in the interest of reconciliation, are not in the interest of the safety of life in this area, that it automatically initiates and others to do what he does, that ultimately they are homogenising and creating something that Mr Jovičić today said to one commission that the next year will be, in addition to that difficult economic situation, can be very difficult and something else he can withdraw. Is that really what we care about here to happen? And with these discussions and these initiatives, which we keep asking, more, let's say, there are policies, they can just lead us to it. I normally, when it comes to these statements and... the president's statements I'm absolutely against. Not only against him, but against all those who do so. I am aware that, what someone says, the referendum in the RS... is gone. It was a possibility once, I was talking about it, but you're the same one who's talking isn't there, it's not even in the Constitution. I am also aware, those who think BiH can go back to some times that were as if nothing had happened, that it could not happen either. For that reason, once again, as a man, I call upon all those who wish well here to sit down and make arrangements. I think that there is a majority to agree as soon as possible how this country should function, and I do not know what the three representatives agreed on, the three political options in BiH in Prud, I do not know the composition, but it is a good step to continue to work and to make it known and try to expand and get the majority in this parliament, to reduce the pain of this and the sooner we go into reform, all those who are missing and who can do overnight what the EU requires of us. I will support the conclusions of all those related to those who, by their statements and their statements outside BiH, create unrest and the uncertainty of life in this area. And also, what Mr. Raguž has suggested, and these suggestions and these conclusions, I will support now that it's voted. Here, so much for me, thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-12-29-0.u22690	I would like to thank Reverend Hadža Jovan Mitrović. The following has been reported by Honorable Representative Mirko Okolić.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-12-29-0.u22691	Thank you, Chairman. 38 Am I the last one? I did. I hope I don't cause a replica, because I'm going to try, I mean in this dot, and you're right fellow. The question is, what do we want in this House and this House? Are we going to compromise? Are we going to lead BiH to the EU and Atlantic integration or, as some popularly like to say, Euro-Atlantic integration or do we want to deal with an analysis of history and thus create an additional instability in BiH? This second one is very easy, because each assembly can initiate one item on the agenda that will take at least half the session time of that assembly and then at the end of our mandate we will sum up that we have failed to do anything at the time of our term of office. I hope you think so too that this is not our goal, as is my opinion, that our goal is to leave exactly what was in BiH, by accident, to the investigative authorities and the judicial authorities and possibly qualified historians. Everything that has been, on any side, must not be forgotten, but in order not to do it again. And that's what those in charge of it should do, and those in charge of their jobs, most directly to say. I just said who they were. And we politicians and high-ranking state officials should do that job we have both given our citizens and our international community, which is to create better conditions or preconditions for joining the EU and other world integration. This way, we certainly won't do it, and if we stop looking at the mirrors and look at the future, and I just said who's going to deal with what's unfortunately happened, it has to end anyway. Let me just answer to Mr. Bećirović on the basis of which a referendum may occur, and, please, it is best not to talk about it much and not to create any tension, because perhaps another precedent so-called. Kosovo, and then you will be able to ask around and get an answer on the basis of which a referendum may possibly be sought. So, I don't want to be that precedent anymore, and when I say that, then I mean that the situation in BiH will be so that there's no need for these precedents to happen, possibly looking for a referendum. As far as this agenda point is Dokić, if it is already adopted, when we have spent this much time, it is appropriate or some conclusion that I can agree and accept these conclusions, because I think they are not tending, because I don't think they will expand some kind of gap between us and in BiH politics, which is that we simply fence from the speech that, here we said, was and was, and like that, here someone said that there are positive things in that speech, but there are a lot of negative things and I'm sure I'm building on that speech, and if anyone else is going to be, that's going to be his thing. And another conclusion, which I think is quite good at, is that we no longer spend time on these things, but that we try to spend time on something more useful, which is that we get that material on the agenda as soon as possible, and that's the report on the construction of Corridor Vc, on the electricity of BiH, I don't know either, some other economic topics, employment, prevention, for now, still recession until it's gone to crisis, etc., etc. Well, that's why these conclusions can be supported and my discussion would come down to it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-12-29-0.u22692	I thank the esteemed representative of Okolić. The following has been reported by a respected representative, Sefer Halilović. 39
ParlaMint-BA_2008-12-29-0.u22693	Dear Chairman, I really didn't mean to discuss it. I'll try to bring down my discussions for a minute and a half. I was against... having this agenda point discussed, because we all know in the O.R. at the end of the day what the result is going to be. And I think this story is about the story, just to make all the speeches that we're going to use later, at some stage, to again, according to the old system, as it happened in 2006, in future elections, to deceive voters, how we're fighting for 100% BiH, and the other we're fighting for referendum and secession, because... the platform is that lies are being won. Therefore, I argue that here the schedule in Parliament is not what the schedule is among the citizens, and that such advocates of such stories have actually received a significant number of votes in lies and in this way they have received and this is why this has been scattered in Parliament as well. I was against this debate today, because I don't think today's debate should have been held. I will not go into Mr Silajdžić's speech, nor will I comment on some, I would say, and fascist statements by high-ranking officials in BiH, just because they are not there, because if they were there, I would have a lot to ask. I think this is where Mr. Silajdžić replaced what he was supposed to, perhaps, speak in Dayton in '95. In 2008, he spoke at the UN General Assembly. And there would be a lot of questions for him that should be asked, as many questions would be asked to other high-ranking officials, both at the level of the entity and at the level of BiH, which, by their unmoved statements, contribute to making all of us more difficult to live together, that the number of unemployed be greater, that investor uncertainty is greater and that foreign investors are bypassing us and that we are entering a difficult economic and political crisis from which Bog knows how we will get out. What I'd like to point to, to finish my discussion, is to really finally call the High Representative and start using the Bonjourn powers or, if he won't use them, let him stay away, don't mind. Because if the High Representative tolerates nationalist statements and all those remethylative statements that BiH is returning, then some other people who have been in BiH for 15 or 18 years to come to a better position here in Parliament will be forced to use the same such statements, and then we will create an unbearable situation in BiH. Therefore, my request and my call to the High Representative: either to use the Bonjour powers or to move away. Because this is how it actually serves as an English queen, standing on the sidelines and looking, hearing and knowing everything, and doing nothing to stop this condition. We would not have had this condition if in 2006 in time the High Representative reacted in the way he could react. We would have had a completely different situation here, both in Parliament and in BiH... and today we would have no need to discuss all this if the High Representative had used his Bosnian powers. But since he hasn't, he's opening up a series of questions that, I'm afraid, that later on, when he has to use them, it'll be too late. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-12-29-0.u22694	I thank Mr. Halilović. No more reports. I'm concluding a debate on this agenda point. Dear Representative Dokić. What's the matter? 40
ParlaMint-BA_2008-12-29-0.u22695	I'd like to answer some questions that were.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-12-29-0.u22696	No need, no need. You had opportunities through the replicas to respond.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-12-29-0.u22697	Here, just, I'll cut it short, very short.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-12-29-0.u22698	Here, let's go for a while. Replica.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-12-29-0.u22699	Mr. Bešlagić, here he came in, was quite right when he said the dictionary which I used was also, but I pointed out to you and told you that this approach of mine was unilateral and only showed how unilateral approaches to damage. It was a message. Secondly, Hadži Mitrović said he was not the only individual to jump out like this, but, colleagues and colleagues, these words were spoken for the speakers of the UN General Assembly and the Council of Europe in Strasbourg. Is there a third place adequate to that? He said, again, not any individual, citizen, nor party president, but the chairman of the BiH presidency. We need speeches... for such speakers that lead us to understanding, to tolerance, to compromise, to harmonize, to respect one another, to create, simply to say, good will among people. And I think it's high time that these volunteers came forward, someone said they didn't agree? Well, it was even a threat that it would be forbidden to go there, since they didn't agree to the speeches, it was the chairman's abstract. The conclusions of Mr. Martin Raguž and Mr. Dolić are perfectly acceptable, and they fit in perfectly with these conclusions that I asked them to adopt. I once again say, from both New York and the OHR, and from Brussels, and from the embassy of leading countries here in BiH, Sarajevo, they've been rated you speak as harmful. And I think that, as I say, we'd be deaf to our basic obligation if we didn't, too. And another conclusion, that this never happens again. So, we warn that we will put the unconformed speeches of every member of the presidency, whether it be in the order of this or that people, on the agenda and define ourselves. So from that point of view, it had an effect on what we've done and put this on the agenda. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-12-29-0.u22700	I thank and conclude the debate on this agenda point. All those who spoke orally and announced the conclusions, and possibly did not deliver them here, that we should deliver conclusions, so that we have them by the time we enter into a statement on this agenda point. 41 We move to the 19th point of the agenda: Ad. 19. Debate on the Resolution of the National Assembly of Republika Srpska on the goals and measures of Republika Srpska's policy from the 14th special session, held 15. Ten. In 2008. An initiative was adopted by representatives of Remzija Kadrić. We put this item on the agenda after we adopted the Initiative of the Honorable Representative of Remzija Kadrić. When we convened this session, we also addressed the call for this point to the president of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia. The president of the National Assembly, Mr. Igor Radojčić, answered our call. You got the answer in the first part of the session, and today. But in the meantime, officially from the National Assembly of the RS, with the signing of the secretary-general, we have received the text of the Resolution on the basis of which it can be concluded that the resolution has entered into force. You've received an officially delivered resolution on the benches. We have therefore invited the president of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia to continue the session. The applicant of the Initiative shall have the right to give reasons. Does Honorable Representative Kadrić want? He does. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-12-29-0.u22702	Dear Chairman, I thank you for this. I, in my explanation of the initiative, will be much shorter than my predecessor, applicant for the initiative of honourable MP Branko Dokić, therefore, who really had a very difficult task that he, in his explanation of his initiative, has tried to explain how and how he sees and explains the project of creating a great Serbia, and he has in one way tried to explain it. So, in my initiative, I'm going to give my one brief explanation, which is why I raised this question. I thank Dom for putting this item on the agenda. Therefore, in this Resolution of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia, which was adopted on 15 October 2008, many views state, among other things, that, for example. Under point 3 of the National Assembly, there are many qualifications, so it requires the representatives of the RS in the Parliamentary Assembly to reject, here, talk earlier about arbitrary acts by the BiH presidency. In point 4, the National Assembly, when it comes to the debate on the Constitution, is creating binding frameworks for all RS political representatives on a platform for talks on the BiH Constitution. Well, then point 5 says it is necessary, tasked representatives from RS, MPs and others to launch an initiative when it comes to procedures for transferring competencies from entities to BiH. Then point 8 asks RS representatives to take care of the content required in front of the National Assembly of the RS when it comes to EU accession. We are many, as an MP who comes from the RS, we often get these kinds of warrants, demands that bind us in what way and how we behave in the House of Representatives. In this initiative, and I cited a case that had recently happened, here, when it comes to 42 examples of conduct in Parliament, in the House of Peoples, the honourable MP Slobodan Šaraba, who, of course, voted as a delegate as he felt it was necessary to vote and was an initiative to withdraw the term of office because he voted according to his opinion. For all these reasons, it is therefore quite clear that in this situation the National Assembly is placed above Parliament, above the House of Representatives and that we represent only a mere transmission of entity parliaments. I hereby argue that this activity really is contrary to the BiH Constitution, Article IV point 4, that this activity is contrary to the BiH Election Law, Article 9 point 1, and then to the BiH Parliamentary House of Representatives' Rules of Procedure. For all these reasons, I propose one conclusion after the debate to adopt, which would read: 'That the House of Representatives of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly rejects various resolutions, conclusions, initiatives, recommendations of entity parliaments in which in one inappropriate way contrary to Article IV point 4. The BiH Constitution and Article 9th point 1. BiH Election Law and Article 3. The Rules of Procedure of the House of Representatives shall, in one inappropriate way, interfere with the work of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH's House of Representatives." Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-12-29-0.u22703	I thank the esteemed representative, Kadrić. Replica, second vice president, Dr. Milorad Živković.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-12-29-0.u22704	Thank you, Chairman. Fellow Members and fellow MPs, meaning, the position the RS has in the BiH Constitution is defined and by that definition is known the way delegates are elected in the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH. For this reason, the National Assembly had the right to give indications of how delegates who were delegated to the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia in the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH should behave and is not past the Constitution or the law to commit themselves to instruct Mr Šarab and all others who come from the RS to delegates in relation to the laws that are being passed. Therefore, no constitutional order of BiH as regards the National Assembly has been violated. As for the second part of your discussion, I would invite you as well as others to treat it as the inside side of the RS and us MPs coming from the RS. And I think that's how we can handle it. We also brought it out at the National Assembly session and warned the MPs that they could not give us any conclusions, instructions and other things here to the MPs who came from the RS. You weren't at that session, I'm sorry you weren't, because you'd hear us say that. The letter we sent here was also sent to the president of the National Assembly so that the conclusions could not be reached and warned. So it's an internal matter for us RS MPs. I'd like to discuss it with all of us without discussing with other colleagues about our internal affairs. On the other hand, I invite you to say something good about this resolution. Here, let's say number 11. Is it true that all that's listed here is that the Federation didn't do it? Thank you very much. 43
ParlaMint-BA_2008-12-29-0.u22705	Thank you. The following has been reported for the debate by the esteemed representative Lazar Prodanović.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-12-29-0.u22706	Dear Mr. Chairman, dear colleagues and fellow Members, I have a proposal. The point is that I believe that, absolutely, no matter what this meeting is part of the agenda, we have not met the formal conditions for discussing this resolution. In fact, I very much respect the esteemed colleague, Remzija Kadrić, who is a longtime MP and entity, and here now also the state parliament, as I do, and in this sense I believe that there should be formal legal conditions for this. The resolution of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia is not a document published in any Official Journal, or Official Messenger of the Republic of Slovenia. And esteemed counterpart Kadrić has, like all of us, both letters from the president of the National Assembly of the RS in which he first warns that this document has not been published in the Official Messenger. So, he didn't formally step in... formal-legal there isn't. And that also the Club of BiH MPs of the National Assembly of the RS, in the context of this resolution, launched an initiative, i.e. challenged the Resolution and initiated a procedure before the RS Constitutional Court for the protection of vital national interest, which suspended the publication and entry into force of this resolution. We are at an end this year, which if we were to talk about it, I will only say that the year in which we have had much more misunderstandings, or the willingness to compromise, I would like these 363 days so far which has passed more is in this sense about this largest legislative body of our country to repeat itself. I suggest, therefore, that we do not conduct an empty debate in which we will again be without a certain, I don't know, conclusion or effect, that the honourable proponent should give up this initiative and that, if this is an official document, so legally valid document, we are holding a debate after his publication in the Official Messenger of the Republic of Slovenia. I will not enter jurisdiction, in possible replicas of what is necessary and proper, I fully support what the deputy chairman, Mr. Živković, said - MPs have been directly elected from their election units. It's known in which way and how they match. Certain documents may not be binding on Members. It is the second position of delegates or particularly elected representatives, but what is our interest: I think we should all represent the interests of this country, its constituent peoples and its election bases together. That's it.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-12-29-0.u22707	I'd like to thank the esteemed representative of Prodanović. The following has been reported by distinguished representative Sadik Ahmetović. 44
ParlaMint-BA_2008-12-29-0.u22708	Dear Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, given that here I am, to repeat, that I come from the entity of the RS, I have been given these orders on a resolution that I should carry out, and that no one has ever informed me of, even my meetings. The RS president takes the entity as an entity of only one people, from this session only representatives or MPs from the Serb people's order. I must say or invite the special MPs of the Serb people to send a clear message... which Mr Živković clearly spoke of, that this house is above the home of any entity, canton or other homes in BiH and that it cannot receive orders from lower level parliaments under the Constitution. Knowing these people sitting here, I think they're competent enough, smart enough to be able to act as MPs without being sufflied from some part of them, from another home in BiH. I therefore, on my behalf, recommend that, in future, when messages of this kind or demands of this kind are sent, they should bear in mind that the Bošnjak who come from the RS entity are also sitting in this home and that the same Bošnjak or parties from which I come have their representatives in the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia and that they, in accordance with the Constitution of the RS, act their positions within that parliament. So please, let's break this practice more to underestimate this home in this way. It's underestimating because when you read this, you have a picture of them being representatives in Banja Luka being smarter than the ones sitting here. That they care more about the Constitution than those sitting here. So please, let us once... conduct a real policy and act in accordance with the BiH Constitution at all levels. It is the only way to start a correct story in BiH. Therefore, I would not like this story to be called a replica, because it really does say that the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia is asking representatives of the RS in the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH, etc., in Article 3. Don't, I mean, keep the story going, I don't think this is the way communication works. There's a way to make a deal. It's not a problem. But specifically with these attitudes to come, I think it's underestimating this home. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-12-29-0.u22709	Replica, distinguished representative Slavko Jovičić.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-12-29-0.u22710	Wrong quote. So, I will say for myself, just once, how the RS president, Dr Rajko Kuzmanović, was elected. I was on a date, and I wasn't alone. And we talked about a whole other topic. And I was very interested, as if I knew this was what Mr Ahmetović would say, whether two MPs from the Bosniak people who were elected from the RS space were invited to the meeting. I got an insight and asked to see an invitation. Well, I didn't believe myself that someone in the professional service wouldn't tell me. It's not about any secret meetings. It was the only one. And no one has passed you, Mr Ahmetović, and Mr Kadrić. You were invited, your right to come or not. So that's right and that's how it was. Thank you. 45
ParlaMint-BA_2008-12-29-0.u22711	The next one was announced by Honorable Representative Momčilo Novaković. Excuse me, here's a replica from Sadik Ahmetović.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-12-29-0.u22712	Excuse me, Mr. Novaković. Oh, I wouldn't come, colleague Jovičić, to that meeting, I'm really not invited. I did an invitation meeting, I didn't go, but the one you were on I wasn't really invited to. So, I know, I was informed from what I'm from the information I've seen. So, it was just a gathering of Srbin representatives with President Kuzmanović. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-12-29-0.u22713	Dear Representative Momčilo Novaković, debate.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-12-29-0.u22714	Dear colleagues and colleagues, you see, this is one of the points that I could start the same way I started that part of the agenda a little while ago. I don't understand why the initiator of this point felt significant that we were having a debate on this issue at the House of Representatives session. If the goal of putting this on the agenda is for counterpart Kadrić to express his dissatisfaction with the tasks of the National Assembly, then with those views he is in charge, bound, etc., then I support him. I am opposed to certain ministries giving me tasks in a way to be told by letter - representatives of the RS are committed to the joint institutions - and I am not a representative of the RS in the joint institutions, but a MP in the House of Representatives, elected from the electoral unit, of course of the RS, and of course I represent and protect the interests of the electoral unit. And I guess that's perfectly normal. If that's motive and if it is, it's not the only one. I'm sure, Mr. Kadrić, then in that part of it, the two of us can agree. We cannot agree in that second part of thinking that the National Assembly of the RS, the institutions of the RS, cannot give their views. I think they can give their views, put them here on the bench, or send them, so the services put them here on the benches, and those who respect them should respect them, those who do not respect them should not respect them. Some will read them and others will not read. They're not the only attitudes we get here. We get, depending on what's on the agenda, we get the attitudes of NGOs, so we get the attitudes of some alliances, so we get the attitudes of the canton (we remember the debate about education, etc.).), the ministries of Canton, etc. So, as whose interest is related to some part of the agenda, then these people are texting with us. Foreign exchanges are sending their attitudes, farmers their attitudes, and we get all that on our tables. And I don't see why it would be a problem if we were to get the positions of the Federation institutions, the RS, the canton and everyone else. Of course, I repeat, it's about attitudes, not tasks. So, I'm not in favour of how I often get assigned tasks, because I'm convinced that people sitting in these RS benches can recognize their relationship with these issues from the RS' views, and even without those, but of course it's desirable with those attitudes. 46 But the second part of the question why he found himself on the agenda is contained in conclusions or in conclusion, in fact, which was proposed by Mr. Remzija Kadrić, who I cannot support, I repeat, and is related to this: can some institutions give their views? Of course, of course I can. Therefore, I call on not only the institutions of the RS, all those who are interested in any part of the agenda to write to us, because I think that we MPs will certainly get out of it, will actually help us form certain views. After all, these are all legitimate views, especially those of the institutions of the RS or the Federation, etc. And why consider those views irrelevant? So, in two ways, I'm looking at this initiative. But, one way or another, when I look at it, I don't think this debate here today is going to help us understand this way of working any closer, and we're not going to get out of this, I repeat, anything that will change our relationship in the future with all the issues that are on this Parliament's agenda. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-12-29-0.u22715	I would like to thank Reverend Novaković. Replica, the esteemed representative of Kadrić Remzija.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-12-29-0.u22716	I thank Ambassador Novaković for these additional attempts to further clarify this matter. So this isn't about attitudes, it's more about tasks. For these reasons, we agree, because here on this resolution, it is full of tasks: it is in debt, it is binding, it is required etc. So these are tasks, and they're not attitudes. Tasks to RS lawmakers. For these reasons, I find it inappropriate and unnecessary to give us such a type of task.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-12-29-0.u22717	I thank the esteemed representative, Kadrić. The next is distinguished representative Hadzhi Jovan Mitrović.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-12-29-0.u22718	Dear gentlemen, here's another item of the agenda as a political act that has reached its goal in a certain time, as well as a statement, then chairman, in the UN, has achieved a political goal and we are simply dealing with the consequences here. I think that this question was answered by Mr. Prodanović and, I would say in part, Mr. Novaković, when it comes to this initiative. What colleagues are wondering how much the MPs are bound by the task or, as he says here, the demands, I think that neither of us as MPs, at least the MPs from the RS or from the region where we are elected, chose by Parliament of the RS, I hope that neither the Federation MPs chose the Federation Parliament, so I think it is quite clear enough how binding it is for Members. 47 Likely, what I can see and what I think is a single political act that wants to achieve the goal at one point and what I said earlier: it has achieved, unfortunately, a political goal that should be held in one continuity and I do not think it is as serious as Mr Kadrić took it. I am sure that, at one point, if the task is to be solved, what is said, I am sure that in Parliament of the RS, if a referendum were to be asked, if we were to secede, if we were to make a decision on the referendum, that it would be made. And I wonder why you don't bring something like that, why these documents are brought in. And the answer to that question is, my answer is that it's just a purely political act that needs to be held in the tension of the voting body until the next election, to resustain or preserve the position. I'm not worried absolutely about that, but I'm worried about what we're not dealing with the key and important issues that we need to solve. I think we're heading in the direction, we repeat again, in one direction that is uncertain and not good for BiH, it's not good for the people who live in this country, it's not good for the RS either, because at one point everything and everything can happen because we don't solve the key and the important issues. And what I'm saying is, we need to stop discussing these various conclusions, resolutions, speeches of individuals, etc., and as MPs of this House here, we need to turn to economic problems. When it comes to the transfer of powers, my position is indeed to respect the BiH Constitution and I am not sure about the transfer of powers until that moment until the BiH Constitution changes. But what Mr. Novaković said, there are such memos, 'do not accept this', and after that at the next session, 'accept'. I've never done that before, "don't take it." For me, it's something that's said and in the Constitution, that's how I behave, but those who say it at one point won't, and at another point they accept it. It means that it is purely achieving a political goal or an individual interest or one of the interests of a particular group of people. We really need to get into the reform process as soon as possible here. For who knows which time, for a long time, some who haven't talked about changing the Constitution and reforming the Constitution, I've said long ago that we should have done it, that the issue had to be resolved, because that issue solves all questions. And discussions on these issues really need to be cut short, because this is pure politics. A little while ago there was politics at the previous point, and now there's politics again, and no matter what we make, no matter what we conclude, will be adopted, no matter who. We're aware of what the final outcome is today on these two points. So, pure politicizing and purely political acts that need to be brought to the public, some are fighting for some interests and some are not fighting. I think everyone's fighting the interests of those who represent, those who think they're gonna achieve something with this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-12-29-0.u22719	Thank you. The next is distinguished representative Denis Bećirović.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-12-29-0.u22720	I must say immediately that it is true that it was from Dejton to today both individuals and parties who threatened the state integrity and independence of BiH, which questioned the BiH Constitution, etc. However, no legislative authority in this country has publicly and openly adopted some 48 legal acts threatening open state integrity, territorial integrity and independence of the BiH state, as is the case with the RS Assembly. Since all of this is recorded, that remains a stenogram, etc., I really want to express my first deep concern against these events. And, unlike some, I want to say that this resolution needs to be taken seriously and treated seriously. That's why I'm saying it because in the context of this resolution there's one dangerous call of unrest, disintegration and disaster, with inconceivable consequences for all the peoples and citizens of this country. I must say why I say that this resolution has one specific weight. Because this is from Dejton to today the only legislative body – and we have, whether, state, entity, cantonal to the municipality, somewhere and the city – this is the only legislative body that has threatened to break BiH openly and bring down the BiH Constitution. And so this should first be treated as a threat to a member of the UN. And I think that no matter how this agenda ends, both the EU and the Security Council and the Government of the SDA and the Council of Europe and the High Representative should be re-informed on the content of this text, etc. See what the attitudes of Resolution are. Here, someone commented on Article 3. Resolutions. I quote: "The National Assembly requires representatives" etc. So imagine if that is even possible, say, that the National Assembly of Vojvodina requires something from the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia? To the Bavarian Parliament of Germany, Split-Dalmatia County of the Croatian Parliament? See: 'Article 5. Any transfer of jurisdiction is possible only through an entity agreement, i.e. by the decision of the National Assembly." The exact opposite of the Constitution of BiH, which we, as MPs at the first constitutional session, swore to honor. The BiH Constitution in Chapter 3 clearly states how this is done or not done. However, why am I saying that I am expressing deep concern against this resolution? In point 1. Resolutions are reiterated that the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia reiterates its commitment and views expressed in the Declaration on the latest measures and demands of the High Representative in BiH and is once again behind the Resolution on the non-recognition of Kosovo and Metohija's unilaterally declared independence. Now, what's being concreteed for the third time, now here's the second time in Resolution, once in the Declaration, let's see what it's all about. The declaration quoted here (1) reads as saying: 'The RS Parliament considers that it has the right to establish its position on its state-law status through the direct declaration of citizens in the referendum.' So, there's another reference to the referendum. The declaration to be mentioned – The National Assembly of the RS announces full readiness to use all legal and political means, including the right to a referendum of citizens of the RS, etc. So, three times this year, twice through resolutions and one declaration, the BiH state is threatened with a referendum. I think this House can only draw two conclusions. 1. As a House of Representatives, we invite the Assembly of the RS to cancel these two resolutions and this declaration immediately within 30 days. 2. In the event that the RS Assembly does not cancel this, we call on the High Representative to use his powers given by the Dayton Peace Agreement and drawn up in the Bosnian Powers. 49 I must say, if this flagrant violation of the Dayton Peace Agreement continues to be tolerated and a direct threat to BiH's independence, then we will open Pandora's box. Tomorrow, no one can ban, say, the Federation Parliament as did the RS Assembly to, say, adopt a resolution on the abolition of entities. So what do we get from making these resolutions on the entity level? I think that those who explain to us that the Prudish Agreement is good – there is no Mr Izetbegović here, as one of the two SDA leaders – should be a condition for any conversation, if we want to seriously talk about such legal acts as these two resolutions and this declaration are an urgent repeal, because the threat of BiH statehood is a necessary condition to talk about BiH as a member of the EU one day, as a country that seriously wants to implement the obligations arising from the Stabilisation and Association Agreement, and not like this to have acts of individual lower legislation that threaten the BiH state.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-12-29-0.u22721	I would like to point out to all MPs that we have agreed to work within two hours. We have a break from two to three. And according to our agreement, it would be good if both the replicas and the way of discussion were adapted to our today's decision and to the extended college that we were starting with the next budget session at 3 o'clock. Here, once again, I call upon the MPs to give up their replicas in accordance with that agreement. However, we have reports here, honourable MP Drago Kalabić, a replica.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-12-29-0.u22722	Although we are trying and trying to have today's debate, although the majority of MPs have the same attitude towards these points of the agenda, yet one part is driven according to its own, and well, it is their business right. One local communist organization in the municipality of Prnjavor had two famous decisions to be convinced, it's closer there, (?) No microphone turned on (yes, but you didn't, it was directed to repeat it), two famous decisions from new communist meetings that are remembered; the first one was '47. when they sat down and made a decision that there was no Bog. And that's the decision of the local board, not to mention the village now, and after a famous decision, the Soviet Union was to withdraw immediately from Czechoslovakia. And down below, whatever happens if they don't do it, we'll sit down again. Now, I compare it to Mr. Bećirović's discussion, because it's the only thing that he and Haris represent, and all they can do is sit together again and repeat them, such attitudes. And these are the only two people in BiH who have remained to repeat it. And it becomes pointless to react to such things, because it becomes degutant. 50 I am saying this for the reasons that the SDP BiH MPs were pillars of government in the RS and they were our best support at the time of the best RS bloom. They were very cooperative when the SDS once rebelled and roused, we couldn't get them in some direction that was right for us to push. The SDP was very stable, constructive, and even lectured them why they are working against RS interests. Here, they were back-up. About Ramsey not talking. That was our pillar. The strongest and strongest coalition. So I was surprised that he suggested this, when it was the time of the golden period of our common coalition rule, down there when we defended the interests of the RS, better than everyone else. Now, all of this is a daily political use. You know, SDP MPs behave completely differently in Banja Luka and here, and I understand that. If this is political demagogy aimed at the Bosniak electoral body, I understand that, but it would not be fair for that demagogy to take this time here in Parliament and should leave it for some other forums, because it is quite clear. The story of Slobodan Popović, SDP vice president, is completely different from what Denis Bećirović is telling. Now I don't know what's in that SDP policy? Who is there, who is standing there, and will we, along with the various missing topics in this House, have that too? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-12-29-0.u22724	Thank you. Let's take it in a row. Please sign in electronically, you'll see each other upstairs. Next is Ambassador Momčilo Novaković.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-12-29-0.u22725	Here, you see, in our practice here in Parliament there have been different coalitions. I remember from 2000 to 2002 the SNSD and SDP coalition in that famous Alijansa for Change. So we had different coalitions, thank Bog. We're all with everyone, I think, sometimes we've been some coalition except for some, of course. But, well, that's not the point. Look, I wanted to say that on the subject of conclusions, or the suggestion of conclusions; also, as I'm not bound by someone, it's not me personally, it's someone who can be, but here I am not, then constitutionally it's not possible for us to commit the National Assembly, we're asking her, I don't know, we can even appeal, it doesn't make sense, according to the National Assembly. So there is no such form as in the army of subordination or, I don't know, between parliaments that now the House of Representatives is above the National Assembly, so the National Assembly is above this organ, etc. So it doesn't exist, and then these conclusions don't make sense. I call on Mr Bećirović to draw this conclusion, as he is followed by the second conclusion, which, to my satisfaction, is not the high representative, I hope, has not remained in BiH. I think he stayed for other reasons, not for these to prohibit, dissolve, dissolve, etc. This little institution, rather than gathering and trying to make all these institutions functional in this country. So, it would be good if Mr Bećirović withdrew these proposals of his conclusions and, of course, we could comment now, and I could comment on some other findings, but I don't think they're worth it, except for these two conclusions. 51
ParlaMint-BA_2008-12-29-0.u22726	Thank you. Dear Ambassador Milica Marković. Here you go, replica.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-12-29-0.u22727	Yes, a replica of Mr Bećirović's exposure. As an MP today, I am surprised by this amount of fear with Mr Bećirović, from what the institutions of the RS will do, and here is the resolution of the National Assembly of the RS, because it is obvious that he is actually seeing and seeing very powerfully both the National Assembly and the Government of the RS and all other institutions of the RS. And we think they're stable and they work pretty well, but with his fear, we're just as surprised today. I must say, I am pleasantly surprised, because it really looks into such a powerful dimension, as it sees it, so it tries to call on some international institutions, now for God's sakes to oppose some resolutions of the National Assembly, neglecting that when it denies institutions and an entity in BiH, it actually denies one part of BiH and acts so simply, thinking that by denying RS it will preserve BiH. And I want to tell him that anyone who in BiH is trying to minimize, deny, disqualify any entity or any other people in BiH, is directly working against BiH. So, he's working on her decomposition. And one more thing to say about the RS and our MPs from the RS. In doing so, I must say that I am a little surprised at my colleagues from the RS that they are simply trying to get rid of these, call, obligations and duties they have towards the institutions of the RS, and they forget that the people who gave the legitimacy and the National Assembly and the Government in the RS chose all of us who are MPs here from the RS. And I want to tell you that, that is, to remind you that the partisans once had an interesting song, in which one verse says, "The more slander and lies, the more we like Tito." Now, that's absolutely identical when it comes to Srbin in the RS, whether it's an MP, that the doctor, that the driver, that it's this or that, but all the more talk against the RS, know that it's going to be stronger and more powerful.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-12-29-0.u22728	Thank you. If this list of replicas had ended, we might have concluded the agenda. I see, everything's in order. So, dear Ambassador Zlatko Lagumdžija, the replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-12-29-0.u22729	I thank you, Mr. Chairman. Just a stenogram doing, I mean, since there's some things here that just aren't right that someone can read this in five, ten years, follow some research, level what's happened tomorrow. So, 12 years from Dejton to today, the SDP of BiH has never, ever been in a coalition with any party, in any of the current RS governments. Never! After two years of being with three RS parties, one, it seems to me, Mr. Hadži Jovan is a follower of the party, then Mr. Dokić and SNSD gentlemen we were together with 12 political parties from the Federation in the Federation coalition and at BiH level. We weren't in the RS coalition then either. 52 We have no history and coalition in the last 12 years, no level, no SDA, no HDZ, no SDS. Just the fact that you know and don't make a mess without need. So that period, whether, the successful co-operation that arises for Mr. Kalabić, (perhaps he doesn't know which party he was at then, and he got a little confused, but that's another question and I wouldn't talk about it), so it's just a fact. And I agree with Mr. Marković, indeed, 'the more slander and lies', is that, 'the other Tito we prefer', it is not at all controversial. But I mean, I don't know if it's a topic right now, and we can talk about it. Well, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-12-29-0.u22730	What about local authorities?
ParlaMint-BA_2008-12-29-0.u22731	No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2008-12-29-0.u22732	Okay. Dear Ambassador Denis Bećirović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-12-29-0.u22733	It is a replica, but here's my previous colleague agreed with his colleague Marković about this part, and I'm going to start by getting along. When she said that...
ParlaMint-BA_2008-12-29-0.u22734	No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2008-12-29-0.u22735	Mr. Živković, you're a bit of an inappropriate intruder. Mrs. Marković said I have some great fear for BiH citizens. I must admit that, frankly, I say, there is fear in my eyes against these documents that I have now quoted. Against these two resolutions and these declarations by the RS Assembly. This, if not annulled, could be the introduction to a new disaster and disaster, not one nation, but all the peoples and citizens of this country. And I really think that this should be taken very seriously and very seriously and try to get out and find a solution to this situation. I must say that such a resolution and such a declaration do not lead, certainly, the way of BiH, the accelerated path towards the EU, and therefore the only way out is for these two resolutions and this declaration to be annulled. If they do not cancel - here I will now propose in the conclusions – you should call on the High Representative to undo it. If we don't close this Pandora box with such anti-constitutional formulations, then we certainly open one chapter in which it won't be, absolutely certainly, good to anyone in this country. Who, then, can ban the Federal Parliament from, say, having some resolution on the abolition of entities? Or that the much lower legislative authorities are making other declarations and resolutions that are contrary to the BiH Constitution, BiH as members of the UN, so I think this really needs to be taken seriously and tried to find a solution to this situation. 53
ParlaMint-BA_2008-12-29-0.u22736	The next is Replic, a respected representative of Hadži Jovan Mitrović.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-12-29-0.u22737	Well, just one clarification to my colleague Marković that I am one of those MPs, she probably meant me and Mr. Novaković. I'll just say it again: I was not elected by the RS Parliament, I was chosen by the people of the constituency I came from. The obligation I have to, and who put me in charge? I have been tasked by these voters, this people and their interest I will surely represent here, and there will be no sure obligation for me, the tasks, I don't know, the responsibilities of one of Parliament, to be the ones who will be superior. And this is what Mr. Bećirović is talking about about about about the referendum. Please, I was an MP to the RS Parliament. In our time in the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, we had the opportunity to bring a referendum. You know, if you don't know, if that was thrown out of the RS Constitution, so for me, this sort of thing in the resolutions that we're about to decide on a referendum, we'd have to change the RS Constitution first, and only then come to that. That's why I said it was a political goal, and I think that's what the apparent concern is about, and this is politics. It's an apparent concern, something's going to happen, it's this big. It doesn't really matter, this is really politicizing on one side and the other that doesn't lead to anything. That's it, thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-12-29-0.u22738	Next, replica, distinguished representative Drago Kalabić.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-12-29-0.u22739	Well, I have to say for my stenogram, even though I'm very interested in who's going to be up to this stenogram, who's going to scratch on these papers and read ours, I think. But, if so, Mr. Lagumdžija, no matter where or in which party, I witness all the events. The first coalition, you were the strongest in it, we were at 42 and then it was on the hook. Those from the SDP were so zealous, always in their seats; those from the coalition for the entire BiH were to come a little slowly, to enter slowly. You broke this last one at five to twelve when you said that drag Stanimirović should be the health minister, so this one, and that one. I mean, from that story with Mića in Doboj, there were various coalitions, and according to tradition, everything is required to be in conspiracies. We respected it if you didn't want to hear it, and we're here, because it was in our best interest that no one would hear or know. So we did, I think it was, if you want to deal with stenograms... and the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia has its stenograms so you will see the mass of these laws on Republika Srpska, and in all this they were adopted with the support of SDP MPs. And I have to say that these are honest people down there, they did their job very honestly, responsiblely. We're grateful for that and I don't see what it is... that's controversial. RS is part of BiH, it is not enemy territory and anyone who speaks of it must say what the alternative is, what it tells the Serbian people, if it tells him he does not need RS. He has to tell him what he's told by his own court, and what he's telling him.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-12-29-0.u22740	The next is Honourable representative Sadik Bahtić. 54
ParlaMint-BA_2008-12-29-0.u22741	I'll do it very briefly. Just these few discussions, it's Kalabić, it's up to my discussion. I have carefully read this resolution from the Parliament of the RS, believe me, this smells like a reintroduction of a verbal delinquent. And the Central Committee of the former SK, if you took their stenograms, their conclusions, when he played lower levels of the Republic and the IOC, I don't think he gave this directive on the ground. So the Central Committee would envy these conclusions in the RS and I'm worried about that. Otherwise, I'm not scary by nature, since I consider RS my country. At that moment I lived there, there I might live again, and I don't want those terrible, dark, dark communist times to return either to RS or here to the Federation. And for those reasons... these conclusions, and these conclusions smell like something like that. And I can't accept that lower levels dictate higher levels. I also consider this purely political reasons. At that time, there was a lot of talk about constitutional changes... and at this very moment this resolution was timed to achieve certain political effects in the upcoming talks... And to my colleague to say that BiH has never been questionable, it has been a permanent category for over a thousand years, so, as far as the BiH state is concerned, it will always be with Kalabić and without Kalabić, without Bahtić: the entities were, they were not, they will be, they will not be; the cantons today are, they are not; but the state is one, one recognised and will remain. That's it, thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-12-29-0.u22742	The next is distinguished representative Branko Dokić.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-12-29-0.u22743	I thank you, Mr. Chairman. I would like to say that, you see, and this point of the agenda... how can I say, in a literal sense, the consequences of the previous one, but also this special session of the RS Assembly is the result of the talk we talked about. And I would like to remind you that the RS, perhaps here from Dejton to this day, did not have a more moderate member of the presidency than the current current current current member of the BiH presidency, without having repeatedly raised the issue of vital national interest in BiH as it is now. And he says a lot, a lot. And I would say that any creation of an opportunity to pursue vital national interest, any people in BiH -- is harmful to everyone. So we should take that as a message. Secondly, here is the problem (now I'm going back directly to the agenda point), here is the problem of what we're looking at and what we're differentiating. There's one philosophical thought that says, "It's obvious to anyone that oak is more obvious than a crane on an oak tree. But if you look too much at the grain on the oak, it suddenly becomes more obvious to you than oak." I think that's exactly the problem with many here as they saw and accepted this document, this resolution of the National Assembly of the RS. How to interpret it rather than look at the jury and not see it from the crane oak; the fact that one of the MPs, that is, the promoter here is this point of the agenda, saw in my previous speech the advocacy of 'Greater Serbia'. And I emphasized and once again emphasized, I deliberately pointed out, deliberately highlighting the data that irritated, stressing that this is also the way the data is transmitted is harmful. Every one-sided data stream is harmful, but I did it to show, here, this one's been doing it for years, from Dejton to here. 55 Please, how else to interpret the fact, immediately to fence, perhaps there are inaccurate definitions here, absolutely, you know how, you don't have to tell us how to bring one document, so MP clubs, so let's do this, so this, so that you accept this, you'll accept that and so on. One of these possible unaccountable definitions is this point 2 which several speakers have referred to, or 3, I don't know, 'The National Assembly requires a representative of the RS in the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH'. Note that the National Assembly has elected delegates to the House of Peoples and the House of Peoples is an integral part of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH and, from that point of view, the National Assembly has had the full right to ask them to do something about it. Secondly, here is the question of what is being used in the BiH Parliament, what is the dictionary'seek and demand' used there. That MP who felt, how can I say, vain of what was required or sought could have made a complaint where it was required and requested, not to us here. I could now explain to you a series of these points that are undeniably saying that they are very useful. Is it damaging to argue that the Constitution can only be changed through a procedure defined by the BiH Constitution, that this requires consensus? Is there anything to be turned down by what the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, which the Assembly asks the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to do to make all the necessary measures that are in the jurisdiction of the RS to create conditions for the implementation of the Stabilisation and Association Agreement? Is there anything that is disputed if the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia insists that judges in BiH be those who are citizens of BiH, etc., that it is harmful for BiH to have the authority of the High Representative and that all conditions have been created for BiH to sovereignly rule its country, i.e. those elected in BiH to make decisions etc. So, I could tell you about the usefulness of these suggestions for another half hour. I'm saying again, it's possible that there's something inexplicably defined somewhere, and all of the eyes of some of the previous debaters are against this kind of possible indetermination, and... all of this is left. One of the key messages here is that everything must be done in accordance with the BiH Constitution and other constitutions. Isn't that the basic legal and democratic origin of every sovereign state? What's the matter with that? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-12-29-0.u22744	Thank you. We've yet to report an esteemed representative to Lagumdžija for replication. Wait a minute, so the esteemed representative of Lagumdžija has been reported and now I'm going to have to say something. After this replica, we're going to break due to earlier commitments and we're going to continue, so the debate after this break. Here you go, Mr. Lagumdžija.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-12-29-0.u22745	My replica as it has passed only in the function of composing certain facts. I repeat, once again, someone can read this once more when they treat us more seriously than we treat ourselves today. So for those who do not know, being in coalition with someone is to have together ministers in government and proper responsibilities to bind in executive functions. It's being in a coalition. Since '90. And, I don't know what, until '99. Mr. Milorad Dodik formed a minority government with two MPs who had the support of all those not in the SDS to give each other a chance. Whether it's good or bad, it'll show time. But then the SDP was not in a coalition with the government. Interestingly, I must, for the sake of truth, must say, the SDA and the Party for BiH entered the coalition with him only in 2002, only 56 later years, in 2002, still, whether, in the government of the RS, until constitutional amendments to the entity constitutions... the governments in the RS were one-national, Serbian governments. After that, the constitutional amendments were introduced by both Bošnjak and Hrvat who mainly gave the Party for BiH and the SDA what is the case today. Just to get the facts straight, that's all. This is not a replica, but a finding that stems from the false quote of a gentleman who doesn't even know now which party he was in.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-12-29-0.u22746	Thank you. Now we're gonna take a break, so until 15.05 when we keep working. [[PAUZA]] Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, guests, please take your seats. We keep working. First, an apology for this delay, but here we had some arrangements in the break and then the announced visit to our colleague Belkić, which is why we were late. At first, I'll give you all my regards to our colleague Belkić. As far as I'm aware of medicine, it seems to me that he's doing well, and he's subjectively saying he's feeling good. We had before the break reported two replicas, a respected representative of Remzija Kadrić and a respected representative of Sefer Halilović. Do you want to replicate? Yes, you do. Dear Representative Remzija Kadrić.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-12-29-0.u22748	So, I'm going to do it very briefly, really respecting this time we're in, so I'm going to just answer the honourable MP Kalabić. So there were no coalitions in the previous period when it came to supporting someone or not supporting them in RS. And what Denis Bećirović has suggested really deserves special attention to this debate on this point of the 1st resolution, and I certainly support what Denis Bećirović wrote in these proposals for conclusions. So I set things up myself, tried to take some of the principles aside: so that the National Assembly, neither the Federation Parliament, can be a part of us to be above the BiH Parliament and to issue us these kinds of tasks, tasks, responsibilities, etc. For these reasons, I believe that this proposal of mys is to be supported in such a way as to determine itself in principle on this issue.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-12-29-0.u22749	Thank you. The next is distinguished representative Sefer Halilović, a replica. 57
ParlaMint-BA_2008-12-29-0.u22750	I thought I'd do a quick replica of my colleague Dokić, but since he's not there, there's no point.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-12-29-0.u22751	Thank you. The next one was registered for the replica, the esteemed representative Sadik Bahtić.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-12-29-0.u22752	I give up.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-12-29-0.u22753	He's giving up. Thank you. There are no more applications for replicas, no more for discussion, so I am closing the debate on the 19th item of the agenda, and we have exhausted the agenda of the 42nd session. Since we've already had a break, I don't think there's any need to take a new break before the vote.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-12-29-0.u22754	Just one piece of information.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-12-29-0.u22755	Here you go, distinguished representative Šefik Džaferović, information.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-12-29-0.u22756	I'm sorry, maybe I should've done it this morning. So I want to inform both you and Dom about this proposal for a law on genetically modified organisms that the Constitutional Commission has been working on this issue. We have resolved these political misunderstandings, so we have reached agreement on these political issues. There is one conceptual question left to be resolved, therefore the expert question, and we will have at the first next session of the Constitutional Legal Commission, it is quite certain, in line with this proposal for a law on genetically modified organisms and it will come here at the first next session for a statement. So note this to both you and Dom, because last time we got that assignment. You need to get a little more intervention in the law. That's it, thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-12-29-0.u22757	Thank you for this information. As soon as you deliver the report will be included in the agenda of the next session, the first next one. So we're going to vote. First item 5: Proposal for a Law on the Agency for the Development of the Information Society of Bosnia and Herzegovina. 58 I remind you that the Committee has previously adopted 12 amendments to the Bill Proposal contained in the Report of the Commission and have become an integral part of the law. After the task of the first part of the 42nd session to consider all new aspects, the commission adopted seven amendments to MP Branko Dokić, which were submitted in new aspects. We should vote on these amendments, since they are about new aspects, although they have been agreed by the competent commission. For this situation, we do not have an explicit business provision, because Article 3(3) of Article 11. The Rules of Procedure say that, I quote, "The report of the competent commission contains a report on the bill's proposal and the amendments adopted that have become an integral part of the bill's proposal." These seven amendments are not contained in the Committee Report, although they are in agreement with the Committee. I propose that in the package, we make a statement on these seven agreed amendments, and then then we approach the legislation, with the amendments previously adopted. Dear Representative Branko Dokić.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-12-29-0.u22758	Mr. Chairman, I didn't quite understand what seven meant. I mean 12 plus 7.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-12-29-0.u22759	No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2008-12-29-0.u22760	And that's what you said, OK. So, all agreed amendments in the package. Okay, I didn't get it right.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-12-29-0.u22761	Here, it means all agreed amendments in the package to make a statement. Please prepare to vote. Vote now! With 29 votes "yes", without the vote "against", four "abstained", a sufficient entity majority, I agree that all agreed amendments have been accepted. We move on to a statement on the bill, with amendments adopted. Please prepare. Vote now! 26 votes "yes", four votes "against", four "abstained", an insufficient entity majority. The consent procedure cannot be carried out. The results of the merger, you will be notified later. 59 We move to a statement on the 16th item of the agenda Report on the participation of members of the Armed Forces, police and civil servants of BiH in foreign peace support operations for the period from 1. 3. 2008 to 30. Six. In 2008. Voting on a Decision on the eligibility of participation in peace support operations for 2009, as follows - the UN Peace Mission in the Democratic Republic of Congo (five members), the UN Peace Mission in Liberia ( seven members), the UN Peace Mission in Sudan (12 members), the UN Peace Mission in Cyprus (four members). Please prepare to vote. Vote now! With 27 votes "yes", without the vote "against", seven "abstained", a sufficient entity majority, I find that the decision on the eligibility of participation in peace support operations for 2009 has been accepted as I have read. We move to the 17th point of the debate on the topic of the Council of Europe and its activities (the basis for the debate is the report on the work of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly delegation in the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe in 2008). We are voting on the Commission's report, and after that, we will propose conclusions. Vote now! With 29 votes "yes", one "against", four "abstained", a sufficient entity majority, I find that the House of Representatives accepted the BiH Parliamentary Assembly report at the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe in 2008. We're moving on to an amendment statement. First of all, Bakir's conclusions, excuse me. Bakir Izetbegović.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-12-29-0.u22762	No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2008-12-29-0.u22763	I have proposals from Bakir Izetbegović, Mirko Okolić, Milorad Živković and Denis Bećirović.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-12-29-0.u22764	No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2008-12-29-0.u22765	Here, second vice president, Dr. Milorad Živković wants to propose something. 60
ParlaMint-BA_2008-12-29-0.u22766	Just a little hint. So, in the meantime, we haven't been able to negotiate these conclusions. There are some similar, identical ones, there is a possibility that we can return it to the Commission, so that we can agree there, to propose to Parliament, and another possibility is that we should go to conclusions: 1st, 2, and 3rd to vote, because there are some that are acceptable, Mr Izetbegović 2nd and 5th, so that we do not turn out to be against all the conclusions that are proposed here.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-12-29-0.u22767	We have a proposal to give all the conclusions to the Foreign Affairs Commission of the House of Representatives to agree and propose to the House of Common Conclusions, so to speak. Please prepare and make your statement on this proposal. Vote now! With 27 votes "yes", two "against", five "abstained", a sufficient entity majority, I find the proposal accepted. We move to the 18th item of the agenda: the debate on the presentation of BiH Presidency Chairman Haris Silajdžić in his address at the General Assembly in New York and the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe in Strasbourg. Suggestions of conclusions, distinguished representative Branko Dokić. We approach the statement on the conclusion of the number 1st distinguished representative, Branko Dokić. Prepare to plead. Vote now! With 10 votes "yes", 18 "against", eight "abstained", I find that this proposal is not accepted. We move to a statement on the conclusion of the 2nd Honored Representative Branko Dokić. Vote now! In addition to 11 votes "yes", 12 "against", 12 "abstained", I also find that the proposal for a conclusion 2 is not accepted. We move on to a statement on the proposal for the conclusion of the distinguished representative Rifat Dolić. Stand by. Vote now! With nine votes "yes", five "against", 21 "abstained", I find that this proposal does not have an entity majority... The results of the merger, you will be notified later. We move on to a statement on the proposal for the conclusion of the esteemed representative Martin Raguž. 61 Prepare to vote. Vote now! With 24 votes "yes", without the vote "against", 11 "abstained", a sufficient entity majority, I conclude that the proposal for the conclusion of the esteemed representative, Raguž, has been accepted. We move to the 19th point: The debate on the resolution of the National Assembly of Republika Srpska on the goals and measures of Republika Srpska's policy from the 14th special session, held on 15.10. 2008 The vote on the conclusions. Dear Representative Remzija Kadrić. Please prepare. Vote now! 17 votes "yes", eight "against", six "abstained", an insufficient entity majority. The results of the merger, you will be notified later. The next is the proposal for the conclusion of the esteemed representative Denis Bećirović. So we're approaching a statement on the proposal for conclusion number one. Stand by. Vote now! 21 votes "yes", 10 "against", five "abstained", an insufficient entity majority. The results of the merger, you will be notified later. We move to a statement on the proposal for conclusion number 2. Vote now! 21 votes "yes", nine "against", five "abstained", an insufficient entity majority. Consensus. You will be informed of the results of the alignment. And we move on to a statement on proposal number three. Vote now! 20 votes "yes", 10 "against", six "abstained", an insufficient entity majority. The results of the merger, you will be notified later. We thus exhausted the agenda of the 42nd session of the House of Representatives. Would you like some? Dear Representative Sefer Halilović.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-12-29-0.u22768	Just business intervention. I suggested one conclusion that was not put to the vote.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-12-29-0.u22769	About what point?
ParlaMint-BA_2008-12-29-0.u22770	18th and 19th. 62
ParlaMint-BA_2008-12-29-0.u22771	Excuse me, you're right. So we have a proposal for a respected representative of Sefer Halilović, a proposal for a conclusion. Please prepare to vote. Vote now! 11 votes "yes", nine "against", 16 "abstained", an insufficient entity majority. The results of the merger, you will be notified later. Another apology to the esteemed representative. This concludes the work on the agenda of the 42nd session, and I conclude the work of the 42nd session of the House of Representatives. We're not taking a break. _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] So, at the request of technical services, a technical break of 10 minutes. The seat is closed at 3:55.
