ParlaMint-BA_2008-09-24-0.u20400	Ladies and gentlemen of the House of Representatives, honored guests, I am opening the 35th session of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH's House of Representatives. At today's session, apart from the representatives, our regular guests were invited: the chairman and members of the BiH Presidency, the chairman and members of the BiH Council of Ministers, representatives of OHR, OSCE and other international organisations in BiH who regularly monitor the work of our home, representatives of certain NGOs. I welcome all present representatives and guests as well as representatives of public information funds. According to service information, I'd like to conclude that there are 32 MPs present at the session. The absence was justified by representatives: Remzija Kadrić, Vinko Zorić, Savo Erić, Lazar Prodanović, Rifat Dolić, Sead Jamakosmanović and Zlatko Lagumdžija. The delays were announced by distinguished representatives Velimir Jukić and Martin Raguž. I find the session has a quorum for work and decision-making. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, before we move to a debate on the agenda proposal, I would like to inform you on several previous issues. First, on the issues which were the subject of harmonisation in the College as a committee. In accordance with Article 80(2) of the Rules of Procedure of the House of Representatives, I would like to inform you that at the session held on 10 September 2008, the College of the House, as a committee, considered proposals which did not receive an entity majority at the 34th session, which are: - The proposal of the BiH Representatives' Club to include in the 34th session the proposal for a conclusion on the review of the Central Election Commission's decision on the registration of voters for local elections. An initiative by MP Adem Huskić from the 34th House session to discuss BiH's property issue at one of the next House sessions. 2 - Proposed by Denis Bećirović to include in the agenda 34th session of the House the proposal for conclusions proposed at the 10th joint session of the House of Peoples and the House of Representatives in the context of the debate on the content of the Stabilisation and Association Agreement. Members of the College have reached agreement on the issues which have been subject to agreement, on which, according to the Rules of Procedure, I am reporting to the House and I agree that with the existence of agreement in the College, all proposals have been adopted. I would like to express my personal opinion on the issues of harmonisation on proposals for new agenda points. In fact, I appreciate that there is no point for the next session to delay the agreement on proposals for supplementing the agenda, as was the case on the issues I have just mentioned. Although the Rules of Procedure do not know the exceptions to the consent procedure, we, as the College of the House, will try to agree on proposals for supplementing the agenda to be implemented immediately at the session at which they are proposed, so that we do not come into these situations. I would remind you that at today's session as point 15. We have a proposal for a conclusion from the 10th joint session of both homes, held in 30.7.2008, in connection with the implementation of the Stabilisation and Association Agreement. In the last session, we could not consider these conclusions for procedural reasons, because we did not have the opinion of the Joint Trust for European Integrations, which was referred to as the committee responsible for the proposals for joint session conclusions to consider and deliver opinions on the proposed conclusions. Therefore, this proposed a respected representative, Bećirović, was realised. Since we have reached agreement on the HDZ Club proposal, we need to agree with the motion to open a debate on this issue. I remind you, this is about the Central Election Commission's decision. I also remind you that on the same day, we referred to the Central Election Commission a question of the honourable representative Slavko Matić, concerning this issue he asked in the context of the 34th session parliamentary questions, after the proposal was not accepted to supplement the agenda. Unfortunately, the official response from the Central Election Commission has not been received to date, but we have learned from the media that the Central Election Commission has not made a decision. It leaves the opportunity for the honourable representative to renew the proposal today. As for the Initiative of Honorable Representative Adem Huskić, agreement was reached in the College, it was adopted and the House College will be involved in the implementation of the initiative in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. The next previous question is the interpretation of the Rules of Procedure concerning the procedures for certain drafts of the law. In accordance with Article 20(a) and (h) of the Rules of Procedure of the Parliamentary House of BiH, the College of the House of Representatives at the 66th session, held on 23 September 2008, established the interpretation of the Rules of Procedure of the House of Representatives in connection with the implementation of the procedure for: 1. Proposal for a law supplementing the Law on the settlement of liabilities on the basis of an old foreign savings account – Proposer: Council of Ministers of BiH; 2. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Reconciliation of Obligations on the basis of an old foreign savings account – Proposer: Representative Jerko Ivanković Lijanović; 3. Proposal for a Law on the Protection of Domestic Production – Proposer: Representative Jerko Ivanković Lijanović. 3 For the draft laws relating to foreign savings, the following is the following: Proposal for a law supplementing the Law on the settlement of obligations on the basis of an old foreign savings account – Proposer: the Council of Ministers of BiH, is in parliamentary procedure under a shortened procedure, in accordance with Article 126. Rules of Procedure. The House's decision at the 34th session, held on 3.9.2018 – the additions to the Law are subject to the following questions: part of the third, ex-post verification with the set deadlines for verification, cash payments and settlements through bonds is inserted. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Reconciliation of Obligations on the basis of an account of old foreign exchange savings – Proposer: Representative Jerko Ivanković Lijanović, is in regular procedure. The House's decision at the 34th session, held on 3rd. Nine. – amendments and additions to the Law are subject to the following questions: the whole text of the law, the word'verification' is replaced by the words'relation of the account'. The following shall be amended in Article 6 and shall be amended as follows: The following articles, in accordance with this Chapter, lay down the obligations of agencies and banks. The so far chapter 'III Agency verification and demand' is amended and reads 'bank balances on accounts... on pay and deblockations, bond emissions and the like'. As regards these draft laws, we appreciate the need to apply Article 101(5) of the House’s Rules of Procedure, which reads: ‘If the House has received several bill proposals, which regulate the same questions, the College shall refer them to the procedure in accordance with paragraph (2) of this Article. If the Council of Ministers is not a legislator, the College shall refer the laws to the Council of Ministers for an opinion within 20 days. When the House gets the opinion of the Council of Ministers on the Law, the law that has received a positive opinion has priority in the follow-up procedure of the House." Since these two laws regulate the same or similar issues in a different way, priority is given to a law that has a positive view of the Council of Ministers. In this case, priority is given to this bill referred to in point 1 because the Council of Ministers is its proposing and is the first to come into parliamentary procedure. In accordance with paragraph (7) of the same article: 'By the end of the procedure in the House of First Law, the procedure for the other proposals of the law shall rest.' For the Proposal for a Law on the Protection of Domestic Production – Proposer: Agent Jerko Ivanković Lijanović, we quote the following. The proposal for a law on the protection of domestic production is in regular procedure. The House’s decision of the 34th session, held on 3.9.2018 – this proposal for a law meets the conditions for the application of Article 101(7) and the procedure for the completion of the procedure in the House on the Proposal for a Law on the Protection of Domestic Production within the CEFTA Agreement. We recall that at the 32nd session of the House, a statement on the proposal for a law on the protection of domestic production within the CEFTA Agreement was postponed by the end of this year, and, with the rest of the Council of Ministers and the relevant ministries, were in charge of preparing a comprehensive analysis of the effects of the application of CEFTA and the Stabilisation and Association Agreement on the Foreign Trade Balance of BiH. The next previous question is the conclusion of the Friendship Group. Namely, the Friendship Group for North and South America, Australia, Oceania and Japan adopted a conclusion at yesterday's session calling on the BiH Council of Ministers to send emergency material and financial assistance to food, goods, medicines and other material and technical means for the Republic of Cuba for the accident that hit them during the month of September of this year when their country was devastated by hurricanes that caused them great material damage. 4 The House College supported this conclusion of the Friendship Group and this is how I inform you. The last question before is about our club representatives. Namely, MP Rifat Dolić informed the College that he had stepped out of a club called the National Club and at this point means there are seven established representatives clubs in this house. Now, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, we're moving on to the agenda of the session. You received a draft agenda in the invitation to the session. In relation to the proposed agenda, we have made the following amendments and additions to the College and the Enlarged College: in the 11th point, we have changed the content by considering the point with the Opinion of the Constitutional Commission, which is negative, on the principles on the Bill's Proposal and on point 17 in which we have included nine agreements or conventions which were subsequently delivered in the procedure and have met the conditions for consideration. Additional clarification. This is what we said, they met the conditions for consideration, because we expected our commission to consider all these reports during yesterday. I've been informed by the chairman of the committee that because of the lack of quorum it's not done. Here, if we put this on the agenda today, I expect the Committee to hold its session during the session. I'm opening a debate. Dear Representative Bakir Izetbegović.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-09-24-0.u20401	... requested the inclusion of the agenda point which would refer to current malversions related to the issue of false personal documents in municipalities Brško, Šekovići, Srebrenica etc. So, I got principled support on the Expansive Koji, with it said that I had to do some writing material for it. Here, I did it today. Therefore, the SDA suggests that, after passing the laws, point 12 is to be classified as follows: - Proposal for a conclusion is to be made by the Council of Ministers to make up within seven days information on current malversions related to the issue of false personal documents in the municipalities of Brcko, Šekovići, Srebrenica, Bijeljina, etc. and deliver it to the BiH Parliamentary Assembly for consideration. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-09-24-0.u20402	Thank you. I'm just asking you to submit a written proposal to the College. The next one was announced by the distinguished representative Slavko Matić.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-09-24-0.u20403	Mr. President, colleagues and fellow representatives, respected representatives of the Council of Ministers, distinguished guests, above all, I would like to express my satisfaction that the College has shown its will and managed to come to an agreement to include the item of the agenda I proposed for the 34th session but at the same time show my disagreement with the obvious business shortcomings, given that the 34th point is ours, whether, at the House of Representatives, the 34th session is closed, and 5 would also make no sense for this point to be considered at any of the next sessions, the first one is 8.10, since it is the local elections that are 5.10. I therefore wish to renew my proposal, especially given the new circumstances and the information we have received from the Central Election Commission. True, I did not as a representative get an answer to the parliamentary question which was handled by the Central Election Commission when it disabled the electoral right for several thousand exiled citizens of BiH, but we received information from two parts on the implementation of Article 20.9. BiH's election law for local elections in 2008 and Information on the number of registered voters to vote through mail for the 2008 local elections. The content of this information shows that there are even more dramatic and warning arguments and reasons why Parliament's House of Representatives is considering this material today. True, we do not see in the content of this information something that a recently respected colleague Izetbegović spoke about, and what the media have been reporting in recent days, that it is speculating about a large number of issued IDs to persons who are not citizens of BiH, and now we can only assume what number it is. The Brcko District is mentioned, Srebrenica and some other municipalities are mentioned. All this warns that the October 5th local elections for certain municipalities could be irregular. Today, I propose a agenda item that reads: 'Information of the Central Election Commission of BiH on preparations for the implementation of local elections'. The material that I have received, I believe that all the other representatives in this high house have received, and it is enough to discuss this point, and the conclusion, which I proposed last time by the HDZ Club's name, can be one of the conclusions that could arise through that debate. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-09-24-0.u20404	Thank you. The following, according to this electronic application, was reported by distinguished representative Denis Bećirović, and then to prepare the distinguished representative Milica Marković.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-09-24-0.u20405	Dear Chairman, esteemed present, I suggest that immediately after considering today's draft laws as the 12th item of the agenda, we accept the proposal, which would read: 'Information on the arrest of BiH citizens Muhamed Brkić'. I propose that information be submitted today at the House of Representatives by the Ministers of Human Rights and Refugees at the Council of Ministers of BiH and Minister of Justice at the Council of Ministers of BiH. But it's no problem, even though they can't handle any such information, I have a suggestion when this agenda opens up. So I suggest that this be the 12th item of the agenda of today's 35th session of the House of Representatives. Why do I suggest we put this on the agenda today? In fact, for a long time, and this case, I think, is the culmination of such an atmosphere, one climate of legal uncertainty is being created in BiH. BiH, unfortunately, has become the largest hunting ground in Europe, too. The citizens of this country arrest whoever they want and whenever they want, with no basis whatsoever. So we had the opportunity to have a completely innocent man, a crack miner, arrested without any responsibility of any authority in this country. No Niko's responsible for this, no one's responsible. Wrong information is being supplied by individual authorities from the BiH state to other authorities, which is why ordinary people in this country suffer. I think the Ministry of Human Rights and Refugees and the Ministry of Justice, given their jurisdiction, would be obliged to inform us today what it is. And I think, yes and without this information, I expected them to remember saying something about it. Unfortunately, I repeat, such a policy is paid by ordinary people in this country. And the question arises: Who will pay for the trauma suffered by both Mr. Brkić and his family who, as we know, are also announcing a lawsuit against individual authorities of the BiH state? That's why I don't think I'm explaining further, really, they've matured the conditions that here at the House of Representatives we at least hear one piece of information about what's going on and what's going on in this country when completely innocent people are arrested and held for weeks in prisons of neighbouring states. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-09-24-0.u20406	Thank you. The next reported representative, Milica Marković, was respected, and should be prepared for the distinguished representative Jerko Ivanković Lijanović.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-09-24-0.u20407	Thank you, Mr. Chairman! Dear colleagues and fellow Members of Parliament, I would like to propose a agenda item, given that today we have a 16-point agenda on the appointment of a member of the BiH Public TV Service Management Board in the order of others. The SNSD Club suggests that the following point, so after the 16th point, the agenda should be included: - Consideration of the Commission's conclusions on traffic and communication on the debate on the point of 'The current situation in RTV BiH, which was held at the Commission's meeting on 23 September'. Since the media house has been burdened with a number of problems for a long time, we think it would be wise to consider these conclusions today. And of course, in order to have a quality debate, we ask that the conclusions of the Commission be delivered to all MPs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-09-24-0.u20408	Thank you. Please just deliver a written proposal to the agenda point in writing. The next is distinguished representative Jerko Ivanković Lijanović, and let the distinguished representative Sadik Ahmetović be prepared. 7
ParlaMint-BA_2008-09-24-0.u20409	Dear President, colleagues, fellow MPs, distinguished guests, I do not see a particular reason why today the proposal for a law on the protection of domestic production has not been found on the agenda? I don't know why the ruling six are afraid of discussing the protection of domestic production, and at all costs, he's trying to postpone it by the end of the new year, because he's not going to solve anything on this issue himself? The agreement on programme objectives 3.1.2007 committed itself to reducing the external trade deficit, and it has increased by 50% so far and is now again trying to buy for a while. Obviously, I'm going to have to propose a new law at some next session, so that in some way we can open up a debate on such an important issue, because the problems by the new year will only rise drastically and will be much harder to resolve than they are now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-09-24-0.u20410	Thank you. The following has been announced by the distinguished representative Sadik Ahmetović, and may the distinguished representative Drago Kalabić be prepared.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-09-24-0.u20411	Dear Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, before my colleagues Mr. Izetbegović and Mr. Slavko Matić spoke about this CIPS, I was going to say a few sentences. And I think that these proposals proposed by Mr Izetbegović and Mr Matić also make sense to discuss at today's session of Parliament. Since these local elections are within a few days and, behold, I can say that I am convinced that, at least when it comes to Srebrenica, they will certainly be illegal, given that in Srebrenica and other countries around 2-2,500 people have been reported. The legitimacy of the elections, therefore, also confirms that the commander of the Srebrenica Police Station has been arrested, says enough that this parliament, which has its credibility and... when it comes to the electoral process to discuss and give its opinion on this difficult, therefore certainly a difficult problem for the citizens of BiH, since it has been violated, deeply damaged the protection of the personal data of citizens in BiH. I don't think we should run away from this today, because after the election process, there can be a question of the legitimacy of the elections and thus put the elections in question in certain municipalities and into a deeper crisis, when it comes to the election process in BiH. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-09-24-0.u20412	Thank you. The following has been reported by distinguished representative Drago Kalabić, and let the distinguished representative Azra Hadžiahmetović be prepared. 8
ParlaMint-BA_2008-09-24-0.u20413	Gentlemen, the chairman, distinguished colleagues and colleagues, SNSD proposed in 16.2.2008 a 'Responsibility Declaration' to this House for adoption and since we have not received any comments today, and we have left our conclusion on the possibility of a consensus, we assume there is nothing particularly controversial in that declaration and that it can go to adoption in light and, let's say, some worse relations in BiH which shows that it was wise to adopt this declaration earlier and it would relax a lot of things. And I wouldn't repeat it now, because on many occasions we explained on what principles this declaration is based on. We think that today's adoption would contribute to a better understanding and would contribute to reaching consensus on many other important issues in BiH. So I ask the Kolegijum, if there is room and opportunity for this declaration to be put in place or for the competent authorities who were in charge of doing their job to finish the job. But I suppose, given that there's no objection to her, she's ready for adoption. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-09-24-0.u20414	I'm just asking you to be more specific. So if you have a proposal to put this point in the agenda, when you submit a concrete proposal, we'll put it on the line. Replica, the esteemed representative Bakir Izetbegović.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-09-24-0.u20415	So, I support what counterpart Kalabić has suggested, but at that time we said that a group would be formed to harmonise this declaration, given the discussions we had there. It's not done, we've had this discussion, we've said that it will be changed, supplemented, etc. She could especially be supplemented by this SDA declaration of these days. Because we're looking at the line of what's just a declaration – I'm not saying anything cynically, I'm not kidding – complemented by the obligation to definitely and fully implement the Dayton Agreement. Because it's a serious thing, I think we can do this seriously, and, I don't know, I wouldn't say we can do it anyway today, but here we are, saying, that we should give a deadline, that within a month, that committee that I and Mr. Genjac sit on is sitting on and try to find a joint proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-09-24-0.u20416	Replica, the distinguished representative of Kalabić.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-09-24-0.u20417	I think I've made myself clear and I think we're talking about different things. So we can't form a body without any objections. We've left enough time, and probably people thought that there was nothing as controversial as it seemed at the first moment. So we didn't have any objections that even today, until today's day these remarks didn't come and I guess the working bodies didn't have much to do. And if they have nothing to do, it's not a dispute. And every nine new declarations have the space to sort of get involved in the procedure just like SNSD did. But on this SDA declaration, we won't wait one second to make our remarks. But since you haven't had any objections to this in six months, I assume you agree.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-09-24-0.u20418	We've had our comments.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-09-24-0.u20419	Well, I don't see them, so here I am.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-09-24-0.u20420	It's been a while, so Mr. Kalabić forgot. You had written remarks, then we said we'd try to coordinate them, and we never sat down.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-09-24-0.u20421	Mr. Izetbegović, I beg you, and all the rest of you, do not rise from your place until you have received your word. So, by the way, go sit here and have a session. So I'm asking you and everyone else for it. The Honorable representative of the first deputy president, Mr Belkić.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-09-24-0.u20422	Here, I have reported to these initiatives and discussions by Mr. Kalabić and Mr. Izetbegović, and here is the possibility: sit on the break between the two of you and offer us one document.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-09-24-0.u20423	The following has been reported to the distinguished representative Azra Hadžiahmetović, and may the distinguished representative Momčilo Novaković be prepared.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-09-24-0.u20424	Dear Members of the College and fellow Members and fellow Members, on the proposal of my colleague Marković, or the SNSD Club, as I understand it, to include the item on the agenda of the 'Debate on the Conclusions of the Commission on Transport and Communication of the Parliamentary Assembly' held yesterday, I would like to mention, on behalf of the Party for BiH Club, that we are in favour of having a debate in this Parliament on the state of the public TV system, or in the Public TV Service, in particular with a special emphasis on Parliament communication and the Governing Board which this Parliament appoints and on the possible state of responsibility, etc. all participants in charge of the implementation of the laws adopted by this Parliamentary Assembly. However, by estimating the very content of the conclusions adopted at yesterday's meeting of the Transport and Communication Commission, among other things, and the conclusion that it will be held under an urgent joint meeting of the Committee of the Management Board of the Public TV Service, i.e. the system, representatives of the OHR and 10 managements of the Public TV Service, we appreciate that it would be good to hold this debate after the meeting that this joint meeting would have had with our parliamentary commission. We appreciate this for the simple reason why I am afraid that today's unprepared debate would not only be about conclusions, because we know very well that when we have so far debated the Management Board's report that we have discussed topics that did not concern what this Parliamentary Assembly should discuss, that today's debate would be delayed without some concrete result and would only contribute to the deterioration of the situation in the Public TV Service, BiH TV. We so appreciate, therefore, that, with the full support of this Parliamentary Assembly, we should wait for the conclusions of the Joint Meeting of the Management Board, i.e. the parliamentary committee and the Management Board, the management and representatives of the international community, and then hold a debate afterwards. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-09-24-0.u20425	Thank you. Dear representative Milica Marković: replica.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-09-24-0.u20426	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Well, I, dear colleague, do not think at all that we would not have a good debate today and that we would not come up with any useful conclusions or perhaps some information and data that is not known or available to this Parliament, so I am still staying here and asking that this item of the agenda be classified and, of course, when we come to the debate on this point, we will ask some other questions about the way we vote, to say more precisely, the votes in the Commission and all the other problems and difficulties that this media house faces, although we have said a lot in some previous period, but we believe that this situation has culminated lately in this BiH television and that it will certainly not affect our conclusions, suggestions and suggestions that we will have today after this point of the agenda. So, I'm still on behalf of the SNSD Club, and I'm staying on this agenda. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-09-24-0.u20427	Thank you. Dear Representative Bakir Izetbegović replica, so the answer, may be further comments.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-09-24-0.u20428	So, I support this position by the president of the SNSD Club.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-09-24-0.u20429	Second replica. 11
ParlaMint-BA_2008-09-24-0.u20430	Yes, the second in connection with the discussion, with Mr. Beriz's remarks. I'm surprised at the observation, because the SDA gave serious 10 amendments and the College was obliged to put together, you know...
ParlaMint-BA_2008-09-24-0.u20431	I've realized that there's an opportunity to make...
ParlaMint-BA_2008-09-24-0.u20432	Another thing, do you really think that Mr. Kalabić and I can fix in an hour what two more powerful leaders than us, politicians, have been ruining systematically for two years?
ParlaMint-BA_2008-09-24-0.u20433	I thought you could do it.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-09-24-0.u20434	Dear Representative Azra Hadžiahmetović: Replica.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-09-24-0.u20435	First of all, I'd like to thank the SDA for its support. In the second report, my kolegica Marković gave me the right to extend the debate, i.e. wait for the positions of our parliamentary committee's joint meeting with the Management Board, i.e. the management board, or representatives of the international community involved actively in the reform of the Public TV System, because, among other things, he suggested that we discuss the conclusions of the Transport Commission, in the second report, he gave a broad debate on the state in the Public TV System. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-09-24-0.u20436	Honourable representative Husein Nanić: replica.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-09-24-0.u20437	Mr. Chairman, the replica of the Milica's MPs regarding the Commission's work and the inclusion of today's agenda item on BH TV. It would be logical and normal, and it would be expected, if the Commission's re-vote was mentioned here, that, above all, it said that there was a re-vote on the Management Board that was established by competent television on the principle of Srbin, Bošnjak, Hrvat and others, a full re-vote of one constituent people in decision-making. Voting in a commission that does not have these principles is not a revote, but simply a number is enough for quorum and decision-making. For that reason, I find it not an honest intention to tell the story of today's agenda. And the next thing I want to say, as a member of the Commission, we haven't finished the story, we have reached a conclusion that we will continue our activities on this issue. And to remind you, we've had four 12 discussions, a long debate on the state of BHTV. In this House, we have reached 12 conclusions and again some policies are causing problems and deepening the poor situation in the competent institution that I want to say. That's why I really don't think that we have any reason today, or the conditions to discuss, if we want to make quality conclusions and if we want to solve the problem in this house.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-09-24-0.u20438	Thank you. A netačan allegation, the second vice-president signed up; the first reported by Honorable Dr Milorad Živković, and then the distinguished representative Milica Marković.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-09-24-0.u20439	Thank you. I don't think you've said well that the Governing Board is revoted Bošnjak, Hrvat, or Bošnjak by Hrvat and Srbin. I think it's more accurate to say that it didn't get support, it didn't get support from Sarajevo, it didn't get a Sarajevo story, it didn't get people working in BH... and they're here from Sarajevo, they're from Mostar and Banja Luka. That would be the exact quote.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-09-24-0.u20440	Dear representative Milica Marković: second replica.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-09-24-0.u20441	Yeah, second replica. A colleague, Nanić, said there was a revote in the Management Board by comparing that vote to members of the RSVBiH Management Board with a vote in parliament. I think that you've mixed something up here or that you don't know that the Management Board isn't voting by the entity voting system, but by the number of members. Therefore, primarily according to the system, whether there is a quorum and representation, the necessary representation, in order for the Management Board to make decisions competently. So this is not about our proposal for this agenda point on how the Management Board voted, but about how the Commission voted at home, so this Parliament. Was that a regular vote? And if, in some previous sessions, we have considered the conclusions of other committees of this House, I see no reason why we should not discuss the conclusions of this committee today.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-09-24-0.u20442	Thank you. The next one was applied for by a respected representative, Sadik Ahmetović, and a respected representative, Selim Bešlagić.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-09-24-0.u20443	Dear Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, I am a little concerned by this intervention of Mr. Živković: with these findings, Banja Luka and Mostar disagreed! So this is, therefore, one, not to say chauvinist, Mr. Živković will be angry, but Banja 13 Luka is mine, and Mostar is mine, and so is those others you think are not his, so so so is Sarajevo. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-09-24-0.u20444	Dear Representative Bešlagić.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-09-24-0.u20445	... BiH Parliament, no Sarajevo, no Banja Luka, no Mostar, no Tuzla, no BiH Parliament. [[no microphone turned on]] The BiH Commission discussed the problem of BiH television. No Mostara, no Banja Luka, let them discuss where they want, we discussed the problem and we reached a conclusion. Mr. Živković, you are neither a representative of Banja Luka, but you are here a representative of the Serbian people and, therefore, of the SNSD, I apologize, we have the House of Peoples there for the matter. And don't put that in for us again, Banja Luka, Mostar, Tuzla, there, put it aside. Put it aside, don't let us fight over these things. You didn't even mention her, and don't even mention her, don't even mention her, even though you graduated there, so be what I can do for you, and that's the only positive thing for you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-09-24-0.u20446	Dear Representative Azra Hadžiahmetović.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-09-24-0.u20447	Well, here's the business you can call it whatever you want, but I had a need to realize that defending the way decisions are made on the board of the Public TV Service, or a system in which there is no, as it is said, entity voting, by the SNSD, I notice a new tone, which is that an entity vote should be abolished because it is a distraction and I am so particularly pleased that I heard it today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-09-24-0.u20448	Dear Representative Dokić came forward earlier, and then the Honorable representative of the Replica Okolić, and then we'll go on to say who signed up for the replica. Okay. Then, the next respected second vice president, Milorad Živković.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-09-24-0.u20449	Chairman, I have to answer to my esteemed colleague, Bešlagić, who is a member of the Commission who, until the very end of or two minutes before the end of the presidency yesterday, has not discussed the situation in BHRTV, but we have only discussed the decision of the Management Board and the reflections of that decision. That was the point, so we didn't discuss it. It is a very complex question that, if we approach it as we have recently reached this session and this session – we will never solve it. And those who have stepped in defense of a completely legitimate, legally justified decision, i.e. to attack the decision of one well-founded, legal 14 established decision of the Governing Board, defending a remanded director at the head of a system that is the least system which should be the backbone of a much larger one, which, hopefully, will show, here, I also prejudge what will be in the next period, at least protect that system, already contribute to its further destruction. I support this proposal from Parliament Marković for the next reason. A recommendation was made yesterday, however you wish, or a suggestion to the Management Board which is not in accordance with the law, under Article 25 and Article 29. Parliament, and therefore, also the parliamentary commission, has no right to influence the decisions of the Management Board and the decisions of the Management Board are being implemented. _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] Wait a minute, I listened to you and yesterday I was patient and I will, since most likely we will not vote this item on the agenda, to say that, unfortunately, the media has been nationalally restructured on this issue, which is the most difficult thing in the whole case, claiming that yesterday could have been an incident and that I left the session, it is absolutely not true, but I said at the session - I am not going to put on the agenda to vote a point that is contrary to the law, which is why I am going out, allowing my deputy, if he wants to, to do it, and I am not going to give the legitimacy of a recommendation that is contrary to the law. Here, that's the thing, and I'm not gonna answer again, and I'm gonna seriously think about whether or not I'm gonna work on a commission like this if we don't change things.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-09-24-0.u20451	Dear second Vice-President Milorad Živković.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-09-24-0.u20452	The same radio and television that was here several times on the agenda I listened to this morning when I was coming to Sarajevo and I heard something that now the honourable Azra MP said, which is that it is heartily working to lift the entity vote in BiH, and it is from the mouth of Minister Halilović. Namely, his words are that the revised Refugee Return Strategy will relax the situation in entities in the coming period and allow the entity vote to disappear. That's what you should say here, that it's a strategy for people who won't even hide it anymore, but who say it openly in BiH. Whether someone said that Sarajevo, Banja Luka or Mostar, that's just where those members come from, if they were from Tuzla, I'd say from Tuzla. But this is the truth that is to be said here and that is the truth of what is being done here in BiH, and the method of what should look like BiH proved yesterday on the Commission and in many other places where two peoples were revoted by one nation. That's the truth in BiH. Thank you. 15
ParlaMint-BA_2008-09-24-0.u20453	Honorable representative Hadžiahmetović: another replica.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-09-24-0.u20454	I will not look back on the parts of the discussion, i.e. the replica of my colleague Živković, because I am afraid that we would leave until late afternoon in discussions about something that is not the subject of today's debate. I would like to replicate, in some way and comment on the president of the committee, when it comes to the matter we are talking about, colleagues Dokić, who, among other things, mentioned that the debate on the Board's decision is against the law. I just want to mention that if something illegal was done, it was done at yesterday's session chaired by Mr Dokić. Secondly, is it against the law, which is how you qualify, when you talk about the system, the fact that the system has never been established, or what do you appreciate who would be responsible for the coordination, of course, and the resolution committee in this Parliament, who is responsible for why the laws adopted by this Parliamentary Assembly are not implemented? So, if that's the kind of story we're going to discuss in this Parliament which we should be discussing because this Parliament is choosing the Management Board, I'm talking about it, I said at the beginning -- we're about to have a debate on this subject, after the Commission finishes the job, or realizes the conclusion, because today's debate would mean putting Parliament on this side or that side or the division of Parliament. Don't do this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-09-24-0.u20455	Thank you. The replica was signed up, second in line, by the distinguished representative Bešlagić.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-09-24-0.u20456	I have to... If a call came to the Transport and Communications Commission, which said: 'The current situation in RTVBiH', there was no debate on the regularity of the Board's decision. At that meeting came the material that you should have read well, not only of the Management Board but of the other parties and third parties, and I don't know who. Therefore the current one, the chairman could write: the debate on this topic we discussed, but he wrote 'the current situation' and we adopted such a agenda and in such a agenda it was necessary. I don't mind the debate, but I'm asking you to allow the Commission first of all to manifest itself. And to the Finance Commission, I would say, to see the audit report and the Transport and Communications Commission to carry out these talks, and then to submit to this Parliament a report and let Parliament open its soul, let it say everything it has to say. Because these things can't be tolerated anymore, they can't be tolerated and they can't be kept quiet. 16 For these reasons, I say, the president put the agenda on and I thought that on the agenda it was not just the decision of the Management Board, but the current situation. The current situation requires you to hear all actors so that you can make the right decision. So, I apologize, if it were a different decision, if it were a different agenda, Mr. Dokić, believe that I would attend, I would just make that contribution.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-09-24-0.u20457	Dear First Vice-President Beriz Belkić: Replica.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-09-24-0.u20458	Although I could have done this, counterpart Živković is sitting next to me, but the procedures and the Rules of Procedure are such that here I want to publicly replicate Mr Živković's claim regarding the strategy of Minister Halilović, or the Party for BiH, or the goals of the Party for BiH. We are absolutely not hiding, and it is absolutely clear that we are in favour of the full implementation of Annex VII, so the return of people to all of us, so all of us in all of BiH. What people will change back in this country, you can all assume for sure. It's safe, I'm sure things will look different. So, if we succeed and have the commitment to implement Annex VII, the whole Dayton Agreement would certainly be different in this country when it comes to these votes, etc. We are witnesses if we want to look the truth into the eyes that every day at every session of this House of Representatives you have a kind of revote using entity voting mechanisms.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-09-24-0.u20459	Thank you. Next is the distinguished representative Nanić: second replica.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-09-24-0.u20460	I thank you, Chairman. I'm correcting the fact, so here's the story of voting on the board of directors by entity principle. No, a member of the Bosniak people's constituent people is too loud in the body that should have taken this decision. Mr. Dokić, indeed, Professor, and if it's from you, it's too much. Because of the public, I am, indeed, abstention in replicas, you are the chairman of the Commission in which we were in the agenda points that we accepted unanimously and you left the session. You didn't want to put two conclusions proposed in the procedure. You gave yourself the right to leave the session without reason, without a business call to the Rules of Procedure and without any other logical explanation, but simply, here you were, from your dignity, refusing to give. You've violated the Rules of Procedure, you've left the session and you've created the atmosphere you wanted, just to make it the way you want it to be. Next, you say two things: that the Commission's illegal decision is an illegal decision by the Management Board. You were silent about the fact that in the Management Board, 17 members participated in the decision-making process and who had no right to make that decision. That's illegal. Because of the public, I really needed to say this. And next, the Commission has nine members, six present at the session. That's five votes for a decision. A completely legitimate decision by the Commission, legally by the Rules of Procedure, and you were the only one who violated the Rules of Procedure yesterday, because you went out and did not put the conclusions proposed.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-09-24-0.u20461	The next is – Honorable Representative Dokić, You will have the exclusive right to answer everything, so wait until we hear what everyone thinks about this topic – the distinguished representative Slavko Jovičić, a replica too. Here's your honor, please wait. Business intervention: Honorable representative Bećirović.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-09-24-0.u20462	Well, I suggest a very rational conclusion, which is to return to the agenda of today's session. We are discussing the agenda, we have a proposal for agenda points, they are proposed complements and let us make a statement. Do not open these pre-election discussions today on some issues that have not been resolved in these two years, and hardly will anyone solve them in the next 10 and 15 days. It is the October 5th election, but that doesn't mean that we should keep some big pre-elections on the agenda and talk about everything. Let's set the agenda and let's try to solve some specific life issues of ordinary people, rather than live and swim in these big topics that we obviously won't solve until October 5th.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-09-24-0.u20463	I would very much agree with you in principle, but I must say that we are absolutely in the Rules of Procedure. All these arguments are for and against including certain topics in the agenda, and I have to allow every MP to explain why something needs to be in the agenda and why it doesn't need to be. Dear representative Slavko Jovičić: replica.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-09-24-0.u20464	Dear Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, colleagues and colleagues, taking part in this exomonia, BHTV1 called, I ask the question: Who brought these 40 journalists or 30, how many have I counted before Parliament, and what is their goal today to make here? To say that RS is against BH TV, and then to get that much deeper implications – RS and SNSD are against BiH! Don't let anyone impute us any more. The only question is, did this lady have the right to vote or not on the Management Board? Who's going to give us that interpretation? One says yes, one doesn't. It depends on where the people come from. Well, when they don't know anything, the Serbian representative in that institution, or the board of directors, will be instructed. And the best option is just to say Milorad Dodik, which doesn't matter. When do we stop accusing for no reason? Another thing, why does this only commission have to be revoted if there are no representatives of one nation? Is that in the Rules of Procedure? So it's nice to say, there must be at least one present. And how long are 18 of us gonna do that all the time? The only thing this whole thing, as complicated as it is about BHT, is that I've been looking forward to having all the audit reports delivered to the D.A.'s office delivered, and I've got the answer that this is a matter. The point of the whole story is: it's not the blow of people on BH television. We said, put her on her feet and whoever made the thief, pay all that money, bring her to zero, and we'll move on to procedure. The problem is: the thieves in management there and the board of directors robbed these journalists who are moaning today that they have no pay. So that's the point. We're not against BHTV1, we're not against journalists, we're against thieves who previously robbed 25 million marks and put us in a position to make up for it. You've got a clear attitude from us. Republika Srpska and our representatives here, we SNSD MPs will never give support to resuscitating it. So that's why we said as an addendum: How come the Minister's right to pay for the BH TV satellite transmission program? From what means? Who was that when you approved? Who made contracts and countless things about BH television that we had here five or six times? As long as we go through this story and, I say now, look at all tonight's reports: RS representatives, impact on BHTV1, impact on BiH! Leave us, people, more of those stories! As long as I repeat it to you, not to you, but to the public, BiH or Bosnia and Herzegovina is our country, but if you start to respect us, it will never be if you humiliate us at every point, including a board member as he voted. I'm asking, was he right or wrong? Who's going to explain? Give the interpretation legal and no discussion without it. Was the woman right or wrong? That's the point. What are we going to discuss further?
ParlaMint-BA_2008-09-24-0.u20465	Next respected representative Jerko Ivanković Lijanović: replica.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-09-24-0.u20466	It is evident here that neither the Hrvat, the Bošnjak, nor the Srbin, are revoted to work in accordance with their rules of procedure. Yes, if anyone has any objection to the work of those bodies, the competent authorities that assess legality, which assess constitutionality, are known. Here it is evident that the ruling coalition is unable to lead this country forward. I'm asking you not to waste our time on these ridiculous things. That the internal differences before the session should always be agreed, finished, that here, in essence, all the other MPs and guests do not waste any time needlessly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-09-24-0.u20467	I thank you for your very constructive suggestions. The next is the distinguished representative Dokić: responds to countless replicas and others.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-09-24-0.u20468	Well, here's one proposal for information... to get into the agenda, we've made the whole discussion. First I have to say, with all due respect to my colleague Azra, it's not the first time that she or she didn't understand what I wanted to say when I was metaphorically speaking, and that's why I was ready to apologize to you all, but I can't understand that she doesn't understand when I speak directly and explicitly. I did not say, fellow Azra, that the debate was against the law, but that the recommendation in one of the two conclusions is against the law because it interferes directly in the work of the Management Board, and this Parliament does not have the right under the law. So I repeat again. 19 Second, colleagues Bešlagić. Well, it's true that the agenda was what you said. But, Mr. Bešlagić, we didn't discuss the agenda. We didn't even let the chairman of the board of directors speak. In two hours' time, he didn't say a single sentence. Or anyone but us who discussed and talked about how to lead the session. On the other hand, it absolutely does not stand for what Nanić said I was against two proposals. This second conclusion was also my proposal, only without a call from the OHR. And I wanted to put him to the vote, but the first proposalor asked, if you want to end the truth, for his proposal to be the first. And I said 'I don't mind, but I'm going out while the motion is being voted on', thinking I should return, continue to hold a session on the second proposal, but no one invited me. I was standing outside the O.R. Now, that's true. And about that session, I really don't want to talk anymore, and we're gonna have a day-long debate, if this is how we figure it out, about the state of BHTV.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-09-24-0.u20469	Thank you. Dear Representative Jozo Križanović: replica.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-09-24-0.u20470	Mr. Chairman, namely, the fact is, therefore, it is generally known that the situation on TV, or on the TV system of BiH, is alarming, and we have known this for more than a year. And it is perfectly normal for this situation to be discussed by the committee in charge of this Parliament. It's perfectly normal for me to have this home discuss it urgently today. But not in a way that Parliament is getting involved... over the board of directors of the TV system, but to rationally look at the cause of this state. I'll never get into a discussion about how the TV system works. I just want to make sure that the board of directors who appointed this parliament is doing well or not. And I ask you, is it normal for a board of directors, in less than a year, to be replaced by two directors-generals, and that the situation, according to them, is worse or has nothing improved? So, I support colleague Marković's proposal today to discuss the RTS system, the BiH service, but not in a way to focus on the conclusions, or recommendations of our commission, but to finish the job. We can discuss for three days the way we've talked so far, nor do we have the competence to interfere with decisions or management moves, but it's our job to enable technical and other assumptions for people to do their job there. And we never got the right demands from the Management Board to lead to that solution. So, here, if there can be a new proposal, I'm pushing for a debate today on the RT system in a way that we can talk about the situation in order to solve the problem, not just focus on this conclusion of our commission. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-09-24-0.u20471	I don't have any more replicas to report. The following has been announced for the debate by the esteemed representative Momčilo Novaković, and let the distinguished representative Mirko Okolić be prepared. 20
ParlaMint-BA_2008-09-24-0.u20472	I thank you, Mr. Chairman. It seems to me that all of these points of the agenda could be accepted and discussed today. Namely, Mr Matić's proposal, which says that the Central Election Commission's information on preparations for the implementation of local elections is quite clear, concise, we know exactly what the Election Commission is going to inform us about and I don't see why they can't do it quickly so that we are in charge of this debate today. Also, the SDA's proposal is a very simple question. Nothing is simpler than to check two or three thousand ID cards in these seven days, call a meeting of the Council of Ministers, make material and deliver here, of course, by calling Parliament immediately on the eighth day, if it is possible before the election, and to end this and to have legitimate and legal elections. As for the SNSD proposal and their declaration, I also think it's a simple question and I don't see why something that hasn't been agreed on in a few months couldn't be done in an hour. I think there's basically real, so that means something like that. Mr. Bećirović proposed a agenda item on the arrest of citizens. I have to say that I asked around and I didn't know what it was about, so I found out that Parliament should be discussed: why was someone arrested in Split by order of Belgrade? And it's the wrong man. And it seems that without the BiH Parliament, it is impossible for someone to release the wrongly arrested man, but we need to draw some conclusion. And I don't think it's a difficult question to invite people in Croatia and Belgrade to brief us on this quickly and to end it today. We could also answer this question today - entity voting. And I don't see why and why we shouldn't solve it today so we don't have any problems with constitutional changes, and we can open this issue to the tv service, because it seems like we haven't solved anything more easily than that in the last two years. And all of this, I'm convinced, is eager for all of our voters, all of us here, to discuss today, because there's no better time than today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-09-24-0.u20473	Dear representative Slavko Matić: replica.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-09-24-0.u20474	Dear counterpart Novaković, in his well-known way, somewhat humorous, ironic, commented on the points proposed on the agenda. He may be right for some others, but for the point I have suggested he is absolutely wrong, because the Central Election Commission should not prepare anything in the future for a haste today, it has already delivered the information that has been received in the Parliamentary Assembly 17.9. I assume Agent Novaković also received this information. And that is exactly the material I propose to be the item of the agenda that will be discussed, which, if agreed, we will make adequate conclusions or decisions. Thank you. 21
ParlaMint-BA_2008-09-24-0.u20475	Thank you. The next is Honourable representative Mirko Okolić, and let the second deputy chairman, Dr. Milorad Živković, be prepared.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-09-24-0.u20476	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues and fellow Members of Parliament, members of the Council of Ministers, NGOs, information funds and dear guests, here today we have really good and constructive proposals to include on the agenda of this House, but in this way I don't think it's a good thing to do this, because what would make sense among these proposals to enter the agenda today, or to enter today's debate, is probably not going to enter or be lost in all this, and could have gone through the proposals in the regular procedure. It is known by the Rules of Procedure that what is most important and most urgent, with a good explanation, is proposed at the sitting itself as a part of the agenda, and this should be respected. There are some suggestions here that require urgency and ok. I agree on that. But what has nothing to do with any urgency but it has to do with the fact that today we may conclude that we are sitting in a way that we have an open session until 3.10, right, 4th, we don't already need electoral silence or silence and that this is how we propose agenda points to anyone, regardless of what was previously the College was, which was yesterday, which made a quality agenda for this session and that it felt that on the agenda this session should be what should really be in the regular procedure, not interfering with this election campaign. But here, as it opens today, I think that after my discussion, someone else will probably call to set up some sort of, or to suggest another item of the agenda, regardless of what it requires, as someone said – and here at one point, Mr Dokić said, as chairman of this committee – a fat debate, a lot of material is read, a lot of consultation to be done to make the right decisions during the debate, because it is really about important and important things. Today, it is truly unserious to put this all on the agenda and to make such quick conclusions and suggestions that we today only have oral information about, and some of us have nothing. And finally, here's how much I figured it out, it's not good to be innocent so he doesn't get arrested somewhere in the world. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-09-24-0.u20477	Thank you. The esteemed second vice president, Dr. Milorad Živković.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-09-24-0.u20478	Thank you, Chairman. I think we forgot to say that we are today, and that's in the extended college agreed, we decided to work from 10.00 to 17:00, so tomorrow we wouldn't be able to continue the session if we were to interrupt today, but that it could be the 7th of next month first. In line with these 22 proposals that are on the agenda today, some of them, firstly, are not possible to put them on the agenda, and secondly, we think that it is not good to put them on the agenda. When I couldn't agree to put on the agenda a question that Mr Matić had elaborated, I think I did well, because after that the Central Election Commission and others did part of the work that they were in charge of doing the job. To open this whole story, I think we would question the electoral process and, according to the results of these elections, give the right to individual groups, parties, and peoples to declare these elections that are so close to us, irregular or raise that question. It would be another slap on BiH and its reputation and so far the Central Election Commission and the conduct of elections in BiH that have been evaluated very well in the past few years. That's why I don't think that would be a good point of the agenda. And also, since the CEC isn't here, and even if it was there, it certainly wouldn't be able to answer all the questions. As you know, many issues have been raised and not only are voters' rights but many other issues have been raised in connection with the elections. Speaking of 'Resolution on Responsibility', Mr. Izetbegović said the College was guilty. However, I will remind him of the conclusion that we have all adopted here, and he said: 'Yes, the SDA Club suggests that the SNSD resolution, and the content of the discussion of the MPs'... not to be read further. And my addition to this conclusion, which is here in Parliament, is adopted: 'That within seven days the clubs propose their representatives to this group to start working, and that the 30-day deadline is calculated from the submission of proposals for members of this group.' The SDP and the SDA proposed their members, the other clubs didn't do it. Do you think the College will always remind club presidents to submit their proposals to form a working group? I think you were wrong, that the conclusion is concise and very clear. The other clubs need to propose their representatives. To get out of this situation today, I think it would be a good idea to sit down and talk to the extended college, at least half an hour to take a break, and see if someone's going to give up their proposals so we can finish this job the way I suggested. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-09-24-0.u20479	Thank you. I don't have any more charges to argue with. I'm taking a half-hour break and I'm inviting members of the College in an extended composition at hall 2/II. [[PAUZA]] Please take your seats. Who else are we missing? Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, we continue our work. Here, we held a session of the Extended College of the House in this apartment in order to try to reach agreement on the proposed amendments to the agenda, and I must inform you that we have not reached an agreement so that, in accordance with the 23 current Rules of Procedure, we will move to a statement on proposals to supplement the agenda in the order they are referred to. We will first declare on the SDA proposal presented by Mr Bakir Izetbegović, who suggested that, in accordance with Article 65. Rules of Procedure on the work of the Parliamentary Assembly, under point 11. Proposal for a conclusion "The Council of Ministers is in charge of making up, within seven days, 'Information on current malversions relating to the issue of false personal documents in the municipalities of Brcko, Šehovići, Srebrenica, Bijeljina and the same delivery to the Parliamentary Assembly for consideration." Please prepare to vote. Vote 17 votes "yes", nine "against", without "abstained" -- we do not have an entity majority for this proposal. There's no consent in the College. We move to a second-round vote in which everyone votes, and the votes "against" count. Prepare to vote. Vote now! With 17 votes "yes", 10 "against" means two-thirds "against" from the RS -- the proposal is not accepted. We move to a statement on the proposal of the HDZ Club, which was proposed by the prominent representative Slavko Matić, who suggests that the 'Information of the Central Election Commission of BiH be included in the agenda on preparations for the implementation of the local elections'. Stand by. Vote now! 20 votes "yes", 10 "against", without "abstained", we do not have an entity majority. There's no consent. We're moving on to a statement in the second round. Please prepare to vote. Vote now! 20 votes "yes", 10 "against" without "abstained"; two-thirds "against" from the RS - the proposal was not accepted. We move on to a statement on the proposal of distinguished representative Denis Bećirović, who suggested that the agenda item 'Information on the arrest of BiH citizens Muhamed Brkić' be established. Please prepare to vote. Vote now! 21 votes “for, ” nine“ against, ” one “abstained. ” I'm realizing he doesn't have an entity majority. We don't have the consent. 24 We move to a statement in the second round. Stand by. Vote now! 21 votes "yes", 10 "against", without "abstained" votes; two-thirds "against" from the RS – I realise that this proposal is not accepted either. We move to a statement on the SNSD proposal proposed by the prominent representative Milica Marković, and the proposal for a agenda item is 'A consideration of the conclusion of the Transport and Communication Commission of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH on the debate on the current situation in RTVBiH, which was held at the Commission meeting 23.9.2018. 'years.' Prepare to vote. Vote now! 11 votes "for", 18 "against", two "abstained". I find that there is no general majority and the proposal has not been accepted. We move on to the statement of the distinguished representative Drago Kalabić, who proposed the item of the agenda 'Proposed Declaration of Responsibility'. Prepare to vote. Vote now! 11 votes "for", 17 "against", three "abstained". It doesn't have a general majority, and I find that the proposal has not been accepted. I therefore conclude that the 35th session of the House, namely the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH's House of Representatives, has the following
ParlaMint-BA_2008-09-24-0.u20484	Thank you, Chairman. I said that I would constantly, constantly ask questions and comment on the answers... Well, commentary, I got two questions and a comment, yeah, I know what I'm talking about. I'm sorry there's no SDP president here, the unscheduled academic, otherwise an expert in all areas. I'm happy with the lawyer's response, I got another answer from the attorney general. I personally went to the D.A., BiH's Attorney General. This way, I thank Dragica Miletić, who is consciously, honestly and honestly doing her job, who has taken all legal actions to finally return to the state property that the SDP is temporarily and illegally using to return to the state. She sent an act here, she notified the BiH Archives, the Federal Defence. When she gets those answers, then she'll go with a lawsuit to court to get into possession. There are also criminal responsibilities for someone who illegally entered someone else's property and that's the SDP. That's what legal experts will consult, some lawyer will find, and we'll go that way, because it's a huge 27-year-old. Believe me, nothing is registered to the SDP. She told me that. While Ljubiša Marković was still the head of the Centre Municipality, then something tried, nothing ended. So all the assets SDP uses are state property, property of the Republic of BiH -- given to the use of the Alliance of Communists of Yugoslavia. So, I'm happy I'm still going. I have a question for you today. It's clear from this to everyone, the only thing I don't understand is what the Council of Ministers is doing. I'm going to ask the Council of Ministers again today. And in particular... the damage, and there we have the right, and it can be in court all... it is absolutely the right of the country, on the side of this Parliament and it is our obligation to do our job, not someone to finance from the resources of the state. So you see these campaigns, that's all state money, that's what the people need to know about -- the man, the man who uses so much property! For the European way, and all and one law against the European way, and so on. I think I'll be, I'm usually a persistent man: what I've been up to, that's what I've accomplished. I'll go every day, if I have to, to the D.A., I'll go all the way, but this has to be realized in this term. So much and thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-09-24-0.u20485	Thank you. The following is registered for comment by the esteemed representative Slavko Jovičić.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-09-24-0.u20486	The Honorable chairman, distinguished representatives of the Council of Ministers, representatives of NGOs, of course the media, colleagues and fellow MPs, received two answers. I'm not happy with any of them. From the Ministry of Human Rights and Refugees, I received an answer to my question where they have spread, and I agree with this formulation that they have defined, although the question was not so, because they have defined it this way: 'When will the decision on the constitutionality of the people and equal representation be respected.' No, I ask the second session of Parliament to respect the national principle in all state-level institutions by percentage, according to the '91 census. For years, as long as we stick to the constitutionality of the people. And never before have I received from any institution a percentage by name: Srbin, Bošnjak and Hrvat as much as they work in which institution. True, I was getting some job systematicizations, so one agency wrote to me: they have a deputy, assistant, director, I don't know who, secretary, I want to write there not my name but Marko Marković, Jozo Jozić, Mustafa Mustafić, and how they were received, so I set an equitious example in diplomacy where the entire families are, which would be insane this statement, but here I will say, genetically predetermined to be in diplomacy, which is not true, and there is that. Of course, that's why I asked a question like that. And what they have now said in their response, which is why I am not satisfied, has given me recommendations from European and international conventions. It's like I don't know that all these conventions have a basis for domestic legislation. I don't need that. So they said they had, that it was their opinion that for the purpose of realising the decision: the executive and legislative judicial authorities are bound. So who wants a second or a third? So, of course, they do. And then they said, to ensure the full implementation of this decision, which requires political full consent... Whose? What kind of consent do you need here? 28 The decision of the BiH Constitutional Court, the largest court instance, should be respected here, and it is true - in that institution, I stress, for so many Srbin, Bošnjak, Hrvat and others, and not to play with the people, so in TVBiH you have 11.2% of Bosanac. And even if they were a recognised national minority, it could be 1.2%, and it can't be 11.2%. How long will someone play with this House? So that's the first question. And around the property of the Serbian Orthodox Church, I said last time, I don't know who I'm going to set up anymore. I'm pushing for the return of property to the Islamic community. If she's not returned somewhere, let them turn around and say where! The Catholic Church where it wasn't returned! And I say, the Serbian Orthodox Church has not been returned anywhere. And then, in response, they wrote to me, as soon as they didn't say, it's subjective to the cantonal authorities of Sarajevo whether they'll ever return or, what I say, never. People, Parliament has a responsibility, I know what kind of responsibility, but lower levels can really disabling us with all kinds of information, these answers that I can't be satisfied with. He has a decision signed in 1991 by the then Executive Council to return the buildings of the Faculty of Economics to theology. Come on, it's time to take other property, but can we respect that? It's not us, it's those competent authorities of Canton of Sarajevo. He won't do that either. How do you want, people, at BiH level to achieve equality, how do you want all three nations to build a state together? And here I tell you, we will, this is my country, don't keep telling you again. And don't keep imputing something that we're against. No, but can we suffer more humiliation, discrimination of the entire people? In the capital where we're sitting today, this is my town, I'll admit it when they at least start to solve it. I'm not sure they'll ever solve this, but here, let them begin, so I'll be happy. And that is why, not to repeat, when it comes to parliamentary issues, I will insist on both questions but to formulate what I have said, in an answer that I am not satisfied with. And, around the Serbian Orthodox Church, don't spread to me the constitutionality of the nation, as if I hadn't read the Constitutional Court Decision. I did. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-09-24-0.u20487	Thank you. I don't have any more logs. Is there? Have there been any comments received? Dear Representative Denis Bećirović, is there more? There isn't.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-09-24-0.u20488	I would like to comment on the response, namely the non-responsibility of the BiH Council of Ministers. Before that, let me just say that it really impresses Mr. Sadik Bahtić's sada to focus on the essential problems in this country. TV is falling apart, there's no ombudsmen, all the institutions are falling apart, etc., and he's talking about the main things again, according to his work. I'm reporting on...
ParlaMint-BA_2008-09-24-0.u20489	... robbed, then talk to Bahtić... 29
ParlaMint-BA_2008-09-24-0.u20490	Dear Representative Bahtić, please allow your colleague to finish.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-09-24-0.u20491	I proposed an initiative to the House of Representatives almost a year ago to adopt the 'Corruption Strategy in the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH'. I remind my colleagues that the House of Representatives has supported the initiative almost unanimously and that we have accepted this initiative and tasked the BiH Council of Ministers to deliver the Anti-Corruption Strategy here to Parliament within three months. The Council of Ministers does not respect this decision by Parliament's House of Representatives, does not respect all those NGOs that are also insisting on the issue. After that, I had three times in Parliament here, so at the House of Representatives sessions, once, you were witnesses, and verbally asked the chairman directly, and twice in writing renewed: why there is no strategy in the BiH Parliament. Last night you could see that BiH is the most corrupt country in the Balkans according to these reports. So the adopted Parliament's initiative, on a three-fold question, has no answer. Failure to respond is also the answer in this country. For this reason, I just want to realize that this Council of Ministers of BiH does not want to respect this parliament, the House of Representatives, that it does not want to respect the decisions of the House of Representatives and that it does not want to respect the Rules of Procedure that we are working on, because it writes very clearly how and under what conditions MPs are asking questions and how they are being answered. This is my comment on this complete deafening of the Bosnian Herzegovina government, namely the Council of Ministers, on an important issue for which, apart from this individual insistence, there is also the basis of the entire House of Representatives of the Parliamentary Assembly.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-09-24-0.u20492	Thank you. I don't have any more comments to comment on. Let's go ask you some questions. The first came from the esteemed second vice president, Dr. Milorad Živković. Well, let the distinguished representative Bakir Izetbegović be prepared. And let's go now, the next one will be called.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-09-24-0.u20493	Thank you, Chairman. A very short question addressed to the BiH Ministry of Foreign Affairs and the BiH Ministry of Foreign Trade and Economic Relations. - Did BiH sign and ratify the ATA Carnet Agreement? If not, at what stage is it the same and when will it be signed? 30 A brief explanation: So in communication with young people, those most affected by the non-signature and this agreement, I hear they have problems when they want to organize gigs in some other countries or theatre performances. Under the agreement, if it were signed, we wouldn't have trouble at customs to transfer their instruments, various towers and other things. I think BiH should urgently sign those agreements with neighbouring countries, and then with everyone else with whom it can and has no obstacles not to do so. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-09-24-0.u20494	Thank you. The next is distinguished representative Bakir Izetbegović, and let the distinguished representative Azra Hadžiahmetović be prepared.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-09-24-0.u20495	I think I'm going to start an initiative they're going to support, except for the SDA club, and some other clubs. Now I've written it with my hand, and I'm going to type it so, here's what it's going to say: - Given the established indications that it's a large number of bh. Citizens with reduced voting rights in the upcoming local elections, especially in the municipalities of Bosnia and Herzegovina, and that, through current malversions related to the issue of false personal documents in the municipalities of Brcko, Šekovići, Bijeljina, etc., it is possible to unlawfully exercise electoral rights for citizens of neighbouring countries, we ask: 1) for SIPA BiH to carry out a check in the issued home documents on the possession of citizenship for 2,084 persons not included in the electoral list for alleged disputed beliefs on citizenship and, if they are found in the parent books, to be included in the electoral list, to allow them to vote in the local elections; 2) to be obliged by the Council of Ministers to draw up information within seven days on current malversions related to the issue of more important personal documents; 3) if the execution of the local elections is not fulfilled in the short term and the short term of time. I think... in those municipalities, it will.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-09-24-0.u20496	Thank you. The word has a distinguished representative, Azra Hadžiahmetović, and let the distinguished representative Mirko Okolić be prepared. 31
ParlaMint-BA_2008-09-24-0.u20497	Thank you, Chairman. I have two parliamentary questions. First, Canton Sarajevo's Ministry of Education and Science sent a letter to the Council of Ministers' Ministry of Civil Affairs on 18.8.2008 concerning the adoption of two acts. First, 'The Rules of Procedure on the Use of Academic Titles and the acquisition of scientific and professional titles in higher education institutions' and second, 'The Rules of Procedure on the content of public documents issued by higher education institutions'. In response to the ministry of civil affairs, number 09-33-5-3960-MP/08, it says a proposal for a solution to these regulations is pending by a rectorial conference in BiH and says it is made at the final stage. By letter from the Rector of the University of Sarajevo, we have been informed that the rectorial conference never had on the agenda any working material that would represent a joint proposal, and that it is difficult to expect it to happen soon. How are we a signator of the Bologna Declaration, and as such in the obligation to implement the commitments we have made, I ask the question of the Ministry of Civil Affairs: - When will they do these sublaws, which is their obligation, which will solve the problem of academic calling in BiH, harmonising academic space and meeting the obligations we have made by signing the Bologna Declaration? With this question, I would like to draw attention to the problems that have arisen from the lack of sublegal acts that regulate this matter, and appeal to the urgency of adopting them. And another question. On behalf of the Party for BiH Club, I am asking a parliamentary question to the Management Board of the Public TV System to answer: - Who days, months and years will finally be implemented the laws adopted by the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH a few years ago? Please explain the answer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-09-24-0.u20498	Thank you. Next is the distinguished representative Mirko Okolić, and let the distinguished representative Husein Nanić be prepared.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-09-24-0.u20499	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Here's a question I've got. I'll explain it a little bit. In view of BiH's signing of the Stabilisation and Association Agreement between the European Communities and its Member States, it has taken over and fulfilled certain obligations, among these obligations is obligations in the field of ecology, given that the situation in the field of greenology in BiH is almost catastrophic, and that it is estimated that millions of converting marks and years of time are needed only to clean up and bring into order and a satisfactory state of public area, such as those. The riverbeds, streams, lakes, seas, 32 their coasts, garbage dumps, road belts, parking spaces by these road belts and other, circular directions, unsecured excursions, natural and artificial caves, exploitation zones of stone etc. And not to mention, I'm asking for an answer from the BiH Council of Ministers. - What has been done so far on this subject, their assessment of the current situation, and the assessment of when this area will be regulated according to European and world standards, i.e. so that our citizens are more beautiful and healthy in their environment and in our environment, or that we are not ashamed of ourselves and our guests from other countries, and that we are proud to show our natural beauty which is truly generous, but which we have been using lately? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-09-24-0.u20500	Thank you. The next is the distinguished representative Husein Nanić, and let the distinguished representative Branko Dokić be prepared.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-09-24-0.u20501	I thank you, Chairman. At today's 35th session, I would like to ask two parliamentary questions, and I would like to ask the ministers, to whom they refer, to deliver an answer. The first question is for the ministry of foreign trade and economic relations. In fact, we have been witnessing that foreign shopping centres have been growing rapidly in BiH for the past few years. According to the knowledge I have, and according to some of them, there is no legal obligation or any other obligation for these newly opened foreign shopping centres to hold a certain percentage of domestic, i.e. products manufactured in BiH for sale. Besides, bh. companies have a problem placing their product in these centers. I ask the question Minister: - What have you done so far and what are you planning to do in order for foreign shopping centres in their shops to have a certain percentage of domestic, i.e. products manufactured in BiH? And the second question is for the foreign minister. That goes for the next one. The BiH presidency has made a decision to form three Bosnian-Herzegovina information-cultural centres abroad, one of which is the proposal, according to which two are set up in Europe and one in the United States. I ask the question of Minister: - What have you done and what are you planning to do in order to implement the BiH Presidency's decision to set up Bosnian-Herzegovic cultural information centres?
ParlaMint-BA_2008-09-24-0.u20502	Thank you. The next is distinguished representative Branko Dokić, and let the distinguished representative Denis Bećirović be prepared. 33
ParlaMint-BA_2008-09-24-0.u20503	Mr. Chairman, I also have two questions. One question was addressed to the BiH Council of Ministers. - What will the Council of Ministers do about the latest developments in Elektroprenos and about Elektroprenos BiH? The Council of Ministers has had to take a number of measures by now. In particular, on a proposal from the Commission on Transport and Communications, the Parliamentary Assembly adopted a proposal to urgently approach the amendment of the law, namely the law on the transposition of the system regulator and operator, the law on the establishment of a transmission company and the law on the establishment of an operator of electricity transmission. The last such suggestion, i.e. a request or a warrant, however you wish, was addressed to the Council of Ministers at the 24th session, held on 18 and 19 March 2008. It wasn't done, as far as I know, that nothing was working on it, and all those who are professionally dealing with this issue have seen a series of shortcomings, and by this there is, so to say, a national consensus that root changes are needed. A series of solutions that were made there were quite wrongly set up, including three managers of the State Regulatory Agency pointed to on several occasions on our commission. Bear in mind the fact that, given the way we trusted people who came to our side, we accepted that an expert on pyramids, exactly Egyptologist, would be a key man or a key woman, all the same, I'm saying what it was, about making various acts, because it was crucial where there was no consent and there were a series of imposed solutions. In addition to the issue of amending legislation, the Council of Ministers should seriously address the principles formulated by the RS government. If the Federation of BiH accepted these principles, the Council of Ministers would have no need to deal with the issue. With the Federation of BiH ignoring them, the Council of Ministers would have to address these principles because they are technically justified, logical and objective, as they provide equal positions for both entities. In all normal stock companies in the world, the ratio of capital invested is the basic parameter to regulate all relationships in society. Why the Federation doesn't meet that principle, I don't understand. Is it necessary to explain to someone that directing funds from depreciation from one entity to another, in a concrete case from the RS to the Federation of BiH, leads to an erosion of RS capital and that this entity cannot tolerate it. So, in addition to legal changes and changes in a series of profits, why we need a long time, given the situation, the Council of Ministers should also address issues of the proposed principles of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. The current situation certainly does not correspond to anyone other than those who have tried to make a political model out of a particular technical issue, and it seems to me that they are still trying to make a political model. The second issue was addressed to the Council of BiH and High Representative Miroslav Lajčak. Asked of them: - What will the Council of Ministers and High Representative Miroslav Lajčak do to finally resolve the Starovlah family's claim by diplomatic means between BiH and NATO forces? 34 I would like to remind you that on 1 April 2004, SFOR units raided the parish house of priest Jeremija Starovlah and in a very brutal way destroyed everyone in front of them, using explosives, firearms,... bombs and a brutal physical force. SFOR soldiers used blunt, hard objects, mechanical tools, and parts of the human body damaged by Jeremija Starovlah and Aleksandar Starovlah to inflict severe physical injuries, dangerous to life that left severe and lasting consequences on their health. The damaged Vitorka Starovlah suffered mental pain and trauma. Should it be recalled that Aleksandar Starovlah, a young man at the age of 29, remained permanently 100% disabled and couldn't take care of himself, needed someone else's care, and that Jeremija's priest was 70% disabled. The Starovlah family has made a damaging request to SFOR's civil sector for complaints and from their centre in Sarajevo in Camp Butmir have been denied by reason that they, referring to the BiH-NATO Treaty item 18. – that they are not obliged to bear the costs and... in an explanation it states that they do not pay damages for actions made in military operations. The facts are quite different: that this is not a military operation, but, among other things, the consil of doctors of the Military Medical Academy from Belgrade and a permanent judicial expert, Dr Hamza Žujo of Sarajevo, have concluded that the injuries were caused by blunt and highly swung mechanical tools, and that such injuries are caused by multiple punches, bent into fists, feet, elbows, and, I still do not read to you, there is a whole paragraph of their report. No signed document between BiH and NATO states that NATO is amnesty for intentional harm and especially in situations where the damage in this case is not at all guilty, nor was there any cause. I would like to point out that the Geneva Convention on Human Rights also does not release NATO's responsibility. The RS government also discussed the issue and suggested to the BiH Ministry of Justice and the BiH Foreign Ministry that the issue be resolved diplomatically between BiH and NATO, in accordance with point 18. An addendum to the BiH-NATO Agreement force. NATO has not yet answered, has not answered this question, and if this issue is not resolved diplomatically, so in my question I call on the High Representative to intervene on the resolution of this case from this issue, that, in accordance with Article 6(1) of the European Convention on Fundamental Rights and Freedoms, which are directly applicable in BiH, pursuant to Article II(2). The BiH Constitution, everyone has the right to access the court. The Starovlah family, with this NATO relationship, is being challenged by the right to access the court. Signing a technical agreement and annexes and giving immunity to NATO members in accordance with the UN Convention on Privileges and Immunity of 13 February '46. in the year, BiH denied the Starovlas, as individuals, the right to access the court against NATO. That is why BiH is responsible for SFOR's procedures. Article 1 The European Convention shall require countries to guarantee each other, in their jurisdiction, the rights and freedoms laid down in Article 1. European Conventions. In this way it is not limited to the state, i.e. BiH to transfer its powers but further guarantees, is responsible to its citizens for respecting the rights established by the European Convention, i.e. that they have the right to access the court and to exercise their legal rights to compensation for damages. Based on the previous, and I conclude, it is unequivocal that unless a diplomatic agreement is reached between NATO and BiH, the Staravlas will have to compensate BiH for the damage as a responsible state. I think it would be good if everything was taken to achieve an agreement, so that BiH, as a state, would not be sued for one, I would say, a major misdemeanor with severe consequences. 35
ParlaMint-BA_2008-09-24-0.u20504	Time! Thank you. The next is distinguished representative Denis Bećirović. Let the distinguished representative Slavko Matić be prepared.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-09-24-0.u20505	Here, we are all witnessing how much problems are created around Bosnian Herzegovina television, but in the shadow of these problems there are much more serious problems on the media plan in BiH. That's why I have one specific question for the Communications Regulatory Agency. - Namely, what concrete measures, i.e. sanctions, will be taken by the Regulatory Agency for Communications against those TV stations in BiH, which, in its central diaries, in that part of the time forecast, shows entity boundaries as state borders? ... I'm not going to state today what television is, people at the Communications Regulatory Agency need to know very well, except that the border between, say, Serbia and Romania and Serbia and Bulgaria is as marked as the border between the two entities in the BiH state. I mean, such huge things as violating the BiH Constitution, undermining the BiH state as members of the UN is indeed unacceptable and unacceptable. And I really expect this question to be forwarded to the Regulatory Agency for Communications as soon as possible to get an answer to this question. The second question, given that it is not accepted today to be placed as a part of the agenda, I ask the question of the BiH Minister of Human Rights and Refugees and Minister of Justice. - What are the reasons and who is responsible in BiH for the arrest of BiH citizens Muhamed Brkić? And the third question, I am renewing for the fourth time at Parliament's House of Representatives. - The issue is about delivering the text 'The Anti-Corruption Strategy in BiH'. I am re-setting it to the BiH Council of Ministers and the chairman of the Council of Ministers, Mr Špirić. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-09-24-0.u20506	Thank you. At the request of the SDA Club, I'm taking a break until 14.10. [[PAUZA]] We're continuing our work. The next is to ask the parliamentary question, the esteemed representative Slavko Matić, and let the distinguished representative Šemsudin Mehmedović be prepared. 36
ParlaMint-BA_2008-09-24-0.u20508	I have one parliamentary question and I have also answered to support the initiative that Mr Izetbegović presented here, in the name of four... clubs. The parliamentary issue is very short to the Regulatory Agency for Communications. - Based on which regulations and reasons are blocked and shut down the signal of the second Croatian radio-television programme within the BiH cable TV networks, and at the time of the sports events of this TV house? I want to support the name of the HDZ Club's initiative in full, in all its content submitted by Mr Izetbegović on behalf of these four clubs and let me just say that when we haven't already had a chance to have a agenda point and discuss it. From the materials delivered by the Central Election Commission, it is evident that as many as 8,011 persons have been rejected with their request and expressed desire to vote in the upcoming elections by mail, i.e. from abroad and what is symptomatic and slightly strange: over 55%, of these 8,011, is from the territory of the Republic of Croatia 4.372. The figure also includes these 2,084 for which, as a reason for not including the voter list, the illegal belief, i.e. the Census of Citizenship, is issued in Slavonski Brod on the basis of the parent books which have been delivered in the meantime and are available to BiH authorities. I would also like to express my dissatisfaction with the subsequent decision of the Central Election Commission, when it was already clear that this would make the parent books available, they then recommended that these persons come to BiH and take out the CIPS's personal and can vote. In my view, it was a much simpler way and I even think that the Central Election Commission was obliged in this regard to take steps to make sure that they or some other competent authority simply examine the citizens' books that were then delivered and available, check each of those 2,084 persons and if it turns out that they are in books to simply include them in the electoral list, rather than re-invite and harass those people to come and take out the CIPS as if this is the only way that someone votes and has to have a CIPS personal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-09-24-0.u20509	Thank you. The following has been reported by distinguished representative Šemsudin Mehmedović, and let the distinguished representative Sadik Bahtić be prepared.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-09-24-0.u20510	Gentlemen, the chairman, ladies and gentlemen, I have a brief question for the Council of Ministers, or the Ministry of Civil Affairs. It reads: - How many citizens of Serbia and Croatia have achieved dual citizenship in BiH so far, and how many BiH citizens have achieved double citizenship in Serbia and Croatia so far? Reason: 37 Under the BiH Citizenship Act "The Official Messenger of BiH", the number: 4/97, the competent authorities on the issue of citizenship in BiH are entity MUPs and the BiH Ministry of Civil Affairs. And following the discovery of a large number of illegal actions on the issue of personal documents in the CIP, and especially in the RS MUP, information has emerged about a very large number of issued dual citizenships in RS, which could lead to a change in the demographic structure of the population, and this also burdens BiH with such a difficult political reality.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-09-24-0.u20511	Thank you. The next is Honourable representative Sadik Bahtić.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-09-24-0.u20512	Thank you. I have already said,... it is always another way: - When will the Council of Ministers propose'state property law' in which all property would be in state property and, in accordance with the conclusion of this Parliament, will form a committee to sign off and legally take away the assets of the former Union of Communists, which SDP has usurped, robbed and illegally benefited from since 1990, on which basis I have all, meaning, documents, answers from the pravobranilaštvo, I am surprised by our so-called so-called. democratic free media that no one... about this robbery writes except for the Daily Avaz. Let them hear as much as he cares about the state and state property. Reason: First, I Bećirović like to say to my colleague Bećirović, a spokeswoman for the SDP, he is not normal – when he returns the state of state, people, illegally robbed, then he has the right to comment on this issue. Bringing 'zekon on state property' is very important for the BiH state, which is one of the key conditions and laws that the institution needs to pass on its way to the EU. Under the law, all assets of the former Communist Union now illegally used by the SDP would be seized. The public and citizens of BiH have been familiar with that SDP since '90. years of unlawful use of state property, here you see who knows it; these are the land-marked excerpts, all immovableities are recorded as state property given to the use of SK, nowhere does SDP exist. So, total illegals in somebody else's book, whoever's in this book, he's got every right to sign up. So, SDP, but it doesn't have any rights at all. It is a large property of the former SK, which the SDP illegally took over, although it was never a contractual party with the owner of the property, the BiH state, was never a contractual party. The assets of the SK belonged to the socio-political community in all layers of the system, and since the system failed – if it had not failed – and pluralism came to the scene, it is logical that the property also experience the transformation of ownership, because political life does not belong to only one party. The Bolshevik mentality of Lagumdzija's SDP can be seen in thousands of cases, but also in this case, because if not, the SDP would have shown its democratic commitment and division with the communist legacy best while in power during the Alliance that it had launched an initiative to distribute former SK assets and legally resolve this issue as resolved in all the countries of the former Yugoslavia. What concerns me as a State MP – Why has the government not done so so far and why has it been so long? I cannot accept that the state, in addition to its large assets, pays 20 million KM annually for 38 accommodations to the institutions, and on the other hand, SDP of that state property collects millions of figures per month for the lease. I'm asking the Council of Ministers to put this issue in priority and urgently resolve it and return the stolen assets to the state by the SDP. I ask the Council of Ministers to compensate the state for all direct and indirect damages, you see how it will compensate for criminal charges and... direct and indirect damage, caused by tight interest. Members of the Council of Ministers, it is your duty to implement the decisions of this House, to enforce the laws of this State, to protect and strengthen state institutions, and so far nothing has been done. You weaken it and strengthen one political option which is the brakes of everything in BiH. And out of rage over the financial power that he illegally acquires from the lease of state property across the street, various resolutions, yogurt revolutions, they even try to bring down a legally elected power. My obligation, according to my constituents and citizens of BiH, is to keep repeating this issue until it is resolved, because otherwise, believe me, the communist and Bolshevik dark villa will immediately... BiH. This is very... the last sentence says everything. Second question: - When will the Council of Ministers adopt sublaws to regulate the cash compensation of employees in BiH institutions? This was on the Commission, the Commission reached a conclusion by the first, but however... it is a very serious matter. Reason: On 1 September, the deadline of 60 days under Article 57 (1) of the Law on Payments and Refunds in BiH institutions (‘the Official Messenger’, number: 50/08), was expired for the adoption of sublegal acts by the Council of Ministers which had to regulate the remuneration of employees in BiH institutions... from work on working days, night work and work on days of national holidays, as provided for in Article 30 of that Law. As a state MP and chairman of the Finance and Budget Commission of the BiH Parliament, I request that the Council of Ministers urgently take all actions to adopt the sublegal acts under this law and that the Law on Salaries and Compensations of Employees in the BiH Institutions, adopted by this Parliament, be fully implemented and implemented. And I have to ask this question and ask the Council of Ministers because there are documents, answers and all documents relating to the delivery and the "Algerian Group" case. A failed academic read us a moral lesson about this case last time, and I want to ask a question. Explanation: The entire public of BiH, in last session of the BiH Parliament, had the opportunity to hear and see that the distinguished representative Zlatko Lagumdžija was worried about the fate of the "Algerian Group" and asked the Council of Ministers for approval to testify in the US court on the "Algerian Group" process. I would like to say immediately that his question in some has caused indignation, disdain, with some laughter from the entire BiH public. Because all of BiH's public knows well that Zlatko Lagumdžija was the chairman of the Council of Ministers, Foreign Ministers and a key person in the delivery of the "Algerian Group" to Guantanamo. 39 Delivery bh. Citizens, Lagumdžija has violated BiH's laws, courting individuals from the international community, with the goal of making BiH, as a state, a dangerous country in the world, a country that gives asylum to terrorists. I'm not surprised by Lagumdzija's personal question because I know what kind of person it is and the bigger hypocrite, the demagogue, the politician in the world doesn't have any of it. And by asking the Council of Ministers about the "Algerian Group", he wants to transfer his shame and shame to others, and all in order to collect cheap political points, which is sad, miserable, sad, and funny.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-09-24-0.u20513	Time!
ParlaMint-BA_2008-09-24-0.u20514	All citizens know that Lagumdžija is precisely why a colleague from the committee is a little...
ParlaMint-BA_2008-09-24-0.u20515	Could you cut the time down a little bit, time's running out...
ParlaMint-BA_2008-09-24-0.u20516	All BiH citizens are well aware that Lagumdžija is the very person who delivered the "Algerian Group" and that he is the only one with a road map, a map of going to Guantanamo prison in Cuba. He knows BiH's public that Nađa Dizdarević, the wife of a prisoner, has also filed an appeal to the International Court of Human Rights in Strasbourg against BiH, the Federation of BiH for failing to process those responsible for handing over six persons to the US authorities, as she filed a criminal charges against then-responsible carriers bh more than a year ago. The authorities of Zlatko Lagumdžija, Tomislav Lim and others... Recently, the prosecution of Canton of Sarajevo launched and opened an investigation against former BiH Prime Ministerial Council Chairman Zlatko Lagumdžija. I, as a state MP, and for the sake of the public of BiH, am interested in: - Where were the letters of the Algerian MIP in which the Algerian authorities informed Lagumdžija that six suspects were innocent? It is known that Lagumdžija, as the head of the BiH MIP, was hiding information that could deport the "Algiers' Group" to Cuba and other materials concerning the BiH Embassy's relations in Washington, according to the US authorities' official notification that there are citizens of BiH in the infamous camp and that they can... which they did not, of course, because the chief of Lagumdžija did not allow them. The BiH public also knows and remembers breaking into the government's premises during the "Algerian Group" affair. The aim of this break-in by Lagumdzija's intelligence officers is to pick up the MIP correspondence with the Algerian Foreign Ministry, which made it clear that innocent people who have never been prosecuted or punished in Algeria have been prosecuted. Lagumdjijin, when then, and now -- unfortunately, the BiH citizens now have BiH Ambassador Tomislav Limov -- has illegally taken away bh. citizenship to a number of naturalised Bosanac, and six suspects are already too long, without any evidence found in bh. The prisons. Therefore, evidence of their innocence was to be destroyed by the government of Algeria to MIP and Lagumdžija. The issue of "Algerian Groups" was also discussed by the National Assembly of Algeria, but of course they did not inform our free independent democratic media again, as the stance of the National Assembly of Algeria would expose the monstrous background of the communist process of Zlatko Lagumdžija. 40 Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-09-24-0.u20517	Mr. Chairman Lozančić also has a parliamentary question.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-09-24-0.u20518	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, representatives, distinguished guests, that, unfortunately for me, some of the topics today are not included in the agenda, and here I personally think they deserve to be on the agenda, I will take advantage of the opportunity that I have, at the same time supporting an initiative that has already been said on behalf of several club representatives. But given the fact that we, from the information of the Central Election Commission, know that the Central Election Commission has made a decision that prevents more than eight thousand BiH citizens from participating in the upcoming local elections,... that we still have no official BiH authority report, but here is media information, again that several thousand of those who are not citizens of BiH will most likely participate in the upcoming election process based on false documents, I would like to ask the question to the Central Election Commission: - Will the regularity of the upcoming election process for the upcoming local elections be affected by the fact that the Central Election Commission has refused to register over eight thousand BiH citizens outside BiH, and will the regularity of the elections be affected by the fact that one significant..., in one part of the BiH municipalities in issuing false CIPS documents, it is possible to register in the vote lists for thousands of non-Citizens? And asking this question: - What does the Central Election Commission, if it has the same information, intend to do to ensure the full regularity of the upcoming election process? Thank you very much. Momčilo Novaković.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-09-24-0.u20519	Gentlemen, the chairman, fellow Members, my question has been addressed to the Council of Ministers. As we know, we have passed the Law on the Protection and Use of the Name BiH, so I want to ask a question about this. Namely, during TV broadcasts of the BiH basketball game – Israel at the traffic stop, Bosnia-Israel wrote. We could see for ourselves by watching that transmission at the BHT Public Service. I'm curious, so: - Who is responsible for the wrong use of the name BiH?
ParlaMint-BA_2008-09-24-0.u20520	Thank you. 41 We no longer have registered to ask parliamentary questions and conclude the second item of the agenda. We move to the third point of the established agenda: Ad. 3. Request of the Committee for Human Rights, Rights of the Child, Youth, Immigration, Refugees, Asylum and Ethics to consider Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Protection of the Rights of Members of National Minorities under an urgent procedure, in accordance with Article 127. Rules of Procedure On 4 September 2008, the Committee on Human Rights submitted to the procedure a proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Protection of Rights of Members of National Minorities, with a request to be considered in a hasty procedure, in accordance with Article 127 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. Rules of Procedure. You've got the material. I'm opening a debate on the request of the commission. Does the Chairman of the Committee want to explain the request? There's no need. There's no record of a hearing. I'm closing the debate. Moving to the fourth item of the agenda: Ad. 4. Request of the Committee for Human Rights, Rights of the Child, Youth, Immigration, Refugees, Asylum and Ethics to consider Proposal for a Decision on Amendments and Supplements to the Decision establishing the Council of the National Minorities of Bosnia and Herzegovina following a hasty procedure, in accordance with Article 127. Rules of Procedure
ParlaMint-BA_2008-09-24-0.u20524	Thank you, Chairman. In fact, I'd rather have one of the motions come out to explain this bill. Obviously, there would be fewer concerns and fewer questions, but since that didn't happen, I'm going to comment on this bill. In fact, it is obvious that we have a new law here, that not only are the amendments and additions to the Law adopted in BiH in 2004, in the sixth month – the Law on Witness Protection in BiH, and that the Ministry felt that amendments and additions would not have a quality law, but would have been defined as a proposal for a new law. And that's why I'm surprised that there's no explanation here for the reasons why it went into practice in the proposal for a new law. On the other hand, in order to even consider whether this law can be supported, I think Article 1 should be explained, further, whether the law applies to witnesses and to the prosecution, i.e. the court itself, as was the case in the previous law, and in this law, jurisdiction is placed on all courts in BiH, and I think that it is in the jurisdiction of the entity which, to remind me, has its own laws. It is the Witness Protection Act in the criminal procedure "Official Messenger of the Republic of Slovenia", number 48/03. If this member were to rephrase and return to the position of the proposal, which was in the basic law, we could... support the bill, with a small amendment concerning Article 8 which is not so important. It's about cutting deadlines. So I'm calling here on the Ministry's representatives to answer these questions and see, let's see. So their answer depends on whether or not we can go further into the procedure of this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-09-24-0.u20525	The word has been respected by the first deputy president, Beriz Belkić.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-09-24-0.u20526	I, first of all, wish, unfortunately there are no members of the Council of Ministers here, but at least those who are sent here by members of the Council of Ministers that when they already take advantage of the opportunity and, you see, obviously, there is a need to be explained. And at least what you have to say is that it went to the Council of Ministers, is that the Council of Ministers' position, etc., you see where the stories are going. 43 However, I answered the other question. So here Mr. Živković has already set certain conditions under which this law can be discussed at all. So this law applies to all courts and should apply to all courts. So, Mr. Živković, if every time we go to every law, before we go into debate,... come out and condition the matter, then these laws will not, of course, be passed, but we'll know where we are. This is the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH, the laws of BiH are passed here and this is not where entities send us messages of what we can, what we can't. And I ask you to act in that direction in the future.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-09-24-0.u20527	Thank you. Replica, second vice president, Dr. Milorad Živković.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-09-24-0.u20528	So, I'd rather this discussion goes in the direction that we Parliamentarians talk to the legislator than we Parliamentarians talk to each other. We Parliamentarians need to talk to each other when the motionary explains the reasons and individual members of this law, to which some of us have an objection. Then we can open up the issue of conditionality, revote and the very establishment and arrival of the proposal to this parliament. Therefore, before we open a discussion between ourselves, I would like the proposer to explain the reasons and the way this bill came here.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-09-24-0.u20529	Thank you. Dear Representative Drago Kalabić.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-09-24-0.u20530	Very briefly, given that this also touches the principles of work and I agree that everyone has a right to their position, but I think it is impossible to adopt any law in the BiH Parliament without co-operation with entities. That's almost impossible.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-09-24-0.u20531	Nothing new.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-09-24-0.u20532	It is impossible in the BiH Parliament to adopt any law without co-operation with entities. Anyone who doesn't see entities in that process can say goodbye to any law. 44
ParlaMint-BA_2008-09-24-0.u20533	Thank you. Replica, the first deputy president of Beriz Belkić.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-09-24-0.u20534	Maybe we didn't understand each other, Mr. Kalabić. So we are MPs chosen by election units from citizens. So, as far as I know, we haven't been delegated by any entity bodies here. I absolutely understand the need to consult both in the entity and in the electoral base, in clubs, etc. So I absolutely do not dispute your right and the possibility to represent the attitudes and organs of the RS, but not officially. You are implementing the policy of the RS authorities and it is your business, but formally and officially you are elected MPs by citizens in the RS and I did not question it, because I know how it all works. So we can't pass laws without the support of MPs from the RS, that's correct.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-09-24-0.u20535	Thank you. Dear Representative Šefik Džaferović.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-09-24-0.u20536	Mr. Chairman, colleagues and colleagues, I also fall into the ranks of those who think that today we wouldn't have some dilemmas here if we had a proposing here present, which would explain some things to us, and I think the discussion might, perhaps, even look different, but about that, by that. I just want to say that this law, to call on Parliament, in particular, so people belonging to the parliamentary majority, to take care, if anything, of those laws that have passed through the Council of Ministers by consensus of all members of the Council of Ministers. There should be one big reason or something big to happen, and then someone from the parliamentary majority should step down from the policy that was led by that parliamentary majority in the executive government when a particular process was created. And yet I want to believe that today, what we have, is the result of a misunderstanding or perhaps a lack of understanding of certain facts of this law. And for the record, a list of all such laws is being conducted neatly and one day, after these elections, when we discuss some things in BiH and this issue will certainly come to the table and some other questions will be raised over the issue. I suggest that we adopt this law today, this is the first reading, and then until the second reading, we ensure the presence of the promoter here, and in the second reading, we will have the opportunity to say everything we have about this law. I think this is a good law that needs to be supported and that is useful for all of us in BiH. So much and thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-09-24-0.u20537	Thank you. Replica, the esteemed second vice-president, Dr. Milorad Živković (second). 45
ParlaMint-BA_2008-09-24-0.u20538	First of all, I want to say that you can't scare anybody here, or you need to freak out, because that's not going to happen. A list of everything is being made, not just about the vote of law, conclusions, but about the work of committees and other things where everyone can statisticalally draw up a reason to discuss it. On the other hand, when we talk about the congregation's majority, I don't think it's a good example where we've acted quite differently as a congregation majority on some legal projects, very important legal projects. And a third thing. I came out here as an MP, and I didn't speak for the SNSD, nor did I say on behalf of the SNSD Club, I came out as an MP who didn't understand what was going to change in Article 1 and that someone from the Council of Ministers explained it to me. If I had a satisfactory explanation about it, my question would be whether it can be changed or not. If I wanted to speak for the government of the RS, on behalf of the SNSD, I would point out that I speak for that. I spoke for myself, I didn't get an answer, and then after that, I got all the respect and everything until, let me say, the majority of the assembly, the entity vote, etc. Don't let us get into that subject. I speak here as an MP to the Secretary-General, or the Ministry, who is obliged to answer our questions, so that we can decide how we will define this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-09-24-0.u20539	Thank you. Replica, distinguished representative Šefik Džaferović.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-09-24-0.u20540	Well, I don't know, Mr. Živković, what, I mean really unnecessary, that kind of discussion. I tried to be extremely well-intentioned. Of course all things are written, everything is written, and everything will be analyzed one day and there is no dilemma. Maybe one day someone regrets that today they're pulling back or they're making these moves, I don't know, we'll see about that, but we know if it is. You asked the question, it's enough, which is why I said we needed a promoter here, and we need to pass this law. Because, watch out, the aim of this law is to provide effective protection in progress and after criminal proceedings to enable the witness to testify freely and openly in criminal proceedings before the courts in BiH, in the further text of the courts. And in the final provisions of Article 27, where the end of the law is said to be in force - the entry into force of this law ceases to be subject to the Law on Witness Protection in BiH, "The Official Messenger of BiH", number 29/4. From this, although there are no proposings, you can, as well as from the description in Article 3 relating to the scope of criminal acts, read what this law refers to, what impact it has on the laws adopted at other levels, which the laws cease to apply, etc., so I think this is enough and that's what I wanted to say. 46 I am sorry that I had to turn myself in the second time, because I was not clear, that today in our first reading we should adopt this, and that until the second reading we should clarify things and then decide the law. That's it.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-09-24-0.u20541	I have two reported, or are they replicas or are they debates? Replica, distinguished representative Jerko Ivanković Lijanović.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-09-24-0.u20542	I would like to thank Mr. Živković through this replica for the clear political attitudes in this house that he does not waste our time without need and I would also ask all other colleagues to, in some ways, be as clear as possible, because we here spend more than half the time on nothing. To express political views, what can be brought, brought, what cannot, cannot, because often times we just waste time and yet there is no result. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-09-24-0.u20543	Thank you. The following has been reported for the debate by the esteemed representative Momčilo Novaković.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-09-24-0.u20544	Mr. Chairman, distinguished colleagues, it is not good for some MP to ask for the Council of Ministers' position or the opinion of the Council of Ministers and we welcome him to the knife as if he was looking for something that is not normal for Parliament. There may not be a lot of clarity here, but in the next and other projects, there is a lot of uncertainty that MPs can create problems in understanding this. In our first reading, we discuss not only the constitutional basis for the law but the principles on which the law is made and it is perfectly normal that we have someone here from the Council of Ministers. I didn't realize, of course, I don't want to put myself in the role of someone who needs to defend Mr. Živković, I think he can do it, but I don't think anyone here has challenged the need to pass the law. So, but it is a questionable thing, which is: there are some clarifications that are needed, and these clarifications will make much clearer and then we will be able to make decisions. I believe, despite the fact that there is no strict obligation, therefore, for someone from the Council of Ministers to report and explain the bill, but let logic say that it is the least we can expect from the Council of Ministers to explain in the first reading the principles on which the law begins. If we don't have it, I'm afraid that's why we're getting into these situations that we're in right now. Because if we did, we wouldn't have, and we have to admit together very often we have these situations of non-disclosure, of course sometimes intentional, I won't always say, not intentional, but in any case many of these discrepancies could have been avoided so that someone from the Council of Ministers could explain. 47 I was going to ask this question on the next law... and on another project – that indeed someone from the Council of Ministers should come out and explain whether it is the maximum that can be done with this law or not. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-09-24-0.u20545	Thank you. I don't have any more charges to argue with. Would you like to take your word from the Department of Security? So the head of the Department of Security, Veljo Damir, head of the Department of Control of Organized Crime. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-09-24-0.u20546	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, before I say what it is, why it is avoided before the Court of Justice of BiH, why a formulation has been put before the courts of BiH, I would like to say that this protection programme applies to crimes against BiH's integrity, against humanity, which is done in an organised manner and for which a sentence of imprisonment of at least three years can be imposed by law. ...the working group that was working on this bill and was preparing this text has avoided the formation before the Court of BiH. If we had left the wording before the Court of BiH, we would have denied all BiH courts that are working on these issues and who are processing organised crime, we would have been deprived of the assistance of the Witness Protection Department, that is, this witness protection programme. Our main leadership was in this direction that all those in BiH who process organised crime cases can seek assistance according to this law, can ask for assistance from the Witness Protection Department, or from a commission that will be responsible for including the witness protection programme. And that all BiH institutions, all competent institutions, including all courts and competent prosecutors in BiH, as well as other organisations and institutions, may request assistance from the competent... BiH prosecutors are being helped with witness protection. The main reason is that the crimes are meant to be committed before the BiH Court of Justice, which was a previous formulation to avoid in this regard and to provide opportunity and assistance to all courts and all BiH prosecutors. _________(?) And do the entities still have their witness protection programs? Now, this is one unique witness protection program. Thus,... this witness protection programme is valid for the whole of BiH. And, therefore, we have a specialised BiH-level department dealing with the implementation of this by law and earlier legal provisions and new legal provisions. It's the Witness Protection Department located at the State Investigation and Protection Agency. Therefore, all other institutions and all other services, i.e. courts, would be denied if they were to put only before the BiH Court. 48 This means that only those crimes that are in the jurisdiction of the Court of Justice of BiH would be prosecuted and documented by the Agency for Investigation and Protection, or the Border Police as state institutions, so that entity institutions, such as courts and prosecutors, would be denied. There, that is the basic reason, the logical reason was that we put the formulation before the courts in BiH. But this formulation, which means this reason does not exclude the requirements of the courts and prosecutors, we will see it in the provision of this law in one member – and other prosecutors and courts at entity level to seek help and to include their witnesses in this witness protection programme. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-09-24-0.u20548	15 minutes break at the request of the SNSD Club. [[PAUZA]] I was going to wait for the president of the SNSD Club to come, but here's the second vice president, Dr. Milorad Živković, to explain the request for a break, in the name of the club.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-09-24-0.u20550	Thank you, Chairman. Namely, on behalf of the SNSD Club, after presenting representatives to the resolution ministry, we are not convinced that this situation has been fully clarified. On the contrary, it is further complicated and it is obvious that we do not have adequate conversants to discuss here, in particular Articles 1, 2 and 3 so that we think it would be good to take this item off the agenda or leave it for the next session, when the relevant representatives will come to agree with them on this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-09-24-0.u20551	Dear Representative Slavko Jovičić.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-09-24-0.u20552	Mr. Chairman, we have said at several previous sessions that the legal projects coming from the Council of Ministers will not be discussed unless we have adequate talks. Now, let me just say, I apologize to this young gentleman, he really made me happy. You can tell he's an eloquent guy, smart enough to know. And I ask that a commission be formed, not about the protection of witnesses, but about the protection of MPs. This boy has no opportunity to explain at the Council of Ministers what he was saying at Parliament at the Council of Ministers. And he comes to Parliament, someone sends him to explain it to us. Boy, I'm talking to you myself, although I can't lead the controversy with you, of course. Don't be mad, I admire you, you're a young guy, I give you support, but this guy isn't relevant to explain here. I might ask the minister for some political responsibility, I might also ask for a shift if not something big, but how am I supposed to step up with a boy who is now an expert associate, who is 49, who may be a minister, who can't come to the Council of Ministers, so a lower body can explain this and come to Parliament. Guys, what are we doing? Can we pass laws like this and be responsible for not acting as a Parliament here, so those of the Centre of Civil Initiatives say: you did not adopt five laws or 10 but you had a program. So don't, people, do this to us! Don't do this to us! If there's no Prime Minister, don't. Point of the agenda, I suggest you take it off. How much will you underestimate? What am I supposed to do with this guy now? What am I supposed to say, yes, even though I'd agree with him maybe even if I didn't? It doesn't matter. He explained it nicely, although I disagree, because I support what Mr. Živković suggested. What do I do? How am I supposed to participate in this discussion now? Here, all that boy's right! For the next one, especially. How are we going to lead this House? How are we going to work? Here, am I supposed to say it again? He can't get, I don't know if he's ever been to the Council of Ministers or perhaps on some commission, maybe, I don't know, the Ministry, and he comes to Parliament, the highest legislative body, to explain to us what the Council of Ministers' opinion is, and he knows he has no support from the Council of Ministers. I won't allow any more humiliations, so you do whatever you want.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-09-24-0.u20553	Thank you. The following has been reported by Honorable Representative Mirko Okolić.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-09-24-0.u20554	Well, I just want to tell my colleague Jovičić that he can't even know all this, and the other thing is, if we had a session next, if we wanted to honor what Mr. Jovičić said. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-09-24-0.u20555	Thank you. Dear Representative Džaferović came forward, so he's out now. I don't have any more logs. Since there have been proposals to end the debate on this item of the agenda, I will now, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, ask the dom: Does it wish to continue the debate on this issue without the authorised legislator of this law. So I will repeat the question: Would the House like to continue the debate on this bill without the presence of an authorised proposal, or a member of the Council of Ministers who can explain this bill? And that's what we're going to do for other points where we don't, eventually, have an authorised promoter. So if we vote "yes", this point remains on the agenda and we will continue the debate as soon as the applicant is present. If the legislator does not appear until this session is concluded, then we will place this item as an unprocessed item of the agenda in the first next session of the House, the regular session of the House. So if we vote "yes", we wait until an authorised promoter appears. Let's go work with the new agenda points, but we're not having any more debates. 50 Come on, I'll repeat now, but please listen carefully. So, I'm asking dom: Are you agreeing to continue the debate on this law, on the proposal of this law, despite the fact that there are no prerogatives? If you vote to continue the debate and if no one hears from you again, we close the debate and we have a debate. And then we go to a plea when we plead. If you vote "against" this conclusion, then we will interrupt the debate and we will continue it when we have an authorised proposing for this agenda point. And here, I said at the beginning, so I deliberately repeated that there should be no dilemma, so is it clear now, is it clear now, should it be repeated? So I'm asking dom: Are you willing to continue the debate, given that we don't have an authorised proposer for this agenda point? Please prepare to vote. Vote now! Six votes "yes", 20 "against", without "abstained" votes. I find that the dom did not accept that the debate on the proposal of this law should continue because we do not have an authorised proposing. And we move to the next item of the agenda, that's the sixth point: Ad. Six. Proposal for a law on genetically modified organisms (first reading) In 18.8.2008 the Council of Ministers delivered the bill from this point. The Constitutional Commission is also responsible. We received the opinion of the committee responsible for constitutional law and principles on 11 September. The commission gave a positive opinion on both the constitutional basis and the principles. I'm opening a debate in my first reading. I ask, on behalf of the Council of Ministers, is there an authorised motion to explain the bill to us? Dear Mr. Sead Mačkić, director of the Food Safety Agency in BiH, reports. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-09-24-0.u20557	Dear President, ladies and gentlemen, the name of the Council of Ministers, the BiH Food Safety Agency, it is my pleasure today to give you an explanation, for the honourable MPs on the adoption of the laws on genetically modified organisms. BiH has had a big remark from the European Commission that it does not have this law on genetically modified organisms. We have a daily public question why we do not have a law on 51 genetically modified organisms, and that was the reason why the BiH Food Safety Agency proposed to the Council of Ministers to adopt this law in a procedure. The aim of this law is to ensure a high-level level of protection of human and animal health, the environment, so that, under the law, sublaws can be passed, rules. How was this law done? This law was based on the establishment of an expert resolution group appointed by the Council of Ministers in which active participation was taken by our most valuable BiH experts. He was born a year ago. This law has been assessed as one of the better laws in the European Commission and all the directives adopted by the European Commission have been incorporated into this law. All the consent of BiH entity institutions, we have received, with one huge support to prepare this law. This law has been prepared and I am here to answer all your questions, regarding this... law that lies here before you. Also, the BiH Food Safety Agency as something new, as a new substance, produced a brochure in which the same active participation was taken by our academics and teachers, etc. to get to know our public, but also you who bring this law to bring this matter closer to that direction. Any questions, do I still have to explain? I have the consent of all competent institutions here. When I speak, then I'm talking about entity institutions. So, the departments of health, agriculture, inspectorates and all the institutions and we're these consents, all the comments we've received, we've installed it, and it's all in the material that we've provided you with.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-09-24-0.u20558	If you're done, if there are questions, I'll give you my word again to answer the questions asked by the MPs and for now thank you. The debate was attended by a respected representative, Jovan Todorović.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-09-24-0.u20559	Dear Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, I recently asked the Food Safety Agency about the material that Mr. Mačkić was talking about. I didn't get an answer until today, and I asked what kind of references those experts had when they were working on this material. However, by analysing the events of the last century, we can figure out a few things out. A man sailed in the air and went to the moon into space. The century behind us is a century of satellites, a century of communication and globalisation. The century that brought the bloodiest wars in mankind's history. A century of atomic age, a century of computer development, a century of dramatic development in many fields. It's hard to predict at the door of this millennium what's going to happen to us. It is certain that the preoccupation will, among other things, be biotechnology whose base is molecular genetics, genetic engineering, and the results of this science will lead to controlled and targeted genetically altered organisms and clones. Genetics today in BiH deals with very few researchers, so we have come into a position to be discussed about genetically modified organisms by competent and incompetent, amateurs and professionals, lovers, sensationalists, moderate, cautious and curious. 52 In scientific circles, one expects this technology to bring positive changes into our lives, while others express an open fear of the consequences of the transfer of genes from the organism to the organism. According to the first, it is a revolutionary step, recommending food that is also a cure, food enriched with new nutritional values, as well as plants resistant to herbicides and plant pests. Others view genetically modified technology as insufficiently perfected, tested, as regards the impact on human health, playing with the boundaries that nature and the divine hand have given. The fact that in the development of genetic engineering, man has exceeded the level of power and opportunity and has reached the level of desire and moral responsibility. Transgenics technology is there and cannot be eliminated. A concrete question arises: does it produce such unfinished technologies so aggressively that they are placed on our markets, can we do so without GMOs? In agricultural production, we can do without it for now. In addition, it may be most important to mention the consequences leading to a reduction in food safety in terms of increased tolerance of transgenic crops according to a wider spectrum of disease inducers and pests, i.e. a reduction in tolerance towards droughts and high temperatures. In recent studies, there has been a particular emphasis on the emergence of transgenic plant transgenic transgenics and synergism, which can have an extremely negative impact on the health status of plants, humans and animals. There are now more than 200 scientific papers. I have references to these works here, which speak of the unexpected adverse effects of genetically modified organisms. In order to protect BiH's vital interests and the safety of its population, I insist that part of the law relating to the free release of GMOs into the environment be amended. This is accompanied by the fact that BiH has enough working surfaces, with their rational use to produce enough food for its own purposes, which is why there is no legitimate reason to introduce GMOs. At the same time, BiH must not allow it to become an experimental polygon of seed companies to test genetically modified varieties and hybrids. In terms of jurisdiction, the law completely abandons and bypasses the entity ministries of agriculture as the most relevant institutions to implement this law. Eminent experts involved in the production of this material should be aware that genetic modifications are done mainly on agricultural and horticultural plants, so entity ministries are the main authorities, and that they cannot be food safety agencies, as well as the Alliance for the Protection of Plants of BiH. In line with this, we should establish a scientific expert body at BiH level to implement this law. The advice for GMOs cannot perform administrative procedures, but can only play an advisory role. Without the Council's opinion, no authorisation may be granted for any manipulation of GMOs or products of origin or containing genetically modified organisms. We also insist that the GMO Council can only be composed of prominent experts, science doctors from relevant areas, and that, in addition, the law should include members of the Council not being employed by the competent authorities. Furthermore, members of the GMO Council cannot in any way be appointed only to the proposal of the Food Safety Authority, but members of the Council must be proposed at the request of the Council of Ministers of BiH and by all relevant scientific and educational institutions in the area and from the territory of BiH. 53 In terms of the constitution of the scientific and research bodies for law enforcement, the establishment of a committee, the Committee on Free Release and the Committee on Restricted Use is in conflict with the establishment of a Council on GMOs, as members of the Council shall choose between themselves board members and the committees shall be entrusted with the key role to be played by the Council, which is to give a positive opinion on the requirements for the use of GMOs, and this law shall even give the committees the power to launch administrative procedures. Article 5 should be completely removed from the law because this law does not apply to many areas, and it is impossible to list them all. In addition, Article 5(e) of this Act is completely incorrectly written, i.e. translated. I've got where it was done. A large number of these materials I downloaded from the internet are practically copies of the laws of the Republic of Croatia. In the process of unprofessional translation and misunderstanding of areas regulated within the meaning of Article 5(e), it was concluded that the organism can live, develop, reproduce and without nucleic acids. It is also important to note that the proposal for a law on genetically modified organisms currently under consideration has been initially rejected in the RS and another commission has been completed that will bring this job to an end. The Council of Ministers must neither allow it to succumb to the fact that adopted laws must be in line with European regulations, because BiH must first protect its vital interests. Furthermore, consistency does not mean to take European regulations, translate them and copy them and make state law in such a way, but reconciliation means bringing its own interests into line with the interests of the EU in those segments where possible. In line with the above, there is a need to also consider banning any use of genetically modified organisms in BiH territory except for scientific purposes. Scientific and research work in controlled conditions must not be halted, but any other use of GMOs should be prohibited because there is no valid reason for the introduction of GMOs and products from GMOs on BiH territory. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-09-24-0.u20560	I thank the honourable representative. The following has been reported to be the first deputy president of Beriz Belkić.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-09-24-0.u20561	I absolutely have no ambition to talk about the measure of things, because I just don't understand myself, but fortunately, we have Professor Todorović who is obviously at home when it comes to this area. I've reported more because of the two dilemmas I want to share with the promoter, of course by welcoming this way of work as we now have, when it comes to this law, here we have the promoter, we have some explanation and it's certainly easier to do. I object to why this law bears the name of the Law on genetically modified organisms when in Article 1 something else is spoken of, the procedure, the conditions for limited use, etc. So he simply doesn't talk about what it is and how it happens, etc., talks about use, talks about conditions, etc. I don't insist on it, but this law doesn't seem to talk about geneticly 54 modified organisms, their definitions too much and how they came about etc., but it talks about the conditions and the way and the procedure of use, etc. Here, it's one of my dilemmas and authority to ask you to check in the next phase, check the consistency of calling on members when it comes to criminal provisions. It seemed to me that in Article 65, where it was prescribed that the person performing the tasks of an authorised laboratory would be punished without permission, so Article 17. Article 17 speaks of the public of work, however, lists the terms of some etc., but it seems to me that this article does not apply to this criminal provision and it would be good until the end, so the procedure, we have the space in the amendment phase, I suppose, have been done in several versions of work, like this, so it seems to me that this is not exactly in line. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-09-24-0.u20562	Thank you. The following has been reported by distinguished representative Velimir Jukić, and may the second vice-president, Dr Milorad Živković, be prepared.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-09-24-0.u20563	Mr. President, esteemed colleagues and colleagues, representatives of the Council of Ministers, I, of course, am not competent to speak professionally about this issue, but what I am interested in, what I mean, is the following. I'm going to ask the Proposer a few questions, and I think he owes us an explanation which is the fundamental principles on which this law is based? So, is this what my colleague Todorović was talking about, so a complete ban on imports and the use of such organisms? Do we also have the ability to form agencies, bodies that will carry out such a commitment, do there today in BiH such organisms, that is, such food or a sign of such a thing? And these questions of mine aren't baseless for all sorts of simple reasons. From this little brochure, which we all got about a month ago, it's easy to see which ones actually took production ratios and put into function genetically modified foods. So, for example. Soya, total world production: over 51% of total production is genetically modified soya, corn 31%, etc. So these are very large percentages of one of the most important plants, i.e. food or raw materials for some other products in the food industry. So, on the other hand, when we see that the most powerful country in the world has as much as 57.7 million hectares of this kind of food, when we see also other levels in agriculture of a very significant country, producers are also among the first and in the production of genetically modified foods, I wonder what the future of food production is. As BiH will respond consistently, here is one of its own – right now as I read it, although you did not say it, but I understood it so – the view that we are priors against the import and use of such food in BiH, except for scientific purposes, which Mr Todorović spoke of, I fully agree. So, can we resist it, is that real? Furthermore, we should also be aware of one fact, which is that in the immediate vicinity of BiH, physically, some countries have already legalised and already have such food productions. Is it possible that 55 is effectively protected from such unwanted influences and contactes, that no one does so, that everyone respects the law, but nature does its part. So, I just want to, I'm going to repeat now, to clarify the basic principles, basic tasks and goals and whether we are able, how and how to achieve what we are declaring through this law and normising in the future. I would ask, if it's not a problem, that the motionary explain these questions of mine and answer them.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-09-24-0.u20564	Thank you. Business intervention, distinguished representative Jašarević.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-09-24-0.u20565	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament either I can't find it in the papers, or no one has said it, so I can't find which is the committee responsible for discussing the principles of this law. If there is and if there is a report that I cannot find, then I would like the president of this committee to address, because it is very important to me what the committee in charge found in that first consideration of the principles of this law, or what position it has taken.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-09-24-0.u20566	The Constitutional Commission is designated as the competent commission for this law.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-09-24-0.u20567	On such an important issue, the Constitutional Commission could not be the only competent commission, because it is in line with the Constitution, a minor area, and it is the right area of expertise to see how to get the right attitude on the principles of the law. And speaking of which, it would be good to think already, regardless of what this goes on; without a public debate on this law, here, and these competent committees if this is ustavnopravni – should not go into such a serious project.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-09-24-0.u20568	Thank you. The following was announced by the esteemed representative of the second deputy president, Dr. Milorad Živković, and may the distinguished representative Martin Raguž be prepared.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-09-24-0.u20569	The Honorable Chairman, apparently, from the discussion of MPs and the rapporteur himself on the subject that the need exists in BiH for such a law, that the basis for passing such a law exists, however, there is a problem. The first problem is that the director said he had the consent of the health, agriculture, entity ministries, and that he was in our possession in materials. I didn't find it in our materials, and I'd like to see those consents. 56 The second thing, it concerns the principle of this law. In fact, if I understand correctly, the aim of the law is to ensure a high level of protection of human life and health, animal health and well-being, environment, consumer interest given genetically modified organisms. If the aim of this law is to do so, I have not seen in the proposed members of this law that this goal has been achieved. In my opinion, the principle of this law would then be quite different and would say that all use of GMOs on BiH territory would be prohibited except for scientific purposes. I believe that the exemption for scientific purposes would leave enough opportunities for BiH to deal at the scientific level with this product and do what Slovenia has done to complete the ban on any need on BiH territory, except in laboratories and science institutions of GMOs. So I'm asking the question of the principles of these laws, if the goal is to achieve what I said at first. On the other hand, in the proposals themselves, there are, in fact, certain overlapping of business and confiscation of the competences of those who are now in charge of doing these jobs and who, by nature, are on the ground that they can handle these jobs, so that the completely abandoned and bypassed entity ministries of agriculture and agriculture at the Government of the Brcko District, as well as the most relevant institutions in terms of the implementation of this law, are. So that's the second principle that I think this law is wrongly formulated, and that's what we're coming up with, which I said, that these principles of the law need consent and that we need to think very carefully that the objective of this law is the complete, absolute security of citizens, animals and plants at BiH level, which leads us to a complete ban on this, except for scientific purposes. So this law, which is needed, would be very short, several members, in which it is only operationally stated how to protect and conduct experiments in scientific laboratories. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-09-24-0.u20570	Thank you. Mr. Martin Raguž, and let Ekrem Ajanović be prepared.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-09-24-0.u20571	Thank you very much, Mr. President, a warm welcome to all. I was going to talk, but after Mr. Todorović spoke, I'll just cut it short. I think that discussion was extremely serious and responsible and analytical and professional and, I would say, patriotic in terms of the problem that opens up the adoption of such a law for BiH. I'll just say two things. So this is one of the most important issues for this country, the issue of food and in a context where political, military and any other events are projected in world terms -- we have analyses that show that they are mainly related to oil or genetically modified food. I say it here, for this speaker, as a representative. So the least we can do today is set a public debate and some deadline for public debate where we will give the public of Bosnia and Herzegovina full insight into the importance of this issue and the word of the profession and of all relevant ones who can contribute to the final adoption of views on such an important law. So, at this point, I'm not about to reject us in general, but I just don't think they've matured the conditions for us to adopt this law. Especially as we may be on the Constitutional Legal Commission lightly; I thought there was a relevant commission, not 57 lightly. Because we objectively, it is a minimum Commission on Foreign Trade or another which should include a relevant position on this law, rather than as a constitutional basis and principles. So, my proposal... Since this has nothing to do with only genetically modified organisms, gentlemen, it is, as explained in the Explanation: 'Making the Law on genetically modified organisms, and on the basis of this article of the Food Act, lays down requirements regarding new food, regulation and placing new food containing genetically modified organisms on the BiH market for the first time.' These are too serious questions to absorb them with one first reading and, possibly, with two or three amendments. And there's no need for BiH to be in a hurry to pass this law. That doesn't mean they won't adopt it one day, but there's no need at this point to adopt it quickly. Here I am asking you to have responsibility for this and to see what would be the methodology and opportunity for us in this Parliament and in the general public in Bosnia and Herzegovina to take a position on it, and all in the interest of us to coordinate our interests, and not to have the other so flowly as a flow water heater without one serious debate realising their interests. Here, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-09-24-0.u20572	Ekrem Ajanović, and make preparations for Šefik Džaferović. Here, and Mr. Križanović enlists.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-09-24-0.u20573	Mr. Chairman, colleagues and colleagues, I agree in most discussions with people who... express certain fears about the adoption of this law and the production of this food and everything else. However, I am not in favour of BiH waiting until Ruanda adopts such a law or some other country at the lowest level or level of development to pass this law. I even think that we should and must pass this law, normally, with one intended parliamentary procedure and which brings all seriousness into it, all the seriousness of the work. Just because the Council of Ministers formed an expert group, I'm not going to say now that they were or weren't, because I don't know these people, but by making an expert group to bring this one, not to pass, but to propose a bill, because we always have to make sure that this is the first reading, means that it's a draft and I'm not for it to easily refuse first reading and say, "Let's bring this law to some future." The team before not only distant countries, not just developed countries, not only countries that are even leading the world by development – are working on certain solutions of genetically modified food, but our neighbours have certainly moved far, far beyond ourselves. And I'll remind you with some banal examples. Who deals with agriculture in one way or another, who deals in amateur, etc. But I'm from one family... I'm proud that I've dealt with agriculture, so even now, as a doctor, I'm an amateur, I'm sure I do, if I've produced more than 2.5 tons of apples this year, that means it's not negligible, I'll say just one dilemma that existed 60 years ago. In Bosnia, it was in use of wheat called "broom" and everyone thought that only the bread of that wheat was good and quality, and when the era came to produce more modern wheat, which was "Italian", it was called at that time, and since my father was a farm inspector, so he was in charge of producing that wheat, then my amijah, which 58 did not do so, he did not give it, and Grandpa made one Solomonian decision and said - half the field "Brussels", half the "Italian" and "Italian" was one five times more born than a "brubble", so that in 20 years, when the newly-sed institute produced the wheat "Yugoslavia" which was the most quality, that same amija did not give the "Italian" to go. It reminds me, that life experience reminds me, now in Parliament that we are walking in those footsteps. Let's see, then we'll get it! I'm not up for that kind of work. I am for the principle of working that BiH, I will not say the predecessors, but it certainly goes with legislation that does not lag behind world trends, and therefore I support the law in first reading, and everything else, what people have said, honourable MPs, and showed certain reserves, it should be a reminder to those who have passed the law to review it in second reading, when the time for amendment action comes that we then act on the law, or even then to reject it if we see it jeopardising BiH and its residents, such as this one, because without law, we are more threatened. We are much more threatened without laws, because at this point we cannot even know whether we are eating genetically modified food or not, because what is sold and how is sold, if the competent institution is not legally determined to question it, there is no expert who will say individually - this food has or does not have genetically modified food in it. I'm in favour of getting this law in the process. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-09-24-0.u20574	Thank you. The next is distinguished representative Šefik Džaferović, and let the distinguished representative Selim Bešlagić be prepared.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-09-24-0.u20575	Dear colleagues and colleagues, if I had known that Mr. Ajanović, an esteemed colleague, would have finished his discussion with this finding he made in the end, I probably wouldn't have answered. After I applied, today I answered a little bit of the word, so I don't want to give up, I'm going to repeat some of the things from the final part of my colleague Ajanović's discussion. What exactly is the situation in BiH today when it comes to this area? Do we have the law? Do we eat genetically modified products? Is there anything on the BiH market? Is anyone worried about that? It is all a matter that must be arranged in this country before it seriously starts moving towards a European path. And we in BiH have created an agency called the Food Safety Agency and that agency should now work. But in order for it to work, it must have laws that will have certain areas, which are not at all regulated in the Bosnian Herzegovina society, to be regulated. And that's actually the point. This law, so when it comes to content itself? So it's about genetic engineering being a matter that is highly sophisticated scientific discipline and no one smart here in Parliament, except for people who are directly involved in this profession, such as Our esteemed colleague Todorović, does not come up with any details regarding science. But we are MPs, and we need to make a decision. It finely writes here in this law that the Council of Ministers formed an Interresor Working Group composed of experts from around BiH, and those who did this. And the aim of this law is to prescribe procedures and conditions for limited 59 uses, cross-border transmission, deliberate introduction into the environment and placing on the market genetically modified organisms and products that... contain or water origin from genetically modified organisms. And the aim of the law is to ensure a high level of protection of human life and health, animal health and welfare, environment and consumer interest, given genetically modified food and food for animals, while at the same time effective functioning of the BiH market. So if we don't have this law, then we have a complete mess and all the countries of the European Union have laws like this, because it just appears on the market. It is not possible to isolate BiH from that. If not possible, then the law of the game rules should lay down penalties and safeguard measures. And it's not an accident that's at this food safety agency. Are some solutions, and these are actually the principles supported by the Constitutional Legal Commission, along with the constitutional basis, I have stood up to explain: are some solutions best set, these expert dilemmas that our colleague and Professor Todorović spoke of. These are things that are to be discussed in the second phase, in the second phase, probably the Constitutional Commission, this is the Constitutional Commission won, I know by what principle. She didn't get it because the description of this shows that she was an expert because the College didn't label any other committee as an expert, so in principle, when a substance that doesn't belong to any of them, it belongs to the Constitutional Commission. By that principle, we got it as a commission to discuss it. We will probably have to invite people from this Interresor Expert Group to come to our commission and then give answers to our distinguished colleague, Professor Todorović, or to the questions of some other colleagues who are here. But in order to get to that stage, we need to adopt the law in the first reading and, don't be afraid, I mean, this will be the law around which consensus will be reached, it is in our best interests here to be protected in the best possible way when this issue is Wednesday. That's it, thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-09-24-0.u20576	Thank you. The second deputy president, Dr. Milorad Živković, appeared for the replica.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-09-24-0.u20577	Maybe it's not really a replica. It's just that maybe we can explain some things that, obviously, someone is trying to say that we have different opinions, and we don't. So no one said they didn't. And I'm here for this speaker saying that there's a need for this law to be passed, that disorder... However, I also have certain doubts as to how the law was passed. I don't think the director said otherwise, but he said he found it in the materials, and I couldn't find it in the materials. To ask us here if we have enough knowledge to do as some countries in the EU, the director will probably say - which EU countries have completely banned. We choose to do it as some other countries in the EU, to do it selectively or in part, and to do it in this law, as mentioned here, in part and selectively. 60 I stand for the principle of doing absolutely. So far there have been over 200 scientific papers that have shown that GMOs have caused terrible effects, 200 works! Are we in BiH ready and professional enough to go into that kind of story? We think it is better to protect our area that has enough agricultural land, to work with cultures that do not have GMOs and thus protect the BiH population, which is also the objective of the law and which should be the objective of any law, it does not matter which law we come across. So I'm opening up some doubts that we all need to discuss together, and perhaps best in a public debate to consider and pass the best possible law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-09-24-0.u20578	Dear Representative Azra Alajbegović: a small replica.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-09-24-0.u20579	A small replica, in fact, is one comment on the last discussion, the replica of Mr. Živković. In fact, the basic question in front of me is right now -- what do we think about what kind of food we're eating right now? Our conventional food production, we know that we have quite, as I would say, unregulated pesticide consumption, insecticides, etc. And we know how, in some ways, these substances act allergologically, toxicologically, mutationally, etc. The main concern in the use and legalisation of placing on the market and production of genetically modified food is, in fact, toxicity and allergogenicity and possible carcinogenicity. So we don't have a dilemma about the current food we eat under the production of so-called. Conventional methods – there are not all these traps and these potentially harmful consequences. And as for our concerns, I am expressing my satisfaction that in some ways we have concerns for our population about the impact of genetically modified food, since in fact some EU countries have had a periodical moratorium for all genetically modified organisms, and then have a partial moratorium, etc. And, well, it's nice that, at least with this story of genetically modified organisms, we're kind of getting closer to EU countries. And I express, in the end, my personal position that I think the law should be adopted in the first reading and really until the second reading prepare it, so that we have full protection of the population but also that we do not lag behind in some way, because, we do not want to, science goes forward and food is the problem number one in the world.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-09-24-0.u20580	Thank you. The following was announced by distinguished representative Selim Bešlagić, so let the distinguished representative Husein Nanić be prepared. 61
ParlaMint-BA_2008-09-24-0.u20581	Dear Chairman, dear colleagues and colleagues, I am, I am free to say, laik for this question but I will come with another question. Is it possible to ban imports of genetic GMOs into BiH? Question for me, why do I say that, or if we forbid it. At the moment I know that our food imports are 2 billion without exporting. ... If we had an export, I'd say ok, then we'd become a territory that's interesting that... plasma is placed... So today, do we with these 2 billion food imports have this modified food or, I don't know... However, I was in favour of adopting the law in the first reading, and now I am a supporter, but since my colleague Todorović presented some things that I did not know and I must accept this idea. I think that here is the condition that we go to the first reading but to open up, I would say, a public debate of 30 or 60 days, as long as it takes, in order to now be able to hear the remarks of all those who are specialists in this area to fit into this section and then to go with such a proposal to Parliament. Why am I saying that? I speak for one simple reason... why I was for this law. I read in this material about genetics, I'll just say, doctor Dr. Vasilije Trkulja, Agricultural Institute of Banja Luka, I'm only talking about professors of these sciences, Professor Kasim Bajrović, Institute of Genetic Engineering and Biotechnology Sarajevo, Professor Dr. Ivan Ostojić, Faculty of Agriculture Mostar, I'm talking about people who teach, Zoran Đerić, specialists in hygiene and... techniques, Food Safety Agency, Master Ljiljana Lovrić, is probably the Ministry of Foreign Trade and Economic Relations of BiH and, finally, Demir Hajrić, doctor of veterinary, I'm saying that it was some guarantee that this law covered it. But as we know, more people know. I think it came out of the debate... that it should literally adopt this in the first reading, open the time of the public debate with all the remarks that you and respecting these remarks clear this text and that, in the end, that text is then going to the second reading, which seems to me to be the most constructive proposal in this. Because the law needs to be passed, we need to prevent food from being imported with genetic... or say to prevent GMO imports, so that we produce, produce food for what must be a certain risk at the moment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-09-24-0.u20582	Thank you. The following has been announced by the distinguished representative Husein Nanić, and may the distinguished representative Križanović be prepared.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-09-24-0.u20583	I thank you, Chairman. In preparation for the discussion on this point, mostly, are the topics which I have prepared have been presented. I belong to that thinking that she appreciates that this law is needed as soon as possible, with the professional and public debate of people... competent to make decisions on this. In addition to these things, 62 should cover research, production and consumption... of these products and this one part that has not been touched so far is to be seen with farmers, since these products are much cheaper in the world. And BiH cannot be an isolated island compared to the market, we are an open society, an open market means that that segment of the need is included in this public debate so that all this data we have said we have and the need to give an answer in BiH regarding production. We know that products in other countries where they are regulated must be indicated on labels as much as they contain genetically modified organisms, so that consumers can, therefore, be determined whether they are. And we heard that today in BiH we do not know absolutely what this situation is, and I appreciate that it is really necessary to bring it to... in this procedure that has been brought here.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-09-24-0.u20584	Thank you. If I have registered correctly, the honourable representative, Jovan Todorović, appeared for the intervention. I apologize for not registering right away.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-09-24-0.u20585	You're okay, you're okay. I first thank the debaters after me who supported my discussion. And my discussion intended to draw attention to an extremely serious matter waiting for us in a millennium that is with us and with us, extremely serious. Also, I have to tell my esteemed and respected friend and colleague Ajanović that I would always like to eat this bread from that "brush" wheat... than I would eat from some of the soft wheat that are there, but in order not to get into it, it is. They're more lucrative, genetically susceptible, but there's something called glutamines, etc. And you know it very well, perhaps even better than me. I'm not a geneticist, to be clear, but I did, and I listened to genetics for about a year, but I have information from the neighborhood that they were in last year, let's say, the Republic of Croatia has overrun several thousand acres of soy. And since I was a Ph.D. on soy, then I got a little tied up and, let's not say, I was close to the subject of this. It doesn't occur to me that we're hitching this bill, that it's not passed, that it needs to be passed urgently. Indeed bring it, but let the first of them be open doors towards science, toward science when it comes to it, for we shall not say all that is to be said about it. I don't think we should delay it, and we're going to submit amendments as a party when it comes to the current text of this law, and I'm just asking that it be respected and heeded. It's in the best interest of all of us. Thank you again.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-09-24-0.u20586	I thank the esteemed representative Todorović. The next is finally the honourable representative Križanović, and let the distinguished representative Izetbegović be prepared.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-09-24-0.u20587	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. 63 I must really say that with much interest and pleasure I have followed this debate of colleagues about this law. And, uh, a lot of things I meant to say, I'm not gonna say it again. Indeed, I can say that I fully agree with most colleagues. So it's about a very serious law and a necessary law. But you see, the fact that we don't have the law doesn't mean that we don't have problems, but rather with genetically modified organisms, or food with such ingredients: both in transport, in production, in imports and, of course, consumption. On the other hand, of course we should pass the law to sort out this area a little bit. But you see, before the law was passed, it would be very useful for me, here, that I will submit here to this law, if at least in this explanation of this law there were a little more information from our Food Safety Agency... If we had a little insight into this situation in BiH and I should say right now that I support these initiatives that, behold, my colleague Martin launched first. That this isn't water sugar, they say, that today this has to be broken and that one more serious, more serious, professional and public debate should be here. This isn't just a matter of profession, you know, this is a question and politics. We need to get an answer to our profession – what is the interest, what are the resources of BiH, respecting all these... EU directives, but let's see what our interest in BiH is here. Where we have interest, where we have resources that possibly some products genetically modified simply destroy, eradicate, because we have conditions for one normal and pure production. So, let's try to get out of this what BiH is interested in. And, of course, that's the order. And finally, procedurally looking,...I can accept that at this stage we can accept this law to go, and to allow public debate and other reading, is that, after more than that time that the Rules of Procedure is scheduled. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-09-24-0.u20588	Thank you. The next is distinguished representative Bakir Izetbegović.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-09-24-0.u20589	In BiH, cancer spread, there is much more cancer than it used to be, and allergic people, amazingly, almost every other man is allergic to something. So, I think we should pass certainly this law from this area, but that it should be as strict or completely prohibiting genetically modified organisms or very narrowing them down. Not to be fooled by nature, we're witnessing these episodes of pesticide use, with the use of artificial fertilizers that drain the soil, so all that you get afterwards you have to triple the amount of money and energy you have to spend to fix it. And it's probably better to eat a quarter of the bread than this "brace" wheat than a kilo of this "Italian" is healthier, is it? BiH has a huge yet untapped area, abandoned, we haven't devoted ourselves thoroughly to restoring agriculture, and I think it's our chance to just retain indigenous varieties and use these resources, not to go on productivity through genetically modified organisms. A few years ago, I read that they crossed tomatoes with fish scales and I didn't believe it, so fish scale tomatoes to make it more permanent. I didn't believe it until I ate such tomatoes. Namely, my friend produced it in a canteen, but he claimed it was the best tomato cider, etc. He had no idea he produced that tomato, until after one ten days 64, one of those tomatoes suddenly didn't bloom like that, it broke up and it smelled like fish intensely, it didn't feel like tomatoes, it felt like fish. So I think we should support this law in the first reading, and then look at the second reading as strictly as possible, narrow down the possibility of using genetically modified organisms. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-09-24-0.u20590	Replica, distinguished representative Velimir Jukić.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-09-24-0.u20591	Well, here's what my replica refers to, in fact, to most of the debates brought here. We're all almost unique in saying, and that's the most important principle, that we're in favour of an absolute ban on GMO imports. At least that's what I understood. This law doesn't say that. Therefore, the law states as a first principle a mandatory risk assessment, which means it already assumes the import of such organisms, i.e. products from such organisms. Furthermore, we are also a country in transition, a country that aims to become one day as soon as possible before EU members etc. and in the EU, this issue is a matter with a lot of obstacles, fierce debates, they introduced one moratorium, so they loosened it up a little later, etc. So they introduced a new permit, I don't know either, again with some procedure,... procedures to introduce some varieties that they have, I don't know, a certain percentage of just modified genes, etc. And some countries have been using it for the past few years. So this is a very, very sensitive, very interesting question. And I think we really should, it's already said here, organise a public debate and with more arguments to say and see – it is our great responsibility to act on this law. And the question is, are we, I will repeat it as my question, able to control quality food imports in terms of the presence of GMOs in that food? Here, therefore, among the principles there is no principle of banning imports, but a principle for assessing environmental risk. Here, that was my replica.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-09-24-0.u20592	I thank the esteemed representative Jukić. Here, I'll call the director of the Food Safety Agency again, Mr. Sead Mačkić. I think he recorded all your questions and I hope you get the right answers.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-09-24-0.u20593	Here I am going to try, there were a lot of questions, yes, honourable MPs, all of you and answer. The question of today is food and food safety. The conference, held in Rome on behalf of BiH, where 180 states, 90 heads of state, spoke for five days about food and food safety. Mr. Chairman, this is where I listed the consent that we received from the competent institutions, I have here, I can contribute them to the Member of Parliament who asked. And secondly, 65 I'll answer the question. In order to market BiH for GMOs or genetically modified food or new food, it must be agreed by the Council of Ministers on the previous opinion of the Food Safety Agency. To this day, as long as the Agency exists for two years, we have not had such a request. Also in the law, one who puts new food GMOs on the BiH market must ask the Agency to give me their opinion to the Council of Ministers to give such a permit, it is in the Food Act. In Article 3, he would give you an answer, here stands, competent institutions, and when we say competent institutions, these are the competent institutions of the entity and the Government of the Brcko District. That's how it is in this law what the definitions of competent institutions are. To give a response to the public, we have assessed in the Agency's 2008 Work Programme to investigate whether there is a presence of GMOs in the BiH area. To do that, we have to have legislation. This country does not have legal regulations and, you see, here in Article 52 says: "Every product containing genetically modified food must stand in the declaration." I'll remind you, this is the only problem we have. Currently, the Food Safety Agency is preparing itself under the Council of Ministers of the 25 Food Regulations. We're only talking about one food today. But it's about 25 regulations. And last year, the Council of Ministers passed nine regulations. Gentlemen, every day we have a question of the public what we eat, we have a question of the manufacturer every day how and how they can be equal with the EU producers. We have regulations from 70' and 80's and the Agency recognised it in time and launched a series of activities as a competent institution. I'll just say that we hired the most professional people in the food business. We have over 50 professors from all the schools in BiH who took active part in making food regulations. This is a very complex problem and here I am responsible from this place saying that this question, doctor what you were saying, is the question – we need to give an answer why we have 300-400 times the occurrence of disease, different diseases in people. The Agency shall take all measures with competent institutions, but based on scientific research and controlled food samples. To give scientific data, we can't do the flat-rate, and every day we hear in the media that statements are made that we eat garbage, etc. Who has the right to say that? Ambassador Ajanović just said that he sows food, so I guess he knows what he sows, what he eats. We have to give answers. The agency gives answers every day, but based on controlled samples. I can tell you, in collaboration with all the labs in BiH, last year based on 100,000 samples, we made an assessment and we saw that 6% was not for human use that caused... toxicification. The average is also in other European countries. And we're making an assessment. To take all measures to give this answer and this institution, which I am headed for, will give to this parliament very quickly, and so is the Food Law, to give its proposals and recommendations to the scientific legislation of BiH, that is you, and BiH's policy. So we're doing everything and this law right here, you see a dose of 0.9%, we, based on this law, when adopted, executives and inspectors can give a warrant to examine that food, and that the labs examine it. We now have two labs in BiH that can examine it, I say responsibly, but do not have legislation. That's the problem. I ask Mr. Todorović, I bear all responsibility if it is determined that we did not provide you with the answer in time, we delivered you the answer in time. You gave us the question, it wasn't good protocol, it wasn't delivered through the Council of Ministers. We've provided you with a response through the Council of Ministers, respecting the procedure. So, on time, within the time limit requested, we gave you the answer. I don't know where it's stuck, but here's my full responsibility if we don't answer you in good time, and I think you'll be happy with this answer. And also, this institution needs professional people, scientific people, 66 to give these answers. I can only tell you, we can easily add, I do science, how much scientific work has been done on food, which is harmful to our health. It's easy to put together, maybe, two or three scientific papers. We will give the answers, but here we are asking for help and to get all the opinions on this to open up a public debate. We made a brochure to bring this new matter, something new, closer to our consumers in BiH and to all stakeholders. That was the goal. I don't know if I still owe someone an answer, but the Agency is here to give answers. So, this law, these arguments, in order to do one law, one regulation, must be in line with the EU. What does that mean? If we have one regulation, we have directives, and those directives are not in line, then our producers can't go to market. To be precise, we now have a problem that the manufacturer who has constantly exported to the Croatian market cannot export eggs, because there is no regulation that is in line with EU rules. These are the problems and it's listed here. And this law aims to lay down regulations based on it, rules that define the work of labs and controls of this GMO more clearly and precisely. That's what we all know here, and that's why we would do this law, and that's why we'd do it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-09-24-0.u20594	I thank you, you will remain here. I now call on MPs who want additional answers, comments on what they asked the authorising officer. Here is Honorable Representative Raguž, and let the other vice president, Dr Milorad Živković, be prepared.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-09-24-0.u20595	Here, I thank Mr. Director for this, I would say, a truly reasoned explanation and an analysis of the debate, but what he said means that so far there has been no request – these demands will follow. There will be a wave of these demands, because this law predicts that these demands begin to come. So here it is said, regarding new food, the arrangement of placing new food containing genetically modified organisms on the BiH market for the first time. So this is the assumption that it would happen. Before that happens, I don't see that there has been any indulging here in the question of the need to pass this law. I do not want to discuss this at all, but about when and under what conventions BiH can and should and what are institutional and other assumptions it can engage in solving all these problems. I don't think the public is yet informed or ready to take this step that awaits, no matter what good you do and no one challenges it. And before stating these principles, I think it's necessary to get to know the public in the brochures that you've done to other experts and scientific ones. It is one of the minimum responsibilities towards this Parliament and the public. And that's why I've been formulating that conclusion, and I won't answer again. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-09-24-0.u20596	Thank you. The word has been respected by the second vice president, Dr. Milorad Živković. 67
ParlaMint-BA_2008-09-24-0.u20597	Thank you. I thank the Director for further explanations, and I hope that in the conversation we will come up with some solutions that can be acceptable to everyone. However, it was not a good enough explanation for me regarding Article 3 where it was only taxed in the end that the authorities of the entity and Brcko District of BiH were competent, and I believe that this can be much better fixed in order to be effective. In my opinion, this member should begin to say: within the meaning of this law, the competent authorities are the entity ministries responsible for the area of agriculture and the Department of Agriculture and Forestry, etc., that I am not now reading to you this amendment prepared for that Article 3, where it would be compared to whose jurisdiction is more important. I believe that the competent agriculture ministries are entities, that no administrative procedure can be done without their consent, and in this law the administrative procedure is governed by this advisory body, which should only be an advisory body, and that the ministries should be involved in any process of obtaining consent and authorisation for the transport of genetically modified food, if we decide on the principle of law that we are going to BiH with partially controlled approaches. If we turn around and this parliament says no, in BiH we will not do this, we will not allow any use, and then we will assign inspection bodies and everything else, so if we need the Agency to do this in a way that in BiH we will ensure that there is no use of GMOs or abuse, but also that, and what the distinguished colleague was talking about, we also find ways to protect our people from the over-influence of pesticides, insecticides and other substances. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-09-24-0.u20598	Thank you. The following has been reported by respected representative Bajazit Jašarević.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-09-24-0.u20599	So, I'd like to repeat a few views when I was talking about business intervention. It is clear to me that the Constitutional Commission has done so and I do not believe that the capacity of another commission would be, behold, crucial that we can answer so many questions today. What I would like to point out is that I am grateful that we have received this brochure and that I view it as an initial education. Well, here's what a man would say is only an MP, how many people need to be educated in order to be able to ask the right questions both to MPs and to the Food Control Agency. There we saw that the production of this food is actually business, and it doesn't care about hunger in the world, that it deals with powerful, economically developed countries and those who have many people so they can't feed them. And that BiH is neither, nor that there are any assumptions that involve a regulated market with all the mechanisms of the regulated market, particularly effective quality control and regulated agricultural production. You don't know what's worse than this two. Likely, we are more eyed by an unsettled market but this kind of agricultural production cannot be where these two productions are mixed, one traditional and one new production. Risk assessment, environmental impact and 68 people to do in BiH, I don't think it will be possible in due course, that this will be a fundamental impact check, that it will not be a formal cover. Therefore, I support, here is Ambassador Martin Raguž, who has proposed a public debate, so I think everyone will support it. It must include both the profession and the public. However, what domestic producers, food processors think and must be consumer representatives. Therefore, consumer representatives must be invited there to represent the interest of this highest public. I think the wide opening of a door to this complex area in BiH is unreasonable, and the aim of this law is to comply with European directives, that is, our obligation. So no one has to remind us of that. We simply ask to come to this in a more careful way, step by step, and then we will have the same goal again. It's just gonna take us more years than anyone could have, you know, planned. And I have to say this eventually. Asking if there's any food today, everyone's already said and everyone knows it is, already has it. So there is no need to convince anyone that submitting a request is a condition for entry into BiH. BiH can be entered on any side and with any slave, which is even illegal in terms of criminal law, let alone in terms of food quality. So we're much lower down than we'd like to be governed by this law right now. I ask that the public debate be a broader public debate and that the commission, which is in charge of this, implement this and deliver questions and answers to these questions from this debate, so that we can then take responsibility in voting on this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-09-24-0.u20600	I thank the esteemed representative Jašarević. I don't have any more attorneys to report. I'm giving my word again to the Honorable Director of the Food Safety Agency.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-09-24-0.u20601	I'll be brief. This brochure was made and it is already divided into our consumers, the number we could print. We expect, if we get support, that every consumer in BiH will get this brochure. Also, other recommendations on salmonella,... brucellologists, we have already delivered to institutions that will further divide our consumers. The rule of salt we do also has a scientific study and these regulations go and monitor these scientific studies. So this brochure was just the first step. This was written by our esteemed academician Berberović..., Hadžiselimović from the Faculty of Natural-Mathematics. You can read ahead to see what they think about it. So this is the first step for us to meet our consumers. I am personally glad that this is how a nice debate was opened and that a public debate on all of this is opened. It is the goal of the Agency to open these discussions, that our consumers know what they eat and to restore that trust to our consumers what they eat but in one scientific way, in no way do we lose absolute confidence in what we eat. We at the Agency are interested in a safe product, safe food, and there's no way this part can be controlled. I would just add this that currently, under the current law, no agreement can be obtained in BiH for the placing of genetically modified food without the entity's consent. It has, it stands in the law, Article 31, and there we can be safe in that part. Thank you very much. 69
ParlaMint-BA_2008-09-24-0.u20602	Thank you. I don't have any more logs. I conclude the debate on this agenda point with one brief, just a note. Since, in connection with this proposal, the conclusion proposed by the esteemed representative Raguž, and some of you, through the debate, supported this, is suggested to me that the public debate cannot be opened in the first reading, which means, this is just for a reminder of you who are going to decide. So in order to open a public debate, we must miss the law in the first reading. I appreciated it for what it takes to remind me, here. So, so here, I think the debate was absolutely high. I wish it was about all the points it's about. Moving to the next item of the agenda: Ad. Seven. Proposal for a Law on the Agency for the Development of the Information Society of Bosnia and Herzegovina (first reading) And this legal proposal was submitted in the procedure in 18.8.2008. For the committee responsible, the College was designated by the Committee for Transport and Communications. We received the opinion of the Constitutional Legislative Commission on the Constitutional Foundation on 11 September of the current year. We received the opinion of the committee responsible for principles on September 12th. The data is also supported by the constitutional basis and the principles of the proposed law. I'm opening a debate in my first reading. Do we have an authorised promoter?
ParlaMint-BA_2008-09-24-0.u20604	No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2008-09-24-0.u20605	Here's how I'm gonna figure it out. On behalf of the College, I hope I have the consent, that we appreciate that you are competent in the name of the promoter so that you can explain, and if anyone thinks otherwise, here's the call. So I want to, here I think this silence is a sign of support for this attitude, I want to ask you if you want to explain this bill?
ParlaMint-BA_2008-09-24-0.u20606	No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2008-09-24-0.u20607	Here you go. I'm just asking you to introduce yourselves for a stenogram. 70
ParlaMint-BA_2008-09-24-0.u20608	I am Željko Knežević, Assistant Minister of Communications and Transport of BiH, in charge of the field of electronic communications, the development of the Information Society in BiH. I welcome the esteemed meeting and say that this law was still in the past session of the BiH Parliament. So he's been in some sort of procedure and getting back for a long time. I can say that we now have a good law, especially for those who understand what information society is and what the role of the Agency is in the information society in the future. The Information Society Agency has also created other acts adopted in this esteemed home and the House of Peoples and the Council of Ministers since 2002. BiH signed the Agenda in Belgrade. It is, within the Stability Pact, a plan of activity, among other things, where it undertakes to set up a 'Information Society Development Agency'. The agency was also adopted through acts of the policy development strategy of the information society as early as 2004 at the Council of Ministers, then through various strategies including the PRSP strategy, which was also adopted in this parliament. It was introduced as a monitoring measure for the establishment of the Information Society Agency. Also, at the second 2005 ministerial meeting in Thessaloniki, an Agenda Plus was adopted in Sarajevo last year. It's a ministerial meeting of the Southeast European region. The need for the "Information Society Agency" as well as the criteria for accession negotiations with the EU, where, and in the peace partnership measures, the "Information Society Agency" is being monitored, and its establishment. I can say that this is a law that actually establishes the Agency, defines the objectives and principles of its work and functioning, the work of the Agency, the organisation of the Agency's management, and cooperation with all relevant entity institutions, as well as, of course, international institutions. The wishes of all those who have worked – including mine, I was also a member of the Working Party for the construction of this law – that the Agency should be established according to the principles of the EU which has so-called. DJ information... media, means one general directorate for the development of an information society in which certain domains will be identified, very important for the development of an information society. We have recognised such domains in the Strategy for the Development of the Information Society as legislation...... for the Information Society, then electronic education, electronic business, electronic government, electronic infrastructure, ICT industry and so on. These are the most important areas which are the driving force of this society and the Agency would deal with the promotion of all these domains, which are relevant for the development of an information society, and to be recognised in already adopted documents. Of course, this agency is not facing itself as an institution. It must be opened to society, to articulate the needs of society in the development of the information society, because it is a basic message... All, it means Information Society for everyone, for all citizens of these and those in the farthest rural parts of the country. So the same approach to information, the same possibility of development, means at the very end of the line benefit to the citizens. Therefore, the Agency must also articulate all needs of civil society, coordinate together, of course, with entities, promote society, develop projects that will recognise the EU and allow access to EU funds that are huge, only need to be taken. I just have to point out that we're really at a low level of development and many, many alibis are looking at the Agency, which is not the basis for the development of the information society. Here, in the e-government e-71 management, the E-Government of Europe is already on level six, level seven. We are practically only at the beginning, which is our inevitable move to catch up with the developed world and bridge this digital divide, which is evident, with developed parts of the world, the EU in particular. I don't know how much.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-09-24-0.u20609	I thank the esteemed assistant minister. I'm opening a debate. Dear second vice president, Dr. Milorad Živković.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-09-24-0.u20610	Thank you, Chairman. I apologize for a little abuse of the pay phone, namely, I have now received from the Director of Consensus, which, from the previous point of view of the agenda, I can conclude that we do not have the consent of the Entity Ministry of Agriculture or at least I did not get it, and we have the opinion of the Ministry of Health in which there are many objections and I do not know whether these remarks have been respected and whether the Ministry has agreed to this bill, so I expect that we will have this agreement in the next period. But in order not to end this part of the agenda in this way and to ask for consent from the legislator of this law, I myself made sure to take that agreement. And, namely, the fact is next. There is an Agency for the Information Society of RS in RS, which does not exist in the Federation of BiH, or in the Brcko District. And it often happens in this parliament that we get legislative proposals where everything wants to be formed at BiH level for the simple reason that nothing can be agreed on at the Federation of BiH level. And the question arises of the need for legislation at BiH level this way. In fact, it is obvious that the entity's competence is exclusive to technological development and that we already have legal issues and agencies doing this job at lower levels. For this reason, we are not able to support this bill and we are asking that the legislator of this law deliver us if he has the consent of entity ministries in charge of this issue regarding this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-09-24-0.u20611	I thank the esteemed representative Živković. The next one was announced by Honorable Representative Momčilo Novaković.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-09-24-0.u20612	Dear colleagues, a similar law was here a few years ago in the parliamentary procedure and, as I recall, it was a problem then, or it was not supported by the CIPS project. Naima, that's when the CIPS Project Directorate was supposed to be found, and then we're told that almost, without it, this law doesn't make sense. And then he didn't even get the support, because there was no consent of the RS then to enter the CIPS, and without the CIPS he didn't make sense. Now he's making sense without the CIPS project. So, since there are some changes made, so it's clearly 72 now makes sense without it. I mean, if there was more hearing then, it seems to me, that this law, that we should have passed this law a few years ago, but here we are, so we're where we are now. I didn't do an analysis of whether or not there are institutions dealing with these issues at entity level, whether at canton level. What seems to me to be problematic in this whole law, in addition to that, is a member of the 11th that talks about the Agency's Council and talks about the way it's chosen, or proposes the Agency's Council. Namely, the position (3) and (4) of this member enables, theoretically and practically, that this advice can function and operate without one of the entities, i.e. without candidates from one of the entities. Because here it is said that the government of the entity, I think it needs governments, not governments, entity governments and the Brcko District by one candidate, the academic community of BiH, the Rector's Conference of one, the ICT industry of one, the Ministry of Communications and Transport of Two. But Article 4 says: If the entity governments do not propose candidates within 45 days, the Ministry of Communications will propose instead those they think should propose. This may be a stumbling block for the adoption of this law, and the motionary seems to have had to take a little more care of this issue. We will probably, not likely, but in the second phase, have amendments, so if there is a second phase, and as I heard from my colleague Živković, I don't seem sure about it right now, but if there is a second phase, we will try to formulate this Article 11 differently. Because it is obvious that the promoter intended to prevent, under alleged signs, the entity's blockade by not proposing candidates within 45 days, not making sure that there are any procedures there that can, for objective reasons, prevent the entity from doing so within 45 days. About the other members of the law, I'm not going to speak specifically, but it might not be bad for these questions to be carried out before they enter into any further consultation so that at least we here, which we should decide, to say the least, will be made clear. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-09-24-0.u20613	Thank you. The following is the registered honourable representative Husein Nanić.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-09-24-0.u20614	I had no intention of discussing the content of this law but, given what Mr. Živković has said and what stands in the light of the law, I do have a need to say my comment on this, given that this law, as we could also hear, is the product of a long-standing activity and decision-making, plans, the strategy of the BiH institutions and which resulted in BiH's commitment to making these plans, the plan strategy and the development of the information society in BiH. And they, clearly in this explanation here, say the need for special institutions at BiH level has been clearly identified. The following documents indicated that it meant a clearly indicated need at BiH level for the institution to be established. And from the exact point 44. The development policies of the 73th Information Society are an explicit obligation to form the 'Agency for the Development of Society' as a special organisation at BiH level. Today, it seems to me, in all the laws, we've heard too many requests to demand the consent of the entity. It might be good to hear what the municipalities think and some local communities think about these laws, and we heard that BiH is certainly at the beginning of the development of an information society in Europe that is already in the seventh degree. I think we need to speed it up and we need to have as little talk and get back to these laws as possible. This law needs the teaching of BiH, BiH, the citizens of BiH, not to return it in a way that they decide to slow down the decision-making and adoption system under this law.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-09-24-0.u20615	Thank you. The next one is distinguished representative Branko Dokić.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-09-24-0.u20616	Mr. Chairman, perhaps I should have answered and immediately after the resolution ministry as the President of the Commission who discussed this issue, and I was away for a while and told the secretary that my deputy could say so. Since he's not answering, here I am then taking that part to fill out, that commitment, as chairman of the Commission. The Commission considered this and concluded that the law was accepted in principle and suggested that it proceed further in the procedure. So we haven't considered the details. Individually speaking, here I am, for example. I support exactly what my colleague Momčilo Novaković says, otherwise today something with names is holding in my head. Okay. I accept that, or I accept everything from your party and apologize to you. There's more here, I'll only talk about the details of this because Momčilo mentioned it. It's high time that, not only in this law but elsewhere, we stopped one intention that puts the Brcko District in the same plane as the entities. Step by step, it's being imposed, look here, it's just as represented in this proposal, I hope this doesn't go through like this, it's just as represented by the Brcko District as... _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] It's not that third entity, is it, that's one thing. I'd like to say this, this is the first reading. In the second reading, we will talk, if of course the law comes in the second reading, about details and details and from a professional and professional aspect, and at that stage I support what my colleague Živković said without any vulgarization. It's not bad, and the resolution ministry should have obtained opinions from entity governments or at least from ministries. I must say that Mr Bešlagić has asked on the Commission whether it has and that we have been told on the Commission that there are no objections from the entity. So it would be good for the second stage to get those opinions if we had them, and we will define ourselves here to them whether they are based or not. 74 Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-09-24-0.u20618	I thank the esteemed representative Dokić. No more reports and I'm concluding a debate on this agenda point. _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] No need, you can deliver, so we'll share with the MPs. In accordance with our announcement, we will bring today's day to an end, with my duty, before the end, to ask you for a proposal to continue the session on 7.10, starting at 10.00 hours, in accordance with Article 74. Rules of Procedure. Please prepare. So, the proposal is to continue the session at 10 p.m. at 10.00 p.m., to continue this 35th session. Prepare to vote. Vote now! May I have your attention, we're not done yet. 23 votes "yes", two "against", without "abstained" votes. I'm guessing we've set up a 35th session for 7/10 at 10.00 hours here at the same place. At the same time, I would like to remind you of our meeting calendar for the next regular session on 8 October, and it will be scheduled and held in that regular appointment. Thank you very much for your attention. The seat was suspended at 17.10 p.m.
