ParlaMint-BA_2008-10-08-1.u20825	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, honored guests, please take your seats. Ladies and gentlemen of the House of Representatives, honored guests, I am opening the 36th session of the Parliamentary House of BiH. Our regular guests, the chairman and members of the BiH presidency, the chairman and members of the BiH Council of Ministers, representatives of OHR, OSCE and other international organisations who regularly monitor the work of our home and representatives of certain NGOs were invited to attend the meeting. I welcome all present and guests, I also welcome representatives of public information funds. According to service information, I'd like to conclude that there are 34 representatives present. The rightful absence was announced by distinguished representative Mirko Okolić, distinguished representative Azra Alajbegović and distinguished representative Zlatko Lagumdžija. I find the session has a quorum for work and decision-making. You, ladies and gentlemen, have received a draft agenda in the invitation to the session. Given the circumstances, certain changes have been made. We have received negative opinions from the relevant committees for the draft laws referred to in points 1, 2 and 5, which is why these points have been restructured. The 6th point – Proposal for a Law on fiscal cash registers was removed, as the Committee on Finance and Budget decided to postpone its statement on the principles until the Council of Ministers delivered an opinion on the Bill proposal, i.e. requested an extension of the deadline. The 7th point – Report on the work of the State Commission for the Review of Decisions on the Naturalisation of Foreign Citizens in Bosnia and Herzegovina for the period from 1. 1. 2008 to 31. Six. In 2008, because the Joint Committee on Human Rights could not hold a session because they had no quorum, so we did not get an opinion on this report. And at the end of the 35th session, we decided to put the agenda – Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Classification of Activities in BiH, first reading, which we did not discuss yesterday because of the absence of a representative. We also included the appointment of three members in the joint committees of both homes to agree on the appointment of the Ombudsman for human rights of BiH and the deputy general auditor. 2 You have now received an amended agenda proposal on benches. I'm opening a debate on a draft agenda. Dear Representative Bakir Izetbegović.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-10-08-1.u20826	For point 9, I don't think we have any material, so we can just repeat the initiative to get SIPA to do its job and get the Council of Ministers to do its job. I don't see that there's anything to vote on, about such an initiative, because as far as I know on the ground that the matter is already going, that SIPA's already checking it out, so I suggest we take down this agenda item number nine, until we get the materials from the SIPA and the Council of Ministers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-10-08-1.u20827	Thank you. I don't have any more applications for amendments and additions to the agenda. I'm closing the debate on the agenda proposal. We move to a statement on the proposal of the president of the SDA Club Mr. Bakir Izetbegović to remove point 9. from today's session of the 36th session of the House. Please prepare to vote. Vote now! 34 votes "yes", with no votes "against" and "abstained votes" – I agree that this proposal has been accepted. I find that the 36th session of the House has the following 1. Agents' questions and answers; 2. Proposal for a law amending the Act on the Classification of Activities in BiH (first reading); 3. Proposal for a law on the control of the movement of arms and military equipment, with the opinion of the Joint Defence and Security Committee; 4. Proposal for a law on border control, with the opinion of the Joint Defence and Security Committee; 5. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Act on the Production of Arms and Military Equipment (first reading); 6. Proposal for a Law on Census and Households in Bosnia and Herzegovina 2011, with Opinion of the Constitutional Commission – Proposer Momčilo Novaković; 7. Information on crimes against life and bodies, with an emphasis on domestic violence, for 2006 and 2007 and trends in the first three months of 2008; 3 8. Representative Milorad Živković's initiative with the 34th session of the House, held 3. Nine. 2008 with regard to the upcoming census; 9. The appointment of three members to the Joint Committee of both homes to agree a) the election of the Ombudsman for human rights of BiH, b) the deputy chief auditor of BiH. We move to the first point of the established agenda, Ad. 1. Agents' questions and answers
ParlaMint-BA_2008-10-08-1.u20830	Thank you. I got an answer about the sale of gold, so, well, I waited half a term, two years, right away, and I'd rather never get it than never. I am half satisfied because I am only responsible for the fact that there is a decision on the sale of gold since 31 October 2001. And to these other answers, I have no answer, which I was most interested in how much gold was market value at the time, when it is well known that daily BiH lost $12m in gold sales due to this sale. Over 300 million marks have been damaged by the state because gold has been sold into invaluableness and there is no state in the world that has denied its gold reserves that our ancestors have collected for centuries, and someone has thought to sell it – it is also known why. The president, then, of the SDP, Zlatko Lagumdžija, was chairman of the Council of Ministers and Foreign Ministers, and based on this state was damaged by half the budget at the time. I didn't get that answer, as I didn't even get for the answers to the 10% gold sales that went into certain... to finance human resources, new entrepreneurship and education in the area... technology, to open up room for Lagundžija to himself and his friends to collect fees. So the hem that damaged the state for huge funds and out of those 54 million marks 10% set up his bartenders to operate that much through the program. 4 So much, thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-10-08-1.u20831	Thank you. Next is Honorable Representative Slavko Jovičić.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-10-08-1.u20832	The Honorable Chairman, distinguished members of the Council of Ministers, ladies and gentlemen from NGOs, media representatives, colleagues and fellow MPs, asked these two questions not only at the 32nd session, but before the 32nd session, so also other sessions. One question withdraws, and today I'm running again. I am not satisfied with the answer because I have to admit that I have received some of the answers I asked for, but now I will ask the additional question: 'When will the national structure of employees be respected and respected on the constitutionality of the people under the Constitution of BiH and when will this structure be balanced first at the level of BiH institutions?' And of course, the second question, I already know who's responsible and who needs to say, "When will he return, in my term, so the next time or never, the property of the Serbian Orthodox Church in Sarajevo come back?" I'd like it to be extended to BiH, but since I only got out of the answer that the cantonal authorities in Sarajevo have no intention of returning, here I am now, of course, going to expand, because that's what the reply said. "I advocate to return property and Catholic churches, where it has not been returned throughout BiH and the Islamic Community throughout BiH." So, my question so as not to report and ask again, I will expand: 'To return the property of the Serbian Orthodox Church throughout BiH, with a special emphasis on the Sarajevo area.' It is simply amazing that I get such an answer, that the authorities that are in charge of this BiH capital, which I respect, are of principle, but that they insult the Serbian Orthodox Church and Serbian believers and say it is impossible to respect. How am I going to go before my constituents, citizens, here are the believers of the Orthodox religion? So if this state can't solve it, and the competent institutions of the city of Sarajevo, then I ask the question, "What can be solved when nothing is disputed?" It is precisely known in grant 1/1 what belongs to the Serbian Orthodox Church, which is property. Of course, I'm not asking for today to order all people to move out immediately, but to find opportunities to get into realisation, to negotiate, how it is possible to return the property somewhere, to make up for it, but at economic prices. No Niko must be blackmailed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-10-08-1.u20833	Thank you. The next is the distinguished representative Lazar Prodanović, and let the distinguished representative Slavko Matić be prepared. 5
ParlaMint-BA_2008-10-08-1.u20834	Dear Mr. Chairman, colleagues and fellow MPs, respected ministers, honored guests, I am pleased with the response I received from the Council of Ministers, which concerns the end of the term of office by governing structures and institutions whose founder is BiH. But what I'm saying is that the answer is quite detailed. I would like to say that there is no justification for the extension of the deadlines for the selection of management structures, and I believe that in this sense the founder must be much more up-to-date, also under paragraph 19, a position relating to "the Official Messenger of BiH" where it is stated, among other things, that the mandate has not been established. I believe the Council of Ministers should resolve the status of this institution in accordance with... So, in the procedure of the Parliamentary Assembly, to propose a law, while at the same time resolving all issues concerning the Management Board, the director and the status of this institution are appointed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-10-08-1.u20835	Thank you. The following is announced by the distinguished representative Slavko Matić, and let the distinguished representative Šemsudin Mehmedović be prepared.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-10-08-1.u20836	Mr. President, colleagues and fellow representatives, respected guests, I received an answer from the Central Election Commission on the issue of disputed electoral rights for 2,084 persons, mainly from the space of the Bosnian Brod and Dervente, as they said: legally valid documents were not as such recognised and these persons could not exercise electoral rights. I am not satisfied with the answer and, even moreover, I think the answer can show that these people have been challenged by electoral rights for purely formal reasons, and that these persons are not at all guilty but by someone else and that they obviously could not exercise their right to vote. In response, it is concluded that by checking the population census in '91. All persons, 2,084, found that they were on the '91 list. So it's not about some hrvat of the Republic of Croatia, Zagorci or Slavons who have nothing to do with BiH, it's about people who are in '91. Cheers to the space of Brod and Dervente. It is further noted that the beliefs on the statehood that they handed over are not legally valid only because they were not issued by the home offices of these municipalities but by the refugee office which had been held by the citizens' books. The answer is written 2. Ten. Meanwhile, citizens' books have been delivered to BiH and very easily in the remaining 10 days, 15 days until the elections, and by the Central Election Commission and any other competent institutions, could be checked and found that in these books citizens of these people exist as citizens of BiH today and I do not think there were enough essential reasons to challenge them as one of the fundamental human rights. It's said next. The majority of persons submitted a valid legal belief of citizenship from the disputed areas, meaning that for those 2,084 persons, the extraction of those beliefs was not disabled but only made difficult by the consequences of certain administrative obstacles. He gives me the full right to argue that these people are not guilty of these administrative obstacles and, as soon as it is recognised that it has been difficult, I see no reason why they have not been granted the opportunity and given the opportunity to vote in the 2008 elections, especially when taking the fact that the Central Election Commission admits that 6 hundreds of people of these 2,084 were enrolled in the Central Election List in 2002 and also one part of them for the 2004 elections. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-10-08-1.u20837	I thank the honourable representative Matić. The following has been reported by honourable representative Šemsudin Mehmedović, and may the honourable representative Denis Bećirović be prepared.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-10-08-1.u20838	Those are new questions, right? I have three brief questions to the Council of Ministers...
ParlaMint-BA_2008-10-08-1.u20839	These are just comments on... the answer, and since you have the answer, I thought you might want to comment. All right, next up is distinguished representative Denis Bećirović.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-10-08-1.u20840	From a number of questions asked at previous sessions, here I finally got an answer to one of these questions. I asked the question: - Why does the Council of Ministers of BiH not approach the realisation of the Resolution on the acceleration of the BiH accession process for EU membership? It is also published in "The Official Messenger of BiH". I got an answer to that question even on three pages, but the problem is that none of the three pages are related to this issue, so I am renewing this issue with a desire to get a really concrete answer to a concrete question with, of course, my comment and a great desire to continue to intensify my questions, answers and discussions, given that he has made a significant contribution to the election victory of the BiH Party and we expect that, before the upcoming general elections, one such significant contribution, both in the Sadik Bahtić Most, probably throughout BiH. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-10-08-1.u20841	I thank you, too. I have to say that at the end of what you said has nothing to do with the commentary answering your question, but here, try to stick to the Rules of Procedure. No more comments reported. Here, please sign up who wants to ask counsel questions. Mr. Mehmedović was already registered first, so go ahead, and then let the distinguished representative Husein Nanić be prepared. 7
ParlaMint-BA_2008-10-08-1.u20842	Gentlemen, the chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the council, distinguished guests, I have three brief questions for the Council of Ministers. First is the Ministry of Security: - I request that I be provided with the systematization and filling of the national structure in SIPA, from the director to the last perpetrator. Second question of the Ministry of Human Rights and the Ministry of Civil Affairs of the Council of Ministers: - When will the issue of return of property be resolved Fati Orlović, i.e. The destruction of the church from her yard? And third question to the Ministry of Transport and Communications of the Council of Ministers: - When will the decision on the constitutionality of the people in an institution called RTV RS be respected, because it is a public TV service, i.e. when will the structure of the staff be nationalally balanced in accordance with that decision? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-10-08-1.u20843	Thank you. The following has been announced by the distinguished representative Husein Nanić, and may the honourable representative of Sadik Bahtić be prepared.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-10-08-1.u20844	I thank you, Mr. Chairman. Members of Parliament, colleagues and colleagues and guests, members of the government, I want to ask one question concerning two institutions in BiH. It is the following: that the National Monuments Commission has taken a decision to declare the Old Mosque in Lubarda, the Bužim municipality, a national monument to BiH. Riyasset of the Islamic Community addressed the motion to repeal the decision, since it was taken without consulting the owner and user of the facility, and that there are serious doubts about the credibility of the list of signatories of the petition of citizens and their abuse of the institute of declaration and protection of national monuments, the monument of the facility for other reasons. I ask the question to the Commission for the Conservation of National Monuments: - Will you review your Decision to declare the Old Mosque of the Old Mosque in Lubarda, the Bužim municipality, and based on the request of the Islamic Community in BiH? And the second question to the government of the Federation of BiH, the Federal Ministry of Culture and Sports: - What are you and what are you going to do to protect the facility of the Old Mosque from further collapse and the potential very dangerous consequences of the local population, since the facility is in the strict center of the settlement and is threatened with self-determination which may have consequences for the loss of human lives and given the obligations you are obliged to make, in accordance with the above-mentioned decision? Thank you. 8
ParlaMint-BA_2008-10-08-1.u20845	Thank you. The next is Honourable representative Sadik Bahtić, and let the distinguished representative Branko Dokić be prepared.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-10-08-1.u20846	Thank you. I will continue these questions according to the order until the former SK's assets return to the real owner of the state. I have here all the answers of the pravobranilaštvo which shows that in the public books is grant – that it is owned by the state, state property and that SDP is a classic usurper. My question today is: - When will the Council of Ministers propose to this House of State Property Act, within which would the state of BiH be returned to all assets of the former SK that the SDP has illegally usurped and has been collecting large revenues since 1990? As at earlier sessions of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly, I asked parliamentary questions and pointed to this illegal action, i.e. The biggest crime, the biggest robbery, the largest kidnapping of state property by the SDP, and this time I ask that the Council of Ministers honours this home's decision to register all assets of the former SK and return to the real owner, BiH. I received a part of the answer to these questions from the Council of Ministers and the pravobranilaštvo General, which clearly shows that as the owner of the property the state is registered, that this is the state property given to the use of the SK. So, even before the war, when he was 100% in power, he couldn't put property on himself, because it's state property, which means that the current SDP by law doesn't have the right to benefit, it has, let alone rent state property, and what they do today and collect people's money. Given the state of registration in public books, the land cadastre, the grant, results in that SDP is not the title holder of property rights, nor is it the owner of the property concerned, because it is not included in public books and it is seen to be the largest hijacker, hiduchi and robbery of state property by SDP, larger than any criminal piracy. Also, I ask that the BiH Council of Ministers, through state institutions, initiate the process of compensation for direct and indirect damages. From the answer of the pravobranilaštvo's office, whoever wants to see the state has the right to claim its compensation, i.e. to return SDP to the state and all the funds lost with a tight interest, because I cannot accept that the BiH state, in addition to its large assets, use for the lease and accommodation of state institutions, pays around 20 million KM, while on the other hand SDP, as a usurper of state property, collects millions of revenues from the lease and is in a privileged position compared to other political parties, while their leader is boastful, arrogant and luxuriantly acting so that people's money is surrounded by world metropolis, selling fog. Where is morale, and where is the rule of law when such things are allowed? And finally to say that it seems that if the Council of Ministers won't prepare this, we will find MPs who will do this law and propose to this Parliament. 9 And as for the election campaign to tell you, I have to answer briefly. The SDP is, in my opinion, the biggest loser, five times in a row, you're losing the election. You've financed people's money now with those democratic passwords: for a man, for a man!
ParlaMint-BA_2008-10-08-1.u20847	Please limit yourself to asking questions, not answers.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-10-08-1.u20848	Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-10-08-1.u20849	I thank you, too. The next is distinguished representative Branko Dokić, and let the distinguished representative Denis Bećirović be prepared.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-10-08-1.u20850	Mr. Chairman, I have a question and an initiative. As far as the issue is concerned, the question would be: - How long will BiH Presidency Chairman Haris Silajdžić do great harm to the BiH state to his public appearances outside BiH? And my initiative is: that this home at the next, and at the latest at a session that would be within a month, is given talks, the last speeches by Haris Silajdžić in New York and Strasbourg and that Parliament has defined itself according to these speeches. I do not problem here with the issue that others have raised: the dissonances and self-initiatives of Mr Silajdžić, I do not even have a problem with the tenorous presentation of false data on the BiH painting, such as, for example, here. the issue of refugee returns. I want to say the latest data, here are fellow MPs, from the Ministry of Human Rights where the minister is one of the key people in Mr Silajdžić's party, according to which... therefore, the data of the assistant human rights and refugees: 24,557 families or 81,866, are waiting for the return to RS for 20,379 families or 68,228 persons to return to the Federation of BiH. And the picture is sent to the world completely, quite different where the problem is only RS, and on the other hand there is no problem. So that's not what I'm dealing with either. I am troubled by the words that Mr Silajdžić said this time at the speaker of the highest international and European institutions. Speaking of the subject of entity voting, he said, I quote, "It is the implementation of genocide and apartheid in BiH." I'm not naive enough to believe Mr. Silajdžić doesn't know what these words mean. Therefore, I would also like to remind you that genocide comes from the Greek word "genos" meaning tribes and peoples and Latin words "seber" which means killing. Now, this is an initiative, please let me finish. I ask the question: Who by ethnicity, who by entity vote who kills, banishes, etc.? The word “apartheid” means the doctrine of racial superiority white versus black race and that I do not move on. So, who are white people here, and who are black people? 10 I will not enter what is the motive of mentioning these words, lest, as some people here have already seen, think it applies to them. This applies exclusively to Mr. Haris Silajdžić, a member of the BiH presidency. And that's my analysis of what these words mean in this context I'll do when he's here. I could now have an evil mouth as the gentleman mentioned, to say-- gentlemen, when we vote on this initiative, if you abuse entity voting, then you'll do these words that I can't and I won't say. I won't, because mentioning these words where they don't belong is a sort of evil here in BiH, and evil doesn't have to be done, evil needs to be done. And as little as we need good in this country, and this is an example of how much to evil, I'm going to give you the next example. 15 days ago, I watched a tennis match in Banja Luka at a Hrvat-one-Serbian-Srbin tournament, no matter who won, that winner got a ghastly round of applause. The biggest applause was given to those two guys when they said goodbye and hugged. We need examples like that in this country. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-10-08-1.u20851	Thank you. Business intervention: Honored First Vice-President Beriz Belkić.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-10-08-1.u20852	We've been listening to a man for 10 minutes. The man is saying that this is the initiative, that this is, that he's giving a speech here.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-10-08-1.u20853	Dear colleague, tell me what you're intervened on in the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-10-08-1.u20854	I intervened in the space that Mr Dokić had on parliamentary issues, i.e. initiatives – I did not understand what he was using – misused. I won't say a word further. I was touched by the concern of Mr Dokić for BiH very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-10-08-1.u20855	Thank you. I'll just answer. So, Mr. Dokić explained the initiative he submitted and asked a representative question. Furthermore, the following has been reported by distinguished representative Denis Bećirović, and may the distinguished representative Bajazit Jašarević be prepared.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-10-08-1.u20856	Dear Chairman, unlike my predecessors, I have four lives and, I would say, the existential issues I ask the BiH Council of Ministers. First question. 11 It is not known in BiH that we have tens of thousands of people living in extreme poverty. So I ask the question: - What did the Council of Ministers of BiH specifically do, of course, in co-operation with entity governments, with the aim of eliminating extreme poverty in BiH in 2007 and 2008? That is why I am particularly asking, given that both the pre-election promises and the projects of many BiH citizens have been, that in 2008 we will halve extreme poverty in BiH. Second question: - What did the BiH Council of Ministers specifically do towards the adoption of a pension and disability insurance law at BiH level, which should ensure equal treatment for pensioners and the uniform basis of pension policy? Third question: - What specifically did the Council of Ministers in BiH do about simplifying the BiH property registration process? Fourth question: - How many days in BiH is it on average to get a business permit? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-10-08-1.u20857	Thank you. The following is the registered distinguished representative Bajazit Jašarević, and may the distinguished representative Sefer Halilović be prepared.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-10-08-1.u20858	Dear Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, I am asking the BiH presidency and the BiH Council of Ministers. - When will the BiH Presidency submit on a proposal from the Council of Ministers a bill containing the 2009 budget of the BiH institutions, in accordance with Article 128. Rules of Procedure of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives? Has the BiH Council of Ministers submitted a draft budget to the BiH presidency and unless it has delivered, when will it be established and delivered? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-10-08-1.u20859	Thank you. The following is the registered honourable representative Sefer Halilović.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-10-08-1.u20860	Thank you. I'm going to ask one easy question today. I hope to comment at the next session of Parliament, because I have not received an answer to some of the big questions and I will raise some other questions. 12 Today my question is the chairman of the Council of Ministers, Professor Nikola Špirić: - Who is using the assets of the former Socialist Union of the Workers' People of BiH, the former Socialist Union of Youth of BiH and the Union? According to some, I would say neither reliable nor unreliable information, this property is used by the Civil Democratic Party, the Liberal Democratic Party and the Union. According to what I know, they have declared themselves legal followers and are now benefiting, i.e. they have registered it as private property, i.e. the property of a party. I wonder who's actually using and what's the fate of that property? Because if the issue of former SK property is raised, then it wouldn't be right to put this aside. I once spoke of it and, unfortunately, that amendment did not receive support for 1% of the vote, only 1 vote did not receive support. And it's about the significant assets of former socio-political organizations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-10-08-1.u20861	Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-10-08-1.u20862	Mr. Lozančić's chairman: a parliamentary question.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-10-08-1.u20863	I have one question to ask the Election Commission and the BiH Investigation and Protection Agency, and I will give the first explanation. We have been informed from information funds that a number of officials of a political party have been detained in Doboj for allegedly buying votes in the pre-election process. Public gossip in BiH exists that such a way of collecting votes has been dealt with by some other political parties. I ask the SIPA first: - Is there any idea if it's in the previous one?
ParlaMint-BA_2008-10-08-1.u20864	May I have your attention, please?
ParlaMint-BA_2008-10-08-1.u20865	I'll do it again. So, first question for SIPA: - Is there any operational knowledge and has she taken any action, if she had such knowledge, that in the previous election process there has been a purchase of votes by political parties, coalitions or officials, independent candidates, of any entity involved in the previous election process? If so, what did they do about such knowledge? And the same question to the Central Election Commission: 13 - If there is such knowledge, did they do anything and will they do anything and will such a way of obtaining votes affect the regularity of the previous election process? Thank you very much. We don't have any more applications to ask questions. Moving to the second point of the established agenda: Ad. 2. Proposal for a Law amending the Act on Classification of Activities in BiH (first reading) On 30 July 2008, the Council of Ministers submitted a proposal for this law to the procedure. For the committee responsible, the College has appointed a Joint Commission on European Integration. On 11 September, the Constitutional Commission delivered its opinion on the constitutional legal basis. The competent commission delivered its opinion on the principles yesterday 23 September 2008. The commission, as you have seen, has accepted the principles of the proposed law. I'm opening a debate in my first reading. Do we have a proposal? We do. Does the Proposer want to explain this bill? So he doesn't want to. I'm opening a debate in my first reading. I don't have any charges to argue with. I'm closing the debate. We're moving to point three, Ad. 3. Proposal for a law on the control of the movement of arms and military equipment, with the opinion of the Joint Defence and Security Committee
ParlaMint-BA_2008-10-08-1.u20868	Dear colleagues and colleagues, my discussion on the point relating to the Bill's proposal to control the movement of arms and military equipment can also refer to the proposal for a law on border control, of course without ambition to discuss both points. I'm not going to report for this second law, because it is, in my opinion, and what I'm going to say about this bill on the control of the movement of arms and military equipment. I answered for two reasons. So, the first reason I should say, to warn this technical aspect that it took six months, so exactly six months, is that this law is in the process, so not prejudicing the outcome, not taking away the right for people to determine this law, that they think they need to be determined, but that's all they have to do faster. So we have an irrational procedure that lasts six months, which costs and is simply unnecessary for so long, long. So we could have done it a long time ago. And as for the essence, therefore, today by not adopting, obviously we are facing the failure of these two laws, and that is because some MPs consider these to be not the jurisdiction of the state—it is their right and their opinion. But I'm asking a question -- who's going to take care of these two areas? So it is two very, very important areas, i.e. two important laws, which are both a prerequisite for the visa regime and, in some ways, our path to NATO, etc. So here's the question, I'm asking, not opening up some fierce debate here, here today we're not going to have these two laws that, in my opinion and content, are essential state laws: - Who's going to adopt them and how are we going to communicate with the environment and associations that we want to do, and how are we going to get to the visa-free regime at all?
ParlaMint-BA_2008-10-08-1.u20869	Thank you. The next is Honorable Representative Momčilo Novaković.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-10-08-1.u20870	Dear colleagues, I will pay attention to the report, or the proposal for a law on the control of the movement of weapons and military equipment. Namely, in one part of this report, it is said that acting in line with the above-mentioned conclusion of the House of Representatives, the Joint Commission immediately requested 15 opinions from the Council of Ministers and entity governments on the bill proposal, and certain members of this working body attended the working meetings organised by the draft law, etc. I couldn't find from this any further the answer given by the Council of Ministers, I don't have any information as to what the entity governments gave in response, if they gave in response to the entity government, I don't. So I'm not sure that this commission is that job, at least from what it says here, means to the end we would have a clear position here when it comes to this law. In all these materials, I have the Ministry of the Interior of the Republic of Slovenia's position that says it's a transfer of jurisdiction. It would be good if the RS government had said it was a transfer of jurisdiction, because it is very interesting to say it to the MUP which should not be dealt with in this way. So this is what legal experts should give a position on – is it a transfer of jurisdiction or is it not a transfer of jurisdiction? And finally, I ask, I don't know who has here from this commission, so I ask, did they get an answer from the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, acting at the conclusion of the House of Representatives?
ParlaMint-BA_2008-10-08-1.u20871	Thank you. Here, distinguished representative Selim Bešlagić.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-10-08-1.u20872	The chairman, respected colleagues and colleagues, what this material shows, and here is Mr. Novaković's saying, is that the House of Representatives has given the commission the task of forming and obtaining consent. I'd like to point out that it's the only, apparently, way we can respect, so we can say that it's the Dayton Agreement that's being realized. However, what I am interested in and what we would have to adopt here, if requested, means by the Federation and RS governments to plead and not make themselves known. I think this home must take it as if they're for, because simply, if you don't have the answers against, then they're for. I think that this principle should be adopted and simply notified, I would say, the entity governments that this parliament, while respecting the procedure, means respecting the procedure, if it does not get an answer within a given time limit, will simply consider the answer positive and that we are no longer distracting ourselves. What did Mr. Novaković say? There is no right for the MUP to ask and make a statement whether it is a transfer or not, it is done by the governments. Therefore, as far as I know, the Federation government has never answered us anything about the transfer of these things. And what I mean is, that's why I thought the principle was like that, that when the Council of Ministers accepts it, it's got that agreement. Unfortunately, here when we get here, then we get negative answers and then we do, I'd say, one bad job. I therefore believe that this principle should be respected: if we do not get an answer from the entity governments on the deadline, we believe that they are the ones who have agreed to it and then they take responsibility, not this Parliament and these MPs sitting here.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-10-08-1.u20873	Replica, the first deputy president of Beriz Belkić.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-10-08-1.u20874	The replica is in some way Mr. Bešlagić and Mr. Novaković. I talked about this at the last, previous session when it comes to procedures and the need of certain MPs to obtain opinions even from our working bodies. So I absolutely do not dispute that 16 rights to people and individually and even our working bodies can ask both governments and ministries, NGOs, citizens etc. But the way it's been discussed here now warns me that we are, in some way, introducing it as an official procedure. This is the House of Representatives, and here we decide the laws. I repeat, I don't mind anyone having a need to consult, obtain consent, not supply, etc. I don't argue with that. But we can't say here in Parliament: wait, I didn't get an answer from this, I didn't get one from that! I don't mind if we wait for an answer but wait for the one we need, and here we plead as elected representatives of the citizens.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-10-08-1.u20875	Replica, the esteemed representative Bešlagić.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-10-08-1.u20876	Look, I agree with Mr. Belkić absolutely, but the principle of this Parliament's work is that the procedures that are being conducted here and the procedures that go from the Council of Ministers to here are in fact we come to the fact that these procedures are being done or, rather, the work that is being done here on this issue, whether they have given entity authorities the right to transfer, fall into the water. For these reasons, I said because I remember when I asked the Ministry of Agriculture that the Commission replied that I should go to entity authorities to get the consent of this joint, which is notsens to me. That's what the Council of Ministers should do. And therefore, I agree with you that this is a normal Parliament that it is. But here we have a conflict that always comes down to whether we get consent or not. I also discussed it yesterday. This is a condition without which we cannot, which we cannot avoid, and that is why I believe that the Council of Ministers is obliged to provide the relevant documentation to this Parliament, where the question has been raised here: have you received consent or not?, because it is so said that they are the powers of the entity and I think that this condition should be met. This means that the Council of Ministers should be required to comply with this procedure. I absolutely wish we weren't dealing with these things. So, if the material comes from the Council of Ministers, it would have to be filled with this sentence that it's state-level and they don't ask the entity or say it's at entity level, we asked, we got the consent of the entities, and that's why we end the process in this Parliament. It's not hard for us to vote when we have that clause satisfied. I think that's when almost all our bill proposals pass with 100% votes. I mean, in that, it means the same thing, but here I think, however, the Council of Ministers should react more significantly to this question which, I say, has become a crucial issue in this House.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-10-08-1.u20877	Thank you. I've got a few reports. It's just, is it all a debate or is it a replica? Replica, distinguished representative Momčilo Novaković.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-10-08-1.u20878	Well, you see, I've been discussing the way to look for opportunities to pass the law, not to take it. So, the way a colleague... speaks is a good way not to pass the law, and I was thinking that I should do everything to give the Commission a positive opinion and therefore I asked whether 17 had received opinions on everything she asked for, and she felt that she needed it to give a positive opinion. And now I think it would be good for someone from the Commission to say if they got or didn't get any opinions. If they didn't get it, then it's a non-contractual relationship between the institutions that they asked for opinions from. And if they got one or the other, then I need to know about the commitment and I'm here because I voted for it, because we voted to give the Commission a new deadline. And, after all, you as a College have extended it yet to get some opinions, and even a new text of the law, as far as I understand, here to be prepared eventually if the law is to be obtained. So the goal is, in my opinion, here to find a solution, not to find a solution. That's why I discussed it that way. I'm still going to find it impossible without this consensus to adopt the law here, that's all I'm talking about.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-10-08-1.u20879	Thank you. The following has been announced for the debate by the distinguished representative Slavko Jovičić, and let the distinguished representative Adem Huskić be prepared.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-10-08-1.u20880	The Honorable Chairman, gentlemen of the Council of Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, colleagues and colleagues, therefore, has been repeating the matter since yesterday. Yesterday, according to various points of the agenda, we had a similar situation and to be clear and concrete right away – we from the SNSD cannot carry a burden unwarranted as if we want to break everything at the state level. That's not true, first of all. We agree, we can support in many parts the exposure of Mr Belkić and Mr Bešlagić to the state, to know what the state is, we know what entities are, but in every legislative project we insist that the two governments that are responsible, so the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and the Government of the Federation, agree on legal projects that will then pass here on the proposal of the Council of Ministers. But if we even have the Ministry's position, and here I don't tell the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and the Ministry, although I'd rather have the government's position, but here we know that our position is clear. Not that we're breaking up. But I have invited you many times here to respect the Constitution. He's who he is. Not that we're threatening anyone, not that we're running around here, so there's nothing we're going to do, a lot of us want things here but to go through the right procedure. But we won't let anyone force it to eliminate the government of the RS. So I used all sorts of expressions here to humiliate this part, that part, and I can't accept this part of Mr. Bešlagić, when he said, well, if they didn't come up with a deadline that someone had set, the question is what is the deadline, we'll consider it accepted. You can consider what you want, it won't be accepted by us, because we still decide here. So, I am asking you and I have even asked the Council of Ministers and all the competent institutions – do not go out with legal projects that you did not agree on in the regular procedure! And she did, the RS government gave consent to the Federation government, so I guess the Council of Ministers won't bring it down but will adopt it. And then he made the job easier for us. But if the Government of the Republic of Slovenia has not given consent, we are men under the obligation to support their request, no matter how much we will be imputed, whether we are State MPs or we, however, know who chose us, from which entity we come from, and I always call for honesty, we must be honest. We didn't pass one law once, it didn't pass another time, but it passed a third time, so we had a solution. Ad hoc solutions without agreeing with the competent institutions can't get from us support. And then we can't keep carrying the burden, here, you won't do anything from the RS, here's the republic! No, people, we know, I repeat 18 to you, we're not children, we know what an entity is, what a state. I want the state to work, but only on these principles constitutionally, compositions as it is now. It can't be different, it can't be forced because everything that's being imposed, we've seen what other situations we have. And, in order for me not to go any further, we didn't agree on these things on the Commission either, there our representatives, because it was not respected, I repeat, a procedure that should have been met. Well, it was better to postpone by a month maybe to agree so that we have a clean proposal here, and not like this, a proposal comes to us, and of course I will support the Ministry's position regardless of the government's position, because it right there said that the transfer of jurisdiction that we can't talk about right now is the right thing to do. And that's the point. When we change the Constitution, when there are other relations, please, it may go easier or harder. We'll see. I'm not a fortune teller now, so I know what's gonna happen. But what's the situation now, I'm talking about it, give what's possible. Is this an important law? Yes, it is. But if it's too much jurisdiction, we can't give consent.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-10-08-1.u20881	Correction of the incorrect allegations, the first deputy chairman of Beriz Belkić.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-10-08-1.u20882	I won't answer it again. So it's not true, Mr. Novaković, that I don't want this law to be passed. I believe we agree now that you and I want to pass this law, but this is about the next one. If you've followed me well and understood, so I'm not talking, I'm talking about things that are the jurisdiction of the state. So, what's the original jurisdiction of the state, I don't think there's any need for any prior consent, the consent of entities, any ministry, so what's originally state. In my understanding, when the Council of Ministers puts the procedure, so the Council of Ministers, when, by consensus or unanimously, adopts a legislative project, is to assume that it has examined the constitutional basis, to assume it. However, lately every law that comes into question is being examined, etc. When it comes to the transfer of jurisdiction. Therefore, the transfer of competence is a process in which entities participate, this process of transfer of competence can be initiated by the Presidency through coordination, etc. It can also be launched by the Council of Ministers as an initiative, headed towards the governments of entities, or assemblies, etc. So, I totally understand that, and I don't mind, just to figure out what it is that is originally a state where we don't need any consent, where we decide for ourselves, and what it is that we have to deal with as a previous issue as a transfer of jurisdiction. So, the transfer of jurisdiction, in my understanding, is being resolved as a previous issue before it is released into parliamentary procedure, any act. I wanted to explain my position.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-10-08-1.u20883	Thank you. The following has been reported by distinguished MP Adem Huskić, and should be prepared by distinguished representative Šefik Džaferović. Is it a replica or a debate, Reverend Križanović?
ParlaMint-BA_2008-10-08-1.u20884	No microphone 19 turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2008-10-08-1.u20885	You'll be on your way to the hearing soon if you have it.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-10-08-1.u20886	If they're going to replicate me?
ParlaMint-BA_2008-10-08-1.u20887	So he won't, he won't, probably.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-10-08-1.u20888	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues, I think this law is a mirror of the state in which our country is currently or for the last half-year or a year. This shows the state of relations within the Council of Ministers, the Council of Ministers' relationship to Parliament, Parliament's relationship to the Council of Ministers, entity relations to the state, party relations, the majority, as counterpart Kalabić mentioned yesterday. Everything here, in my opinion, is being painted through this law. Here's an answer for the question that's been asked. There's a document here by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, not the Ministry of the Interior, I have that document. If there is a need, I can read the position but about the attitude is such that the RS government is believed to be about the transfer of competence. I also have a document from EUFOR, OSCE, OHR and UNDP, which all the members of the Commission who signed Martin, this Španjolac man who was, Ignacio, EUFOR commander, who signed Miroslav Lajčak, who has recently served as a spokesman for a political party, signed by Dejvison Daglas, the head of the OSCE Mission and Kristin Mekneb, head of the UNDP Office. They sent a letter to the Commission on 21 July 2008 saying, among other things, that this law is according to its technical law, has a major impact on the security situation in BiH. Furthermore, it should be pointed out that it is not about transferring competences from entities to the Ministry of Security, but from EUFOR to the Ministry of Security. The document also noted that there is no loss of jurisdiction at entity level. This is what it says in this document received by all the members of the Commission, with a date of 21.7. So, let me remind you, this isn't about transferring jurisdiction from entity to Ministry of Security. It is that this thing is now being done by EUFOR and this is the latest EUFOR military activity. All other EUFOR military activities, as you may or may not know, have been transferred to domestic institutions such as. airspace control, etc. This is the only activity left, not to say the only reason for the existence of EUFOR in this form. And I don't think there's any reason for us to rush this bill. Nothing will change it except that it will give home institutions a very responsible task that they may not even be able to complete. I will personally accept the Commission's report, although I voted on the Commission differently than the Report. I don't think there's any reason to break the law, let EUFOR continue to do it and calm Bosnia, let's move on. Thank you very much. 20
ParlaMint-BA_2008-10-08-1.u20889	Thank you. The following has been reported by distinguished representative Šefik Džaferović, and let the distinguished representative Jozo Križanović be prepared.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-10-08-1.u20890	Mr. Chairman, dear colleagues and colleagues, things are clear here. Jurisdiction is passed on by one who has jurisdiction. Entities have no jurisdiction in this area. The state doesn't have jurisdiction in this area now either. This is the authority of international forces in BiH, in line with the corresponding annex of the Dayton Peace Agreement. And this job in BiH under the Dayton Peace Agreement, under the Constitution of BiH, however you will, do, this is the job of international forces. International forces, in order to gradually end their mandate, are trying to transfer part of their powers to BiH institutions and all the debate we have over the past few months, does not mean whether there is an agreement between the entity governments to transfer or not, because it cannot be passed on to someone who does not have something, but is actually a struggle that part of what, by nature of things, by the Constitution itself, moves from international powers to the BiH institutions -- partly to entity institutions. Of course, it won't work because it's the opposite of the Constitution and the corresponding annex of the Dayton Peace Agreement. So we know that, and it's a very clear thing. And I have no intention, nor do I really want to be convinced today with this occasion again here in this room about some solutions, because obviously the result is going to be the same. Here's the question of how to move forward in this situation. This is the law in the first reading, and it is right to chair all those who interpret the Rules of Procedure that the restriction here does not apply twice as much in the same thing and then there is no law. This thing can go to the end of this Parliament, and then every two months or a month and a half, after the thing goes back to the Commission, that the Commission again - I am a member of the Commission and I see things going on in the Commission - and I do not see another way out in this situation, I would not today. Of course, I will vote against the Commission's report because it is negative. I think this law needs BiH. And I'm going to vote in principle against the Commission's report, but I don't think we should go into the decision-making phase at all today but think about what we're going to do. Now, if we're going to do two more years like this, we had this a month and a half ago and we're going to give it a month and a half on the Commission, and again here because this is the first reading. There's no end. We have in BiH: when we cannot reach agreement on certain things, that is why there is an international community in BiH, because there is no decision in such a situation and the international community should help us reach some decision. We in this situation have an identical position of four international organisations. So, both EUFOR and OHR, OSCE and another, I apologize to the UNDP on this issue. The bill promoter is the Council of Ministers. The Council of Ministers has proposed, as far as I know, no votes against. I suggest that we, therefore, deny ourselves the unnecessary debate here, that we, as the House, before the final decision, may, once again, forward this nicely to the Council of Ministers together with some compromise proposal offered by four international 21 organisations in BiH. For me, this proposal is acceptable, but obviously it is not acceptable for all of us in Parliament whose voice is needed to make something legal. I propose that we forward this to the Council of Ministers, let the Council of Ministers consider these amendments that came from the international community in BiH and let us know about its position and then see, people, what we will do. Because really like this, like this, it doesn't work anymore, it doesn't make sense, we're just gonna waste our time. That's it, thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-10-08-1.u20891	I would like to thank the honourable representative Džaferović. Correction of the incorrect allegations, the esteemed second vice president, Dr. Milorad Živković.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-10-08-1.u20892	When we prepare for the sessions, obviously we should prepare in detail and minimally so as not to present the incorrect allegations here. Namely, the Council of Ministers at the 41st session, held on 6 March 2008, established a proposal for a law on the control of the movement of arms and military equipment, proposed by the Ministry of Security. The ratio of the vote was 4:3, i.e. Serbian ministers in the Council of Ministers of BiH were overvoted, chaired by Špirić, ministers -- Nović and Puhalac. If it wasn't so, let the minister say what it was like. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-10-08-1.u20893	Yes, yes, yes, yes, the answer, the distinguished representative, Šefik Džaferović.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-10-08-1.u20894	Of course, this was an intervention with the right. So, I apologize, this is most of the votes on the Council of Ministers adopted. And unlike so far interventions on my discussion, I do admit that this was an intervention in place. But that's more reason for this thing to be delivered now along with the international community's position to the Council of Ministers, so the Council of Ministers can see what we're going to do and how we're going to proceed. That's it.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-10-08-1.u20895	Thank you. The next is Honourable representative Jozo Križanović.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-10-08-1.u20896	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues and colleagues, I will actually be very brief because part of what I meant to say is a good part of what my colleague Huskić has already said. But what I think is signifying here -- that we've been dragging this law through Parliament for six 22 months. And, mostly, we repeat the debates with both the Commission and this home. And what's saddest here, so this debate, regardless of the argument, has the same epilogue, and I think we're going to have today, let me say, the same result of that debate. I would especially like to stress why I'm here for this law. So this is about transferring the international community's competence to BiH institutions. I am surprised that the political parties that advocate the departure of the international community from BiH are opposed to this law. I am particularly unhappy with the situation that – this is not for the first time, it is not broken under this law – there are many laws that we have discussed so far where this is being proved, that laws that pass all procedures, assessments of constitutionality, discussions on committees etc. They come to the House and then they open up the issue of jurisdiction and constitutionality... I think we should be a little bit more responsible for this. The other thing that is very important to me is the concept of the law on the principles that have been given an international assessment that this does not endanger security in BiH by transferring it to domestic institutions. And without further ado, I suggest that today we finally come to terms with this law, there's no point in grumbling about this anymore. If there are any new better solutions, let them be placed, this really doesn't make any sense to draw one law anymore without it seems to be adopted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-10-08-1.u20897	Thank you. Replica, the distinguished representative of Kalabić.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-10-08-1.u20898	Gentlemen, the chairman, the fact is that we, here and this law, have said a lot on the Commission and, behold, who knows which way we are touching the same problems. But two things I resent, and I don't think it's correct and it's not principled, if it goes by, as counterpart Križanović said, all the procedures have passed, and if it's not adopted here by procedure - it's like a terrible court. What's this here? It's procedure. It's all procedure or nothing. I'm asking you to respect that. That someone who won't, that someone won't say, knows what the procedure is last so they can try to create the preconditions for that procedure to be as they want it to be, doesn't want to bother, doesn't want to talk, but expects it to be under someone's procedure. I don't think it's okay if the Council of Ministers votes, but the procedure was adopted, legal procedure, and no one challenged it. The law came here, the overvoted ministers, but, but, the vote is absolutely in line with... I'm with the Rules of Procedure. If even here, no matter what the result, if voted in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, then this here is assumed to be, like, no, no, I don't know what to call it... what to call it. I don't think it's correct, that kind of approach, that we can go back here to that coffee yesterday and that story. The only thing I didn't understand is Huskić if Mr. Lajčak is a spokesman for a political party, I didn't understand you until the end, does that mean that you don't recognize this attitude, only that of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia remains. I mean, that's how I understood it. 23
ParlaMint-BA_2008-10-08-1.u20899	No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2008-10-08-1.u20900	No, no, I didn't say, I just, I thought about how you have a relationship with that report, since you're for the High Representative, I didn't understand until the end. Do you support that attitude and that report?
ParlaMint-BA_2008-10-08-1.u20901	It's a replica, isn't it? Well, here we have it, since the distinguished representative Ajanović is older, and at the same time you've called, he has the advantage of replicating.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-10-08-1.u20902	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen, colleagues and colleagues, in my opinion, there is nothing vague here, and people here take the right to individually interpret what is a transfer of jurisdiction and what is not a transfer of jurisdiction. And in the Dayton Agreement, he says that the supreme interpreter of the Dayton Agreement is High Representative. And that's the law that, for now, until it is abolished, is in the jurisdiction of the High Representative. And here, as far as I can tell, it was read that Lajček also signed that there was no transfer of jurisdiction. But I didn't get up to convince anyone that it wasn't or is a transfer of jurisdiction, so I picked up the line and said this: that right at the beginning of every session when the laws come on the agenda that the president of the SNSD Club gets up and says that these laws need agreement on the transfer of jurisdiction and that we don't discuss the issues. Yeah, so we take these laws off the agenda right now and leave for another time to discuss them, because this is how we slaughter ourselves about whether it's a transfer of jurisdiction or not a transfer of jurisdiction, not an interpretation of the one we need. The minister can't interpret whether it's a transfer of jurisdiction or not, the government can do it, the RS institution can do it, so, my people, we have to start doing it right. Secondly, it cannot be transmitted to an individual and told -- here, to you, MP, these... are not executed, these are, these are the competences that are passed on. This correspondence must be conducted in writing with certain institutions that exist in this country, which is the Council of Ministers. And that the Council of Ministers, before it comes into the process at all, say it - we have to do it that way. And I think that the efficiency of this Parliament's work would be much accelerated if we were to go this way, which is... that before we even discuss the laws at all, let those who think it's a transfer of jurisdiction, because we know if they said it was a transfer of jurisdiction, I know for sure that no MP who is in these benches, and who are from the RS, except maybe two, will vote for those laws. And that means that we are wasting our time, and that also shows the ineffectiveness of this Parliament for only one reason that we have to admit or not to know; whether or not it will stay that way, it is a matter of the future, and now it is like this, and it is an entity vote. 24 And therefore, we must be aware of this, and therefore I propose, indeed, it would be best not to beat the empty straw, that the president of the SNSD Club get up and say before the start and put any law on the agenda that he gets up and says - please take this off the agenda, because it is a transfer of jurisdiction.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-10-08-1.u20903	Replica, the first respected representative, Adem Huskić, and then the distinguished representative, Milica Marković.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-10-08-1.u20904	Since I'm mentioned, I'm going to say, personally, I think I'm always in the mood for conversation, for agreements, but I also think the conversation means the same treatment on both sides, so when we don't agree, then someone would have to set us straight, to regulate us. Because it's not a conversation if I say I want to do this and then let's make a deal but to be like, I mean, there's no talking, so that's one thing. And whoever, in particular, should be the regulator is in my opinion, and that's kind of what counterpart Ajanović said, is the Office of the High Representative. Since he, in my opinion, has not been adequately involved in this matter, it is not, in my opinion, which is why I am in an ironic way in that discussion and mentioned the High Representative. So, I'm a talker whenever we can make a deal, I think we can work out a lot more with the deal, but in situations where we can't, then we need someone to regulate us, right? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-10-08-1.u20905	Thank you. Dear representative Milica Marković: replica.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-10-08-1.u20906	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. My replica refers to Mr. Ajanović's exposure. With all due respect and respect for you and your presentation, I would like to say that there is no need for the head of the SNSD parliamentary club to inform Parliament at each session which are the laws that we will challenge for the transfer of jurisdiction and which we will not. All of you here, who are in Parliament, should count on that fact and the finding made by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, that in the coming period we will ask to return some of the information that has been transferred from the RS to BiH. And so this is your general position and you need to count on it and that means you keep that in mind about every law in which there is a transfer of jurisdiction, because a lot of these powers have been transferred in some previous period when SNSD was not the executive authority at BiH level and we can rightly ask for revision of all these powers transferred to BiH for many reasons. I won't elaborate them now, but when we get to that topic, we'll tell you why we're looking for it. 25 And indeed, you have brought here one contradiction. You said at the beginning that the top commentator and interpreter of the Dayton Peace Agreement is the High Representative, and then you are calling on the institutions to declare whether or not something is controversial; and when I say institutions, it means invited, elected officials and politicians in this country. So I think it would be really time for the Federation of BiH parties to be elected once whether you and I are going to build life in BiH by agreeing with each other or building it as the High Representative says, with all due respect to the institution, whether it's on a good path or not. Someone will always say it's something good or there's another side that's not good. So you have to figure out if we're going to do it together, we here who've been elected, both in the legislative, both in the executive, or you're going to let it work. I know that there are some in this country who answer to the High Representative say - it's no different. But you must accept the fact that some politicians and people who exercise certain authority in this country are democratically elected and have full legitimacy and the right to dispute some things in this country and of course state the reasons why they say it. That's it.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-10-08-1.u20907	Dear Representative Ekrem Ajanović: Replica.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-10-08-1.u20908	I'm only going to answer this colleague, who, truth be told, is kind enough to answer and replicate. I am only in the context of this, since one of the MPs has already read that the High Representative has said that there is no transfer of jurisdiction, he has stated what is the fact. Whoever wants to read it can read it, and see it in the Dayton Agreement where one member writes, one sentence: "The Supreme Interpreter of the Dayton Agreement is High Representative." And if it wasn't, I wouldn't be able to impose, I don't know, how many laws the Assembly didn't want to adopt, etc. But... one more thing I have to tell my colleague-- from me or from you never starts a state. So, the story of analyzing whether or not something will come back... back, and some of us previously adopted it, it's a story for little children and political choirs, it's not a story for this parliament, because it's clear as a day that those who previously transferred competences they were authorized and they did it and now these stories are really more political stories. And I don't think we should be having this discussion in this House. But my whole effort was not to have a bad discussion, or even a bad replica – to say at the beginning of the session about these laws that were laid down: the club of MPs believes that they refer to the transfer of jurisdiction and that we do not discuss them. Let certain institutions do that that they need to ask for consent. Otherwise, this is how it turns out that we, as individuals, are personally assessing whether something is a transfer of jurisdiction or not. So they have institutions that they have and, on the other hand, we can reverse the thesis. I can ask you a question: where is your government's decision that this is a transfer of jurisdiction? So these are the things that we can talk about here about things that aren't for the whole day, let's be effective.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-10-08-1.u20909	Dear Representative Kalabić: Replica. 26
ParlaMint-BA_2008-10-08-1.u20910	Here's a part of my esteemed counterpart Ajanović from the party club for the former BiH. That's what I heard from the SDA, actually the former BiH Party. _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]]
ParlaMint-BA_2008-10-08-1.u20911	I ask you, all together, to follow each other, to respect the time available to all of us and to enable normal work.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-10-08-1.u20912	I only have one question. Is it realistic that the Council of Ministers is revoted by ministers from the Serb people and that everything goes without a problem and is realistically expected without any problems of passing the law? I'm asking you if it's real, do you expect it to happen so completely and there's no problem with the adoption of the law? And is anything done, now I'm speaking politically, except for these appeals to the High Representative: demanding to cut, to impose, yes, against which we have nothing? We do our job, and the High Representative does his job. We don't encourage him to do his job, I think he knows what to do and we can't or want to oppose the decisions of the High Representative. But at the same time we do not accept the interpretation of decisions, or the views of the High Representative, that he is putting pressure on us, because it is perfectly clear to us and the message of the High Representative is... which things we need to agree on. And we know what he thinks, what he means by agreement. We discussed it yesterday. So, not the ultimatum, not the command, but the deal. And I totally agree that we can discuss this matter before the session, because it's unrealistic to come to a session where you have this procedure that went the way it did and that it's expected or at least to do it without debate, so it's unrealistic. It's unrealistic to expect and I totally agree that before the session we can, but that's a problem that we've already absorbed why it's not working and we're not against it, but it's not up to us. _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]]
ParlaMint-BA_2008-10-08-1.u20913	Order, order! Honorable representative Križanović reported for the replica, so respected representative Bećirović, and respected representative Džaferović.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-10-08-1.u20914	Thank you. I really thought I'd give up on this replica. Well, you see, counterpart Kalabić says we shouldn't discuss procedures, or that we should discuss them. I said the procedures, first of all, were solved by our Rules of Procedure. There are detailed procedures as we do 27. And take the Rules of Procedure, you will see that the work of the House discusses the essence of the matter, of the subject, of the measure of the bill. I really didn't know there was such a vote on the Council of Ministers. Then you should say that, that should have been known by the Constitutional Commission, so you should have problems with the constitutional basis, etc. I am dissatisfied with the debate – we are now discussing here after six months – and we are returning to question the constitutional basis, i.e. the transfer of competence. If that is the case, I am deeply convinced that this is not about the transfer of competencies that are in the authority of the entity but about the transfer of competence from the international community to BiH institutions. And here's my argument, and I'm sorry that we're having more discussion today about the procedures, how much the parliamentary majority disagrees, as far as the Council of Ministers is concerned, or in the executive, or in the legislative power. I would ask you to spare us that and try to really agree if this can go. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-10-08-1.u20915	The next is the distinguished representative Bećirović: replica.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-10-08-1.u20916	I have a replica of almost all previous debaters, except, of course, the head of SDP's Club of Representatives, Joza Križanović. I would like to say that today would really be a good time to loosen the story and debate here in the BiH Parliament and not act like Sunday's elections, because the elections were three days ago, there is no reason for such a vocabulary. It would be good to turn a little really real to the problems of people and all the peoples in this country, the problem of poverty, crime and other life issues. What do I mean? I mean, we really need, here, both yesterday and today, and there will be a continuation of these sessions today, a little more responsible and more serious approach. There is no man in this parliament who has attacked SNSD more sharply, whenever I thought and thought they destabilised the BiH state or violated international relations and human relations in this country. However, we would be unfair if we just said that SNSD is the only and only culprit in this country. I must responsibly say here that those who also fired a 100% BiH parole two years ago today would have to have an answer to the 100% deterioration and degradation of this country, not to continue with a story that has no basis and which, as a result, and back to the result again, that is most importantly, has what has, complete obstructions, a complete one decommissioning of state institutions and a state that does not go to anyone in favour.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-10-08-1.u20917	Thank you. The following was reported for the replica by distinguished representative Šefik Džaferović.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-10-08-1.u20918	Oh, Mr. Chairman, I wanted to, perhaps, say one more business intervention. So, I suggest we slowly bring this to an end. I don't think it makes any more sense for us to discuss it, because the discussion will take us, you see, later on, now we're going to talk about restoring jurisdiction, about, I don't know what else. The right to tell you, no jurisdiction transferred to BiH, I don't understand it as if I took it from someone but that all of us, in order to make it better for all of us in this country, decided to do things more effectively. Because if we've made three customs administrations into one, I think the benefit for all of us is a few billion marks that have entered legal flows from the gray economy. This is important for both Srbin, both for Hrvat and Bosniaks and other citizens of this country, it is important for Bihac and Banja Luka and Mostar and Trebinje and Sarajevo. And I get it that way, and that's actually the point. We now have a lot of laws on the European path where we will have to think about how to make things more effective and functional. I think we should talk about it on that basis, not whether someone takes something from someone or doesn't take it and whether someone has a right to something or doesn't have a right to something. But here's the fact, so when we're completely naked saying that there's an international community mandate here, so there's no entities or states here, that I don't repeat myself now, when the doors get caught, the doors are broken at law school, she learns to say: that no one can pass on rights to another than she does herself. So let's not complicate things, there's no consent here. Drago, I have, unfortunately, only today learned that the Council of Ministers is not unanimous with this decision, or that there has been opposition from the ministers of the Serbian people, and I think, be careful and it is a procedure, but then we will come to this position where we are coming in and I think it is good that as many decisions as possible come out of the Council of Ministers agreeing with Parliament. But we have a problem, drago, Mr. Kalabić, and with the consensual one, but now that's not the case, I'm not opening that question. So I suggest that we pass this all along with the international community's position on to the Council of Ministers, let them take it, let us tell us, we in the Commission are trying to do this, because we will again and again for a whole year and we will never have the law. Or we could agree to take this down today, because it's obviously not going to work out.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-10-08-1.u20919	Honored Minister Tarik Sadović, the promoter, in the name of the legislator.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-10-08-1.u20920	Dear Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, allow me to introduce you to some facts because it is evident from the discussion, at least in the part I attended, many advocates do not address the facts of this law, which is, however, very important for making a final decision. The Council of Ministers unanimously decided last year to form a working group to draft this law. So I repeat, unanimously. And then, when the task force was due to start working, the RS representative did not want to participate in the work of the task force. That's the starting point. Of course, the working group worked together with representatives of EUFOR, OHR, OSCE and, I don't know, mostly all relevant representatives of the international community and came to the text of the law. The text of the law appeared on the Council of Ministers, and it is true that Serbian ministers, including Prime Minister Špirić, were revoted because I insisted that the job be done by the Council of Ministers beset by the Ministry of Security. Well, then comes the story, General,...it seems to me that, if I remember the date correctly, he reminded Prime Minister Dodik and then a representative of the RS is involved in the task force, which together with the international community is trying to reach a compromise on this 29 law. And they reportedly reached a compromise by bringing some 10-12 amendments to the joint, allegedly agreed. Be careful, however, and after that, the RS representative says it is not enough, it is not agreed, here are two more amendments. The delegate at the House of Peoples on the Commission says no, no, here are more amendments. Look, as long as the negotiation process is going and what's the limit to me is absolutely not clear anymore. On the Defence and Security Commission, where this law was many times, and a few days ago there was a vote on these laws, eight members of the Commission were "for", one of the only RS delegates present, Mrs Dušanka Majkić, was "against". Please, here are yesterday's "Independent Newspapers", here are today's "Independent Newspapers", on the front page says: "Sadović will not decide to purchase weapons for the RS MUP." Well, the subject matter of this law is not the supply of weapons. Look, if Mrs Dušanka Majkić doesn't know this, then it's saddening, and if she knows this kind of thing, then it's even sadder. Look, she's mentioning some other personal weaponry for the RS police. Well, there's no personal weaponry for the police. It can only be official weapons. So, look, it's about one huge manipulation. So nobody here slows down the need to negotiate, to reach compromises on important laws, but be careful, it's very important to compare the facts. Well, you can't say I won't do this one law, and the Council of Ministers, including all three representatives, or, in the order of the Serb people, has made a decision to do it. I mean, what kind of politics is that? I don't really get it. And here, no matter what fate it is, it's been tried to come to a compromise. If this law should fall, let it fall, and we'll do it again. We'll get back together. But please don't listen to me in Parliament talk about how someone was trying to trick someone, how someone wanted to legislate the law, how someone voted someone, that's who wanted us to vote someone!? Well, first of all, it is very clear to me that if on the Council of Ministers a consensus is reached on some law that it is a very important assumption that it is adopted later in Parliament. But if I'm faced with constant obstructions and I'm supposed to end up getting a fat ending because I haven't done my job, that the Centres of Civil Initiatives and other NGOs are calling me someone who doesn't do their job, I won't do it, I'll do what's up to me. And I will do everything in my power to get the law in maximum conformity. But it takes the readiness of all sides. Be careful, you have instructions from EUFOR parties, their desire to transfer competence from EUFOR to BiH. It is the declared desire of all political entities in BiH to transfer to BiH as quickly as possible and as quickly as possible the competencies of international organisations. When we start doing concrete things, a million problems. I, believe me, that just on this kind of thing would like to be more preparedness, more understanding, more consent, but we need assumptions for such a thing, we need good will, and not in the beginning of intent, so we're going to adopt something, we're going to do something, but at the beginning we know we won't agree. It's neither correct nor fair.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-10-08-1.u20921	Chairman Lozančić.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-10-08-1.u20922	It's not a replica, it's a debate. 30
ParlaMint-BA_2008-10-08-1.u20923	Novaković is applying for a replica, right, Momo?
ParlaMint-BA_2008-10-08-1.u20924	Who? Minister. Here, I'll let you replicate the minister. Dear Representative Novaković: Replica.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-10-08-1.u20925	I must say, we don't really need political lectures from ministers here. We're the ones in charge of politics here. It would have been good if the minister had come out, so he said what the disagreement was and what his suggestion was to make that disagreement... go away. What are the members that are problematic, for whom they are problematic, etc. And not that the minister here gives us political lessons about what he thinks and how he thinks and, I don't know, what kind of co-ordinations, etc. So let the ministers do their job, we'll do our job here. If they'd done their job right, we'd have done our job here today. Obviously, the minister didn't do his job right either, and I'm really not here to keep it from that pay phone that he abuses it and gives political lectures.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-10-08-1.u20926	Replica, the esteemed representative Izetbegović.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-10-08-1.u20927	I don't know why you have such a bold reaction to one constructive and polite presentation of the minister. He was just polite and in a nice way, explaining what needs to be explained. And she just needed this kind of discussion from our minister. Don't talk to people in this House like that.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-10-08-1.u20928	Wait a minute, who else has the replica? Let's, let's, uh, let's, uh, let's, uh, let's, uh, let's, uh, you've spent, uh, Reverend Kalabić, two replicas, and you've got a debate, you've been reported in the debate. Any more replicas? Honorable representative Jovičić: replica.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-10-08-1.u20929	Dear Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, does it really have to be this big every time, in a tolerated atmosphere, because I'm looking at other parliaments, this is, this isn't a bad vocabulary, who said something, of course, we don't agree on many things, but every time it has to be this much animosity expressed according to our political attitude? Can you really expect us to accept this if three of our ministers were voted in the Council of Ministers? Let's be people, I keep calling you on that. 31 How is it possible for us to accept, and for three of our ministers to be reputed? And the chairman. Is there really someone who can be so convinced that they don't put pressure on us, but they keep asking us not to? I support what my colleague Marković said. Many responsibilities have been transferred. And we know well, when they're transferred here, there's no going back. Here's why we have in the Constitutional Court two cases, so we'll see what the Constitutional Court says. Of course, in the interests of the country, we will do what is possible, but yesterday we discussed all day – should working groups form such serious things? Isn't the first round of communication between the government of the RS and the Federation government at the helm and that it runs the Council of Ministers' activity. What more working groups, people! When I hear the word "expert," believe it or not, I don't feel well, I get rash. There are most experts in this country. Let me see their score, what their score is. It is these working groups and experts who drive us crazy that we have problems like this. Yesterday we debated many points and really saw where it was squeaking. So, what's the problem talking from Sarajevo to the federal government with the RS government? What's the problem? It's the only basic communication that will give some results. Of course, let the Council of Ministers conduct this activity. What more working groups, commissions and, I don't know, what. Look how far you've brought us on every project legally! So please, I'm ending up, you can't expect us to support a project if our ministers are outvoted. That's impossible, people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-10-08-1.u20930	Thank you. The next is Honourable representative Sadik Ahmetović: replica.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-10-08-1.u20931	Dear Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, I have two or three sentences to Mr. Novaković. I don't think Mr. Novaković has the right to take away the minister of security, or vice-president of the Council of Ministers, from taking a political stance in the BiH Parliament. The only political position Mr Sadović has expressed is that the transfer of jurisdiction goes from OHR to BiH. If that's controversial, Mr. Novaković, you should have said that, that we know what kind of political position you have, so we can make a new law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-10-08-1.u20932	Thank you. Any more replicas? He has a respected representative, Azra Hadžiahmetović.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-10-08-1.u20933	Here, I have listened carefully to discussions and replicas about today's debate. First, I would like to thank the Minister for his clarification. After what I've heard, I understand why most MPs here are exhausting themselves on topics that are not subject to the agenda. Why am I saying they're not an object? I am in principle sorry that most MPs of the state parliament are exhausted in checking whether entity competences are compromised, it is a matter of commitment and, of course, political 32 concepts, but what is more regrettable, as we hear here in terms of recommendations, that entities should negotiate, and then the question is, to themselves, whether they are also asking themselves when they receive wages in this state parliament. I apologize for discussing this way, but I am convinced... that most of the discussions that have been heard today against such a solution – it was not against concrete solutions, I heard nothing in terms of improving this text to get a law that would eventually satisfy BiH's interests, if possibly something worse had been done. I appreciate that discussions of this kind can't really lead to some concrete solutions, and that's why I suggest we at least refrain from calling someone else to do our job. This agenda item has been adopted today by all procedures. We need to discuss the law if it's right; if it's not right to, eventually, improve something. If we are not satisfied with such laws, let us reject them, but do not lead us to discussions that concern much larger and larger topics, rather than the one that is being debated today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-10-08-1.u20934	Dear representative Milica Marković: replica, second.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-10-08-1.u20935	My replica has now been presented by Mrs Hadžiahmetović, a colleague who said she has made a statement that I think is no longer a replica but, it can be said, an insult to some MPs here. Why she said it like that, she knows it best. But let me tell you that the MPs coming to this RS state parliament must know that they have been elected by votes from the RS. And that the salaries are received from the money that comes from the RS as well. Those who take part here as MPs from the RS do not finance their salaries only the Federation or from somewhere in the sky drop only under the company "money BiH". The money that is in BiH's budget is also the money of the RS taxpayers. And I ask you to refrain from such findings in the future, because this is already going to be an insult, and you know very well that this is so, that it is not only BiH, but that this BiH budget comes from two entities and taxpayers across BiH, not just one entity.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-10-08-1.u20936	Replica, the distinguished representative of Azra Hadžiahmetović, and the distinguished representative Sadik Ahmetović, both others.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-10-08-1.u20937	My colleague, Milica Marković, reacted to my replica. I would just remind myself that it is the state parliament, the House of Representatives, that we are elected representatives of BiH citizens here, regardless of which part of BiH we come from and, unless it knows how to finance the budget of state institutions, I am directing it to read adequate laws. Thank you very much. 33
ParlaMint-BA_2008-10-08-1.u20938	Thank you. Dear Representative Ahmetović.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-10-08-1.u20939	Who knows which time I have to say I am, unfortunately, from the RS, too. And don't take that part of the space for just one people. As long as you're doing it, it's not gonna be good in this country. [[Common discussion]] I'm sorry!
ParlaMint-BA_2008-10-08-1.u20941	Dear Representative Novaković, ___________?) Half an hour's break on behalf of the club. 30 minutes off. [[PAUZA]]
ParlaMint-BA_2008-10-08-1.u20945	Mr. Chairman Lozančić. Discussion, right, Niko?
ParlaMint-BA_2008-10-08-1.u20946	Yeah. Ladies and gentlemen of the MPs, respected members of the Council of Ministers, I reminded myself that we know at which point of the agenda we are, I believe we remember very well what we discussed 34 today within this item of the agenda, which is why I came to you thinking, in this pause, whether there is a need to report. I have defined myself, however, to discuss this item of the agenda, but trying to stick to the agenda, unlike many of my predecessors. We here have a bill on control of the movement of arms and military equipment and we have a negative opinion of the Commission. We talked a lot today about many other issues besides the opinion of the Commission and the proposal for a law on control of the movement of arms and military equipment. The opinion of the Committee was delivered in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, however, the rationale for the negative position, in my opinion, is not in line with the Rules of Procedure, because this is not an argument. They informed us here that a member of the Committee was "against" and said the vote was "against" because it was a transfer of competence. Today we've been listening a little bit here about whether or not this is a transfer of jurisdiction. But it would have been good if there had been words and words in the report of the Commission, in the light of this negative opinion, which and what kind of transfer of jurisdiction, from whom, for which, justified, unwarranted, constitutional, unconstitutional, legal, illegal, etc., we would probably be having less discussion. In that sense, I would like to point out here that I appreciate that the Commission's argument is not satisfactory. If we go back to the proposal for a law on the movement of weapons and military equipment, I'm being asked a few questions here. Including the bill itself, because I don't see any other law that we already have ending, I conclude that we don't have such a law at BiH level today. The need and question for thinking are we in need of such a law? We are, should we at all remind, a foreign country in which at every step you have an infinite amount of what's called both weapons and what's called tight or broad military equipment here. The law, however, excludes police forces in BiH, all police forces, means both at BiH level and entity police forces and cantonal police forces and the Brcko District police force and are excluded from this law and the Armed Forces of BiH. They also exclude citizens who already have the authority to hold and carry weapons of those who, by law, can. The question is, who does this law apply to, and what is the problem with this law? Do we know at this point who in this country can issue approval, because here is the mention of the issue of some approvals for arms and military equipment. Here, we know it's mostly SFOR, EUFOR, and I don't know now either. Okay, they've done a lot of things that we haven't done, but if we're talking about BiH institutions, do we have a BiH institution that will issue approval for inter-entity transport tomorrow? I will not still talk about import-export, and here it is precisely said in this law 'In the territory of an entity for the complete transport of arms and military equipment consent is given by the entity's Ministry of the Interior.' No Niko interferes with his authority. He has exclusive jurisdiction. But if we're talking about traffic between two entities, we don't have a solution on who's giving it. Who's supposed to be giving it now? Let's see if it's the BiH institution. I'm still not going to say any of this to the BiH institution or one entity or another entity or an agreed two entities, I think, but it's all a topic for the second phase of the law. We are talking here and about the transport of arms and military equipment and this law has such ambitions as to define the transport of weapons and military equipment imported or exported from BiH. It seems to me again that there is no more invitation to institutions than the level of government, so to speak,... at the level of BiH, at the Council of Ministers level. This is what I'm trying to do, not having the ambition to change any position, trying as I did yesterday when we talked about another law talking, at least trying to speak rationally, thinking about whether we need this law at all and whether we need to, and at any level, if it's not on 35 of this, regulate this question at all. And we in BiH today, unfortunately, don't have adequate, quality control over the overall state, to put it this way, I'm not just going to say in arms and military equipment traffic, a little bit, so you hear as well as I do that somewhere has been found buried, I don't know, a couple hundred pieces... of military equipment, a few thousand pieces of ammunition about unexploded mines, mine-explosive means, I mean, we don't have precise information, we have assumptions, speculation, etc. Well, when we hear someone's been killed somewhere because of it, then we're a little bit emotional about how sorry we are, how, unfortunately, it happened, that we don't have the money to dig it up and bring it to some kind of peacetime purpose. And here, where we can establish some kind of control over arms and military equipment, then we're fighting each other here, so to speak, whether it's my or someone else's entity, whether it's going to be a state or if it's going to be a canton, if it's going to be a community, or if I don't know who's going to be doing it anymore. What is most important in all of this, we in BiH today do not have this issue regulated by law. I think that question should be regulated by law, and who will be the competent institution, whether it will always be the Ministry of Security, let's leave it for phase two assuming this first reading goes away. Well, maybe it would be logical, no matter what it is about arms and military equipment, that in some part when it comes to imports-exports, it seems more logical to me that it is within the jurisdiction of the Ministry of Foreign Trade and Economic Relations, because it covers, to say, in its jurisdiction, the total import-export. I don't see why not weapons and military equipment, because weapons and military equipment in our current tendencies, so to speak, is goods like any other goods. It has certain rules of conduct, certain security aspects that must be met and that, whether done by the Ministry of Security or the Ministry of Foreign Trade and Economic Relations, on the ground will be carried out by competent police forces, those operating in a certain space, so that I see no reason why we would spend ourselves, so to speak, on which institution will issue approvals. Someone has to issue approvals, someone has to establish a movement register, someone has to know in this country how many trucks are now in possession of dangerous substances called weapons and military equipment on BiH roads. It's something that's so natural, whether it's gonna be one ministry, another, third, fifth, whether it's gonna be this or that level of government, let's leave it for the amendment phase. But I really think at this first stage, in the first reading, it's not justified to break this law, because I think we'll have to do it sooner or later, the better. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-10-08-1.u20947	No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2008-10-08-1.u20948	What would that be? Let's give priority before, so I'll give you a word later, to the people who have been waiting a long time for the hearing. Here's the replica, come on.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-10-08-1.u20949	Mr. Chairman, colleagues and colleagues, I think the Chairman of the House has directed, I would say, a discussion in the right direction. We need to see here now, so far no one, we've had a lot of debates here in the House about this issue, except on the commission, so far no one in the House has dealt with the essence of this law. And all the dispute, as far as I can see, comes down to who's going to issue the approval and who's prescribing the List of Weapons. The law does not apply to 36 military forces, to police forces and to people who have gun approval. They do not have to apply to anyone, or they have procedures when it comes to the military and the police. So the question is, who does the law apply to? The law actually refers to factories mostly in the area of the dedicated industry, so that the factory can transport so-called. "B" matter as it used to be called, it was called "B" material in the MUPs. Who is he who makes the list and who issues the approval? And the law comes from the assumption that the List is made by the Ministry of Security. When it comes to transportation between entities and entities and Brcko District and international transport outside BiH, then approval is given by the Ministry of Security. When it's inside the entity, then the law says entities, or entity police, agree to move, so just to move. And that's actually the essence of this law. What is it now that would be controversial about all this? I'd ask you to say it, so we can start discussing the very essence of this law now. And I think that you... in the right direction directed this discussion, directed it, and that's why I needed to deepen what you said. That's it.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-10-08-1.u20950	I thank you for the...... guilty quote, the esteemed representative Azra Hadžiahmetović.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-10-08-1.u20951	Let me just remind you, when it comes to exporting and importing arms and military equipment, there is a law, a state law that regulates that matter, among other things, with incorporated and international obligations and common standards when goods are under a special regime such as arms and military equipment. So this is about controlling the movement of weapons and military equipment so far carried out by SFOR within BiH. So, just one correction, I assume that the proposings of this one also took care of what is an integral part of the external component when it comes to exports and imports. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-10-08-1.u20952	I'll use the presidency's privilege to give you a brief answer here. It is clear to me that it is working here in this law on the control of movement within BiH, but it can be a movement that goes outside BiH and moves to BiH. It's clear, okay. The following has been reported for the debate by distinguished representative Halid Genjac, and may the distinguished representative Drago Kalabić be prepared.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-10-08-1.u20953	The Honorable Chairman, respected colleagues, colleagues, I, of course, have no ambition to change the relationship of fellow MPs to this law. However, I think that in the context of this law, which is very significant and delicate and the consequences of very 37 important and necessary, it must also be discussed in the context of what is already present in this Parliamentary Assembly for a time and what has been particularly demonstrated in the context of this law. In fact, today is also about the Dayton Agreement, and it is also about the High Representative, it is also about procedures in our institutions, I think there was a replacement of thesis. Of course, institutions should do their jobs and it is best when institutions do their jobs. However, this job can and must only be done within the framework of the rules of the game. These rules of our game are the Dayton Peace Agreement and its annexes relevant to individual issues. So the question arises: Is it possible for the Council of Ministers to have three ministers against any proposal and that this must then be taken into account in the Parliamentary Assembly? I answer that it is possible for three ministers to be against a particular proposal and that the Parliamentary Assembly may again have its position, because it is possible to understand the rules of the game differently and it is possible that ministers may sometimes seek out of the reach of those rules of the game called the Dayton Peace Agreement. In these cases, according to aneks x, the visok Representative has been called on to, in accordance with his powers, remove interference with the civil implementation of the Dayton Peace Agreement in the way he assesses it necessary. In these cases, and in this case, as evidenced, we had an obstacle to civil implementation and the High Representative reacted and explained that it was not a transfer of jurisdiction that it was in the direction of the entity-state but rather a transfer of jurisdiction in a completely different sense. With that in mind, and the full rules of our game are also the Dayton Agreement with all annexes, as I said, and also the position and role of the High Representative, I think, also referring to the content of the laws that were recently spoken of and the solutions that I think are offered and in which there is still room to find an acceptable solution within these rules of play, I think it would be good to focus our attention on the implications of relations such as this law with such delicate content. Namely, the previous meeting of the Peace Implementation Council also had its declaration among the two conditions needed to transform the Office of the High Representative into the European Commission Special Office is – one is the signing of the Stabilisation and Association Agreement, which is signed, and another condition is to assess that the favourable conditions for implementation of the Dayton Peace Agreement in BiH are. What we have in relation to individual legal projects and according to this law, in the way I explained, given both the agreement and the role of the High Representative and the powers and competences, I think two consequences are possible. One consequence is that, in accordance with the Dayton Peace Agreement, one important issue will not be passed on to domestic institutions. And another consequence that I think we should bear in mind that this will contribute to a negative assessment of the unfavourable opportunities for the implementation of the Dayton Peace Agreement. That's why I think we should make an effort to find a compromise on this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-10-08-1.u20954	The next is Honorable Representative Drago Kalabić.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-10-08-1.u20955	Mr. Chairman, since I didn't have the right replica, so I used my right to discuss, I'll probably repeat some things, but that's how it is. I'll počeću with this last thing my colleague Genjac said, but as far as I can remember, the position of his political 38 party that OHR shouldn't rush out of here, that it takes the presence of the international community, I don't think there's any need for any urgency here. I think there's plenty of time there, given that there's no desire for the international community to leave this area. That means we've got all the time in the world to make these things happen. Perhaps those who are in a hurry to leave the international community should make more efforts to resolve things, but not you. If we elaborate what Minister Sadović said today, since he as a skilled politician who comes from the RS, skillfully packing things, I admit it to him, he says: we have unanimously formed a working group. And that's the only thing that's been unanimously done, and neither the members of his party nor anyone else in this whole process know it. They found out today and nothing else. What's the matter? Well, a few thousand working groups have been unanimously formed, some have never even met, some have not finished the job, some have. And then he kept quiet that nothing was unanimous after that. He brought us a newspaper, also very skillful from context and left behind who said what on what subject. I think it's a little degutant in this House, because there are MPs here who are facing their arguments, and so the minister with the MPs can face them here. But the silent means that all of this was the way it was. The fact is, and we cannot avoid it, that every time these difficult things are, this ministry of Mr. Sadović is problematic. Problems within the Council of Ministers, problems inside, that is, what kind of majority, problems with the international community, problems with international institutions, little too many problems for such a degree of tolerance towards the whole story. We remember how we pulled the stories from that story, the stories with the DCAF, not to say, the unsolved result, and they're all part of this. I'm asking what we needed, is whether, we weren't involved, we weren't that side that, people said, was again the Ministry, in some way, involved. And then we don't need that story, if we say that it's the fact that it's here to the Ministry, and not to the Ministry to the Minister that it's so magically transferred there to the press, I don't know, to the working groups and everything else, when this is a fact. The members of Mr Sadović's political party only today learned that this was all going on like this, without consent, without consensus and with all these shortcomings. And did it take so many months for us to realize that there's a problem and we're solving it in another way? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-10-08-1.u20956	Thank you. Dear Representative Izetbegović: replica.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-10-08-1.u20957	So, about the OHR leaving, I think a lot of people have been acting stupid around here, so we got a tutor, yeah. When you act like that and you break the ground, you kill people, etc. ... there's yours, so you get a tutor; and we'd like to get rid of the tutors as soon as possible, that as normal adults we rule our own destiny. We're just afraid of the way we are, you see, today, there's been a campaign, etc. And since one initial word burns down here a useless discussion that lasts for hours, that we won't be able to lead that country into the future without a crisis, that we'll have a collapse of everything if we don't make a functional state and a functional system before the foreigners leave. So, as soon as we want to see the back, but we want to make a country that can work, not get in the way of how 39 Balkanac do it, so let's deepen that crisis, so, God Bog, that thing ends the way it did once. That's all, Mr. Kalabić. We want to see your back, too. And as for this law, what do we do with it? So far, EUFOR's been doing that thing. Who should we pass it on to? And we will not transfer it to Mr Sadović's private property, but to the Ministry, whose head he may be for another two years. After that, someone from another nation will come. It's supposed to build a system. I don't know if it's gonna be Terzić or if it's gonna be Špirić! You know, I don't see any reason for mistrust in the system that belongs to all of us. We have Radmanović, I say, yesterday I'm Mr. Špirić, all of these people, maybe someone from the SNSD... It should make the system, not watch where Sadović is, where you are, for our own good. We don't need to be able to smuggle weapons, so it can be transmitted, that it can be walked, that's not what we need. We don't need to store nuclear waste. We need from one place, even if that place was in Banja Luka, to control that thing, genetically modified food and organisms. We need to introduce this thing for our children, for our own sake, for our own health. What difference does it make where the seat is, you know, what entity controls. Well, I'm asking you to understand that.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-10-08-1.u20958	Thank you. I don't have any more logs. I'm concluding a debate on this agenda point. We're going to the fourth point, Ad. 4. Proposal for a Law on Border Control, with the opinion of the Joint Defence and Security Committee The bill of law is in procedure of 24. 4. In 2008. At the 30th session, the House did not accept the negative opinion of the Joint Defence and Security Committee, and the conclusion was adopted that the Opinion was returning to the Committee for Dom, with a proposal which came out of the debate that the Commission, in co-operation with the Ministry of Security and other interested parties, tried to agree on this law and delivered a new opinion on the law to the House. On 24 June, the Commission requested an extension of the deadline for a new opinion. The new opinion was delivered by the Commission on 24 July 2006. At the 33rd session, the House did not adopt this opinion either, so the commission was tasked with further... the bill. We also received a negative opinion from the Joint Defence and Security Committee for the third time. We discuss and decide opinions. Does the bill promoter want to speak to you? Dear Minister Sadović.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-10-08-1.u20960	The Honorable Chairman, the Honorable Vice-President, ladies and gentlemen, is before you another law that I fear will be debated and dissension. But before I say anything about this law, let me thank Mr. Kalabić for his positive 40 opinions on my political skills and, on the other hand, to express one reserve according to what he said, according to some bad intentions, etc. From my presentation, you could clearly see the facts. So here's everything that someone had a problem that you're talking about, so the task force with the representatives of the international community...
ParlaMint-BA_2008-10-08-1.u20961	Mr. Minister, we're on the fourth item of the agenda, please explain the draft law on border control.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-10-08-1.u20962	I thank you, Chairman. Here, I'll hang up. As regards the proposal for a law on border control, it was therefore rejected on the same principle, so on the Commission for Defence and Security as well as the Proposal for a Law on the Control of Arms, with one important factor that this time the prime minister and ministers from the RS supported this law. Now the question is, what is the problem now and where are the roots of this problem? I really don't think there's any point in doing that kind of personalisation and responsibility, which my colleague Kalabić was talking about, because this law -- therefore BiH has the Law on Control and Control of Movement across the state border -- this is a new law, and besides the name there are over 50% changed members. That's why he shows up as new. The law was made on the basis of a Council of Ministers decision, an established task force of experts to do the law. In draft law, the European Commission hired an expert from Lithuania and paid him to do the law. Here, I just wish you knew the facts. And the man did the job and the first version of the law was, among other things, his authorial work. Here are the people of the European Commission to confirm that they had a serious problem with each other because later, at the stage when the law came to Parliament, DCAF appeared with its reserves and objections to the law. And the Joint Commission for Defence and Security has tasked the Ministry, representatives of the DCAF, to come, in accordance with their observations, to a harmonised text of the law's solution. We, of course, hired people from the Ministry, the DCAF gave its people and they came up with a harmonised text of the law. Now watch out, there were things going on on the Commission. They have been proposed here by various MPs to modulate how to come, because I really cannot when the Council of Ministers adopts some law, I cannot accept the amendments and supplement the law on my own. It is a matter of technique: if any of the MPs or the whole commission were to propose harmonised amendments, we, as a formal proposal and the Council of Ministers, would agree. However, serious problems have arisen. I repeat one thing again, and that is, therefore, to challenge the law in the first reading. The principles of law are being challenged, and at the same time there is a law, the same law on the supervision and control of the crossing of the state border. So the principles of this law have already been passed once and it is completely illogical, at least on principles, to challenge that law. If some of the solutions are in the law, if they are not good, parliamentarians disagree, of course, it is an amendment procedure and it seems to me that the law should be released into another reading, and then on concrete matters, a thorough debate. Thank you very much. 41
ParlaMint-BA_2008-10-08-1.u20963	Thank you. The first was reported for the debate by the esteemed representative, Šefik Džaverović.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-10-08-1.u20964	Mr. Chairman, colleagues and colleagues, this is the proposal for a law on border control and it is clear that this is the responsibility of BiH institutions, exclusive jurisdiction. So there is no debate here about the distribution of competencies within or redistribution of BiH's competences, and I think my discussion will actually result in the same proposal that I highlighted when we discussed the previous agenda point. This is where we do this job, so BiH institutions. EUFOR is not doing this job. This is a law that had a high degree of consistency on the Council of Ministers when it was addressed to Parliament and this is the law, which is more important, which is directly related to the realisation of the Roadmap that BiH must pass in achieving a visa-free regime with EU countries. And that is why I want to draw particular attention to the need to address this issue as quickly as possible and to adopt this law. So this is a law that is directly related to our map of visa-free travel. This has been made clear to us and it contains some of the standards that BiH needs to meet when it comes to the visa-free travel map. No problem would be with this law if, after this working group, which was discussed by the minister, some 70 objections to the law were not received from the DCAF. We were staying in Geneva, we talked to DCAF representatives, they were staying here in BiH, and that thing with the DCAF was in sync. So, the Ministry of Security and the DCAF, as far as I know, have agreed their views and there are some 15 amendments prepared to act on this law and which should not be at all controversial between us here. We are now in a situation where, today, we do not accept the Commission's report, that the matter comes back to the Commission and that we have a situation on the Commission to have one MP say: I do not accept it, and then we come back here to Parliament with an unresolved question. I even suggested down at the Commission: let's accept the principles and the second point of our conclusion to make it mandatory to include all agreed amendments between the DCAF and the Ministry of Security in the second phase as our amendments. However, it was not accepted either. I suggested it down on the Commission. And there's nothing left, I think, if we want to get this law as soon as possible, to stop spinning in this vicious circle, to get this to the Council of Ministers of BiH and the Council of Ministers to establish amendments based on what the Ministry and the DCAF have agreed and then to deliver it all here to Parliament in parliamentary procedure. I don't see it any other time, I see this as the fastest way to get to the law, otherwise we'll be spinning around this law I don't even know how long, and the question is whether or not we're going to adopt it.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-10-08-1.u20965	I would like to thank the honourable representative Džaferović. There are no others reported. I'm closing the debate. And I'm asking you to formulate it so that we have a proposal for a conclusion on this, and according to the previous point, we said the same thing is just to formulate it in writing. Thank you. 42 Let’s go to the fifth item of the agenda: Ad. 5. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on the Production of Arms and Military Equipment (first reading) The draft law set out in this point was submitted by the Council of Ministers on 15 September 2008. It's being considered in regular procedure. The opinion of the Constitutional Judicial Committee was delivered in 6.10.2008. The Joint Defence and Security Committee shall be responsible. On 6 October, the Commission delivered an opinion supporting the principles of the bill. I'm opening a debate in my first reading. There's no record of a hearing. I'm closing the debate. We're going to the sixth point, Ad. Six. Proposal for a Law on Census and Households in Bosnia and Herzegovina 2011, with Opinion of the Constitutional Commission – Proposer: Representative Momčilo NovakoviNovaković
ParlaMint-BA_2008-10-08-1.u20968	Dear Chairman, members of the College, fellow Members of Parliament, guests, ministers, I must say, there have been a lot of dilemma on the Commission whether the capacity of one MP is sufficient to propose such a serious law as 'The Census and Households Act in BiH 2011. 'years.' And I immediately had to explain that when I proposed the law, I had contacts with the Statistics Agency, or the RS Statistics Institute, then I had in mind similar laws that treat this environmental issue, and of course also had in mind some of our features here, which are characteristics for BiH alone. The Commission did not accept the principles of the law, it accepted the constitutional basis of the law. I want to read here the principles on which this law is based. So the first principle is the principle of comprehensiveness. 43 The second principle is the principle of transparency, then the principle of the distribution of competences in accordance with the Constitution and the principle of rationality and transparency in the spending of financial resources. And I don't understand, of course, except for the political motives, which other motives can challenge these four principles in this law. You see, I just got asked by the press about the political aspect of the list. Nowhere in the world is a list of political issues. The list is a technical issue, usually in each country, with the aim of creating assumptions for the development of the country, but also for the comparability and degree of development and population and everything else related to other countries. In this case, especially with the EU countries we want to go towards. However, like everything else in BiH, we have put the most important mark on this, and that is the political issue. Do we need a list or don't we need a list? So what kind of list do we need, so what do we have to write down, and what we don't have to write down, in order to finally come to one conclusion, which is that we need a list, but we won't, because that's how I realized it. We need a list, but we won't, looking for a lot of reasons why, here's the list we won't. I wouldn't elaborate these principles now that made the law fall. I must say that Articles 2, 3, 10, 11 and 12 of this law are clearly defined by these principles and clarified these principles. If there are any questions about this, my colleague, for this, I can explain more widely. I would like to make it very clear once again that the least controversial principles in this law were when they were adopted, i.e. that the political aspects of the census were obviously more important than the principles.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-10-08-1.u20969	I would like to thank Reverend Novaković. The following has been reported to be respected, the second vice-president, Dr Milorad Živković, and let the distinguished representative Šefik Džaferović be prepared.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-10-08-1.u20970	Thank you, Chairman. I would like to say, as are some other MPs here, when this Parliamentary Assembly does not want to discuss something, the only possible way to do so is to propose one legislative project in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. We have already asked here several times, together with the reports we receive from the Council of Ministers, Statistics Agency - we sit down and as Parliamentarians talk about what everyone is talking about about about this assembly that needs to pass a list law. And that didn't go away either. There's still a chance that this way, by submitting the bill on the list, we can even talk about this very important thing and, on that side of the view, I support it. I support, first of all, any MPs to propose a legislative project and I do not think that any MP has the capacity to propose any legislative project and I support that this topic in this House be opened in any way. The principle of law itself, that we need and need this law, can't be knocked down. Because in order to even make a list, which is BiH's duty, we have to have the law. So the principle that a law is necessary and necessary, no one can bring down. 44 But the parts of the text concerning this law, I have observations, and it seems to me that in this case they might be better off. I think the BiH Statistics Agency and under the Agency's Law should be a co-ordinated institution and should not be in charge of the regulation, the availability of funds and the archival of the list building. This should be carried by entities that are themselves a product of statistics. Statistics are solved on the ground, in entities, which then give their data to the Statistics Agency to publish these data. They're also the owners of that data, because they were directly on the ground. I have over 30 amendments prepared for this law and, if the Proposer allows there to be a debate at the amendment stage at all in so many amendments, we would support this proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-10-08-1.u20971	Thank you. There is still a respected representative, Šefik Džaferović, and let the distinguished representative Milica Marković be prepared.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-10-08-1.u20972	Mr. Chairman, colleagues and colleagues, every law must have its own racio legis or meaning, which is why this law is passed and when the law is passed then all possible implications of a legal solution must be considered. I want to believe that Racio legis, or the meaning of this law by the proposer, is really a census in BiH, and that census as a statistical, economic and development category, and I really have nothing against it, and anyone in this country has anything against a census that would be exclusively a statistical, economic and development category in BiH. In particular, given that BiH did not have a census in 2001, therefore, 10 years after 1991 and given the fact that the 2011 census will be conducted in Europe and the surrounding countries. However, failure to look at all the implications of such a solution that it can produce, given the situation in BiH, the huge movement of the population, the ethnic cleansing in the past period, and the neglect of that fact, in me produces doubts about this racio legion that I was talking about, so that I am actually inclined to think, and I would like to be convinced that this is not the case, that the purpose of this law is to block some of the processes in BiH that are much more important than the census, which BiH has before it as a commitment and the dejtonski and Post-Dayton when it comes to decisions of the Constitutional Court. To execute the census in the way it is proposed here, and to forget the fact that in BiH, with severe obstructions and problems, the implementation of the Constitutional Court's decision on the constitutionality of the people, would mean legalising ethnic cleansing and then not being a census law, it would be a law to legalise ethnic cleansing or a law that would be a clip in the points of the Constitutional Court's decision on the constitutionality of the people. Therefore, I think that the key principle of this law must be that BiH does not produce any further confusion, that the processes that are in BiH are not blocked, and if the proposer here stated that this law cannot have any influence and will not have any influence and if he expresses his willingness to put it into place in this law, so that he will have no impact on the implementation of the Constitutional Court's decision on 45 constitutionalities of the people, and that even after this list of 91 years, he will be considered the basis for the participation of constituent citizens and others in power, then I would personally have no objection to the idea of passing the law. Of course, he would probably look different in some solutions, but then we could discuss this more seriously. To ignore that fact, to put your head in the sand and to pass a list law as if it had never happened ethnic cleansing, as if over half the population of this country had not been moved, as if there was no Constitutional Court decision, as if Annex VII had never existed and the need for its realization, I think it would be extremely irresponsible. And here, eventually, I'm done. So, I am in favour of the census, it should be done in BiH, but it must by no means compromise the processes that BiH has as a Dayton obligation, a post-dayton obligation and a commitment under the Constitutional Court's decision on the consistency of the people. That's it, thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-10-08-1.u20973	Dear second Vice-President Živković: Replica.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-10-08-1.u20974	I have not reported to the previous agenda points that I am not complicating, obviously, a very tight atmosphere and situation today, and I am afraid of a heated political atmosphere in this House itself. The history of BiH, which some call and say is far away, is the history of ethnic cleansing and genocide. And then I think there were no conditions you would have talked about, Mr. Džaferović, that what happened in one of the wars, then the next 100 years must be eliminated in order to create conditions for the census. I just don't know how far to go into our history to talk about what happened and when the lists in BiH were working. If it is the conditions that you set out in the BiH census, I fear that we will never make a census in BiH.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-10-08-1.u20975	Dear Representative Džaferović: a reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-10-08-1.u20976	Mr. Živković, I only invite you to respect. We can talk about history, we can talk about everything, but what we all have to stick to here and what we have to respect is an agreement initialled on 21.11. in Dayton, signed on 15.12. in Paris popularly called the Dayton Peace Agreement, which has 11 annexes and has the Constitution of BiH. I'm just asking you to respect it and I'm not asking for anything else. Let's just respect that. He learns, then my discussion continues with those solutions. I'm not going anywhere further. We can keep going, but I think we're just gonna have enough about Dejton, so let's go.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-10-08-1.u20977	Replica, the second deputy president of Živković (second). 46
ParlaMint-BA_2008-10-08-1.u20978	So part of BiH and its reverse history will be put aside and we will deal only with the Dayton Peace Agreement. The ball isn't in the playground or me or the SNSD or even these MPs here. The ball you spoke of is in the BiH presidency, where I asked that the original document of the Dayton Peace Agreement, which you want us to respect here and all its annexes, be ratified and that we ratify this same Agreement here in Parliament, so that we can discuss its implementation. So we don't have the ball.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-10-08-1.u20979	Dear Representative Drago Kalabić: replica.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-10-08-1.u20980	When you have a land of absurdity, you can hear things in it. Now I'm thinking, normally, I'm neither smart nor I know all the things, but I'm trying to remember. All the countries of the world had censuses, as far as I know, of all the countries of the world. And with wars and no wars, and calm and I don't know what kind. And I don't remember what country that was in, and in which country the list stopped some things or improved some things. Improved, we can say, probably, people are doing it for some improvement, some use. They need something like that as soon as all the countries of the world do it. But I haven't heard a single explanation that would stop a population census, hurt something. Here, as soon as there's an argument, I'll be against the list right away. If he stops coming back, we won't be working the list for another 160 years. Anything else, it means it's what's stopping it. You have to say what motives are, but you don't have to wrap it up like that in some bad way and you won't hear anything about whether or not the international community wants it in some way, here's what someone says, legalizing ethnic cleansing. Why are their demands so much for a list? Or I don't understand a thing. If the list is a technical question of what to do, what others do and what they've done and what no one has done so far, I don't or I don't know, that there's a problem made by a list somewhere. The list can eventually determine the problem, it can help to decrypt some problems or other, but I don't know about the situation that the list has made a problem somewhere, or that it's complicated somewhere, or that someone here is trying to convince me that the list stops something and that if a delay or doesn't make a list that some things will go better. And that's why I'm gonna postpone the list if without a list of things goes better. I have a feeling that there's a manipulation of something that wants to be presented as good, and it's actually the way it is. But I'd like to hear the opposite arguments.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-10-08-1.u20981	He has a replica of the chairman, Mr. Lozančić.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-10-08-1.u20982	Here, I'm going to try this replica to help myself and you, to answer some questions and try to shorten the debate on this issue. I will agree with you, dear representative Kalabić, that the census of the population is purely statistics everywhere in the normal world. I couldn't agree more. But I don't agree that we have pure statistics. We have pure politics. Well, because he's pure politics, that's how I experience him by the promoter and I experience him like that. 47 I am absolutely against the census. So now I can list countless unstatistical reasons, which is why I'm against it. As far as the statistics are concerned, I'm not, I wouldn't be if it were statistics. But since we all know well, both you and I, that this statistic thing doesn't have a slight connection – we in BiH have a lot of statistics that mean nothing to us, meaning nothing to us – let's not call for statistics. In this country, it is very important how many people there are, and here in Parliament, and especially in the field, and we know what we are where we are. And we know what we're going to use what we're going to get on that list tomorrow. All of us, I won't say, I won't, and the rest of you will use it, let's not run away from it. And that's why I'm against it. Let's make assumptions that in this country every man, no matter where he lives, we ensure the same rights. Well, then the list won't be politics, then there'll be statistics. And that we know that the resident of this country, regardless of whether he is Hrvat, Bošnjak or Srbin, and wherever he lives, is worth the same. And to take a statistical look at it from the point of view of the need, so to ensure it, here at the pre-election time, we've been spending a lot of money on paved roads, waterways... so that's where we're being statistically. We all do. We know that's not how we behave. Since that's the case, I'll say, I won't answer any more, and today, to be clear, with respect for your thinking differently, I respect that, but I wanted to make my point. We this law or any law of this nature, until we create a constitutional and every other environment in which every man in this country will be the same, we will not support it. At least we waited another 150 years on the population list.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-10-08-1.u20983	Replica, Mr. Kalabić. I'm sorry, Mr. Izetbegović called earlier, drago.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-10-08-1.u20984	So, I really don't think that after decades of different experiences here, there's no need for someone to think someone's naive and, as Mr. Kalabić said, that someone can pack someone up without the others knowing it. You know, that coffee, which you mentioned, should indeed drink those coffees every day and put things on the table, so that you may say who is afraid of what they are afraid of, so is it justifiable, so whoever wills, who doesn't? So find some solutions. I think the list can be made. They've got twice to do that. So, we're all afraid to hit the seal on the ethnic cleansing, what he did to the war here, we don't want to do that thing, we don't want to confirm that principle -- who's the one who put up the pit. And we won't agree to that. On the other hand, it is necessary for this country to have a list of some economic, social, statistical needs of planning, etc. Well, they do, in my opinion, twice. One is to be more honest with each other about aneks vi and the consistency of the people. We'll never make 100% of each other. But there's still something to be done here. And open the way to make a classic list the way we've been listed so far. Or let us listen to these foreigners who insist on the list but do not bring in a definition of faith and nation in their countries. We don't want to hit the seal on that segregation in BiH. We can, therefore, avoid mentioning... faith and nations and, here's what Mr. Novaković said, not to politicize things, we'll list everything else, we won't write it down. We can put 48... on to make all kinds of plans and what we need but to bypass this painful thing for now. Look at the city of Sarajevo. It is repeatedly said that it was abandoned by Srbin and Hrvat, as it turned into a Muslim city, etc., that it is not felt by people as their city, because it belongs only to Muslims. I'm not talking about RS right now. Let's do something in that city of Sarajevo! Help to implement Annex VII, as far as possible, as much as possible, and to implement this decision of the Constitutional Court on the constitutionality of the people. If people won't return to Sarajevo, we can't force them, but we can stimulate the officials to return, to return people to power, here, to Sarajevo. Now I'm talking from this other angle. And, to be honest, we can do this thing in other parts of BiH, do it, and that all three are numbered, so the Constitutional Court's decision on the constitutionality and Annex VII of the Dayton Agreement which are our obligations, and here's the list of bindings and making all three of us work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-10-08-1.u20985	Dear Representative Kalabić: Replica.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-10-08-1.u20986	Here, you're about this persuasion, let's say that I don't define myself according to arguments, but let's say you have a situation that the international community needs to be convinced of such a thing, that it doesn't need a list or that it should be, I don't know, delay. Here, try to convince them of that. I don't know in which area statistics don't apply. And in good and evil, and in sorrow, and in sorrow, and in joy, and as you wish, I do not know where it is not applied. Here, and we, whenever we start, we count ourselves here, because we can't do anything different. Not because we love each other, we don't love each other, or one way or another, but we can't do another. And there's that everywhere. And we, like now, here's something we all know, something would help us, like what we know as something, we're not going to say, if it's going to help someone, here I'm taking and that's... but there's something else. Is that what some things are holding on to, and are some lists done, mini-lists being kept? And that he will not respond to them. And I can understand from one position, what Mr. Lozančić said. But if, say, a few hundred million marks that go back, let's say maybe the most Srebrenica went, we'll take a little bit of Savina, whether it's responsible for some sort of temporary list that it's going, and we all know it's not going to anyone, that it goes to crime, that it goes to smuggling, that it goes, and we all know it. But we've got our own mini-list that fits some groups and we're gonna cover it with this general story, so we're not gonna touch that mini-list. We have our arguments and we say, no, there are some people who are smuggling and doing, doing what they do for some political, national reasons, we're not going to do it, but we're going to leave those processes, and we're all here to the last one convinced that that's how it works. And that's how it works. And for these reasons, we won't touch it, we're going to encourage it, because we're going to war. We agree, all of us, fully aware that the return was not done to the extent that we wanted, we wanted, we tried, and if the enormous funds had been invested, nearly three countries would have returned to their hearths according to the funds that were invested. Also, according to some lists, nothing in mind has been done. There are some lists, precise, clear, in names, last names, nationality, whatever 49 you want. Do we, by refusing what is now supposed to be required, legalize this to last for years, that manipulation with people, with resources, with funds, with everything else? If we can function on that improvisation of the list and if the state can function and if the international community is satisfied, as far as I'm concerned, let it go on like that.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-10-08-1.u20987	Dear Representative Sadik Ahmetović: Replica. Have I seen anyone else's hand?
ParlaMint-BA_2008-10-08-1.u20988	Replicate, yes. I don't think Mr. Kalabić has any arguments about this story of his or he doesn't know the matter he's talking about. Annex VII means people coming back. But we, as the people who make the law in this country, must change some laws that stop people from returning to the areas where they lived in '91. A year. If we say that a man should, if aneks vi provides that a man can return to Srebrenica or Sarajevo or anywhere else, and it is not envisaged that he can return to the workplace from which someone drove him and hired another, then it is also our problem here that we need to solve, and all the people in this country who need to start solving these problems. And just one small one, when it comes to money, I don't want to defend any embezzlement when it comes to coming back, but I only want one little math. For 3,000 families – so only for 3,000 families, here I will take an example of Srebrenica – to make them 3,000 houses according to the lowest standards of 20,000 marks, you need 60 million marks. And if you just take that indicator (no electricity, water, infirmary, schools, jobs, etc.) You'll see how big a problem that is. And if you, Mr. Kalabić, get into that story, or if you want you can come in one of the breaks or one day when we have time here, I'll explain some things to you, because I believe you haven't dealt with this problem. Therefore, it is necessary to calculate exactly how many people want to return and how much money it takes. And this state, if it's supposed to provide credit, let it be a loan in some amount that may be in some short time to complete the process. No one on the list, no one on the run. Thank you very much. _________(?) ... I have another replica. [[no microphone turned on]]
ParlaMint-BA_2008-10-08-1.u20989	Take it easy, I'm talking to the other guy. The next is the distinguished representative Bešlagić: a replica; so let the distinguished representative Jovičić be prepared for the replica, so Bećirović.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-10-08-1.u20990	I'm having a discussion. 50
ParlaMint-BA_2008-10-08-1.u20991	Okay. Then He Prodanović, "If he has been declared, then he has signed up." Here, here's the order.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-10-08-1.u20992	Be careful, Your Honors Chairman, ladies and gentlemen!
ParlaMint-BA_2008-10-08-1.u20993	I apologize, honourable representative Bešlagić, distinguished representative Hadžiahmetović wants business intervention, has priority.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-10-08-1.u20994	No, no, absolutely not mad, then I'll give up.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-10-08-1.u20995	Dear Members of the College, I, among other things, prepared a discussion on a very similar subject, i.e. the Živković Initiative or point 9, i.e. 8 in the revised agenda. And I would ask you, if there is a business, we are already discussing in general the list issue of this bill, we have an initiative relating to the list; if we can unite the discussion, because we are talking about the list in general, rather than specifically about solutions that are presented as agenda points. If you agree, I've already applied for the discussion. Otherwise, I prepared her for the Initiative. Okay? I think it'd be good.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-10-08-1.u20996	So we have a concrete proposal to bring together the debate on points 6 and 8.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-10-08-1.u20997	No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2008-10-08-1.u20998	All right, all right, all right, all right, all right. Dear Representative Živković wishes to respond to this proposal, so we will give a statement.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-10-08-1.u20999	Let me just say that I don't mind, but we need to make some rules of the game. Namely, I used my discussion and two replicas, this would be the second item of the agenda where I would also have a discussion and the possibility of two replicas and to explain why this request is so. If you allow me to have another discussion and two replicas and make it possible for all of us, I have no problem uniting the debate. 51
ParlaMint-BA_2008-10-08-1.u21000	It's really a very similar matter, I'm not going to say the same, and it seems very reasonable to accept. But here's what I have to do to make a motion for a statement before we define ourselves, let's accept the proposal of the distinguished MPs to unify the debate and to allow anyone who's debated so far to have another debate, and the number of replicas per these two points will not be limited, so let them replicate as much as they want, so here, here. Is that okay? Oh, no, no, I'm talking about the proposal, the proposal that I'm going to make to you for a statement. It's not that, I won't decide it myself. So, first I'm giving you a proposal to unify point 6 and point 8 in the debate. Business intervention: Honorable representative Novaković.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-10-08-1.u21001	Chairman, I think we played with him enough at that last session and we shouldn't play with him anymore. Please, we're having a debate on the law, we're not having a discussion on two informations, so we're going to compile two information and conduct a debate as one information or ten agreements as one agreement. This is about the adopted agenda in which we are discussing the part of the agenda on the laws and the second part of the agenda on information, initiatives etc. And it's impossible to put them together. We can vote whatever you want, we can vote it's not worth this Rules of Procedure, but it doesn't make any sense.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-10-08-1.u21002	Your Honor, here's the College agrees that you're absolutely right. Dear MPs, we will not place your proposal on a plea. So thank you for helping us run a business session and agreed to the College, which is very important. So the next one is for the Bešlagić replica.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-10-08-1.u21003	Since I've already welcomed the chairman, colleagues and colleagues, let me express my surprise about this point. First, the proposal was made by Mr. Novaković of the SDS, of the opposition. You're having a debate from a parliamentary majority, and you're having a debate beyond what's called the law. You're having a discussion, I'd say, about political matters, political matters. I have to say, if I weren't here, I'd say, a fierce opposition and position. And it seems to me that the best solution for this case is what Mr. Kalabić said yesterday, a proposal: MPs sit down, drink coffee, discuss and come up with a proposal for a census in which everyone must relax somewhere to get to some law that will satisfy these demands both sides. I will say that in this relationship everyone, here, and the EC has said that it cannot talk to BiH with old data and is asking for a 2011 statistical census to be carried out. Here is where Mr. Džaferović also said he had nothing against the list, but they have some elements where something should be thrown out of that list. Please, I don't have, look out, I'm not getting into whether the international community, if even the international community has proposed, is an even greater reason and an even higher reason for the position to sit down and to agree and to make suggestions and proposals to resolve this law. I don't want to enter 52 into a debate about this law, I really don't want to get into a debate about this law, because like no Niko would say some things. But the census can give another picture, another picture, I don't want to tell her here. An image that would tell who did what and what he did with BiH. But that's a political question and I don't want to talk about it. I want to say that we need to meet the conditions that the international community requires of us in human resources, in economic resources, in these and those things, and I think that if you can, gentlemen from the position, sit down, have coffee and agree in the context and these proposals of the international community. Well, that would be the greatest happiness in this House for us from the opposition. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-10-08-1.u21004	Thanks for asking for coffee. Replica: Jovičić. May I have your attention, please?
ParlaMint-BA_2008-10-08-1.u21005	The Honorable Chairman, well, it doesn't seem to me, better points of the agenda than this to open up all the issues as well as the list includes a spectrum of issues that would be listed in this list. Of course, I could accept many of the things Mr. Izetbegović spoke about, but here is the constant potential for a story that I will not deny that ethnic cleansing was done, but why are you afraid if we insist on that list, so that you really see that a huge number of Bošnjak have returned to RS has just been done and ethnic cleansing has just been done in the Federation. So each of the numbers gives, so here I was giving to the newspaper: 3% to 4% of Srbin today live in the Federation area of the '91 census number. A year. Isn't that ethnic cleansing, whether in the war, whether after the war, it doesn't matter? Your sincere intentions are when you call for people to return here to Sarajevo but, Mr. Izetbegović, as a high-ranking politician, you must know that this is an illusion. Selling people a house for 20 marks and now coming back to buy here for 300,000 marks, that's impossible, a finished story, a point, that's impossible. Here's the best list of these now - elections. The SNSD has run its candidates in ten Sarajevo municipalities, no councilman has passed. He did if he's a member of the BiH Party or the SDA! But I'm asking you to understand, without insulting these SDP people most, without insulting these people, I have no right to...
ParlaMint-BA_2008-10-08-1.u21006	May I have your attention, please?
ParlaMint-BA_2008-10-08-1.u21007	...just about the job. But people, they do not enjoy any reputation in the Serb people in RS, understand that already. Like yours when we pick him up from the road and pick him up for something, you say he's not ours. And I don't insult anyone, here, people, we have to be honest, we have to be honest, I beg you. 53 The second thing, if we from the RS are not afraid, indeed, of the mortgage and anthem that has been imposed on us for 15 years – ethnic cleansing, that we should indeed determine the results, to see how many Bošnjak have returned; you have data like us, in Prijedor 25 thousand, I rejoice that they are all, that I do not know whether one is missing. So I called you, and let's go to Bratunac and set up a tent settlement and call the people! But can we, because of a hundred people who will never come back or 10,000 or 100,000, stop everything here... process and census. Next, if we run a new list, we can go back to the consistency of '91. A year? So all aspects should be taken into account, even though you don't want a list, even though you don't need one. Another key thing – how will you determine on the list that there was an ethnic cleansing that you are talking about if there is no national and religious structure? How are you going to determine how many people are back there, how many aren't, based on what? Is that, is that the invention and creation of a newly combined Bosnian nation? He will establish it. I know it is not for this reason, but he will establish it; wait a little while, and he will establish it. So why run away from it, I have the right to plead. After all, I kept talking, and I got bored, so some of my colleagues tell me, "Glory, repeat your stories." I have to say it again. How did we get here? I've been chosen here as a Srbin and I'm proud. As I congratulate each of my colleagues who is Bošnjak and I greatly respect him, Hrvat, if there are national minorities, as they are chosen. Well, people, no Bošnjak has chosen me, he could have been illiterate only, but Hodja told him don't vote for the Nightingale, he's no good! Don't say that. Let's see if or not, there's only two dilemmas. Do you want a list, don't you? Don't make arguments that you won't, under your terms we won't. Come on, what are we going to do now, whether or not we're going to, dilemmas and end the debate, you can see that you're not going under these conditions...
ParlaMint-BA_2008-10-08-1.u21008	Please, let's work. Slavko, are you at the end?
ParlaMint-BA_2008-10-08-1.u21009	Here I go.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-10-08-1.u21010	Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-10-08-1.u21011	We won't accept what you're looking for and finish, period.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-10-08-1.u21012	Thank you. Mr. Prodanović's replica. Get Izetbegović ready.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-10-08-1.u21013	Dear Chairman Lozančić, this one is the esteemed Bakir Izetbegović. Well, what can I say? I mean, absurd, we're really in one catastrophic state, mutual mistrust and paranoia. We're such a society that I can't possibly come to any of the exclusives we have here in this House. We have a situation that's amazing. 54 Let's say, when it comes to a very important segment that binds us, and not only that, there is a significant list in BiH. Now, if you were to tell the Bošnjak and the Hrvat, I apologize for being so, unfortunately, when I think about it, then that degree of paranoia is instantaneous -- yeah, it wants to verify change, a drastic change of ethnic structure. When you say that to Srbin, yes, you see, these have agreed with the international community a complete conspiracy of which Srbin have suffered for more than a hundred years, and the abolition, abolition, or unitaryisation of language, nation and religion. And that paranoia, I mean that's not what I'm saying, that's what 95% of Srbin think, that's one tragic situation we're in. And now we're nailing the situation, which is, now we don't need a population list, we don't need one. But as we say, be careful, imagine, we don't need it at all, because Srbin, there's no theoretical chance that now someone can explain that it's not one nation, one state, one language. One state is, right away, one BiH state, but in which you have three constituent nations and this issue of nation, language and religion should be respected. It's a fundamental question that separates us even more. And be careful, if I were on behalf of Bošnjak and Hrvat, I apologize for... I would never advocate a list without both components. You have about 30% of the citizens of this country, the citizens of this country, who absolutely think it's an ideal way to marginalize completely... something. On the other hand, we have one question that concerns what the Bošnjak are saying now -- you know, we have a drastic structure that's changed, we don't have power... The census doesn't cement anything. cementirati if there is no political will to agree, it means agreeing on what to do when we face a tragic reality in the entire BiH territory, a complete change in the ethnic structure everywhere. In this story that Srbin now enter, they legitimateize themselves as part of the most disturbing, I apologize for saying this, ethnic structures. With constant insistence on this story Bošnjak on it or, I apologize... really for saying so, and Hrvat confirm that part of the story as, here you see who is the culprit here – the international community, please... and bring us into another story – now the international community has turned against this and we have no attitude in BiH. And another very important question. We, therefore, all relevant political factors since the adoption of the Constitutional Court's decision on the constitutionality of the people in which one of the items wrote that after the change of the entity's constitution in BiH, within six months, the implementation of this law will be carried out at all levels including, I apologize to the lawyers, they know better, the existence of some councils, or 'the Council of Nations' in the municipal parliaments in order to do so. Never have the representatives of political parties from any of these parties, here is a conditional statement of ethnic, unfortunately ethnic in BiH, mostly not to mention one word. I was under the circumstances in that story. I have to tell you right away that I was fragrant when I fought to get into the structure of the managing public institutions, public institutions, talking about them, I couldn't help trying to convince the Bošnjak that he should come to the board of directors of public institutions, because I need him as an expert. So what now? We justify ourselves because we haven't done anything. We are now postponing the census and questioning it absolutely. He's, don't get me wrong, he's impossible by violence. This violence of the administrative census of the population without ethnicity and without religious and nationality is impossible. Don't get me wrong. In my head, it's another thing I think about it, but it's impossible, it worsens the situation of the overall integration processes in BiH. And instead of saying, okay, we're making that list, we're finishing it, with what we've agreed together, including these essential components. But we're going to make a fund that we're going to end all this talk for the next 20 or 30 years. Every other story you're talking to me about, I consider myself an average man, absolutely unconvinced that there is a will for it. Political 55 top-notch glidings were held by those poor people, Srbin, Bošnjak, Hrvat, poor people who clapped about the story, holding them for an hour in some municipality in RS, a class in the Federation or some canton or something. And what have we done? Nothing, we're not gonna do anything or delay anything. Much worse for this Bosnian-Herzegovina society if we work on this story called insisting on this story that we would even enter, come on... We can't force the list. We're going to be in a situation where we were in the '90s, and we keep going back and forth. Let's see what we can do if the list can't verify the country's ethnic structure, especially the ethnic structure, or cement it with anything. It can open our eyes and tell us - in Sarajevo we have to do it, in Banja Luka we have to do it, in Zvornik we have to do it, the way to it is that and the measures are that and so are they. I will remind you – Croatia, our neighbouring country, made the Law on the City of Vukovar. Unfortunately, don't get me wrong, she didn't make the law on the city of Knin. We'll face it if the law, it's about the law, the constant allocation of funds for the development of such environments, the constant... If we wish ourselves well, that's how we should do it. This other story, it's totally unconvincing. It is only convincing for those we will deceive with this nationalist story, were social Democrats, whether SDS or SDA, forgive me for..., or HDZ. That's it.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-10-08-1.u21014	Replica, the esteemed representative Bakir Izetbegović. Did you answer the line? Well, the honourable representative Ajanović, then the esteemed representative Džaferović.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-10-08-1.u21015	Replication is on the presentation of Mr. Kalabić and Mr. Jovičić. So, from your presentations, I understand we need a list, and we don't really need a return, that it's a done deal. 'We're only spending money for nothing,' said Mr. Kalabić, 'three states could have built by now how much money was spent.' It's just not like that, people. Mr. Jovičić, even, my argument when I speak it from the corner of Sarajevo, Bošnjak and when I ask for people to return, Srbin and Bošnjak, is not acceptable to him either. Don't make us come back, people are gone. Mr. Jovičić, 130 thousand people, with a letter and a number, are now applying a return. Just make him a roof, give him a job, what kind of conditions, 130,000 people. As much as he wants to go to Sarajevo, as much as there, here, I don't know. 130,000 times 10,000 marks, that's 1,300,000. I don't know, the Bible says that Isus fed two breads and two fish some few thousand people, maybe that's how it was, but with a million marks, as approved here annually for the return process, for the implementation of Annex VII, millions of people could not return. You can't bring back a million people with a million marks. The VAT daily brings 20 million marks. So that's one river of money being poured in, 20 million marks being poured into those registers a day. In an hour and a half, one million marks will be filled. We were ready for an hour and a half to give for the return process, for... the most painful things that happen 56 in this country. Half the population forced out, making one, making the other, making the third. We're an hour and a half a day, so we're taking taxes off for that thing. And now Mr. Kalabić says it's a thief himself, that it's wrong, that it should be given up, we all know it's a thief. I don't know. If anyone knows what kind of thief to bring him to court. Where there's food, there's bacteria; where there's money, there's thief. It's up to us to create systems and an organization that will prevent it, and then there'll be some thieving, but as little as possible, more to go where it's supposed to go. So 130,000 people are waiting. 20 million a day is a charge, only by indirect taxation. Five days out of 365 to give back, that's 100 million. Well, that's what we're looking for. Five days a year to turn that cash into a multiethnic return, to do as much as we can. We're not in the mood to implement Annex VII. Let's do some of that, let's do some of that, no less than by the Constitutional Court of this country's decision, you know. Well, that's what we're looking for, and then we'll take a list. As far as foreigners are concerned, they said, and in their countries they make it, a list without this provision – nations and faith. Therefore, we can follow their instructions, as far as we're concerned, no problem.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-10-08-1.u21016	The next is the replica, the esteemed representative Ajanović, so let the distinguished representative Džaferović prepare for the replica, and then the distinguished representative Jovičić.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-10-08-1.u21017	Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues, I have volunteered to replicate my esteemed colleague, according to the doctor's profession, the doctor from Zvornik. We are for the census, and for the census as recommended by the EU, there are exactly ten specifics that should and should be made without an ethnic census. We're not on the ethnic list because it's neither the time to do it nor the time to work it right now, because actually the ethnic list – every election tells us where, how many people live and there's no need to throw the money back for that part. I was listening the other night to the speech of a great speaker, Martin Luter King... and I admired him in 1962, and you know that in 1963 he was murdered, liquidated. His vision came true from 1963 to 2008. Then, when they were... clans, when... they were creating and implementing racism, he saw the future of the country and he said -- there will come a day when we'll all be equal. Therefore, from your presentation, dear colleague, I would accept 100% of what we need to do, which is to first make preparations and make all those assumptions for the righteous lives of all people and to write down then the ethnic structure of BiH, because there will be no dilemma, nor any concern for the list of anything. If at this point they would agree to the ethnic census, so that's a tie that would lead us into even deeper, harder and larger divisions. I don't want to talk tonight -- and if you want, since we're doctors, I can come with you and give you information, about -- what would be the national census in all of BiH. I was deputy minister from 2000 to 2002, working with Balaban, who was then a health minister in the RS. Based on demographic estimates of certain, certain population groups up to 25 years old, it would hurt anyone's head if they did... 57 Let us lay down regulations that will do what we all want, which is the consistency of the people in the entire territory of BiH, justice and equality before the law, in front of people, in front of the rights and in all this, and then there will be no longer any problem with the ethnic census. So the census can be carried out according to EU recommendations, with ten points that no one here, I'm sure, will refuse and should not refuse. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-10-08-1.u21018	Dear Representative Džaferović: Replica.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-10-08-1.u21019	Mr. Chairman, colleagues, colleagues, I want my colleague, Mr. Prodanović, who I otherwise highly appreciate as one reasonable man, to say that I could accept most of his discussion, that no one should normally have anything against the greatest part of his discussion. So there's no dilemma. I would ask only one thing that Mr. Prodanović has in mind that this is all together that we do, so we work in a country that is biased and in which the change in the ethnic structure of the population has been violently carried out. A census of 10 years old, up to 10 years old, it describes the state and nature flows, and it is normal for it to describe natural flows. An anti-natural thing has happened in BiH from the last census to today, and all I want is that this anti-natural situation does not become a factor. And if it is possible to say only one sentence in the census law, given that from the last census in BiH to the present day, a violent change in the ethnic structure, regardless of the results of this 2011 census, remains the basis for the calculations that we are talking about. We won't respect violence, we won't legalize ethnic cleansing, we'll list everything we need to write down. There's no need to be afraid. Here, I say, let it be written in that case, in that variant, and ethnicity, national, whatever you want to call it, religious, language, though, of course, I don't mind what international organisations agree on, but if it's a problem and fear, so someone wants to unitify it here and produce some extra fears, no one should be afraid of it. And what I'm saying, I'm not just saying as a man who belongs to the Bosniak people. I think I speak in the interest of both Bošnjak and Hrvat and Srbin and others; let us never forget them that the large category has those that do not belong to these three groups – and BiH citizens. And if we take that approach, then we'll solve the list issue. That's it, thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-10-08-1.u21020	Thank you. Honorable representative Jovičić: replica.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-10-08-1.u21021	I wouldn't be so pretentious, so if I were to say I speak for the Srbin, the Bošnjak, I can't even speak for all Srbin, here's in the interest. But let me remind you. If we avoid this national and religious decree, the constitution falls. The constitution falls because it is based on two entities and three 58 constituent nations. Where is the consistency of the people if we don't know how many people there are and to make a statement. That's one thing. ...a little picture from the last state that was arranged. I don't want to offend anyone, just to remind you, the terrible fight was, he knows the professor, there was also the late Džemal Bijedić, with a little "m" to raise a big "M". You know how much trouble he's had and I'm proud of it, and it's not any investment in you or any bloating, which you've got, and it's good. Because as long as one nation solves its national issue, others can't be happy either. That's quite clear. What are you afraid of now, and it's complete and this is clear. You avoid having a national, religious list, and here we've all finely filled out the forms, and that's the first me, the Srbin, the Orthodox, the Christian, everything there was, the first one filled out. And all of you here when you show me the form that you wrote "others" there, I say immediately, and the columns are deleted, but you sitting here with me. So, what's he trying to accomplish? There are both rational and irrational fears. It is a new beginning for the creation of a newly combined Bosnian nation. If there are no Srbin, Hrvat and Bošnjak, then what will be in Bosnia but Bosanac. There's not even a Hercegovac in any perception. And that's the problem. So, I just said, we're gonna get high, we're gonna argue, you want one thing, we don't have a deal, it's all down in the water, it doesn't need a list, it doesn't need anything, it doesn't need a finished story. Nor will we agree, open from the beginning, when this law came in, when Mr. Novaković proposed it and Živković, that you would not accept it, as we will not accept your terms and what to do now. There's no list, we can't force anyone, so when you do, this is a good term, really, and it's fair that you're looking for, let's just leave the box and let's say your people plead, but leave us the opportunity to say that we are Srbin and Orthodox by religion, or someone else, how they want to choose. Leave that section, and let the people decide whether or not they will. It can't do that. I know he can't. Because as soon as that section was, everyone, 99.9, not 99, 100% Bošnjak would fill up like us. That makes sense, people. But here's another fear that's crucial. We know that BiH is the most numerous Bosniak people. The fewth are Hrvat, I'm surprised for them why they too wouldn't determine how many of them are missing here in these areas, for various reasons. Is it ethnic cleansing, is it simulation, is it migration? Let's all figure out what happened to us here. If we don't know how many of us are alive right now, and who we are and what we are, what else are we going to know? So I'm not gonna list goats, I'm not even interested in vines. So, let me finish. Since it is obvious that we can never get the consent of one side and the other, that we, at least, give up in the debate, so let our political leaders solve this, and don't convince us again to pass on the picture of what Europe wants. These countries are nowhere in Europe. It's easy for Germany, multi-national Germany, so whatever they say, they're Nijemac. It's like this in every other country. These countries are nowhere to be found. And I said earlier, that I was finishing up, that everything, two entities, three constituent peoples, as soon as there's no census per national, there's no constitutionality. Then what are we gonna hold on to? Do we take care of what it produces in the near future? So, shall we or won't we? Clearly, here you can see, two polarized sides, you're not going under these conditions, we're not going by that. We all think we're right. And in the end, there's only gonna be no list. Thank you. 59
ParlaMint-BA_2008-10-08-1.u21022	Wait a minute, wait a minute. The chairman's already out. Here you go. Who's reporting business intervention?
ParlaMint-BA_2008-10-08-1.u21023	Now, I'll do business, here's the business intervention, so it's going to be a replica, so it's going to be political, and it's going to be statistically this statement right here right now. A little bit of everything. These discussions and all the numerous replicas show really how much this is just a statistical question. It's very interesting how much we have the will and will and through the debates and through the replicas to prove to each other that statistics are very important to us, crucial in this country. Don't let me remind you, and then you'd probably produce 16 times more replicas, how important questions for us are neither statistics nor politics. So how many important questions?- I'm sorry. But for the sake of correctness, for the sake of the public, I have to say a few things. We do not believe in the regularity of the census at this time, because you have had the opportunity to have these elections and the attempt of a part of the citizens of this country to register, to participate in the electoral process. And they are statistical: four thousand and something from the territory of the Republic of Croatia where they are currently staying, probably, thinking that they are better there. Only a lot of them wouldn't move there because they were better off without telling me why they moved and where they moved from and how they moved away. But we recorded them neatly statistically, so we said no, you no longer have the right to vote in the election to vote in the mail, even though you want to register, etc. Eight thousand around the world, some of them we've written down statistically neatly, so we said, "You don't have that right either." That's what we've all seen picturesquely, then. And we always find it quality, I got the answer, I didn't want to comment on the Electoral Commission, all by law. I've been listening here today, and I'm going to tell some of my colleagues like this. In the Kaknja where I live – and most of you here, so you don't understand it, don't be angry, live in the environments where your people are in the majority – I live in a place where my people are more few, the Croatian people in BiH. And I know exactly how important statistics are to us. According to these statistics, in my municipality, no Hrvat work in any of the leading positions in a public institution, in a public enterprise, etc., not to order everything in order. So much for honesty. When we speak here: we are for the same rights, for the rights of everyone, everywhere in every place, I am responsible here, so I'm speaking here as a representative, so now I'm going to say what I often like to say here - we are citizens' representatives. Yes, I was chosen from this Kaknja where the Croatian people are fewer, but I am not mistaken. The election... is such and I am not chosen by the votes of others other than Hrvat. I wish I did, but I didn't. You can tell by the election boards. We had a census in the last election, gentlemen dear. And he's on the ethnic list. As much as we like it or don't like it, but he's a list by ethnicity. And the election results are ethnic results, again, as much as we liked it. It's our reality and we can try to run from it. If avoiding ethnically, here on the ground, in the list, in anything, would help make the situation better in BiH right now, I would not avoid it in the census, I would ban it. But here you all remember, because we're all about, like, the largest number of us, we remember when it's shyly recorded, so we thought it was all settled, 60 of us saw, when a little bit of tightness gave way, how much it was solved. Therefore, there is no need to deceive ourselves. So at this point, I'm going to repeat again, at this point this question is purely political. As much as I agree that it's all over the world, in a normal world, normally arranged, that it has statistics, but it's not with us. There's a lot of things about us that aren't like a normal world. Let's not make fun of ourselves. It's pure politics. And it's normal for us to differ in approach then. One would list for it, the other would list for it, the third would not because of it, the fourth would in one way, they would first again in another way. Why? Because we are politically different and everyone thinks politically about what that list will bring him. So we're not talking about statistics, so I mean, let's just be correct with each other and there's no need, and we can prove to each other concrete examples of how right someone is, but there's no need. So, here, someone said today in the debate, enough to say, without too much, we know who stands for what this is about, I'm in, I'm against the list. That's quite enough. That we don't convince each other that I'm the only one who thinks well of everyone, and the rest of you don't. We know very well ourselves as we are, but when we really show it on the ground, so every one of us where he can, then we won't need to talk here about how good we are to each other and how equal we are to all citizens, no matter what ethnicities they are. Thank you very much. Replica, the esteemed representative of Prodanović.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-10-08-1.u21024	I hope you are not, I understand that you are interpreting a list of ethnicity, or category of ethnicity as part of this list and religion – that is, in a certain sense, racism. I hope I misunderstood you, because that's what you said at one point. I consider one of the human fundamental rights of an ethnic group that is part of the constitutionality of the BiH state, one of three equal constituent nations. It is impossible to deny the right to declare BiH citizens to be religious and national, regardless of the circumstances they speak. One more thing, it is impossible for the census law to be suppressed by the Constitution of the BiH state and by the constitution of entities that clearly define the issue of constitutionality and what we were talking about, so that's it. And one more thing I often talk about. I am absolutely for BiH to apply all European standards, respecting specificities and very much taking care of these specificities so that they will not be a violation of the overall state. So no problem is, all standards, European standards and this law, but it is impossible in BiH to talk about these two categories that are a fundamental issue and that create fear. I repeat once again, can you, I fully understand, your fear in the former Yugoslavia and the Hrvat, and Bošnjak, and Slovenac, and Makedonac, and Crnogorac? You must allow for a fully justified fear of members of the Serb people in the BiH exclusion story, about exclusion. So, the fear of the Serbian people if you lift the category of plea in national and religious membership. I understand in the former state that there was fear and... but you have to appreciate that in order not to repeat the same story that was unfortunately already seen. That's it. 61
ParlaMint-BA_2008-10-08-1.u21025	The word has... The answer to the replica, is it? Dear Representative Ajanović, another replica.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-10-08-1.u21026	Niko one gave the Muslims in Yugoslavia a little "m" and turned it into a big "M". They fought it, the rights they had and who, with their works and with all their qualities, as an ethnic group, had the right to gain and even to be deceived because during World War II, the Communist Party had all been published by Musliman, Srbin and Hrvat, in order to reject the first constitution as if it were not. And only Husaga Šišić of Mostar was against it, and that constitution was not adopted for three days because they urged him to vote for such a constitution, because it was in communism that all were unanimous to be equal. It's, that the gentleman knows that. Secondly, Srbin in Canada, Srbin in America, as an ethnic group, no matter what they are Amerikanac, they are Srbin again and never gave up on being a Srbin and will certainly not give up, and that is fine, because it belongs to an ethnic group. I was in Paris in 1990 and I was going to the methroom and I thought there were too many blacks. And that's when my colleague told me - don't, please, don't call them Francuz! They feel Francuz, because 300 years ago, they moved here, and we all know that, as an ethnic group, they come from Africa. So it doesn't matter. The sense of belonging to the state is one thing, and ethnicity is another. And there's no fear. As for musliman and the group I belong to, I never feared during Yugoslavia. I just wanted to have the same chance. And wherever I was, and I had the same chance, I took it all the way. And there's no one to be afraid of, no one to be afraid of. I agree with you, my colleague, that such legal regulations should be passed, including a constitution that will guarantee every man on every inch of BiH that there is no fear.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-10-08-1.u21027	The word has a distinguished representative, Milica Marković, and let the distinguished representative Denis Bećirović be prepared.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-10-08-1.u21028	Thank you, Mr. Chairman, for giving me your word, and especially for giving me your word now after fellow Ajanović, since I must first correct an incorrect quote, which he said, comparing Srbin living in Canada and America with Srbin living in BiH. Well, I must remind you that there is a significant and huge difference. Srbin in Canada and America are a national minority, and here it is a constituent people. And there's a huge difference in the list when America lists the population and lists Srbin there who live and the list that will happen in BiH, so you would have to distinguish those two categories, that's a huge difference and for that reason there's a huge difference in the list that's going to happen in America and that's supposed to be done with us. I also think of 62 Bošnjak and Hrvat, who are listed around the world and who are listed in BiH, there are huge differences. Now let me move on to the discussion of the law that was proposed here. First, I have to say that I was quite surprised, unpleasant, by the fact that the Constitutional Commission did not give its opinion on this law, as you said the chairman, and didn't even give a written explanation why she didn't do it. But when I listened to the discussion of the president of the commission, it was not weird to me, because, finally, today it is quite clear that this law cannot be passed, but it is clear that some of the truths have been carried out here, and that for the first time today we have talked about some issues that are mentioned in relation to the census that we have so far interpreted through newspapers, means of information, media or similar. I just want to say that BiH is today, I'm convinced, the only country in Europe that has since 1992, so here until 2008 or until 2011, when it is necessary to do that list, the only country and country that will have, I'm sure, two constitutional changes, so the adoption of two constitutions in those two decades without having any census. And then there are strange findings and dilemmas of individual debates that tell us what our population list is supposed to be, not yet, not mature conditions, as it is said, not mature conditions for that census to be done and implemented. I'm asking you now: do we need the Law on genetically modified organisms in BiH, and we don't need the law to sign up, to see how many people in this country are, what categories and everything else, not to mention now about the list? You know very well that the census carries everything with it. So these are strange findings, and I must add, today someone here in the previous discussion called for the last resolution in the Council of Europe, which was adopted on the occasion of this report Monitoring the Council of Europe team, where it is explicitly said that it is very necessary and desirable for BiH to make a census in 2011. And here, in today's some previous discussions, when MPs from the RS, therefore Srbin, dispute some laws, as some have said, you are afraid to transfer jurisdiction, this, what, then stumbles on us, is not allowed to pass laws at BiH level to make the state function. And here, now, when Srbin propose some law that needs to be implemented at the state level, then there are third reasons why this law doesn't need it. I want to tell you openly now, this law can fall, and it will probably fall, but then don't ask yourself, and don't respect the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia if they pass a census law. And you, those who heard and who did not say that if the BiH law is not passed, would bring it to the RS and make a census in 2011. And you have to count on that fact that it's going to happen. But here's a colleague, Novaković, and we're asking for the law to be passed, to agree on it, to act amendmently on it, and to pass the law, to do this important job at BiH level. But obviously, there's no mood here and there's no will, as I've learned from some discussions. The main reason is the issue of the constitution of the people and who is where, at this time, at the time of the list of who will be located. Well, my fellow Members, if you are such advocating that this consistency is represented in every part of BiH, so why didn't you do it, here, specifically in the town of Sarajevo, here, where there is now no more 5% of Srbin, let alone some functions, that there are certain duties performed in relation to the percentage that was 90' and 91's. So why did the SDP, 63, perhaps, in January or February of this year at a one-session session remind you of the need to fill in a Sarajevo municipality in order to satisfy the constitutionality, which has not been done and has not been done. And you, of course, kept quiet and moved on, they said it like they didn't even say it and it ended. And the problem is constantly being respected for us, not good circumstances because not every BiH resident is in the 90's and 91's places. So if we're, wait, I'm not saying it shouldn't be, but then it should be, if it's supposed to be in Banja Luka, then it has to be in Sarajevo, if it has to be in Bijeljina, it has to be in Tuzla. But apparently around Tuzla in some villages, there have been such shows on both BHT and TVRS, that in some villages around Tuzla, where people have returned, they can't act to bring electricity to these houses, but people live without electricity. There's no water to get to those villages, no bus rides, no nothing. If 10 of the 100 houses come back, these people are simply viewed as some sort of a bunch of living things, which are just there, and what are the conditions for life, nobody cares about it. And now these reasons indicate that no census will happen in 2011, which I think is an extremely important job and an important task for BiH to do before it eventually gets EU candidate status without talking about it before joining the EU. But as we talk like this, it means we're all presenting our reasons, especially to say negatively, I've been touched by this finding that's said, and it's already mentioned here that there's no need to include in the list a decree that BiH citizens, citizens, are pleading on a national and religious basis. So I don't really know if anyone thinks that list just needs to be written down to see how many living beings there are in this country, and some of the specifics that mattered, what he said earlier, if we don't have a decree on how many nations and how many members of that nation live in this country, what kind of consistency we are, what Constitution we're talking about, then. It falls into the water automatically, so if we don't get it. The other thing is, I respect that maybe someone doesn't want to make a statement. I believe that there is such a thing in France and Germany that some people do not want to express their nationality or particularly religiousness, but as I respect that someone will not be expressed, so someone else has to respect my need to declare myself as a Srpkinja, Orthodox religion in that list. So it's my basic and human right and no one can forbid it to me or anyone else in this country to prohibit anyone from pleading in that way. The Srbin also pleaded in BiH five and ten centuries ago as Srbin, and they will declare in the next five and ten centuries as Serbs, there is nothing disputed about us but we do not dispute the other. So that list should contain that definition. Whoever wants to make a statement, who won't leave an empty place, and we'll finish the deal, if that's some peaceable variant to get to it. But obviously not, and it's obvious that this law is going to fall today and, I said already, it's good only that most of us have told what she had to say, but don't forget that it won't prevent the intention and need of the RS from doing this job in 2011, and the Federation, as the people say, will not, however they want to do it. We have a right, it's one of the fundamental rights to sign up to see how many of us, who we are, what category we are, and everything else that the list carries with it. There you go. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-10-08-1.u21029	Denis Bećirović. 64
ParlaMint-BA_2008-10-08-1.u21030	Here, we were able to hear various discussions through this debate today, and those that were related to the topic and those that were not. Of those thesis that someone will do this list on their own, probably not seeing that others will not get on that list or some third thing that no one in Europe will admit it as such, to those stories that in the war someone recognized the nationality of the Bošnjak, after the war he did not admit, as if the world had started since 41', and not before. The Bosniak Left is a rule of error, but it managed to give the Bošnjak a name in that Socialist Yugoslavia, then they were called Musliman, unlike the Bosniak right hand, which was depicted through the Yugoslav Muslim organisation that had never had any idea of the national origin of Bošnjak, so that the president of JMO pleaded as a Srbin, Islamic religion, and his brother, and later reis ul ul ul ul ul Fehim Spaho as a Hrvat, Islamic religion. But we could talk about it for a long time, but we could skip it. It's just not a good atmosphere in the country. No laws are passed. And if the problem in this House becomes an integral car, as we saw when it was the Integrated Car Act, what does it have to surprise here today if the population list is problematic? I must say that now, and on behalf of the club, after the signing of the Stabilisation and Association Agreement, we were expecting the speedy adoption of the law. Unfortunately, it is becoming slower and slower to pass laws in the BiH Parliament. We're getting smaller and these agendas. Before the signing of the Agreement, we had 30 points of the agenda. Here's today's session is just 10 points of the agenda, and maybe none of them are even essential. There has been a lot of collapse in this House, so it is no wonder that this proposal too will experience such a fate. I must say, it's not a good atmosphere in which this bill comes. Obstructions are growing at the state level, the state institutions are being weakened daily, the state is simply not being respected, and in such an atmosphere, when this law comes, almost predetermined is known what fate it will have. The census is one regular and normal activity in every country. However, in BiH, apparently, as the vast majority of the debaters today pointed out, it is obviously not a technical issue but a few excellent political issues. And it's hard for BiH to compare with these decorated democracies. The problem is that in everything, even in this matter, there are some, unfortunately, hidden goals. Why are we asking a question, some insist on the list, and others do not accept, why would one in BiH have such a great desire to make a census, yet everyone else does not have that wish. Why would that census be so much of an interest to one another, and on the other hand, that it's not the interest of others, when it should be a normal state of mind to be the interest of all citizens in this country. Unfortunately, BiH has not been a country where normal social, economic, demographic flows have taken place in the past 15 years. BiH is a country where everything that has happened has happened and I will never talk about it again. A census, as a statistical and economic category, I believe anyone would accept it in this country. But the list of people who can have the implications for further deepening, cementing, legalizing, confirming, whatever you want, ethnic divisions in this country, that's no solution. Of course, I think that the census from which all the consequences made from 92 to 95 would be excluded would be in the interest of all citizens and peoples in this country, as well as those in Srebrenica, and those in Sarajevo, Drvar, Derventi and all over BiH. I must say that I would like to see conditions created throughout BiH for a better and more prosperous BiH, not the conditions in which some new ethnic ghettos are created in this country and in which people are simply listed by national, religious and other criteria. You see what's going on, here's a list of 65 people, in a large part of BiH. Where Bošnjak, Srbin and Hrvat lived, today you have a number of municipalities where some of the people were half majority, and today there is no councilman. That's not what I want to fight for. I wish we had more positive messages. Someone here mentioned Tuzla. I must say that I am pleased to say that in one Tuzla, here now after the local elections is not controversial, here is the SDP of over 50%, 16 council members. Of those 16 priests in Tuzla, seven were elected Bošnjak, I speak from the SDP, four Srbin, four Hrvat, one Rom and one others. In the Firehouse – the local community, someone mentioned Tuzla, we received, as SDP, in the last general elections 75% of the population. Those from the northeastern Bosnia region know it is the MZ where Srbin returned. In this MZ, here I am as the bearer of the list of Bošnjak, I received the largest number of votes, as it did not bother the bearer of the list in Tuzla, now in the local elections, Nada Mladina, Srpkinja, to get the most votes of all the candidates who appeared in the local elections in Tuzla. As it did not bother one Zdravko Krsmanović in Foca that on an entirely anti-nationalist programme, man becomes the head of Foca again. So a different story about BiH is possible, and everything is up to us again. Finally, in order not to produce my discussion, at least until this moment I have tried, not a single possible replica, I would like to say that all solutions on this and on other open issues should be sought in BiH institutions and in the BiH Parliament. The ruling political factors need to find an answer to the growing blockade of the BiH state and, if there is no deblocking of the BiH state, only two, unfortunately, solutions. It is one thing to schedule new emergency, general elections or, secondly, to prevent the international community from deblocking the state of BiH in accordance with its Dayton powers and to allow an accelerated path to BiH to the European Union. There's really no such thing as a fourth solution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-10-08-1.u21031	Jukić Velimir.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-10-08-1.u21032	Well, here, after such a long debate and a large number of participants in the debate, I will try to talk about this issue from one perspective – are the mature conditions and all assumptions met, and what could have been done to make a quality census in BiH? And I'm gonna say right now that they're not. At a time when we have over 100,000 return applications, we say it's a good time to list the population. I say it's not a good time! At a time when we talk about the decision on the constitutionality of the people, let's ask ourselves, that's a good decision, one of the most important, in my opinion, the Constitutional Court's decision, let's ask ourselves what's been done. I will say very little or almost nothing except that this decision has been written and published and made little changes to the entity's constitutions, but not to the extent and capacity to respond to these decisions. Of course there was a lot more to be done and it could have been a lot more. For example, what power can be, which is to be a decision, but for all of BiH, to establish in municipal authorities, administrations, entity administrations, public enterprises, a structure of employees according to the last census. It would also be the return of at least one piece. Speaking of returning, which I think is the biggest problem in BiH, then it is our real relationship with the problem and the issue. Often... declaratively speaking, sometimes in some documents he writes, and in fact the real situation is the opposite of what was said and written. A good example of this is the latest developments or situations related to the request of some 66 people to participate in the local government vote in these elections three days ago. And this time again, some people, yet again, relying on the laws and regulations of this country that should be respected, were so responsible, under the supposed signs, that they were looking for a way to make it impossible for people to exercise their right. Instead of setting up the reverse and saying, yes, you are citizens of this country, you do not have all the legal assumptions, but we will do as a service of citizens, as part of the government, the administration, to allow you to do so. But no, it's the other way around. So our real relationship with that question is actually negative, and that's the main problem. Furthermore, the ordinary population at this point would be real and I think it's illusory to talk about if the list happened without a category of national belongings and religious belongings, I don't think it's real, and there would actually be a list that would formally nominate what happened. So the violence changed the ethnic structure of this country and the religious one, and it would simply be said by this list -- here, this is now such a new state. And I'll say it again: over 100 grand has a return app at this point in time. And we say, let's do the list now. I think, if we're going to talk openly and very seriously about this issue, that we should first meet those assumptions, or do what we can do and that we need a broad political consensus to do it and to do it, to meet those assumptions, and then when there is not, at least in this number, interested in returning to our own, then the conditions for the census are met. Not to talk about other implications here. For example. How are they gonna list, I don't know, property in some neighborhood where everything's ruined and there's no going back? It's not houses anymore, ora are not orcs, it's chicars, woods, I don't know, etc. So, except that these resources aren't used, we have a change of category. So it's no longer that property that was both intended and so on. So I don't think it's really time for something like this, and I'm also aware of the need to make a list. However, I will repeat, I believe that at this time there are no minimum conditions and assumptions for a high quality and fair objective list but that we should do these things before, do assumptions and then talk about it, again, I will say my opinion, so a broad coalition or group of political parties, at least from the parliamentary majority, but also from all parliamentary parties and beyond, to agree which principles should be respected and on which this law should be made. And only after that, once again, by respecting everything and the deal, above all interested, to make a law. But I'll repeat, the time for this isn't, the need exists and needs to be done before all these assumptions and then make a law and make a census.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-10-08-1.u21033	Azra Hadžiahmetović
ParlaMint-BA_2008-10-08-1.u21034	Here, I will return to this bill in the first reading, or principles. So, I'm not going to talk about the list in general, even though my suggestion was quite well-intentioned. I'm leaving my discussion on this list initiative for later. And now for the law, let me just mention the position of the Party Club for BiH. We will not support this bill of principles for two reasons. First, contrary to the methodological recommendations for the census and households published by the UN Economic Commission and Eurostat in June 2006 and, second, to the fact that this law, i.e. this bill, is based on a methodology that is 67 contrary to the recommended methodology for collecting separate data in the BiH census. Thank you. I'll elaborate later on.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-10-08-1.u21035	Momčilo Novaković, in conclusion, is it, in some way? Here you go, Remzija, what's this about? And what, what do you want, a discussion or something? No, no, what is it, is it a discussion or something? Look out, is it a discussion or is it a replica?
ParlaMint-BA_2008-10-08-1.u21036	Discussion.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-10-08-1.u21037	Here, Mr. Novaković, a little patience. Mr. Kadrić: Discussion. Is there anyone else who'll change his mind at the last minute to discuss it? Thank you, there isn't, here's your patience. Mr. Kadrić.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-10-08-1.u21038	I thank you, Chairman, for warning me what I want. So, I want to say something, too. Can I, if it's allowed? Thanks again. So, on the trail of what the honourable MP, Agent Velimir Jukić, has been saying, I want to stress that problem again when it comes to the census. So I've been saying this before, it's been said about this problem long ago, so it would be correct, it would really be true in this country before the census, before the adoption of a population census law, to pass a law on the list of all those killed, wrongly killed in this country. So, a list of murdered, exiled, raped, those who stayed, a list of ruined households, etc. So, let's make a list of it. When we execute, when Parliament adopts a law on the list of those who have been killed, banished, those who have been deprived, who have been deprived of all human rights and who do not have the right to vote in Derventa, when all possible conventions have been broken down, therefore, in this respect, we should, before the census law, be able to deal with this problem here and bring here such a regulation that we will definitely and resolve this issue. And to make it an integral part of the population census law later. I think it was correct to do this to those who were unjustly killed and who were destroyed by assets and who were raped in this previous aggression on BiH. That is one thing, and another thing I would like to point out, is what the honourable MP Marković said, so this announcement, a possible announcement... if there is no census in BiH, that the RS government would make such a decision on the RS census. I think that at this point in time the Government of the RS, the National Assembly would not have done it at this time, because certainly that the results of such a census would not have been particularly appropriate, would not have contributed particularly to Radovan Karadžić, who now, a man, found himself in The Hague and, as he says, was played by Holbruk and there he is. Therefore, the results of such a census would not have been particularly convenient for him at this time. I therefore doubt that the National Assembly would make such a decision because it would not be politically profitable. 68
ParlaMint-BA_2008-10-08-1.u21039	Dear Representative Križanović has applied for the debate, has he?
ParlaMint-BA_2008-10-08-1.u21040	Is it a discussion or is it a debate? Come on, let's get people to sign up.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-10-08-1.u21041	And there are no more reports to argue. There is also a distinguished representative of Kalabić's later, so he can prepare himself. Here you go, Mr. Križanović.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-10-08-1.u21042	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Unfortunately, I wasn't here at first, so maybe I'll repeat something from what my colleagues have already said. I know that in conjecturing the agenda, they have proposed legislation, but in this case, I think it was better to consider before this initiative by colleagues of Živković, and then, eventually, to discuss this bill. You see, this is where the dilemma is placed – do we need a list or don't we need a list? I think, on second thought, we don't have to have this dilemma at all, we need a list. The list is one statistical category that gives very much ground for the management of various policies. We've got a very small number of policies here... for which we say, here, because of these unfulfilled conditions is not a good time for, not a good timing. If we look at the state of our country, then we have no, unfortunately, positive atmosphere for any political activity. So there's no dilemma for me, we need a list. There are no more serious policies in this country without concrete data. And what we're moaning about now, which is no turning back... doesn't mind tomorrow making an action plan for us to finish this quality list by 2011. But the problem is that we lost, unfortunately, that battle and now we're diving crocodile tears over it, over those issues that we remember like this sometimes when it comes to issues that can be brought about. So, it's an unfavourable political timing from both the point of view of return and from the point of view of employment, and health care, and education, and whatever you want. That's why I'm going to be a little bit reserved according to this final definition, because I don't know what the essence of this fellow Živković initiative is yet, how compatible it is with this law or something better than that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-10-08-1.u21043	Thank you. The word has a distinguished representative, Drago Kalabić, so let the distinguished representative and the proponent Momčilo Novaković be prepared. 69
ParlaMint-BA_2008-10-08-1.u21044	Here, very briefly, since I spent my two replicas early so I didn't have a chance, and some speakers mentioned things, although it's all known, even though they're all from the same positions. It is obvious and quite clear that it is not possible to defend the thesis on the list that it should not be for these and for those reasons and that it is a much stronger argument with which it will eventually, whether or not want to, all agree that the list should be made for all and that it must be carried out in accordance with recognised standards. And that, as it was intended on other issues, let's say, they try to resolve constitutional issues through police reform, and here they want to address difficult political issues through one difficult issue. What little political back has a list question to hold on to all of what's being said today about the list. And everyone knows it's unrealistic. Mr Ahmetović knows that what he said about Srebrenica is not true. He who takes the money in Srebrenica and chooses where he will build the house, whether in Sarajevo or Srebrenica, chooses Sarajevo, Tuzla and the rest freely, but still stands on some lists that he is in Srebrenica and that he did not finish it and that he needs it. I was on a show where Mr. Hakija Meholjić brought the documentation from Srebrenica, which is measured by hundreds of millions behind which man stands, who did it, who knows it well, and I talked about it. If we don't do this, it will continue and I know it's impossible, in a way, to prevent it until we do this. So here, if we don't do one thing, we allow this other one to last, which is also talked about by some: manipulation, lists, return manipulation and all that is said; here's my colleague Križanović, I totally agree. So, who forbids us to open up, no, it's like it's not solved, no one opens it, and that's the question of who, what and to what extent does it mean to me. I don't think we need to spend any more arguments to prove to what extent it is necessary, I think some others need to be persuaded, and especially the argument about the Annex to the Dayton Peace Agreement that it's not done, and then we can tie at least fifty things to that in this country. And if we're going to be principled, then we need to tie them up, so let's say, there's not much we can do until we spend Annex and see how things are at the end. Probably the Croatian channel on television should wait for this thing, see which people will watch and listen, whether members of only one people in place, or maybe others will say they don't need it, that they are satisfied with the existing. So that's one of the questions that can wait for the location of Annex VII and a lot of those issues. And then I accept, if that argument is in principle true for those things to be said, that's it, so we're going to tie it up, and I don't know, for much, much more serious things. If we want to be principled, you know that in the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia all requirements are based on national, counting, statistics on this and that, and we're just helping to frame these statistics. They will be as they will be and, again, we stress, that the technical meaning is theirs, and they can't change anything, and that's what I'm going to end up with, we don't mind that here's the international community believing that these are valid reasons that BiH shouldn't, for these reasons, a list, and we're going to give up insisting on it.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-10-08-1.u21045	I thank the esteemed representative Kalabić. Replica, distinguished representative Sadik Ahmetović, second. 70
ParlaMint-BA_2008-10-08-1.u21046	Two, I won't do it anymore, I just have to figure out what I already said: that you don't know this stuff, Mr. Kalabić. You have to do a little bit more of that, and a little, a little less of what you're dealing with right now in order to be a full member of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-10-08-1.u21047	Thank you. The following has been reported by a respected legislator and legislator Momočilo Novaković.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-10-08-1.u21048	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I must admit that I almost forgot that I was the legislator of the law after all these discussions, replicas that I didn't participate in. So we had roughly replicas that were as long as discussions and discussions that had the character of replicas. This could be understood today's debate on this bill, and I must be honest that the least debate was about the principles of the law on which the law fell with this commission, or at the commission stage. We convinced everyone and everything that this was a political issue, not a statistical question. Of course, I have no intention, nor can I answer all these questions and all these dilemmas because, after all, these dilemmas, no matter what I think or what everyone else thinks, will stay with people as they are. As long as we wait to realize Annex VII, so long as we have what we have in this country, from both entities and from BiH, looking for a job, looking for a better place to live. And on that side, the slower we enter the EU, the better, otherwise we will be left without a population. There's been a lot of arguments here why we don't have to run the list, why we don't have to run the list now, why it should make so many assumptions before that, and we, here, don't know how many years we've been waiting for someone to start making assumptions. So does anyone defend the political parties, the Council of Ministers, anyone with a program that will solve the assumptions for the list? He doesn't defend it, but no one comes out, and no one's trying to make assumptions about the list, if those are the problems they were talking about here today. First, I must, I refuse any insinuation... that the objective of the law is political nature. In fact, in Article 11, I said in the law, 'Data collected by the list, within the meaning of Article 10 of this Law, will be used exclusively for statistical purposes.' So, exclusively for statistical purposes. I'm sure for a few years list from '91. will answer to Srbin. Maybe already today if we ran this list we'd see that list in '91. corresponds in BiH to the Srbin, of course, if the national structure of '91 was respected. A year. And on that side, we shouldn't insist on this list if we look at that political side. For that reason, I neither insist nor speak of the list, nor have I proposed this law. The law made it perfectly clear that one of the statistical units, persons who are citizens of BiH, was said 71 in Article 3, to be in Article 12(3). said 'the instructions made by the Agency will define the unit of the list.' All units of the census, including citizenship, BiH citizens, which means that space is open, as we can provide in the law, in the BiH Election Law, that people from abroad vote, in the way they vote, so we can also provide a list if we want to provide it. And this agency can do it with its own instructions. So, it is not the intention of concreteising any state inside, it is the intention of a list of all BiH citizens. At this point, it is possible to list them wherever they were, if they are citizens, of course, if they are citizens of BiH. It is understood that whenever we list, we will list BiH citizens, not those who were BiH citizens. There are really questions here that, however, when we look at them, they will never be solved if we wait for them to get rid of the list. The fact that some property is destroyed so that it cannot be written down, it will be destroyed for ten years and more, and it will not be recorded. It's not like those houses are going to fix themselves, etc. And if others are made, whenever they are made, they will be counted in ten and fifteen years. Same situation with that job story. If we wait for all the people to come back, get a job and come back, then what about the ones who are here and they're out of business. No matter where or where the group or ethnic group belonged, it is not a matter of will but a matter of state in BiH, an economic, above all, state in BiH. And you can find lots of environments where the economic situation is better, where you don't have that problem. Where she's bad, of course, you have a problem with employment at all, let alone the conditions of employment, the employment of returnees who are really very difficult to deal with because of the economic situation. But be careful, it's now, then, let's go round and round, you know, if it's better to make economic assumptions first and go back or come back first and make assumptions, but there's no list in either version, until it's all over. The goal, my goal as a promoter, was to open this question. I was fully aware that this law could not be supported in this House. I wanted to open this up in a way not only to express attitudes that have been known to all of us again, but also to me when I have proposed this law, but rather to encourage all the political parties in this country to start dealing with issues,... these issues, not because it requires the EU to do so by 2011 but because it is realistically impossible, I as an economist know it, it is impossible to plan economic and any development of this country without this. Whether, as a result of this, a national programme will go one, second, third, fifth, whether a group of conclusions will go to define that by 2011, these and those assumptions must be made, etc. And so, the fact is, if we don't pass the law, that's what at least the experts in this area say, if we don't pass the law in this year and for next year we don't provide some means to prepare, that we won't create conditions for the 2011 census, and that remains a fact. So, is this going to be less important now, so we need to know that we're not going to have it in 2011 and whenever we do that, we're going to have to pass a law three years earlier to prepare a list in those three years. That's what the experts in this area say, and of course I convey their opinion, I'm not in this area, I'm not in this area, I'm not in this area. I'm sure this issue will not only be at this session yet, so, because I know that it will still be at this session, but in the next period it will be an acute question and, on the other hand, I think as a proposing, I hope, I have contributed to starting discussions on this issue, along with a number of other issues that we have. Thank you. 72
ParlaMint-BA_2008-10-08-1.u21049	I would like to thank Reverend Novaković. No more reports. I'm closing the debate. Moving to the seventh item of the agenda: Ad. Seven. Information on crimes against life and bodies, with an emphasis on domestic violence, for 2006 and 2007, and trends in the first three months of 2008. The Ministry of Security delivered the information on 23.9.2018. The College referred the information to the Constitutional Commission. The Constitutional Commission delivered an opinion on the Information in 6.10.2008. The commission supported and found that the information indicates the need for a broader debate involving the responsible committees of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly and the public of BiH. This conclusion of the Committee is not very clear to me, so I call on the chairman of the Committee to explain in what sense a broader debate would be held in which competent parliamentary committees would be involved. The word has been respected by the chairman of the Committee, Šefik Džaferović.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-10-08-1.u21051	Now, this is the most beautiful thing when I don't have to fight for my word, but the chairman calls me to speak. Thank you very much. So, respected chairman, colleagues and colleagues, you have received a report from the Constitutional Legal Commission with a proposal, is it. The point here is that this is a very serious problem that we are considering at the request of this house for one piece of information. When we discussed the security situation in BiH, then we tasked the Ministry of Security to make up one of these informations and you saw the data. And the data is quite worrying, because the largest number or large number of crimes against life and the body comes from an environment called domestic violence. This is what you can see from this data that comes from the information offered by the Ministry of Security. Here's the minister here, he can talk about it in more detail. The Constitutional Commission is, of course, in charge of these matters. I believe, because this is usually all about the judiciary, and I don't think it's possible just by action of the judiciary and criminal policy, although it is necessary to draw appropriate conclusions, in an adequate way to fight this phenomenon. I think it requires one, let's say a multidisciplinary approach. Well, when it comes to ideas and ways to further direct the BiH Parliamentary Assembly, we feel that we should hear the views of both the Commission on Human Rights and the Commission on Gender Equality and some other bodies that could help us all here in this room to adopt as good a conclusion as possible. 73 At the Commission's session, it is estimated that it is not even enough, but that it is necessary to enter into some kind of, not public debate, as it is usually understood here, it would not be some classic public debate but a debate that would be called upon by both the NGOs and the numerous organisations dealing with these issues to take as many ideas as possible from them and here to address some of the conclusions adopted by the House and which would be binding on all those or recommending those who are obliged to listen to us, recommending for those who do not have an obligation to implement, is it, in fact, the conclusions that we adopt here in Parliament. And that was the meaning of what was written in the Constitutional Commission Report. I wouldn't go any further into the details, because there's a minister here and it's up to him to explain to us, if there's any need, but here, for an introduction to your calling, I've had so much. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-10-08-1.u21052	Thank you. Does the applicant want information? Dear Minister Sadović?
ParlaMint-BA_2008-10-08-1.u21053	The Honorable Chairman, respected deputies, ladies and gentlemen, after today's atmosphere, may prefer not to speak, but the seriousness of this topic and the situation in this area, in fact, require at least a few opening remarks, so that we can better understand the entire situation in this area. So, the information was created as a result of a parliamentary debate on the security situation in BiH in 2007, and I am particularly grateful to Members of Snježana Railić who was very persistent and insisted on this information; therefore, here it is. I am also grateful to the Constitutional Commission of this Parliament, which has shown exceptional sensitivity for problems in this area, and I support what Mr. Šefik Džaferović said that this problem is really necessary for the relevant parliamentary committees to declare and to include the widest public, especially the professional public and the non-governmental sector. The information used data obtained from entity MUPs, Brcko District police, municipal courts in the Federation, primary courts in the RS, a social work centre in BiH. We wanted to try using a statistical image to show these starting elements plastically. Violence in the family, especially physically, with physical injuries, is increasingly a crime in our country, as statistics indicate, and it happens in all layers of society, mostly behind closed doors. It's the most exposed in socially abandoned families, but also in a different environment than because of extra-time, so to speak, the reasons why alcoholism, drugs, addictions, various addictions, etc. The frequency of this crime has recently taken a serious degree of security. The democracy of society and much more transparent human rights activities have resulted in a more significant record of cases of this crime. The most cruel forms of violence are present, and the consequences of the victims sometimes have tragic endings. Violent behavior destroys many families, leaving beside physical injuries and psychological consequences, not only on victims but on entire families, or families forced to live in abnormal conditions. 74 Violence in the family must be seen as a public, health problem, as its consequences are suffering from society as a whole. In addition to statistics on the share of this crime in crimes against life and the body, the Information sought to point out other elements that have security significance in this area, especially the increasingly present problem of sexual abuse of children in BiH, as well as relatively, under quotes, a new phenomenon that has been gathering public attention lately, but not only to us but also to the world. Working to shed light on this type of crime, a link was observed between domestic violence and physical and sexual abuse of children. Sexual abuse in the family is a very delicate issue and the lighting of these criminal delicacies requires high expertise from those working on it. It should be noted that a number of these crimes are not reported to the police for fear, but also for our conservative training. From year to year, therefore, there is an increasing percentage, and the increasing percentage of the participation of domestic violence amongst the total number of crimes against life and the body, in its worst forms. All recently in criminal-legal proceedings, these two segments were observed without greater differentiation, and the internal, or external category of motive for the criminal act of incentives, i.e. the incentive remained on the sidelines of the case insufficiently enlightened or, to put it that way, they were pushed into social miles. In understanding the phenomenon, it is not good to presently patternize this type of crime, because murder and attempted murder have been treated as blood effects, easier and more serious physical injuries to individuals. In family tensions, they are placed in fights, i.e. in violation of public order and peace, and tends to be in the family circle, most often given to social centres in the follow-up process. So one segment of violence was lost, and the most subtle forms of crime were considered a kind of taboo topic. Let me tell you that 1,257 crimes in the family were recorded in 2007, which is more by 2.94% compared to 2006. As for trends this year, in 2008, in the first three months of this year, for which we have data compared to the first three months of 2007, 371 crimes in the family were committed, which is a 17% increase compared to the previous three months, which is certainly a worrying data. These statistics do not have to reflect the real situation, as victims still find it difficult to relieve prejudice in seeking protection from the competent authorities, or bodies. In this respect, it is not necessary to ignore the possibility that a certain number of criminal offences are not reported at all. The family village is most often polyvalent and includes priho, physical, economic and sexual violence. In almost 80% of cases, victims of violence were women by their current or former spouses or spouses, and by the number of frequencies others were children. And then the parents of one of the spouses or parents who were victims of the violence of their children, or sons, in the largest, unfortunately, number of cases that, physically or otherwise brutally, attacked the physical or psychological integrity of their parents. The fact that children are witnesses to such violence in the family must not be ignored, and that damaged family relationships leave an almost permanent mark on their psychological development, and in that sense absolutely should be seen and treated as victims. Let me briefly say, when it comes to the problems of victims of domestic violence, what are the difficulties facing the institutions in their work and here, let me say very briefly. The victims do not want to give data on the occurrence of the injury, as well as other circumstances affecting the appearance of domestic violence, non-reporting of violence by the victim, the facing of the victim 75 during and after the violent event to live with the bully, proving to the competent prosecutors and police authorities that the violence occurred, the indecision of the victims to talk about violence, or to testify about him, the lack of adequate or any other possibility of a victim of domestic violence, or a safe house. There is, in fact, almost no material insurance, and the victims of violence and the lack of adequate accommodation for the perpetrators of violence to move out of the common residential space. We, ladies and gentlemen, have offered some proposal for measures and activities, but your debate, more concrete conclusions, will be precious to us, in fact, that the situation in this area will all work together and we will improve it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-10-08-1.u21054	I thank the Honorable Minister Sadović. The first is registered for discussion by the distinguished representative Husein Nanić, and may the distinguished representative Mirjana Malić be prepared.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-10-08-1.u21055	I thank you, Chairman. I want, at the beginning, to say that I... beat myself for not being in these first three, four points of the agenda exploited the right to replication and I believe that those who follow the work of MPs will not consider it... , so those statistics that speak, and there have been some grades before, I think they really need to look at that dimension. [[Disable microphone]] What I'm trying to say here, getting ready to discuss this item of the agenda, is that the information is indeed complete, and it can be said that it means it has passed through the Council of Ministers' institution and it has this information concerning those institutions that the minister has listed here. It means the court, the competent departments of the entity, the Brcko District and the social labour center. What I don't see here, and since the Council of Ministers has passed, I don't see the Ministry of Justice involved in any way. I don't see that our commissions were involved here, primarily, I mean the Joint Committee on Human Rights, the rights of the child, the youth. I don't see that NGOs were involved here, because we don't just have domestic violence. I really think that violence on the street, violence in trams, violence at school deserves a very big attention and action to be carried out by those in charge. Also, what the minister listed here is related to victims' problems and difficulties facing institutions in their work, which are 10th. They are fully disproportionate to the proposal for measures. These recorded problems, these measures cannot be solved. I think, really, just like we had at the last session, these principled measure measures, so that something that would stand, I think this requires far, far greater activity, given the state and assessment in which it will move. Well, among other things, we have five measures here, in which, among other things, it is said, "It is necessary to introduce more stringent legal sanctions for perpetrators of violence within legal possibilities." Legal sanctions within the legal limits! I really think it should have been clearly stated here... whose jurisdiction is which. Is that 76 federal jurisdiction, is that entity or state jurisdiction, Brcko District? Which legal regulations prevent them from being larger or less legal... because we saw there that about 90% of the penalties imposed are penalties of probation, warnings and fines, for very serious violations and very serious crimes that occur. The following is: 'It is necessary', another measure, 'to update the court procedure, in order to take a shorter time.' We still had... unfinished judicial reform and we gave some grades. Whether these measures, whether they have produced results and indeed and to this extent, I think it was necessary to clearly state what these measures are, how this court procedure can be shorter or longer and who should ultimately offer them. The third, fourth and fifth measures, I also consider them to be completely principled. They're well-identified by the Department of Security, which gave us this. But I do, here I repeat, in these measures I do not see an absolutely included Ministry of Justice, the Ministry of Human Rights and I do not see any entity ministries involved in which jurisdiction is related to certain acts of the Ministry of Justice of the Federation and the RS. In that sense, I think that this information, to conclude, is good, from the point of view of the information contained in it, from the point of view of the cause and from the point of view of the measure that it is really insufficient. And finally, when we're done with this information, we're all gonna get out of here with the data, this information absolutely doesn't make anyone bound by anything, because these measures don't mean anybody, not at all, not when, in any way, anything needs to be done, and I really think that our streets are full of violence, that we have games that end... so violence in Sarajevo happens on the street, in every cafe, etc., that we have murder in the trams, that we have violence in schools, that we really need concrete measures on this matter.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-10-08-1.u21056	I thank the esteemed representative, Nanić. The following has been reported with a distinguished representative, Mirjana Malić, and may the second vice-president, Dr Milorad Živković, be prepared.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-10-08-1.u21057	Dear Chairman, colleagues and colleagues, well, here I am, on behalf of the Committee on Gender Equality, and because of the justified absence of Mr Vink Zorić, as president of our commission, I am in charge of reminding this Parliament that the Commission for the exercise of gender equality also belongs to one of the competent committees that could give its own court or give its opinion on the Information that has been offered to us, a team before it was in its permanent activities and was in particular engaged in domestic violence, especially, not just gender equality. So, by accepting indicators from the information on crimes against life and the body, with particular emphasis on domestic violence, in the period from last year and before last year and in trends for the first three months of this year, I must say again to my fellow Members that it was quite logical. I thank the President of the Constitutional Commission for warning us that this information came, and before today's debate, to our committee, but I don't think I'm arguing about this committee because it didn't formally pass. I'm just sorry, because we could have contributed to our debate. 77 Why am I saying that? This is a very important topic and I would remind you that the Parliamentary Assembly is on the proposal of the President of the Commission to achieve gender equality at its 19th session of 28 December last year at the House of Representatives, and at the 11th session of the House of Peoples of 31 January this year, it adopted a resolution on the fight against violence against women in the family. That we in this House have agreed, adopting this, to be part of the Council of Europe's campaign to fight violence against women. That we, as the Commission, organised, precisely with those structures recently organised by Mr. Džaferović and counterpart Nanić, with representatives of social institutions for social care, social workers, NGOs throughout BiH, who organised the existence of security houses with representatives of NGOs, who are trying to make education for the police, with representatives of NGOs who are trying to lobby in the judicial bodies of the public debate in this hall, which followed certain conclusions and which, among other things, was the basis for the motion for a resolution, which both of them adopted in this House. And finally, I must say that the members of this committee, along with some other representatives of our parliament and together with the jender agencies of both entities, are also finishing a framework action plan to combat domestic violence throughout the country. And of course we don't do it without discussion, consultation, meetings, etc. So, to put it short, because today we're tired about some theoretical and quasi-political issues, this is one of the essential, human issues that binds us. I think it would be very good, because Minister Sadović did not mention in his report anywhere this resolution that is an integral part of this parliament's activities, and I am in charge of our president to propose it. I hope that in this, you will support us to forward the resolution on the fight against domestic violence against women, which we have adopted, again to all the institutions of our country, especially the competent ministries, from the Ministry of Justice to the Ministry of Human Rights and the Ministry of Security. And, of course, as soon as we're done, and he's in the finish line, the publication that we're doing at the Commission on domestic violence, and as soon as it's finished and finished, and by the end, this action plan is at the state level, I hope that only then will it make sense to do a big public debate again, including NGOs and safe houses carriers, and judges, and prosecutors. There are very, very many problems, and tonight we are neither ready nor able to elaborate this problem very strongly. So, the essence of my proposal is to allow us to deliver the publication, which should almost be completed, together with this resolution as a reminder and as a further guideline for work, as a first step to all the competent institutions of our country, and then, of course, whatever we agree in terms of further contribution to the fight against this social evil, leave to one part of the activities and to our commission. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-10-08-1.u21058	I thank the honourable representative Malić. Anything that reaches the College from your commission, make sure it's addressed to the addresses you're looking for. The next is the distinguished representative, the second vice president, Milorad Živković, and let the distinguished representative Martin Raguž be prepared. 78
ParlaMint-BA_2008-10-08-1.u21059	Thank you, Chairman. As a medical worker, who in his career had the opportunity to face the victims of domestic violence, I will raise both hands for any activity that will happen and that will reduce that possibility to happen at all, if I may, and eliminate it completely. And as president of a group for the population of an NGO, I would like to join, together with the members of that group, in creating the opportunity to make both strategies and action plans and all that can be helped to reduce domestic violence and the crime against life and the body. And I wouldn't say anything after this if Mr. Nanić hadn't mentioned that these conclusions should also list some other things that should be cited so that the legal acts, which are proposed here to be passed, would come in the form in which they are acceptable to everyone, where they should not have such discussions, as we had at the previous points, worked here. It means that this good initiative is in some way directed in a good direction and with sensitivity as it is necessary to bring any legal project, and in particular this legal sensitivity to be done in a way that will allow for broad debate and what needs to be passed, if it is a change of law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-10-08-1.u21060	I thank the esteemed representative Živković. The word has a distinguished representative, Martin Raguž, and let the distinguished representative Adem Huskić be prepared.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-10-08-1.u21061	I thank you, Mr. President. A lot of good things have already been said, I've come forward for two reasons. The first is – what the Constitutional Commission opened up and proposed, in fact, a broader debate and – what we heard from Mr. Nanić, in a way, in my opinion, can condense the importance of this debate. The fact is that the state of this information alarms all serious and responsible people from the institution and the fact is that we got that kind of assessment from the minister, but the fact is that this proposal measures and actions that stand here do not correspond to the seriousness of the situation. And as always, in this country we have a problem of how, when we define the situation, from this diagnosis to improving the situation. And I think that this proposal of measures and actions in front of this Parliament should only come after this serious debate that we should define today, and at least what we should do here, is that there are justice, security, human rights ministers, entity ministers, the High Judicial and Prosecutorial Council, the media, NGOs - to come to a strategy, because you have no bearer of activity or deadlines here, in this proposal of measures. And this whole story will end again in one year until we get information with the descriptive state of the proposal and the measures. Because here, it is necessary to update the court procedure in order to take a shorter second step. Who will do this, in what way, what deadlines and what legislation? 79 Strategy? Who will propose a strategy in this home? I think the Council of Ministers should do it within some time, but these questions, which we have raised together here, should definitely after the debate come to this house. And I think that now we've done well and that within a maximum of 60 days, this issue has to be on the agenda, with these participants, motion applicants and clear deadlines and obligations. Here, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-10-08-1.u21062	I thank the esteemed representative Raguž. The next is Honorable Representative Adem Huskić.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-10-08-1.u21063	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. It is really nice to be an MP when we agree, and it seems that this is one of the issues, one of the topics where all the discussions were, in the opinion, on the same background, and in that sense I absolutely join all previous colleagues, all the discussions I support, I support meaning and strategy, these public debates, but I think we could do something more concrete and in that sense I would like to propose the following. In fact, I propose one conclusion to Parliament to vote, which would read: - It is up to the Council of Ministers to propose within 60 days amendments to the laws that would allow the implementation of the proposed measures and actions in the context of these conclusions, i.e. these five conclusions. So, what my colleague Raguž was saying was to speed up the procedure, that this, that this, that it was nothing. Just let them write down changes to the law, let us adopt and do a concrete thing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-10-08-1.u21064	Chairman Lozančić.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-10-08-1.u21065	Thank you. Here, I will join this pleasure of a esteemed colleague, Huskić, who has found that there is a topic around which there is a high degree of consent in this home. It's nice to find out what a nice subject it is. But unfortunately, the subject is alarming. The information made up and delivered by the Ministry of Security may indicate that the situation in this area is alarming. Every year, the number of crimes in this area is recorded. Every year, the number of prosecuted crimes in this area falls. Nothing has improved with regard to the care of the victims of this domestic violence. All of us are witnesses, more or less, of different types of campaigns, which mostly go through the NGO sector, which speak and warn about family violence, of increased family violence. Here, to encourage, unfortunately, again in one piece, or by one number of serious crimes, and outside the family, in the streets, in schools, trams, etc., we have asked for one piece of information, and it is certainly worth saying that the Ministry has made an effort and that the information has detected or diagnosed quite well that the situation throughout the country is the same, that the situation throughout the country is difficult, that criminal policy does not properly respond to this difficult situation and that there are a whole series of unresolved issues that are asked how to resolve them. I am convinced that the Ministry of Security is not the only authority or police, all the police in this country, meaning entity, state, cantonal, Brcko District, are not the only institutions that can respond to a worrying situation in this area. In part, they are, but it is certain that without better cooperation, better quality engagement, better quality strategies in solving these cases, and even tightening criminal policy, for which they do not have the jurisdiction and more adequate response of courts and prosecutors in this area – they must share some result. That's not enough either, because it's part prevention, part repression. The third, just to say so, is missing, the social element in all of this, which is not in the jurisdiction of either and the other, which, once again, would have to be dealt with by many, from the level of the municipality to the level of the state. Everyone, again, from within their jurisdiction. Houses, safe houses, that's what they call them, I don't know what regulations in this country they've established, and I don't know how many institutions of this country have entered safe houses. I'm not sure there's any. It's mostly the NGO sector. So, is there a need for this country, through different levels of government, to establish safe houses and that victims of violence have security, at least after violence if they don't have here before violence? So, here's what I'm not adding. I'm joining all the debates on this issue so far. And now I'm going to say what I think of the proposals for a solution to this issue. There have been proposals here, I think our Constitutional Commission has proposed that it would be good for us to open up some debate within these parliamentary committees. I think this is enough debate. We're all members of some kind of committee here. However, I think this is too complex a question, that it requires too complex and synchronised an answer, so to speak, different institutions, so that MPs can quality, with all respect to all of you, and themselves personally, give quality solutions to all of this that I've counted, and there's a lot that I'm not and that you've counted. I think the most called institution in this country, in full capacity, is the BiH Council of Ministers with all its ministries that are affected by this issue. That they are certainly entity governments, again with all their ministries in capacities that are affected by the resolution of these issues. That it's also the government of the Brcko District. And that these are also cantonal governments and that these are, of course, in some segments, social work centres that are mainly located in municipalities. So, this solution, certainly there are also these institutions that are outside, so to speak, conditionally outside these institutions of government, it is certainly the High Judicial and Prosecutor's Council that must be more quality, so to speak, take on their responsibilities, not just dealing with human resources in courts, because I think there are other responsibilities than the conduct of human resources in courts and prosecutors and to make a contribution to and criminal policy, I think, first of all, to that part, would be treated appropriately. I don't think that, even in legislation, it's necessary to intervene a lot, but the fact is that what we have isn't used. That the minimum penalties are generally imposed, that the processes take a long time, that a little judgment, which speaks of something else, is not about the law, but about the lack of urgency of our judicial bodies. So, I think the Council of Ministers is the least they can do is an inter-resor group of experts in all these areas, which would suggest a strategy to the Council of Ministers, but 81 quickly. I think the deadline, mentioned here by colleagues Raguž and his colleague Huskić, is optimal, for the longest, 60 days. Maybe it should take more time if the condition isn't as complex as it is and seriously as it is. I think that this is a reasonable time, in order for the institutions of this country to really, in the shortest time, stop these negative tendencies in this area, that is, to really say, with a declaration of concern for domestic violence, move towards concrete measures and ensure that there is one greater security, especially those who are victims of this violence, but certainly the safety of all citizens of this country. Thank you very much. Dear Representative Džaferović.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-10-08-1.u21066	Chairman, colleagues and colleagues! So what you're proposing right now for a pay phone, it certainly falls into part of what needs to be done and I don't think it's going to be a big deal with what I'm going to suggest here right now. Let's take everyone, this won't be my proposal, this is a proposal for all of us, here's to you first, because you're running a session, how to finish this agenda. I think, Mr. Lozančić, that with all due respect to the Council of Ministers, the Executive Authority, this problem overcomes the issue of only the executive authorities and I think that it is the place where what should be our plan – the BiH Parliament and that these parliamentary committees that I have been talking about. So first of all, the Commission on Human Rights and the Commission on Gender Equality. There's been a debate today on this subject. But I think the public debate itself in the Commission, which would be well-mediated or in these commissions, is that it can also get a certain result. That people see it being debated, that they're looking for solutions, that they're looking for measures. I think we miss it in BiH. This will, in some ways, shape the consciousness of those or affect the consciousness of those who do so and of those who do so as their own business. That is why I think it would be good for the House of Representatives today to task our two most special committees, in this area, it is the Commission for Human Rights and the Commission for Gender Equality to conduct a kind of joint public debate involving both the Council of Ministers and the NGO sector in BiH. It is very important what people think, the non-governmental sector in this area and the entity and all other institutions that deal with the simple opinion of these people, to see what is to be done and what is not done in the BiH system in order to successfully deal with this. We'd have a public debate that would be adequately media-accompanied, that's one thing. And the other thing, we'd get certainly the highest quality conclusions. I think we should do that today, if you don't mind, I'll vote for what you suggested. So, I don't mind that. Think about it. Could this be more complete? There you go. Nothing else.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-10-08-1.u21067	Thank you. Dear Representative Križanović came in. 82
ParlaMint-BA_2008-10-08-1.u21068	Thank you, Chairman. I'll do it very briefly, because I don't have anything special to add to what's already been said. I can also agree with these proposals that are placed in the finale of this debate, but I would like to add one more thing. You see, this information was made at the request of this home. And it's good and it's spotless and it's made. It was raspravljati, you see, on the Council of Ministers and we of which the effect of the debate on the Council of Ministers have only that: information that it has been debated and addressed to... It is amazing in fact that a government of the country, the Council of Ministers, is discussing a social phenomenon that is becoming very dangerous. That, unfortunately, is not only in BiH. It becomes, to say, that violence in the family and towards children, etc., spread out, here, both in the neighborhood and in the world at all. But just accept that information and consider it a job of the Ministry of Security, it's really unserious, that not once, let me say, the Council of Ministers' position does not determine that it should be improved somewhere in the legislative segment that would solidify it a little bit and serious about recommending a stricter criminal policy. You see, 93', as I recall... in the RS there are parole and fines only 5%-6%, something similar in the Federation. So this is about one serious problem. So there's also the Ministry of Justice and the entity ministry that's in charge. But you see, we say the Department of Security did well on this information, and in fact what is it? That was the organ here that statisticalally processed some data. We call him the Department of Security without any jurisdiction. And of course I didn't help with this, but I want to point out, and again, it becomes a practice that the information requested by this Parliament has a mere form in the Council of Ministers. It is up to a certain ministry to give unilateral information and it comes here to Parliament. It is a flow water heater, a government, or Council of Ministers, without any comment on the situation. I agree that we are taking some responsibility here for the state of the country, but the question is what can we do other than what my colleague Džaferović was saying, we are having public debates, we are pointing to this problem in society, etc. However, this is about the need to take certain concrete measures in the authorities. And that is why I support, here, and this proposal that the Council of Ministers should really consider this situation once again and try to propose concrete measures in terms of both legislation and criminal policies and the addition of certain capacities in society that should amortise this monster, is it? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-10-08-1.u21069	I thank the esteemed representative Križanović. The next one was announced by a respected representative of the Sead Jamakosmanović, and may the distinguished representative Slavko Jovičić be prepared. 83
ParlaMint-BA_2008-10-08-1.u21070	Mr. Chairman, I'm going to start with an anecdotal anecdote...
ParlaMint-BA_2008-10-08-1.u21071	All right, just a little attention. Sead
ParlaMint-BA_2008-10-08-1.u21072	:...in professional medical circles, above all, which says this: 'Unlike parents and pediatricians, they truly love children only pedophiles.' So this is what I'm saying on purpose because in this report, a part of it is dedicated to the very pedophile of the family, or beyond. We are witnessing events that have occurred in the past days when a disorder, we have taught it, I have taught it, and pedophilia and homosexuality separate – one is a disease, as it says here, homosexuality is not. But if in 2007, we have a sex delicacy on three male babies from four to six years old, then that pedophile is in the family, he's gay, I guess he's a man. It's an interesting schedule of delicacies in 2007. From 28 to 45 years old, 13 sex delicacies per male population, 27 in total for 2007, and 56 women had sexual relations in the family and beyond. I think this is covered by that broad. The number of these in 2006 is significantly lower as regards the male population, and the female population is by the number, by one unit smaller in 2007 compared to 2006. Why am I saying this? So, the public doesn't know, the public doesn't know if it's a disease, she's confused. The whole system's getting popular as something that's normal. Opposing it is interpreted as a violation of human rights. That's why we need our commissions to push for it, both of them and the third. And that's why I support what Mr. Džaferović said, so to open up the problem of knowing what we're on. Only then, with all the information we get from the public debate, will we get to know, get to know, get to know Parliament, and then the Council of Ministers and look through the same system to get it down to the base to warn this. So, I support and demand that there be a public debate, that in this sense, which we have almost all talked about, within a decent period, and I think that 60 days is little, that we should not rush, that this problem, which is clearly growing year by year, could be adequately treated, because prevention and this is all we would do is prevent what is the best form of treatment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-10-08-1.u21073	I thank the distinguished representative Jamakosmanović. The following is announced by the distinguished representative Slavko Jovičić, and let the distinguished representative Selim Bešlagić be prepared. 84
ParlaMint-BA_2008-10-08-1.u21074	Dear Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, this is a topic that must not be divided anywhere from the first man in the local community to the village to us here. Eh, when that is the case, this parliament must not run from responsibility. This information is excellently prepared, but it's statistical data that I'm going to call the consequences of something, something. I support your discussion, Mr. Lozančić, when you say this, this touches everyone. You can't have this invoiced to the Ministry of Security. From school, family, I don't know, all institutions, not to count to us here. I never agree with the information that comes to me with a delay of two years because security, and security is included here, is a dynamic category. We have a trend of growth in the first three months of this year to spread it, take on the scale of monsters. But no one here at the state level has proposed a strategy, which is what leads to all these negative phenomena. Can we also ignore the history of war where post-traumatic stress occurred, and I don't know what, people frustrated and all of this is exactly what we were talking about on the list. They don't have a job, they don't have health insurance, they don't have anything to live on, and normally they decide to cover their lives or attack their own. Imagine how horrified we are when we read the newspaper: raped an eight-year-old girl! And I was thrilled to see that the police arrested those on the boat there and Derventi, and in three days I read: let him go. It's a huge public mess. The government let go, the Sarajevo prosecution ordered, no crimes, this one, that one, I can defend myself from freedom. That's why this public debate must cover everything: from the social these institutions dealing with these issues, so these safe houses, I don't know by which law they really operate, to the prosecution, to the judges, to the police, to the politicians, to all. We're tolerance here, because we're always going in a line of less resistance: thank Bog, that didn't happen to us. Because my late father can't kill me. What am I supposed to do, but the one who has a kid there, so when it happens, he says, "It wasn't me." We can't leave this to the case anymore. This takes on catastrophic proportions, especially this trend made me very unhappy as it spreads in 2008. So, what's going on? I once proposed on other laws – drug dealers for 40 years. What are we afraid of, people? They've ruined these kids! He's using drugs, let's sort of destroy himself, but drug dealers -- 40 years in prison, so you can see if he can do more work. Anyway, he says, make a deal with the D.A.'s office - six months! Can we, people, do that, really? And can we take responsibility for the justified anger of the public that attacks us – we do nothing right. That's why the public debate, and this can't stop. This must be the interest of each of us, man, whether he's an MP or an ordinary worker, because you don't have to wait for that to happen in his, don't give it to Bog, the family. See what's going on? So have we had this before? We didn't. What must be the mentality of a man, what my grandmother said turned over, raped a 10-year-old child, my men! Well, that's impossible anymore. When I read that in the paper, I can't stand watching it on TV anymore. But that's why, here's why I support all the rational proposals, to include everything. But we're just getting ourselves into the rough stuff, so for four years, we've been losing it around this and that, and what's happening to us and to us, and what's the worst version, and I said, "The monster in society, let the elementary school deal with it." Well, it's a shame we've got the police guarding the kids at primary school. But that's what we have to have. Listen, school cop! What school cop? How long has it been since the children got together, so the people of 85 of mine, I can't really figure it out. If we ever tell me what to do to help this, it can't, of course, stop, it happens in developed countries, but it doesn't go any further, it doesn't spread. The people are bitter, bitter. He doesn't know who's to blame, but he says you're down there. Because the sooner you let go of the deadlines, the time limit may be five days in a matter, for one will not be completed in six months – let us go into action. And I said, from that first man in the local community to a member of the presidency, that everyone's interest and that's how we go. But hire everyone, anyone who can help. And I agree, I support who said, I find it strange that this is being handled by the Ministry of Security. Well, the police can't be in every house and husband and wife if they've killed each other. So what do we do? So, don't caricate. This is a serious topic that is very, I would say, taking the stage that more of our heads hurt. That's why we need to get serious and go into realisation and some strategy that someone else needs to make, but to propose to us so we can adopt it. Today we have nothing, we have statistics. So many and so many of these and those who are good, but what am I going to do with them? What do you need my numbers for, if I don't know what to warn you tomorrow that doesn't happen in that amount, though we'll never break up. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-10-08-1.u21075	I would like to thank the esteemed representative Jovičić. Bešlagić, the next one, was reported. I don't have any more logs.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-10-08-1.u21076	Dear Chairman, dear colleagues and colleagues, I will be very brief. First of all, let's say this is, let's say, a topic that's really taken such an extent that we have to deal with these things. But one thing for me, it seems, then she came to the wrong place. Please, we have the Border Police, the SIPA, the OSA and all the institutions that need to deal with these things are at lower levels. Take from social policy, take from education, take from health care etc., etc., it is not a function, I would say, it is not a function of this Parliament. It's God's sake! I think these measures that we would suggest would be binding measures, and therefore I support that suggestion given by Mrs Malić, which means that our Committee on Gender Equality to be in fact and that part, because they are making an action programme and I will be pleased to do so. But I'm just interested in how we can give this action program and other actions or conclusions that arise from this public debate as commanding measures to do all of this that we're talking about today. I think that's one question that always comes to me: the decisions we make, is it possible to issue, let's say, as binding decisions for all the levels that deal with these things, and we see that they do very badly what's most important, and that's protection, I say, in the family and child protection. I think that's where we all agree, but let's see more, I ask the lawyers to look at it, because I'm not a lawyer, in which way all of this we're doing in 86 ways of improving to get a form of commitment, that it has to be done, because it's very, very delicate things. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-10-08-1.u21077	The word requires a re-honored Minister Sadović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-10-08-1.u21078	Thank you, Chairman. I am very encouraged by the quality debate at the end of this difficult day on an extremely delicate subject, which we are all aware is that we are actually at the top of the iceberg. I absolutely support the proposals that competent parliamentary committees organise a broad public debate with the call of all relevant institutions, the NGOs and experts. And, in my opinion, that public debate should answer three questions. First question, should we pass a special, perhaps, special law on the prevention of domestic violence? Second, should a strategy be adopted afterwards to prevent domestic violence and an appropriate action plan in which time, with deadlines and with the holders of these activities? And I think this would be a constructive approach after which the Parliamentary Assembly could assign relevant institutions to start working on this very serious thing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-10-08-1.u21079	I thank the Honorable Minister. Dear representative Malić and distinguished representative Raguž reported for short interventions. Well, here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-10-08-1.u21080	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Well, here's to what we've been talking about tonight, I just need to remind you again. Given what Selim Bešlagić was talking about, the conflicts of jurisdiction and since everything, from social protection, health care, judiciary, was reduced to entity or lower levels, which are precisely the ones institutions that should implement the basic measures that could be taken, and I would not, by my education, am not a lawyer, I would not know that if I were not a participant for a year – on a proposal from this same home on the production of a document called the Framework Plan of Prevention Strategy in Family Violence, Violence, Gender-based Violence, etc. who we work in BiH in co-operation with Gender... BiH, which is with the Council of Ministers, with Gender... agency and one and another entity, with NGOs, with experts from the judiciary etc. which comes to an end and is done synchronously with all activities in both entities, precisely because they are both social workers and health workers and police, etc. outside of our jurisdiction, the one that's operational, would be, excuse me for underlining this now, because it's about the proposal of our lockup, which our 87 commission just brought to me because we prepared it: so let's have a public debate but let's promote a strategy that's near the end in this public debate. Because in that strategy we have recorded and produced all the existing legislation, everything that is missing, all the plans for the work of social services, everything that is missing, everything that needs to be done in health care, everything that is missing or what we have. Therefore, it will then be an indicator of all the institutions and all the levels of our government what is to whom we do and only then can we make deadlines and appoint the perpetrators. Here, in that sense, I think I've been clear enough. By preparing this public debate, we would actually have to commit this commission to finalise the country-level framework strategy, so that they could present it in the public debate so that it serves as the basic backbone of all other real measures to implement this whole thing. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-10-08-1.u21081	I thank the honourable representative Malić. The word has a esteemed representative, Martin Raguž.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-10-08-1.u21082	Thank you very much. I answered my word to explain these things to you what is whose jurisdiction. The fact that the operational authority is at lower levels does not exclude the responsibility of this parliament for this important issue in this country. That's the first thing I want to say. Another thing, the fact that I'm launching initiatives from this home that things are obviously going on in other institutions as well. And third thing, in this country, we need to put the dice slowly into one system, not say we don't have a system and we don't have to work. So, two commissions, a public debate, a strategy, deadlines, duties and a continuation of Parliament's role in the whole process. And I think that, and these suggestions that have been, whether the Council of Ministers, whether committees, I think they're the same suggestions. Let the Council of Ministers send its people to debate which these two committees will organise, and not one security minister, who should also be, but also the Minister of Justice and the Minister of Human Rights and the High Court and Prosecutorial Council and entity, so that we can make one responsible debate and then adopt this measure and strategy before this House. Here, thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-10-08-1.u21083	Thank you. I don't have any more logs. I will go ahead of the College – I think it is on the trail of what is said at the end – to suggest one conclusion. 88 Information and debt to our committees, the Constitutional Commission and the Joint Commission on Human Rights, and what follows further, the Committee on Gender Equality and the Population Group, to discuss the topics discussed in the material and to propose proposals for conclusions to the House. At a meeting of committees that will hold the debate, call on representatives of competent ministries, courts, prosecutors and the NGO sector to hear the opinions of entities that have obligations in this area. Rok – here we went on a shorter deadline, so we can – here are 30 days, and the operator of the activities Constitutional Commission coordination with the chairmans of these joint committees.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-10-08-1.u21084	No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2008-10-08-1.u21085	Here, sure.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-10-08-1.u21086	...a completely clear thing. I understand. But let's promote a little bit, let's say, now that we're in charge of it being the Committee on Gender Equality, let's make it a carrier of activity. Here, we'll be involved here from the Constitutional Commission, but let them carry that activity. I don't run away from work, though there's too much of it. This should all come together, but let's promote some of the other commissions. Here, the Commission for Human Rights too, but the Commission for Gender Equality is somehow standing up for us, there aren't any, let her be the bearer of the activity, let her call us, we'll come.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-10-08-1.u21087	Okay, okay.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-10-08-1.u21088	There, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-10-08-1.u21089	College agreed. I hope that through your statement you will confirm that, instead of the Constitutional Commission, the holder of the activities will be the Commission for Gender Equality, given what is respected by Commissioner Malić, here is her last address, she said. No more reports. I am concluding a debate on this agenda point, and we will plead when we declare ourselves on other issues. Moving to the eighth item of the agenda: 89 Ad. 8. Representative Milorad Živković's initiative from the 34th session of the House, held on 3.9.2008, in connection with the upcoming census Dear counterpart Živković submitted the initiative from this point on September 15th. The College forwarded the initiative to the Constitutional Commission. The Commission delivered an opinion on the initiative in 6.10.2008. The Commission did not support the initiative. I remind you, we discuss and decide the Initiative. I am opening a debate on the Initiative of Honorable Representative, the second vice-president, Dr Milorad Živković. Does the motion of the Initiative want to go first? He does. The word has been given to the distinguished Dr. Milorad Živković.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-10-08-1.u21091	Thank you, Chairman. My fellow Members and fellow Members, I just want to clarify the situation in which we have found ourselves, obviously, not guilty by the Constitutional Commission, but perhaps by some administrative and technical error. My wish is that the Initiative is heading towards obtaining from the Council of Ministers the activities they did in the previous period as regards the census. If there's only one sentence, they didn't do anything. The report submitted by the Statistical Agency to the Council of Ministers for consideration that this Parliament also received the report and discussed it and to open the agenda on the activities of the competent institutions, which the Council of Ministers and Statistics has worked on in the current period. So my initiative was to get these materials and then to open up here the agenda for the census, and then it happened next. That's when I said you have behind the pay phone, and... so what I said is that when we had the agenda point that the SNSD Club proposed to put the conclusion here and it was about decisions: it was just an explanation of the component of the initiative, not a decision attached to that argument, which the technical service did and directed to the Constitutional Legal Commission. The Constitutional Legal Commission has been instructed to do so, in accordance with current practice: 'I ask that the Council of Ministers' and Statistics Agency's initiative on the upcoming census be forwarded to the committee responsible for giving an opinion and putting on the agenda at an extraordinary session of Parliament.' So my initiative is on these activities, not on the decision, and the Constitutional Commission has declared itself on this decision, which is attached to the reasoning of this initiative. So I want to believe it was a lapus that was made for technical reasons. My initiative was quite different. I only asked that we receive written information from the Council of Ministers and Statistics and that what everyone else is doing, that is, discuss it here in Parliament, on the basis of facts. There might be fewer quasi-politicals, quasi-information, if we knew exactly what the institutions that are competent to deal with -- to deal with. So I would ask the MPs to support my initiative, which is heading towards the agenda point, and then this conclusion that 90 proposed by the SNSD, or this decision or any other conclusion, can be the subject of consideration and that we then vote on it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-10-08-1.u21092	I thank my esteemed colleague, Živković. I don't have any charges to argue with. I have, a respected representative of Azra Hadžiahmetović.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-10-08-1.u21093	Thank you, Chairman. I am sorry that the proposal did not pass just now, because as I understood the legislator himself, who wanted to initiate some activities, we could have discussed the initiative as a whole about the upcoming list. Although it has been very useful to hear how one of the BiH Partnership Treaty commitments is understood here, the calls we had yesterday were from the EU in terms of how the EU should also be listed in BiH, not just BiH. Or, let's say, the obligations or calls that my colleague Marković is well, and I was particularly pleased to have called for a recently adopted Council of Europe resolution that is calling for us, here I will read exactly point 13, again reminds of my earlier recommendation on the organisation of the 2010 census and thinks the census should be launched as quickly as possible, using a special methodology for collecting separate data, given the special situation in BiH. I mentioned earlier, among other things, that this was the reason why the party was also against the proposed law in the debate on principles, just as it is based on a methodology that is completely contrary to this. Here, allow me, dear colleagues and colleagues, to brief upon you. As an MP at the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe, when I received the proposal for this resolution, I did not know what this meant. I asked, thanks to my colleagues and college colleagues, the Department of Statistics, what does that mean. I've received a kind of shrug response because in academic circles, the methodologies of separated data are not known as a methodology, as it's strictly said in this resolution. Afterwards, during a discussion at the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe, I asked the authors of this resolution for an explanation, which was an integral part of my discussion and as an integral part of the minutes from the last Council of Europe Parliamentary Assembly, which is the response of the authors of the Resolution, or the rapporteur of the Monitoring Committee, that also reminds the 2010 and 2010 at the latest, explaining that, in several elements, this methodology implies that the whole of the issues being raised in the census should reflect the whole of the multicultural nature of citizens living in BiH. In a written explanation that came from the Monitoring Committee from the Secretary of Monitoring Committee, there is also a written explanation of what means the methodology of the separate data, where, among other things, it states that ethnicity will not be taken into consideration. Similarly, the census should not be an obstacle to refugee returns, nor should the census legitimise the effects of ethnic cleansing. 91 I apologize, I read it literally, in translation of all these documents, but here I just want to remind you of really one seriousness during the debate and stories of this kind and it seems to me that today's debate over the proposal of the Law of fellow Novaković has gone completely in one different direction. I appreciate that my colleague Živković is initiating activities, so as I understand the Council of Ministers' Activity Initiative, is this how it says 'The Action Initiative of the Council of Ministers and Statistics Agency', it deserves really special attention. However, the argument given by the unfortunate circumstances contained in this initiative also the decision, i.e. the proposal for a decision with an explanation and a decision for which the Parliamentary Assembly, when you first initiated it, rejected the debate, which means that we would once again be manifested as an integral part of your initiative and on this decision or reasoning. So I think it would be much better, just what your idea was, the Council of Ministers' Activity Initiative, with perhaps a different explanation than the proposal for a Council of Ministers to launch a census. What am I trying to say? The census is the obligation of all countries in the region and this is not at all a dilemma for or against the census, because we need to be aware of both the consequences and the other commitment. I will only talk about the conflicts against, because a country that claims to go to EU membership, a country that has an obligation to already integrate, which is applied by the Statistics Agency, the obligations arising from the methodology of the national account system, the country that has signed and that it will also assume obligations, or fulfil obligations under the Partnership Treaty, a country which is an integral part of the Council of Europe, or in full capacity working in the frameworks of the Council of Europe, cannot raise dilemmas of this kind. I just want to mention that the reasons that today during the debate, again, for the bill's proposal were for or against are a non-binding part of the elements that the census must contain. Let me just remind you that the SNA 1993 methodology, on the basis of which a unique nomenclature is adapted, i.e. the classification of business activities, on which the EU made up the SI or SU, a European standardized, to say the standardised framework for national accounts with European standards applicable to integration, on which the international organisation... adapted the statistics relating to employment and unemployment, on which the international organisation adapted statistics relating to agricultural land and population related to agriculture, then, on which the International Monetary Fund issued three instructions for the production of balance of statistics, statistics... and the financing and statistics of banking and non-financial institutions. So all I've mentioned is an integral part of the agency's already involved in statistics and statistics department of the Central Bank that works in BiH. The obligations that the country has to do with the list are obligations of the Council of Ministers, i.e. the competent agencies, and they should already make appropriate preparations, i.e. frame them. And I so appreciate the initiative of my colleague Živković to provide this Parliament with information as far as they came and what are the issues that cross the statistical line, i.e. the list and go into the policy sphere. I just want to remind you of what I mentioned earlier – that the issues which are mostly the subject of the dispute today during the debate in this Parliament fall into order of non-binding issues. So this Parliament needs to know what are the mandatory elements of the list, which are optional and whether some of the optional elements, on which someone here insists, are included in the list, and to remove all arguments, or fears that today through discussions in this House have been highlighted. 92 I just want to remind you that, among other things, I will now refer to the Monitoring Committee Report... the elaborate which is in certain parts of this report, which was adopted and on which the Resolution was adopted in the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe, among other things, warns us precisely about this category of ethnicity or demand for multiethnicity or, say, a request for respect for the human rights of others in our, perhaps wrong, interpretation or implementation or non-implementation of the decision on the constitutionality of the people, where they are bypassed or, perhaps, even openly violated human rights of all those who do not belong to the constituent peoples. So we have to ask ourselves that. Secondly, will the list itself, with all these elements binding and non-binding, on the basis of questions that would be defined, be legalisation of ethnic cleansing in BiH? Whether the census will contribute to the realization of Annex VII. The Dayton Peace Accords or will delay the census, as has been said today, speed up the disturbance in BiH? We should all ask ourselves these questions. I just want to draw attention to the initiative Mr. Živković had in mind deserves really special attention. This parallel can't run away from these questions and I think it's very important, given the enormous amount of ignorance available during a debate of this kind, to get the appropriate inputs to put this topic on the agenda. I just want to remind you. We, if we are not already late, must not continue to raise these issues because, I just want to remind you, any delay in this issue, or this obligation of BiH, can lead us into a position to determine future generations of EU accession. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-10-08-1.u21094	Thank you. The following came the esteemed second deputy chairman, Milorad Živković, for correcting the incorrect allegations. I'll just comment briefly, until he gets to the pay phone: if there's no ethnicity, there's no multiethnicity.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-10-08-1.u21095	Thank you, Chairman. In fact, I'm afraid we're going to get back in a position to correct each other or to open up a very big topic that we had when we had the agenda point and we're all taking out the various materials that we have about it. I want to clarify the intentions I had, because obviously we didn't listen well. In fact, I see that one MP in this House can, for three reasons, submit an initiative. One reason is that when he wants to put an end to the agenda, and there are no materials, he has to put himself in charge of the College and all other services through the initiative to obtain these materials for that agenda point. The second reason is to strengthen its proposal by giving Parliament support for this initiative and that this initiative has more support, so now it is not just his own but the whole parliament's initiative. 93 And the third reason is that, for one reason or another, the apostle decides to do so. Here, I say I put up with my initiative for that reason. To get materials from the Council of Ministers and the Statistics Agency, these materials exist. Why should some people argue about them and we do not get to argue about them? That this important topic is not being taken from computers, other things, when these data exist in the relevant institutions that exist in BiH and why this debate carries the sound of politics when it can be reduced to another level. And the other thing is that all Parliament, or all MPs in this House, are supporting this initiative, because it will then be of all of us initiative, will not be just my initiative. An explanation, I'm saying, the way it was done? There were technical, obviously, failures to do so, the explanation was only in addition to that initiative. We didn't even have to give that explanation, it made the mess that the Constitutional Commission... was about the decision. I'm not saying that when there's a part of the agenda, and this is everything that you're talking about, Professor, we're going to talk about again, it's not going to come up with that kind of conclusion or decision or anything else that's going to come out, but we're going to have documents that we can quantify and make quality conclusions about. That was the point of my initiative.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-10-08-1.u21096	A response to the correction of the incorrect allegations, the distinguished representative Azra Hadžiahmetović.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-10-08-1.u21097	It's not an answer. It's a proposal after my colleague Živković's explanation. To separate its initiative, in the sense of collecting relevant information from the competent institutions, from the proposal for a conclusion with a decision made in support of this argument. I don't know who sent it, but we got it. So, the component of the Initiative is this argument. Comrade Živković, I don't know whose fault it is, but it is. In that sense, I suggest that the initiative you submitted may be translated into paper only as an initiative without this explanation, it would probably have the support of this parliament. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-10-08-1.u21098	Thank you. I didn't hear. It's a replica, isn't it? Did anyone look for a replica? Dear Representative Momčilo Novaković replica, is it?
ParlaMint-BA_2008-10-08-1.u21099	No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2008-10-08-1.u21100	Okay, discussion. It's your turn. 94 So, the distinguished representative Momčilo Novaković, the discussion, and let the distinguished representative Jozo Križanović be prepared, and then the distinguished representative Šefik Džaferović.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-10-08-1.u21101	You see, when this debate was on the Constitutional Commission, I had this dilemma that Mr. Živković was now talking about, and it's a shame that, as a motioner of this initiative, he really wasn't there, because today we wouldn't have this situation, and probably we in the Constitutional Commission wouldn't give the same attitude as we did. In fact, here's the fact that we, as a commission, couldn't stop the act from coming to the agenda. So our view, as it is given, is the impression that we have actually prevented this initiative from coming to Parliament's agenda, which we cannot, of course. But precisely because we voted, which, when we voted, we voted on that decision, not the initiative itself, I don't think we should refuse to discuss the essence of this today. It might be good if the Constitutional Commission simply asked the Council of Ministers for those documents. When she gets them, she'll give her opinion or I don't know in any way. Look, even if we don't do that, the motioner of this initiative can turn the Initiative into something else and we'll come back to the situation to discuss it. So, in any case, perhaps an unfortunate method has been chosen to conduct this debate. So I don't think that we should reopen the question today and that we should all say again what we didn't remember when we discussed the law earlier, as the distinguished colleague said. So, simply, here you need to see without some broad elaborate. This view of the Constitutional Commission does not make sense, because it did not hold a debate on the essence, but rather held a debate on something else.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-10-08-1.u21102	Thank you. The next is Honourable representative Jozo Križanović, and let the distinguished representative Šefik Džaferović be prepared.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-10-08-1.u21103	But I'll really be very brief. I don't think we're opening up and we shouldn't be opening a debate that we've had about this Census Bill proposal. However, it should be acknowledged here that despite what counterpart Živković explained, there remains one procedural, formal gap in this. I think it would be a good idea to turn this into a conclusion that can arise from all these discussions today: that, based on these discussions, we make a commitment to the Council of Ministers to ask us to inform us about, let me say, the preparation of BiH for the census and everything that has not yet been prepared, what should we do and what are these material or all the other preconditions, perhaps, not prejudge that it will be in 2011? But in any case, I think we can agree today, in the context of this general debate, that it is inevitable that we have a census, that it is useful and necessary, etc. And, if that's the point, if I understand these initiatives correctly, to look at them, to keep in mind how many 95 we are prepared and what more we need to prepare to do in order to do it with honor within as short a time as possible, is it? Maybe we're already late for 2011 to do it. But if we're not, it's even better. Now, in that sense, I could support the transformation, perhaps from this initiative, into the conclusion that this is a request for information. Because if we say: We support the initiative, we must agree here that we are committed here and unique that we feel it is necessary to carry out this census in 2011 and rush these activities to satisfy it all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-10-08-1.u21104	I thank the esteemed representative Križanović. We still have a respected representative, Šefik Džaferović, reported.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-10-08-1.u21105	Mr. Chairman, colleagues and colleagues, there's nothing unclear here, I mean, papers say everything. ... He writes to our chairman, Niko Lozančić, a letter to his College saying: At the 34th session of the Parliamentary House of Representatives held on 3 September 2008, MP Milorad Živković handed over the following contents (means of the quote): "In line with the practice so far, I ask that the initiative of the Council of Ministers and Statistics of BiH on the upcoming list be forwarded to the committee responsible for giving opinions and putting on the agenda at the next session." So, 'in relation to the upcoming list, it forwards the committee to give an opinion and put on the agenda at the next session of Parliament', and then it says (closed signs of the quote), but it goes on to say in the letter: 'The Annex to the Initiative makes the proposal a conclusion and a corresponding explanation provided by the SNSD Club at the 34th session of the House, when discussing the agenda. It's a contribution to the Initiative and it says nice here, not to read any more, I think I've read what's important. Hence, after that, the chairman of our home writes the letter 11.9. The Constitutional Legal Commission, at the hands of Šefik Džaferović, said: 'The initiative of MP Milorad Živković – At the 65th session held on 10 September 2008, the College of the House discussed the initiative of MPs Živković from the 34th session on the census. In its attachment, the College found that the initiative was submitted by an authorised applicant and, in accordance with Article 20e of the Rules of Procedure of the Parliamentary House of BiH as responsible for the above-mentioned initiative, it appointed the Constitutional Commission of the House of Representatives. And we, when we receive this in the Commission, then it goes to the agenda, all the members of the Commission get it, this is a letter from the College, and that is what we should do. And in addition to the initiative as an integral part of the initiative are these conclusions, and it is perfectly normal that the Commission had to be determined accordingly. Whether or not the promoter thought so, here today we hear a different opinion, but this is how it says in these papers, and I didn't have, or not just me, but the Commission had nowhere to go but to act in this way. So that's one thing. The second thing, beware of this, the Initiative says: "In line with current practice, I ask that the Council of Ministers' and Statistics Agency's Action Initiative on 96 activities", so the Council of Ministers and Statistics, 'in relation to the upcoming list, be forwarded to the competent commission." In fact, here it is suggested that activities already run by the Council of Ministers and the Agency in relation to the upcoming census. I do not believe that there can be any activity in relation to the upcoming census until a law is passed that will be said to be that list and when will be that list and what is the business of that list. What's the task of that list? So the first activity to be done is a law to be passed by this parliament. Secondly, there is no information on the preparation of the census without a first step called the 'list law' to be adopted by the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH, of course on a proposal from the Council of Ministers, that would be best. And I just... _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] What? Of course, or Parliament's decision, however you wish, we can, but I think the law is more appropriate to this situation. Therefore, there is no preparation without law. The first thing that has to be done is the law, I know why I'm saying it, because not to go around and at the little door, I know all that. That's one thing. And the other thing, it's a whole other thing about the preparations we can't, we can't ask for that kind of information, because there's no law. Information on the situation in which BiH is located and BiH's preparedness is a completely different matter. What Mr. Križanović is talking about, and as far as my opinion is concerned, let's see, to describe the state of the country, etc. I'm not prejudicing anything, it's a state of preparation for BiH, that's one thing. And preparation for the list, it's something else entirely, and it belongs to that first category that I was talking about. That's it, thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-10-08-1.u21107	Thank you. Correction of an incorrect allegation, the second deputy chairman, Milorad Živković.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-10-08-1.u21108	Thank you. I don't know, Mr. Džaferović, whether or not you have a transcript of what I said here for this speaker. In this transcript, he literally says: "I am launching the initiative to submit to the competent commission, in accordance with the current practice of launching the initiative here in our home, the Action Initiative of the Council of Ministers for Statistics of BiH concerning the upcoming census." And on the other hand, you have the argument of the Initiative today at today's session. It was delivered to all MPs when we delivered the proposal. I think that this topic in this House must come to the agenda. So the argument, not the conclusion, is neither the decision, is a contribution to this initiative. I think I made it absolutely clear about this speaker what I think is an explanation and that it is not an integral part or conclusion or decision. I don't know who sent it then, the way it was sent to the Constitutional Commission. And I do, and I want to believe that this is a technical question, not a fundamental question. 97 And the other thing, I don't think it's necessary to pass the first law, and then the Council of Ministers informs me about the activities in this regard. Let him inform me of the activities that are currently going on, whether or not he's working on law-making. Let him inform me of that activity, too, if he has this activity. If she's not here, let her say she doesn't have any activity, even if we know she doesn't have any activity in this country. So I don't know how he went towards the Constitutional Commission. I've made it quite clear here that the conclusion and decision is not an integral part of my initiative, but an explanation of what didn't go through, if you remember, on the agenda. And I think it's a technical failure, not a fundamental failure. It's essential that we say in this House whether or not we're going to talk about it. Do we have any information on that? If it doesn't go through now, I'll find a way to put that information that has here on the agenda, offer, see if it can fit on the agenda with that information, here if we can't get it from the Council of Ministers of Information. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-10-08-1.u21109	Thank you. Here you go, dear representative Džaferović.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-10-08-1.u21110	...I have to, I'm trying as little as possible. Mr. Živković, I respect what you're saying and it's really what you're saying. That's what it sounds like. As you say, that's how it's heard and it's written here. But I am telling you, I have read the official correspondence between you, as institutions within Parliament, and the Constitutional Commission, as institutions within Parliament. This is too serious a thing, and one day when someone's looking at these papers, and it can happen that they're watching them, maybe they'll never be watched, they'll be watching this official correspondence. I was just pointing at her, nothing more, I read, I made nothing up, I didn't add a comma, there.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-10-08-1.u21111	I was just about to explain it. So, you correctly transferred what you got from the College of the House with my signature and it was correctly copied from the stenogram of the session and you got an explanation because it is an integral part of the act that is proposed by the club, meaning what is a respected colleague and asked to be delivered. So, with the Initiative, this explanation. So it's all, it's all by the stenogram. Now, if it's a well-assembled title of the Initiative, I have no right to change what the Proposer has proposed. We don't have any more logs. I'm closing the debate on this agenda point. Moving to the ninth item of the agenda: Ad. Nine. Appointment of three members to the Joint Committee of both homes for the consent of: a) Election for Human Rights of BiH 98 b) Deputy Chief Auditor of BiH In the meantime, here is the College's consultation, and I suggest that in front of the House of Representatives in the Joint Commission of both homes to agree on the election of the Ombudsman for Human Rights, the gentleman is proposed: Ekrem Ajanović, Drago Kalabić and Velimir Jukić, and for the Joint Committee for the Consentation of the Election of Deputy Chief Auditors: Šemsudin Mehmedović, Vinko Zorić and Hadži Jovan Mitrović. I'm opening a debate on the candidate's proposal for a joint committee. Dear Representative Raguž.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-10-08-1.u21113	Thank you very much, Mr. President. So, I'm going to support this proposal because, I see, you've proposed it, you've agreed, with what we've discussed, given that the differences have arisen between the two-home elections. And, since Mr Jukić has been proposed in this home, I support the proposal, to honour the agreement that someone from our club, namely HDZ 1990, be in the ad hoc commission in another home. That's what I'm saying, here's in the good faith that we're going to realize, so that it's possible to make a consensus and that this remains in the stenogram. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2008-10-08-1.u21114	I thank the esteemed representative Raguž. We don't have any other reports to discuss. I'm closing the debate. We in the College are of the view that there is no need to take a break for the vote. If you appreciate it, if you appreciate it, here, I have suggestions, you can call someone from clubs who's not in right now. We take a short five-minute break, a cigar break, and then we approach the vote. [[PAUZA]] Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, I ask you to take your seats, check your cards, schedule your keys in front of you and prepare to plead. If you're ready, and I think it is, we're moving on to a statement on the agenda we discussed. Point 2 of the Proposal for a Law amending the Act on the Classification of Activities in BiH (first reading). We're voting on the bill's proposal in the first reading. Prepare to vote. Vote now! 99 The second vice-president requests that the vote be re-voted. Here, I ask you to prepare and repeat the vote on the 2nd item of the agenda of the draft law amending the law on classification of activity in BiH (first reading). So we're voting on the bill in the first reading. Vote now! 29 votes "yes", with no votes "against" and "abstained", with a sufficient entity majority, I find that the House of Representatives adopted the draft Act amending the BiH Activity Classification Act in the first reading. We move to a statement on the 3rd point of the agenda of the Proposal for a Law on the Control of the Movement of Weapons and Military Equipment, with the opinion of the Joint Defence and Security Committee, which is negative. So we're voting on opinion. I remind you, by accepting opinion, the law falls. By rejecting the opinion, we return the law to the competent committee, with additional instructions. So we're preparing to vote on opinion. Stand by. Vote now! Seven votes "yes", 20 "against", three "abstained" – I agree that the opinion of the Joint Defence and Security Committee on the Proposal for a Law on the Control of the Movement of Weapons and Military Equipment is not accepted. Here we had a proposal for the conclusion of the esteemed representative Džaferović. We appreciate that this proposal for a conclusion can be an additional instruction, a guideline for the Commission to work on the proposal of this law. There's no need to make a statement about it. We move to the fourth item of the agenda of the proposal for a law on border control, with the opinion of the Joint Defence and Security Committee. Same situation as the previous law. Prepare to vote. Vote now! Six votes "yes", 22 "against", two "abstained" – I also find that this opinion of the Joint Commission is not accepted, and that is with the proposal for a law on border control. The same interpretation this proposal concludes is a guideline to the Committee in the coming period, in the next phase. 5th item of the agenda Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Production of Arms and Military Equipment (first reading). We're voting on the bill's proposal in the first reading. Stand by. Vote now! 100 29 votes "yes", without the vote "against", one "compatible" vote, a sufficient entity majority – I find that the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH's House of Representatives has adopted the Amendments and Supplements Act on the production of servitude and military equipment in the first reading. We move to the 6th item of the agenda of the Bill on the Census of Population and Households in BiH in 2011, with the Opinion of the Constitutional Commission, Proposer Momčilo Novaković. We're voting on the Committee's opinion. The same argument if we accept Opinion, the law falls; if we refuse, we give guidance to the Commission for further work. Prepare to vote. We're voting on opinion. 19 votes "yes", eight "against", three "abstained", an insufficient entity majority. We don't have the consent. We vote in the second round. Please prepare to vote. Vote now! 19 votes “for, ” eight“ against, ” three “abstained. ” Let's do it again. We repeat the vote. Please prepare to vote. Vote now! 20 votes "yes", seven "against", three "abstained", with no two-thirds of the votes "against" - I find that the opinion of the Committee has been adopted, and that the bill is not accepted. We move to the 7th Point Information on criminal acts against life and body, with an emphasis on domestic violence for 2006 and 2007 and trends in the first three months of 2008. You have this suggestion of the College's conclusion. Is there any need for me to read? So we're pleading on a proposal for a conclusion from the College that contains everything that needs to be. Prepare to vote. Vote now! 30 votes "yes", with no votes "against" and "abstained" – I agree that we have received this information with the College's conclusions. We have within this point and a proposal for the conclusion of the esteemed representative Adem Huskić, so I will remind you ‘The Council of Ministers is in charge to propose within 60 days amendments to the laws that would allow the implementation of the proposed measures and actions.’
ParlaMint-BA_2008-10-08-1.u21116	No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2008-10-08-1.u21117	The Honorable representative gave up, drew a conclusion. There's no statement. 101 We move to a statement on the 8th item of the agenda: An initiative by Representative Milorad Živković from the 34th session of the House, held on 3.9.2008, in connection with the upcoming census. I remind you, we have a negative opinion of the Committee. We plead on the opinion of the Committee. It's not binding, I accept. So it's not a binding opinion. We're pleading on the Initiative, the Initiative as you've won. Please prepare to vote. Vote now. Eight votes "yes", 17 "against", four "abstained" - I find the initiative not accepted. We move to a statement on 9th point: Appointing three members to the Joint Committee of both homes to agree on the election of the Ombudsman for human rights of BiH and the deputy chief auditor of BiH. Is there any need to remind you of the composition? We only have one proposal from the College. I suggest we make a statement in the package on both proposals. Prepare to vote. Vote now! 25 votes "yes", one "against", two "abstained" - I find that we have chosen three members in the joint committees of both homes to agree on the election for the Ombudsman for BiH human rights and BiH's deputy chief auditor. I, for the work of the 36th session of the Parliamentary House of BiH, would like to remind you that you are planning to hold the next session of the 22nd month on Wednesday. Thank you very much. The seat is closed at 649 hours.
