ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-15-PT12-392-U1	Good morning, dear colleagues! Colonel is nine and now one minute. Let's start the sitting of the Saeima on 15 December 2016. Before we start to discuss the agenda of the approved sitting, we need to decide on possible amendments to it. The Budget and Finance (Tax) Commission requests that changes be made to the agenda for the meeting of 15 December of this year and that it be included in the section of the draft law ‘Amendments to the Law on Microbusiness Tax’ of the draft law drawn up by the Commission, ‘Reports by the Bureau on draft laws submitted’. Do Members have objections? And? It would be very good if their objections could be expressed more loudly. So Members have reservations. Please call me! We will vote on the proposal of the Budget and Finance (Tax) Commission to include in the section on "The Bureau's reports on draft laws submitted" the draft law drafted by this Commission on "Amendments to the Law on Microbusiness Tax"! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 62, for -no, for -19. The agenda has been amended. The Commission of Social and Labour Affairs informs that according to the decision of this Commission it withdraws its draft law “Amendments to the Law “On State Social Insurance””, thus this draft law is excluded from the agenda. To be clear, it is draft law No 771/Lp12. The Committee on Social and Labour Affairs asks to amend the agenda of today’s meeting and to include in the section “The Bureau’s reports on draft laws submitted” the draft law drafted by this committee “Amendments to the Law on State Social Insurance”. Do Members have objections? And that's it. Members object. Please call me! We will vote on the proposal of the Committee on Social Affairs to include in the agenda of today's sitting the draft law drafted by the Bureau on draft laws submitted (No 783/Lp12)! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 64, for - no, for - 19. The agenda has been amended. The Committee on Social and Labour Affairs is asking to include in the agenda of today’s meeting the draft law on maternity and sickness insurance drafted by this committee under the section “Presidium reports on drafts submitted by the Bureau”. Do Members have objections? Members shall not object. The agenda has been amended. The Social and Labour Affairs Commission is asking to include in the agenda of today’s sitting the draft law “Amendment to the Law “On Unemployment Insurance”. Do Members have objections? Members shall not object. The agenda has been amended. The Legal Commission requests that amendments be made to the agenda of the sitting of 15 December this year and that it include the draft decision ‘On the appointment of Aiga Mieriņa as a judge of a district (city) court’. Do Members have objections? Members shall not object. The agenda has been amended. The Commission for Education, Culture and Science asks to amend the agenda of the meeting of the Saeima on 15 December 2016 and to include in it the draft law “Amendment to the Law on Preservation and Protection of the Historical Centre of Riga” at first reading. Do Members have objections? Members shall not object. The agenda has been amended. The Commission of Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy asks to amend the agenda of today's meeting and to include in it the draft decision of the Saeima on the extension of the deadline for the submission of proposals in the second reading of the draft law “Amendments to the Law on European Commercial Companies” (No 747/Lp12) until 6 January 2017. Do Members have objections? Members shall not object. The agenda has been amended. The Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy Commission is asking to amend the agenda of today's sitting and to include in it the draft decision of the Saeima on the extension of the deadline for the submission of proposals to the second reading of the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Economic Interest Groups of Europe” (No 745/Lp12) until 6 January 2017. Do Members have objections? Members shall not object. The agenda has been amended. The Commission of Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy is asking to amend the agenda of today's sitting and to include in it the draft decision of the Saeima on the extension of the deadline for the submission of proposals in the second reading of the draft law “Amendments to Commercial Law” (No 749/Lp12) until 6 January 2017. Do Members have objections? Members shall not object. The agenda has been amended. And the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy is asking to amend the agenda of today's sitting and to include in it the draft decision of the Saeima on the extension of the deadline for the submission of proposals for the second reading of the draft law “Amendments to the Law on European Cooperative Society” (No 748/Lp12) until 6 January 2017. Do Members have objections? Members shall not object. The agenda has been amended. Members Gaidis Berzins, Rihards Kols, Augusts Brigmanis, Solvita Āboltiņa and Aldis Adamovičs are asking to amend the agenda of today's sitting and to exclude from it paragraph 11 of the draft law "Amendments to the Law on Real Estate Tax". Do Members have objections? Members shall not object. The agenda has been amended. Dear colleagues, We begin to examine the agenda of the approved sitting. And traditionally we start with reports from the Saeima Bureau on draft laws submitted. The Saeima Presidium proposes that the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Fire Safety and Fire-fighting” presented by the Cabinet of Ministers be referred to the Commission for Defence, Home Affairs and Corruption Prevention and that the Commission for Defence, Home Affairs and Corruption Prevention be made responsible. Do Members have objections? Members shall not object. Draft law passed on to commissions. The Saeima Presidium proposes that the draft law submitted by the Cabinet of Ministers “Amendments to the Law “On State and Local Government Land Property Rights and Their Strengthening in Land Registers” be transferred to the Legal Commission and the National, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy Commission and that the Legal Commission be a committee responsible. Do Members have objections? Members shall not object. Draft law passed on to commissions. The Saeima Presidium proposes that the draft law presented by the Cabinet of Ministers “Amendments to the Law on Prevention of wastage of Financial Resources and Property of a Public Person” be referred to the Commission of the State Administration and Local Government and that it be the committee responsible. Do Members have objections? Members shall not object. Draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Saeima Bureau proposes that the draft law “Amendments to the Law “On State Social Insurance” presented by the Saeima Social and Labour Affairs Commission be referred to the Social and Labour Commission and that it be the committee responsible. I'm sorry! It's the one who's... What I have read to you is what we have just excluded from the agenda, because the Commission has withdrawn it. I'm sorry! I'm sorry... Difficult agenda. The Parliamentary Bureau proposes that the draft law “Amendments to the Law “On State Social Insurance” (No. 775/Lp12) submitted by Member Viļuma, Kaliningrad, Melgailis, Bites, Ruka and Šica be referred to the Social and Labour Commission and that it be established that it is the committee responsible. Do Members have objections? Members call for a vote. Please call me! We will vote in favour of handing over the draft law “Amendments to the Law “On State Social Insurance” to the Commission for Social Affairs and Labour, which was tabled by the Members Viļuma, Kleinberga, Melgailis, Bites, Ruka and Šica, according to which it is the committee responsible! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 34, for - 1, for - 51. The draft law has not been passed on to the commission. The Saeima Presidium proposes to refer the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Prevention of wastage of Financial Resources and Property of Public Person” to the Commission of Social and Labour Affairs and the Commission of State Administration and Local Government and to establish that the Commission of State Administration and Local Government is the committee responsible. One Member can speak 'for', one for 'no'. The name of the Member, Einer Cylinskis.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-15-PT12-392-U2	Honorable Bureau! Honourable Members! This draft law, as well as the next draft law - the Amendment to the Voluntary Labour Law, is related to the draft law on Social Entrepreneurship, which has been drafted by the Commission on Social and Labour Affairs or, more precisely, a working group on this committee, in which both the relevant ministries and the non-governmental sector work. The aim of this legislative package is to contribute to improving the life of society and to promoting the employment of groups at risk of social exclusion by creating a favourable social entrepreneurship environment. I call on you to support the further progress of this legislative package, and we will also be talking about it at first reading as well. In addition, I would like to ask, however, that this draft law be transferred only to the Commission of State Administration and Local Government, because the Commission on Social and Labour Affairs has already drafted it and submitted it for first reading. Consequently, the Social and Labour Commission would not make sense to be co-responsible to the Commission. At the same time, of course, the working group set up by the Commission for Social and Labour Affairs will cooperate with the Commission for Public Administration and Local Government so that this package of draft laws is compatible with each other. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-15-PT12-392-U3	Thank you. Does anyone insist on the vote? Members therefore share the view of the Saeima Bureau, and the draft law has been passed on to the commissions. I'm sorry! Mr. Cilinski, so you said from the troupe that you would like to change the proposal of the Saeima Bureau and ask that the draft law be passed only to the Commission of Public Administration and Local Government? Do Members have reservations that this draft law is not transferred to the Commission of Social and Labour Cases, but only to the Commission of the State Administration and Local Government, stating that the Commission of the State Administration and Local Government is responsible? ( Interface: “There is no objection! ” ) Members shall not object. The draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Saeima Bureau proposes to refer the draft law “Amendment to Voluntary Labour Law” submitted by the Saeima’s Social and Labour Commission to the Social and Labour Commission and to establish that it is the committee responsible. Do Members have objections? Members shall not object. The draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Saeima Bureau proposes that the draft law on Social Business Law presented by the Commission for Social and Labour be referred to the Commission for Social and Labour Affairs and that it be designated as the committee responsible. Do Members have objections? Members shall not object. The Saeima Presidium proposes that the draft law “Amendment to the Law of the National Armed Forces” presented by the Cabinet of Ministers be referred to the Commission for Defence, Home Affairs and Corruption Prevention and that the Commission for Defence, Home Affairs and Corruption Prevention be made responsible. Do Members have objections? Members shall not object. The Parliamentary Bureau proposes that the draft law ‘Amendments to the Microbusiness Tax Act’ drawn up by the Budget and Finance (Tax) Commission be referred to the Budget and Finance (Tax) Commission, stating that it is the Commission responsible. Do Members have objections? Members don't mind... And? So we need a vote. Please call me! We will vote in favour of handing over to the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission the draft law on amending the Law on the Tax on Micro-businesses, stating that it is the Commission responsible! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 67, for - no, for - 20. The draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Saeima Presidium proposes that the draft law “Amendments to the Law on State Social Insurance” drawn up by the Social and Labour Commission be referred to the Commission of Social and Labour Affairs, stating that it is the committee responsible. According to the Rules of Procedure, one Member can speak "for", one - against a draft law being passed on to the Commission. The name of the Member, Janis Upeiver. He has applied to speak against.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-15-PT12-392-U4	Sir, Dear colleagues, I was born in autumn 1988. When Latvia regained independence, I had the first teeth in my mouth. ( Merry laughter.) And even though I am your youngest colleague, I know that one day I'll see beautiful, hub, gray hair curls, just like our most highly respected old-fashioned colleagues. ( Interface: Bravo!) ) Although today I and many vulnerable, spirited young, well - charged and powerful people feel that nothing can change to the wrong side. — Dep. A.Kimiņš: “What are you talking about?” ) - I am not sick or trying to get sick, nor am I going to be laid off, ” Dep. M.Bondar: “It’s true!” ) and I will earn my own pension, but the reality is, unfortunately, often much worse. Someone's just getting down from time to time. And if this happens, I want anyone who gets sick to just take a couple of days at home without worrying about their financial provisions. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. J. Viļums: “It’s not in Latvia!” ) I want every parent to have a child who is sick to spend a couple of days with him at home, not taking him to a kindergarten and visiting others at all costs. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. A.Barča: “Ai, ai, ai!” ) I would like all families who plan children to avoid being concerned about the first months or years of their child's life, when Mom cannot combine it with her work. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. A.Barch's intermediate calls.) I want anyone who ever loses a job to come under a bridge or leaves another country, but is able to fall on a safety cushion and recover by learning new skills, a profession or simply finding a new job in a slow spirit. I want every person who has worked honestly throughout his or her life to be able to retire without combining his or her retirement years with his or her work, but to enjoy old age calmly. And all this is not much required. The Ombudsman also points to the social vulnerability of citizens. We must not extend the already large number of people at risk of poverty and social exclusion. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. A.Barch's intermediate calls.) Most likely, in the version of the budget package originally prepared by the Cabinet of Ministers, we will not increase all the benefits at the moment and we will not pull all those at risk into the sun, but this is definitely a step in the right direction. We live in a world where not everything is predictable and every corner can face unprecedented difficulties, so I and my colleagues from the party Unity want all Latvians to be socially secure, because if we want to or do not want to, we will all see in our reflection the gray hair curls, we will all get sick once, we will all get off. Thank you. ( A Fraction’s Unity Appreciates.)
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-15-PT12-392-U5	Thank you. The name of the Member, Martin Schic. He will talk about handing over the draft law to the commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-15-PT12-392-U6	Tax cannot be paid on unearned money. ( The utterances: “May! ”) “You can do everything in Latvia!” ) If a person has earned EUR 200, the employer is able to pay a tax on it. But we must not punish employers if they earn EUR 100 or EUR 200, by asking them for tax from full time! That's one. The second is that this law will not prevent students whose parents cannot fully support them and for whom the state cannot provide respectful study... they will be able to work now in McDonald one or two evenings a week and earn EUR 50, 100 or 200, and they will not be denied this opportunity by employers. This option, by repealing the norms of this law, will not prevent mothers on parental leave from making some 100 or 200 euros, because now there will be a choice to work or not. Please support this draft law very much because it also aims to help those second or third groups of people with disabilities who can work according to the retained capacity. In other words, they will not now have to pay full-time and they will not be forced out of the labour market. I therefore very much ask you to support this draft law, because it will only benefit workers. And there is no need to mix things that were not done in the previous period, for example, in relation to lifestyle enterprises, and those that are not covered by this law. Social taxation cannot only address national problems. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-15-PT12-392-U7	Thank you. One Member has spoken for, one against handing over the draft law to the commission. Please call me! We will vote for the referral of the draft law “Amendments to the Law “On State Social Insurance” to the Commission of Social and Labour Affairs, establishing that it is the committee responsible! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 66, for - no, for - 20. The draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Saeima Presidium proposes that the draft law drafted by the Commission on Social and Labour Affairs “Amendment to the Law on Maternity and Sickness Insurance” be referred to the Commission on Social and Labour Affairs, stating that it is the committee responsible. Do Members have objections? Members object. Please call me! We will vote in favour of handing over the draft law “Amendment to the Law “On Maternity and Sickness Insurance” to the Commission of Social and Labour Affairs, which states that it is the committee responsible! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 66, for - 1, for - 19. The draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Saeima Presidium proposes that the draft law “Amendment to the Law “On Insurance for Unemployment” drawn up by the Commission of Social and Labour Affairs be referred to the Commission of Social and Labour Affairs, stating that it is the committee responsible. Do Members have objections? Members object. Please call me! We will vote in favour of handing over the draft law “Amendment to the Law “On Unemployment Insurance”” to the Social and Labour Commission, stating that it is the committee responsible! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 67, for - 1, for - 20. The draft law has been passed on to the Commission. Ladies and gentlemen, before we move on to the next item on the agenda, we must decide yet more on a possible amendment to the agenda of today's sitting. Twenty Members: Āboltiņa, Dalderis, Adamovich, Lībiņa-Egnere, Ojārs Ēriks Kalniņš, Hosam Abu Meri, Ķirsis, Chigani, Straujuma and others have submitted a draft law entitled ‘Amendments to the Microbusiness Tax Act’ and are asking for it to be placed on the agenda of today's meeting under the heading ‘Presidium reports on draft laws submitted’. Do Members object to these amendments to the agenda? ( The box “Yes! ”) ) Members have reservations. According to the Rules of Procedure, one Member can speak "for", one can speak "for". The name of the Member, Intt Dalder. Obviously he will talk about putting the draft law on the agenda.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-15-PT12-392-U8	Dear colleagues, I think all of us still have a fresh memory of how we all worked together on the budget for 2017 about 20 hours three weeks ago and adopted it. The government budget was created for about eight months and here, in the Saeima, we were also working in a very intensive process and we adopted it by a majority. Nevertheless, last week, we suddenly learned from the Prime Minister that the Ministry of Finance, led by his party member, had prepared a crèches. Because the State Revenue Service under this same Ministry is unable to administer the exceptions to the mandatory state social insurance contributions which the Social and Labour Affairs Commission, led by her party colleague, has voted in law. The fiscal problem that has arisen, therefore, must be put on the head of a small group of entrepreneurs, to be more precise, micro-enterprises working with relatively high turnover. Instead, I think a little bit of history - in what way we have reached this situation. The micro-business tax regime was introduced under the government of Prime Minister Valdis Dombrovskis. It was developed by the Ministry of Economics, which at that time was led by Artis Kampars. The initial offer was 19 percent of turnover, and it was highly balanced and very logical. After the draft law came to the Saeima, for various reasons, the idea arose that it should be reduced to nine percent; it already created problems. After a very short time, the government realized that the situation had to be corrected, because indeed a large part of the companies transformed their... took out of their business the section related to the labour force and moved it to the micro-enterprises regime, thus distorting competition as well as creating problems for the sustainability of the social budget. It was therefore decided that this tax should be raised gradually from year to year: 11, 13, 15. It was also voted in favour of the Saeima, but for some reason (it is really difficult for me to say why!) The Ministry of Economy, led by Dana Reizniece-Ozola at that time, decided that this solution should be torpedoed as much as possible, and it was achieved that we abolished it. And that's why it's very interesting: the same people who denied this solution two years ago and drew some really dreadful scenes that, if there were 11 percent, now have a lot of energy to defend that there should be 15 percent. Indeed, it is very difficult for us to understand why this is to be done. I think that our proposal, the joint motion of the Group's Unity for all Members, is, however, directed against the draft law on which we have already voted today. We propose our draft law, a parallel one, which intends to weigh risks, as well as the risks associated with respect for the principles of constitutionality and legitimate expectations. This means that we would allow micro-enterprises to choose from two regimes next year - either to pay our already voted, which is five per cent of turnover plus compulsory national social security contributions, or 15 per cent of turnover, as is provided for in the draft law that we have already received from the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission today. I think there is a saying here: “Do not spit in a well from which you will have to drink once!” Two years ago, in my opinion, there was a very rare case - the precedent that laws already voted in the government, laws already voted in the Saeima, too, are being tried by the coalition ministers themselves in different ways afterwards, but they think in a totally populist way. And so we're here in the situation we're in right now! I therefore call for support for our draft law, both on the agenda and in the future. If this is not on the agenda of this sitting, we will certainly table these proposals for the next reading of the draft prepared by the Budget and Financial (Financial) Commission. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-15-PT12-392-U9	Thank you. Name to Member Artus Neminis. He will obviously speak against.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-15-PT12-392-U10	Good morning, colleagues! Good morning, clarinet Dalder! I heard you just said some of the epithets from this troupe, such as "weighted" and "thought". Where are these proposals considered and considered? I can tell the other Members how the Unity weighed and meditated on these proposals. Last night, my party “Who Does the State Own?” (KPV) To Linda Liepiņš, a member of the Group's Unity Chairman... Are you a deputy?... Edward Smilten, for one and a half hours she doesn't put her hand down and she's getting out of Linda Liepiņš about what taxation is in Estonia. Let Linda tell me! Linda Liepiņš, a member of KPV Linda Liepiņa, told him about the tax system in Estonia in one and a half hours, and she asked her accountant to call. Mr Smilten also did this and then sat on his neck for 40 minutes, trying to understand what the tax system in Estonia is, how to make this "weighted" and "thought" decision correctly, and the result you now see is this proposal that either it is or it is. Colleagues! KPV will not participate in these coalition games. I will not vote for either. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. I.Viņķelis: “But who is interested?Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, “ What you should have done... what you should have done when we adopted the budget... Aseraden was sitting and (I already told you) was looking for a summer house on ss.lv's website. He was boring. We sat here till four in the morning - until four in the morning! He was at the Daile Theatre at 23.00 p.m. – “Playman Night” was sitting. He had to sit down like a cricket. Member of the Prime Minister. He was sitting at “Gasman Night”! It's not an excuse that his wife is the director of Valmiera's theatre. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. I.Viņķelis: “On the topic!” ) On the subject, Mrs. Viņķele... Valainis last time, in my opinion, the taster was looking for ss.lv, when you once again wanted the appropriation as a result of the Ministry of Health... Sorry to re-allocate 2.5 million from the Ministry of Defence to the Ministry of Health. Does that mean you're working? You think the Riverman, who had the first teeth in autumn 1988 or... How did he say there? who wants a head like Mr. Brigmann and wants to sit here for so long... And then people will look up on the surface, on the margins, and on the red carpet lay out in front of you, how great you are... The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. J.Upenieks: “You didn’t listen to what I said!” ) I think you absolutely do not understand what you have done, what you have done. Your... Your main task is to get 77 million in the state budget, which this micro-enterprises tax could bring. 77 million. Do you know who Top 5 debtors are in the State Revenue Service? There is a Tendem Neman - EUR 38 million, M4U - EUR 33 million, Jevgeny Jakovļev - EUR 19 million, AVT Nafta - 10 million. Here, friends, it's 100... How are you not my friends?Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, There's 100 million here. 100 million! You want 77 million. Do not touch the tax on micro-enterprises! Don't touch it! Get your hands off it! The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. L. Žigāne: “You don’t understand!” ) I understand very well. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. L. Cigan: “You don’t understand anything!” ) It is about getting you, please, rid of those unfair micro-enterprises' tax payers... Excuse me, these firms that are built, which have 46 companies per person... Or, let's assume, there are taxi companies... Each taxi is like a micro-entrepreneur. Or, let's assume, Lattelecom at Gulbja, where employees are micro-entrepreneurs... It's not normal! Make it work! Do not touch those who are paying taxes in good faith. I named you Top 5 debtors, SRS. That's what you're asking me to do, too. Kalnozol! I understand that you are also interested in what happens to all these taxes. But if you're not an idiot, Mr. Brigman, then please take it and... to the Group Member to stop calling Linda Liepiņš at the same time and invite him to dinner. ( Insight: ‘ Theme speaks! ’) ) Not shame, not honor, well! Then he calls the Chigans for lunch all the time, then he now starts to run the KPV... The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. L. Cigan: “Call the police!” ( ) What is happening to you there, what? ( The utterances: “Time! ”) ) The theme is that those who have common sense... Two more minutes, please?
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-15-PT12-392-U11	Mr. Neighbours, your time... You can't. The roll of order does not provide for an additional time in this case.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-15-PT12-392-U12	Can't you? Please, on behalf of your common sense, do not vote in favour of this coalition's madness! Did I not say anything yet? ( Milestones.)
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-15-PT12-392-U13	Mr. Neighbours, thank you. Your time is up.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-15-PT12-392-U14	I've never had time to stop, I think.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-15-PT12-392-U15	Mr. Neighbours, I warn you that I will turn you off the microphone! Mr. Neighbours, your time is over! Please, take a seat. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. A.Kaimiņš: “Your time will soon come to an end, Mr. Dauges!” ) The roll of order forbids to discuss with the Chair of the sitting if you have not read it. So one Member has said 'yes', one against the inclusion of a bill on today's agenda. Please call me! We will vote for the inclusion of 20 Members of the Saeima, including Āboltiņa, Dalder, Adamovich, Lībiņa-Egnere, Ojāra Ērika Kalniņa, Hosama Abu Meri and others, draft law on “Amendments to the Law on Microbusiness Tax” in the agenda of the Saeima meeting under the section “Presidium reports on draft laws presented”! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 41, for - 35, for - 3. The draft law is on the agenda of today's sitting... ( Milestones.) Members of the Saeima Āboltiņa, Dalderis, Adamovičs, Lībiņa-Egnere, Kalniņš and others (total 20) are asking for the draft law “Amendment to the Law on Maternity and Sickness Insurance” to be included on the agenda of today’s sitting. Do Members have objections? Members call for a vote. Please call me! We will vote in favour of the motion by Members Āboltiņa, Dalder, Adamovich, Lībiņa-Egnere, Kalniņa and other Members to amend the agenda of today's sitting and to include the draft law on “Amendment to the Law on Maternity and Sickness Insurance” under the heading “Presidium Reports on Drafts submitted”! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 40, for - 44, for - 1. Draft law is not on the agenda. The same Members (a total of 20 including Āboltiņa, Dalderis, Adamovičs, Lībiņa-Egnere, Ojārs Ēriks Kalniņš) are asking for an amendment to the agenda of today's meeting and to include in the section "Presidium reports on draft laws submitted" the draft law "Amendments to the Law on State Social Insurance". Do Members have objections? Members call for a vote. Name to Member Hosam Abu Meri. He will obviously talk about putting this draft law on the agenda.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-15-PT12-392-U16	Good morning, colleagues! Good morning, dear colleagues! I am not as good a speaker as my colleague, Mr Upenieks, and I was preparing many things yesterday evening that I wanted to say to you today, but yet I decided to speak from the heart, and I will speak without paper because Mr Mārtiņš Bondara wanted to do so. We tabled these amendments on behalf of the Group. What do we want? We want to keep its law fully in place, only to move for nine months, until 1 September 2017. Why? ( Subtotal: “Why? ”) ) Why? It's very simple! This law, which was adopted on 30 November 2015, is with many mistakes, and we ourselves, dear colleagues, are here a year ago... coalition partners, too... we voted for it ourselves. It is good that we recognise our mistakes, but it is bad if we make more, more serious, mistakes by correcting them. In this case, repealing this law in its entirety means that thousands of people will not have any social guarantees, no social assistance in the future. Yes, Mrs. Barch! We sat in several extraordinary sittings in the Social and Labour Commission, we wanted to include 14 groups: disabled, pensioners... Mr. Schitz, also what you talked about as students here from the pub, we want to get inside; we want to include many children's families, mothers with young children and so on, and so on. Why can't we move it and give time to the Ministry of Welfare and the Social and Labour Commission of the Saeima to integrate, evaluate... ( Insight: “What will change?Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, “) would change many things? If 56 000 people are currently working and they pay zero social contributions, that means that in the next Saeima, colleagues, you will no longer be, you will not be re-elected, you will no longer be in the room. Why 50,000 people stood outside... Is that so? Not five people, not 10, not 100. And that's true! I am not speaking in the name of a Unity, but in my own name. I am not interested in being re-elected after two years, I am interested in what will be in the country after 10 years, when there will be no pensions, no benefits - neither maternity, no disability benefits, and so on, and so on. What are we talking about here? You said in the Ministry of Finance that you should have three to six months to prepare, administer and incorporate these amendments into the Social and Labour Commission. Suddenly it turned out that you wanted to cancel it altogether. Why? Is there no capacity in SRS? You have so many employees, more than Lithuanian or Estonian SRS. The next item is very important - the Ministry of Finance. You've known about this for a year. Where have you been? ( Internouncing call.) Question three... Yes, if you want to, it's your job, not ours! Next, what I want to ask the coalition quickly. Dear friends, none of us is protected. Neither your loved ones, nor your neighbors, nor our grandmothers, nor we ourselves. If some are members of the Saeima or people close to the Saeima and they think about today, the others who are 20, 30 and 40 years of age and are outside this Saeima hall, they think about their social guarantees. For example, this year, there are people who for five years... For five months of illness, I am sorry to receive a allowance of EUR 3.5. Is that normal? Is it a normal social security system in Latvia?Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, ( Intercretion: How much will he get if he changes what you want?) ) Then he receives at least their minimum rate, the minimum wage! I'm not going to talk to you now! I'm talking! Next question. If the opposition does not like to vote against! Don't talk to me now! The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. A.Kamiņš: “Harstastic! Very good, Hosam!” ) The next question. There's 200... are they gonna listen to me or not?Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, This year, there are 250 people who received the allowance - 35 cents a day.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-15-PT12-392-U17	Mr. Abu Meri, your speaking time is over!
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-15-PT12-392-U18	Yeah, thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-15-PT12-392-U19	Your time for the debate is over!
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-15-PT12-392-U20	Ladies and gentlemen, I call on you to think responsibly, without thinking about next year's elections...
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-15-PT12-392-U21	Your time is up! ( The box “Let Hosam speak! ”) ) Council Regulation (EC) No 1257/96 of 20 June 1996 concerning humanitarian aid (OJ L 163, 2.7.1996, p. 1).
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-15-PT12-392-U22	... and the forthcoming elections, and support the move towards these amendments.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-15-PT12-392-U23	Name to Member Janis Dombrava. He will obviously speak against.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-15-PT12-392-U24	Dear Mr. Abu Meri! You talked about mistakes. Now look at the transitional provisions of the Law on State Social Insurance in your amendments, where you propose to establish “from 1 January 2017 to 1 July 2001” (Dep. A.Kamiņš: “Energetic, John! More energy!’ ) On 1 September’. Now don't submit quality... brothers! Prepare well! If the consultant is working, at least you, Mr Abu Meri, stick to and look at the amendments. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. H.Abu Mary: “You heard what I said?Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, “)
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-15-PT12-392-U25	Thank you. One Member has spoken for, one against the proposal to put this bill on the agenda today. Please call me! We will vote on the proposal to include in the agenda of today's sitting the draft law on "Amendments to the law on State Social Insurance" under the section on the Bureau's reports on draft laws! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 40, for - 44, for - 1. The draft law is on the agenda. ( Interfaces: “No! ”) ) I am sorry, not included. The next item is the draft law tabled by these same Members, which they are asking for to be placed on the agenda of today's sitting. So Members Āboltiņa, Dalderis, Adamovičs, Lībiņa-Egnere, Ojārs Ēriks Kalniņš and others are asking for the draft law on unemployment insurance to be included on the agenda of today's sitting. Do Members have objections? Members call for a vote. Please call me! We will vote on possible amendments to the agenda of today's sitting - on the proposal to include the draft law on unemployment insurance in the agenda! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 40, for - 44, for - 1. Draft law is not on the agenda. Dear colleagues, The Bureau of the Saeima proposes that the Member Āboltiņa, Dalder, Adamovich, Lībiņa-Egnere, Ojārs Ērika Kalniņa and other draft law on the amendment of the Law on Microbusiness Tax be referred to the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission, stating that it is the committee responsible. Do Members have objections? Members call for a vote. Please call me! We will vote in favour of transferring the Member Āboltiņa, Dalder, Adamovich, Lībiņa-Egnere, Ojārs Ērika Kalniņa and other draft law on amending the Law on Microbusiness Tax to the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission, stating that it is the committee responsible! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 41, for - 45, for - 1. The draft law has not been passed on to the commission. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. J.Adamson: “How unexpected!” ) Dear colleagues! The next item is entitled ‘On the granting of leave’. Member Lolita Čigāne asks for unpaid leave on 22 December this year. Please call me! We will be voting for the granting of unpaid leave to Member Lolita Chigan on 22 December this year! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 84, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The holiday for Member Lolita Chigana was granted. The next item on the agenda - Election, approval, appointment, dismissal or dismissal of officials, expression of trust or distrust. Decision ‘On the appointment of Aiga Mieriņa as a judge of a district (city) court’. On behalf of the Legal Commission, Mr Valery Agešin, Member.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-15-PT12-392-U26	Dear colleagues, At the meeting of the Legal Commission of the Saeima on 13 December of this year, the draft decision ‘On the appointment of Aiga Mieriņa as a judge of a district (city) court’ was reviewed. The members of the Commission have unanimously supported the draft decision. On behalf of the Saeima Legal Commission, I invite you to appoint Aiga Mieriņš as a judge of a district (city) court.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-15-PT12-392-U27	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote for the draft decision on the appointment of Aiga Mieriņa as a district (city) court judge! Please vote mode! Please get the result! It's not about 80, it's against 1, it's not. Decision adopted. Dear colleagues, Before we start to examine the draft legislative agenda of today's sitting, we still need to decide on possible amendments to the agenda of the sitting. The Commission of Social and Labour Affairs asks to include the draft law “Amendment to the Law on Voluntary Work” drawn up by the Commission for the first reading without re-examination by the committee responsible. Do Members have objections? Members shall not object. The order of business has been amended. The Committee on Social and Labour Affairs asks that the draft law on Social Business Law drawn up by the Commission be included on the agenda of today's sittings without re-examination by the Commission at first reading. Do Members have objections? Members shall not object. The order of business has been amended. On the other hand, the Budget and Finance (Tax) Commission is asking to include the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Microbusiness Tax” in the agenda of today’s meeting at first reading without re-examination by the Commission. ( Interface: ‘ Vote! ’) ) Members request a vote. Please call me! We will vote for the inclusion on the agenda of today's meeting of the first reading of the draft law "Amendments to the Law on Microbusiness Tax" drafted by the Budget and Finance (Tax) Commission! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 36, for - 7, for - 20. Draft legislation is on the agenda. The Committee on Social and Labour Affairs asks to amend the agenda of today’s sitting and to include the draft law “Amendments to the Law on State Social Insurance” drawn up by this committee for its first reading without re-examination by the committee responsible. Do Members have objections? ( Interface: ‘ Vote! ’) ) Members request a vote. Please call me! We will vote for the inclusion of the draft law “Amendments to the law “On State Social Insurance” in today’s agenda for discussion at first reading without re-examination in the committee responsible! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 64, for - no, for - 18. The agenda has been amended. The Social and Labour Affairs Commission is asking to include the draft law “Amendment to the Law “On Maternity and Sickness Insurance” in the agenda of today’s meeting at first reading without re-examination by the responsible committee”. Do Members have objections? Members shall not object. The agenda has been amended. And the Committee on Social and Labour Affairs asks to amend the agenda of today’s sitting and to include it in the first reading without re-examination in the committee responsible’s draft law “Amendment to the Law “On Unemployment Insurance””. Do Members have objections? Members shall not object. The agenda has been amended. Dear colleagues, We are starting to look at the section on "Provisions of draft legislation". Draft law “Amendment to the Law on the Movement of Alcohol Drinks”, second reading. The draft law has been declared urgent. On behalf of the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy, Member Ingmārs Līdaka.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-15-PT12-392-U28	Good morning, honourable colleagues! No proposals for amendments to the Law on the Movement of Alcohol Drinks have been received at second reading. But so that there are no misunderstandings in the application of the norms of this law, however, I would like to explain in a few sentences the substance of amendments to this law. The Law on the movement of alcoholic beverages therefore prohibits the advertising of alcoholic beverages. The aim of such a ban is to reduce the harmful effects of alcohol on public health, which is also pointed out on several occasions by the Ministry of Health. However, this law does not restrict the use of the name of the producer of alcoholic beverages or the name of a producer registered as a trade mark. As before, these manufacturers will continue to be able to deploy items (e.g. umbrellas and sun umbrellas in outdoor cafes, refrigerators, chairs, tables or clothing) (Dep. A.Kamiņš: “On the forehead! To the forehead!” ), the name of the manufacturer, registered as a trade mark. That law does not prohibit advertising of such trade marks. Thank you. I call for support at second reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-15-PT12-392-U29	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote for the second, final reading of the draft law “Amendment to the Law on the Movement of Alcohol Drinks”! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 79, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The law has been passed. The next item is the draft law amending the Criminal Law, third reading. On behalf of the Legal Commission, Mr Andrejs Judin.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-15-PT12-392-U30	Dear colleagues, The draft law on the amendment to the criminal law is under consideration at third reading. No proposals have been received. Please support the draft law at third reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-15-PT12-392-U31	Thank you. Please call me! Let us vote in favour of the draft law on criminal law, third, final, final reading! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 79, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The law has been passed. Next - draft law “On a limited liability company “Bulduri Secondary School of Gardening”, third reading. On behalf of the Commission for Education, Culture and Science - Member Askolds Kļaviņš.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-15-PT12-392-U32	Good morning, honourable Members, present! 10 proposals have been received for the third reading of the draft law “On a limited liability company “Bulduri Secondary School of Gardening”. 1. - a proposal from the Commission for Education, Culture and Science. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-15-PT12-392-U33	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-15-PT12-392-U34	2. - a proposal from the Commission for Education, Culture and Science. It is also supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-15-PT12-392-U35	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-15-PT12-392-U36	3. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Partly supported and included 4. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-15-PT12-392-U37	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-15-PT12-392-U38	4. - a proposal from the Commission for Education, Culture and Science. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-15-PT12-392-U39	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-15-PT12-392-U40	5. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. It has been partly supported and included 6. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-15-PT12-392-U41	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-15-PT12-392-U42	6. - a proposal from the Commission for Education, Culture and Science. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-15-PT12-392-U43	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-15-PT12-392-U44	7. - a proposal from the Commission for Education, Culture and Science. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-15-PT12-392-U45	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-15-PT12-392-U46	8 / 8 - a proposal from the Commission for Education, Culture and Science. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-15-PT12-392-U47	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-15-PT12-392-U48	9. - a proposal from the Commission for Education, Culture and Science. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-15-PT12-392-U49	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-15-PT12-392-U50	And 10. - a proposal from the Commission for Education, Culture and Science. It is also supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-15-PT12-392-U51	Let's start a debate. The floor in the debate is for Mr Walter Dambem.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-15-PT12-392-U52	Respect the Saeima Presidium! Colleagues! The head of the Committee on Education, Culture and Science said yesterday: “There’s nothing to say about sentiments! Bulduri should be closed.’ I could agree. One could agree if the Parliament did not adopt a law on the Bulduri Gardening Secondary School in 2005. Why does one vocational training institution need a separate law? By then, several dozen laws should be created, such as the Law on Priekuļu, Kandava techniques, and several professional training institutions. To think and speak to colleagues what they want, but I am a graduate of Bulduri techniques (1982) and I am delegated to speak on behalf of several graduates. Proposal No 10 provides for the exclusion of an annex listing all real estate belonging to the Bulduri Secondary School of Gardening. Four of the eight articles of the draft law deal with real estate disposal, sale and pledge. The draft law speaks of a general entity... for real estate owned by the state company with limited liability at the date of entry into force of this Law “Bulduri Secondary School of Gardening”. Two readings supported a draft law whose annex listed the property belonging to it. It's okay! The public was able to publicise what Members decided about which properties the Saeima made decisions about. Do you think that any graduate, an interested member of the public, will be able to find out from the balance sheet what this company owns? Why should I be ashamed of the list of real estate listed in this Annex? Members of the Commission told me that this was not a good practice: to adopt laws with annexes. I looked at laws.lv and found several laws in force in the country with annexes without problems in a short time. As I said at the beginning, obviously this school is special - with its own law. Because located in the resort town - Jurmala, where real estate has a different weight, another value. In order to protect the school and its property from its lovers, the Law of 2005 was established. Briefly, in 1905 the country gave land - 153 places, which is about 62 hectares in today's sense - for the purposes of setting up a gardening school. Let us not hold back at least these gifted hectares, let us leave them recorded in the annex to the law! Let us not be disappointed by our gardening ghosts, such as Dindon, Incricson, Karklyn and others! Please do not support proposal 10.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-15-PT12-392-U53	Thank you. The name of Member Ilze Viņķelis.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-15-PT12-392-U54	Colleagues! Let me explain. First of all. Yesterday, speaking with my colleague, you too, as you may remember, said: yes, there is probably no economic justification for the existence of the Bulduri Secondary School of Gardening. I did not call for the closure of Bulduri Secondary School of Gardening, the fact is that the place of this school in the Latvian education system is really very special, but it is unfortunately not determined by its objective need for this school to exist. On the other hand, when it comes to why an annex is excluded - Mr Dambes, it is not about whether or not there are laws with annexes. In this case, the right of the Cabinet of Ministers... more precisely, the burdening, pledgeing and disposal of these property is possible only with the permission of the Cabinet of Ministers. It is a guarantee that the property is not transferred either to the owner or to the person cheaply. And why is the appendix taken out? Due to the legal technique, because the Saeima should then reconfirm the decision of the Cabinet of Ministers; this can theoretically mean that the Saeima can decide for some unknown reasons otherwise, and then a legal conflict is formed. The law therefore provides for guarantees that such property may not be disposed of. The property shall in any way be forfeitable or pledged and, in fact, the procedure shall be twofold. The Latvian University of Agriculture must also say its name, then – to the Cabinet of Ministers, and only then can you do something. Consequently, either we trust the Cabinet of Ministers or we do not trust it. ( The utterances: “Do not trust! ”) ) Well, there is no reason to trust the Saeima either, is it not, Mr. Zarins? You too.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-15-PT12-392-U55	Thank you. Name to Member Ivars Zarins.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-15-PT12-392-U56	Hello, colleagues! At a previous reading, when this draft law was examined, I tried to draw your attention to why this draft law is actually needed. Because, you see, there is a very interesting real estate near this school - more than 100 hectares of land - that someone would very much like. The current order was that it should be done very publicly - here in the Saeima, voting on it. I have tried to explain to you what scheme has actually been made and why this draft law is needed at all. To make this classic elegant scheme, there will be one decision maker who will decide: “You know, we don’t need this land anymore.” Then he goes to the government and the government will say, “You know, if you decide that you don’t need it, then we confirm it.” Then he will ask, “Why have you approved?” “ Well, those who work with the earth decided they didn’t need it. That is why we approved.’ And as a result, there will be no one responsible. A classic farming scheme. And if someone says that the Cabinet of Ministers is a guarantee that everything will be done thoughtfully and in the interests of the state... You have convinced us that it is necessary to leave this amendment, namely that it should not be a government that will decide on it, but that the procedure should be much more public and open, which we will use when it is needed. So that I call for such a proposal not to be supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-15-PT12-392-U57	Thank you. The name of Member Walter Dambem, for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-15-PT12-392-U58	I don't like this public debate from the Saeima. I will just remind you that very recently the Saeima decided to return several real estate to the association “The Council of Jewish Communities of Latvia”, we decided to return property to the Latvian Medical Association, and if necessary a few years later, another Saeima would also decide to return some real estate to the Bulduri Secondary School of Gardening. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-15-PT12-392-U59	Thank you. Name to Member Alexander Kirštein.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-15-PT12-392-U60	Dear President, Honourable Members! I would not have come to talk about this, but the problem is that I know very well the history of how everything happened in the past. Unfortunately, I must agree with my colleague Dambe that openness is needed in this case. Because in previous years, real estate sales were interested, for example, in the State Secretary of the Ministry of Education and Science. In particular to me it is personally known, they lobbyed Parex banka once, then there were other owners... I don't want to list all these things, as it all happened. Since the law is finally adopted (I believe that we will vote for the law because it is generally acceptable), however, in this case, when there have been continuous attempts to sell these properties over the course of 20 years, this openness will not interfere with anyone. It won't really interfere with anyone. I call for the 'no' vote on this proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-15-PT12-392-U61	Thank you. The floor in the debate for Member Edward Smilten.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-15-PT12-392-U62	Mr Dambes, I would like to remind you of your statement that Bulduri... The fact that the Unity is trying to present it in a way that the Bulduri will be closed is totally wrong. Because it's the Unity... I was then Parliamentary Secretary at the Ministry of Education and Science (at the time of Mārīte Seile), when this school was on the eve of insolvency. That was an absolutely deadlock. In fact, a construction was designed to lead the school to a situation in which insolvency administrators could simply take them up and demolish them into pieces. Then we made a political decision and found a solution to hand over this school to universities. The fight between the University of Latvia and the Latvian University of Agriculture started. We created the conditions to protect and preserve the school, including the property belonging to the school. Consequently, I believe that you have expressed a wrong opinion.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-15-PT12-392-U63	Thank you. The debate is closed. Is there anything to add on behalf of the Commission?
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-15-PT12-392-U64	Thank you. I call, however, for support to be given to the Commission's proposal, because we had such discussions in the Commission, and initially the Commission voted as Mr Dambes called for, but, having listened to the arguments of the Legal Bureau, we understood that this would lead to the adoption of a legal brother based on emotions, and the Commission changed its decision. I therefore ask for support for the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-15-PT12-392-U65	Thank you. Please call me! Let us vote in favour of 10. - The proposal of the Commission for Education, Culture and Science! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 25, for - 54, for - 3. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-15-PT12-392-U66	Please support the draft law at third reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-15-PT12-392-U67	Please call me! We will vote for the draft law “On a limited liability company “Bulduri Secondary School of Gardening” in the third, final reading! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 82, for - no, for - 1. The law is passed. Draft law “Amendment to the Law on Taxes and Fees”, third reading. On behalf of the Commission on Budget and Finance (Tax) - Member Vilnis Ķirsis.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-15-PT12-392-U68	Good morning, colleagues! I would remind you that the draft law was on the energy efficiency levy. No proposals for the third reading were received. I call for support to be given to the third, final, reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-15-PT12-392-U69	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote for the draft law “Amendment to the Law “On Taxes and Fees” in the third, final, reading! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 75, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The law is passed. Draft law - “Amendments to the Law on Natural Resources Tax”, third reading. On behalf of the Commission for Budget and Finance (Tax) - Member Jānis Trupovnieks.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-15-PT12-392-U70	Hello, dear colleagues! The Budget and Finance (tax) Commission of the Saeima has examined the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Natural Resources Tax” for the third reading. Four proposals have been received. These are all proposals from Mr Kaspars Gerhard, Minister for Environmental Protection and Regional Development. Proposal No 1 - supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-15-PT12-392-U71	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-15-PT12-392-U72	Proposal No 2 - supported by the Commission with a corresponding change in the numbering of the following articles.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-15-PT12-392-U73	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-15-PT12-392-U74	Proposal No 3 - supported by a corresponding change in the numbering of the following articles.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-15-PT12-392-U75	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-15-PT12-392-U76	Proposal No 4 - supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-15-PT12-392-U77	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-15-PT12-392-U78	I call for support to be given to the draft law at third, final, reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-15-PT12-392-U79	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote for the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Natural Resources Tax” in the third, final reading! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The law is passed. Draft law ‘Amendments to the Law on the Markets in Financial Instruments’, third reading. Member of the Commission for Budget and Finance (Tax) Mārtiņš Bondars.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-15-PT12-392-U80	Dear Sir, Dear colleagues and honourable colleagues! Let us consider the draft law on Amendments to the Law on the Markets in Financial Instruments. Ten proposals were tabled for the third reading and all were submitted by the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission. 1. - a proposal from the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-15-PT12-392-U81	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-15-PT12-392-U82	2. - Commission proposal. Also supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-15-PT12-392-U83	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-15-PT12-392-U84	3. - Commission proposal. This is also supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-15-PT12-392-U85	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-15-PT12-392-U86	4. - Commission proposal. Also supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-15-PT12-392-U87	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-15-PT12-392-U88	5. - Commission proposal. Also supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-15-PT12-392-U89	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-15-PT12-392-U90	6. - Commission proposal. Also supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-15-PT12-392-U91	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-15-PT12-392-U92	7. - Commission proposal. Also supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-15-PT12-392-U93	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-15-PT12-392-U94	8 / 8 - Commission proposal. Also supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-15-PT12-392-U95	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-15-PT12-392-U96	9. - Commission proposal. Also supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-15-PT12-392-U97	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-15-PT12-392-U98	And the last one, 10, is the proposal of the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission, which is supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-15-PT12-392-U99	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-15-PT12-392-U100	All the proposals are therefore examined. On behalf of the Commission, please support the draft law at third, final, reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-15-PT12-392-U101	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote in favour of the third, final, final reading of the draft law "Amendments to the Law on the Markets in Financial Instruments"! Please vote mode! Please get the result! Not by - 82, not by - and refrains. The law has been passed. Draft law on public procurement, third reading. On behalf of the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy - Member Romanas Naudiņš.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-15-PT12-392-U102	Good afternoon, dear colleagues! In the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy, we have examined the draft law on public procurement. In parallel with this, there is also document No. 2857A, which complements two proposals. 67 proposals have been received. Well, then let's start looking at them. 1. - the proposal made by Member Ilmars Latkovsky, which is not supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-15-PT12-392-U103	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-15-PT12-392-U104	2. - Ilmar Latkovsky's proposal. Not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-15-PT12-392-U105	Let's start a debate. Name to Member Ilmar Latkovsky.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-15-PT12-392-U106	Highly honored Chairman of the sitting! Colleagues! At the same time as this proposal, I have to congratulate you on the businessmen working under the general tax regime. You're not gonna believe there's another one? But it is true that everyone has not yet ‘split’ their businesses into micro-enterprises. This draft law (and, in particular, this proposal) is directly linked to the quail which, as our President said, has been jammed in tax matters. And there'll be one spoon with which you might try to blow it out, or we'll make it out ourselves. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. A.Kamiņš: “The putra is here! Let's go! Let's go!” ) The specific proposal is even very modest: to supplement the objectives of the law with a reference to quality as a procurement criterion. Quality, proportionate quality, is the opposite of the purchasing post - the lowest price, because too much emphasis has so far been placed on the criterion of the lowest price. There must not, however, be any pressure to compete on the lowest price for companies that pay full-time taxes and that employ, continuously employ, or high-ranking professionals - not only for the season or for projects, but for permanent jobs. But we make them run to the lowest price with the light tax payers! The lowest price will not be a decisive criterion. Entrepreneurs recall this promise, which was already expressed in government corridors in 2015. I'm not going to call who whose ministry... We put one ministry here and one party to another... But this is one promise to which tax-paying entrepreneurs hoped when this bill was passed. The result? They say, “We are misled!” The proposals put forward by economic operators were rejected in this draft law. I understand that we looked very much at both micro-enterprises and municipalities. However, we forgot about the entrepreneurs who are currently paying taxes. And while the lowest price as the only criterion may have been changed a little, entrepreneurs say: there are very liberal interpretations. Experience, practice shows that if there is a possibility to set the lowest price, then it is easier and safer for the customer to choose the lowest price. In some cases, it is even very, very beneficial to play something for your own. And while we are fever-free, how do you manage those who have a preferential tax regime, we have been completely disrespectful of those entrepreneurs who, through their taxes, discharge a budget that creates this quality and also added value. And then will our answer be: do the same thing, break down into micro-enterprises, and then will you be competitive?Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. Ladies and gentlemen, no! Right?Oh, no, no, no, And therefore, to record the quality of the objectives of the law - that is, in fact, the last straw to catch. This is a reminder, an encouragement for these public procurements. It's not a cheapness that takes over all our areas of life! And this is a requirement of interest for entrepreneurs, taxpayers. I think I do not need to convince you about this anymore, and let us agree: you will support this proposal, and I will withdraw the more radical proposal, proposal 45, which may not have a fourth reading for synchronising with the law as a whole. But now I am calling for this proposal to be supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-15-PT12-392-U107	Thank you. The debate is closed. On behalf of the commission, is there something to add?
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-15-PT12-392-U108	Dear colleagues, This proposal was not supported by the Commission (Dep. A.Kamiņš: “Roman, do you support yourself?” ), because what Mr. Latkovsky offers... There are also other articles that are now being reinserted and that also address this problem.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-15-PT12-392-U109	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote in favour of 2. - Member Ilmar Latkovsky's proposal! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 27, for - 5, for - 50. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-15-PT12-392-U110	3. - Member Smilten's proposal. Not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-15-PT12-392-U111	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-15-PT12-392-U112	4. - Member's Money proposal. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-15-PT12-392-U113	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-15-PT12-392-U114	5. - The proposal of the Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Finance, Mr Putra. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-15-PT12-392-U115	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-15-PT12-392-U116	6. - the proposal of Foreign Minister Rinkēvičs. Partly supported, included in proposal 7.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-15-PT12-392-U117	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-15-PT12-392-U118	7. - a proposal from the committee responsible. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-15-PT12-392-U119	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-15-PT12-392-U120	8 / 8 - The proposal of the Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Finance, Mr Putra. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-15-PT12-392-U121	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-15-PT12-392-U122	9. - a proposal from the Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Finance. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-15-PT12-392-U123	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-15-PT12-392-U124	10............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - a proposal from the Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Finance. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-15-PT12-392-U125	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-15-PT12-392-U126	11. - a proposal from the Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Finance. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-15-PT12-392-U127	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-15-PT12-392-U128	12. - a proposal from the Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Finance. The proposal 13 has been partly supported and included.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-15-PT12-392-U129	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-15-PT12-392-U130	13. - a proposal from the committee responsible. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-15-PT12-392-U131	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-15-PT12-392-U132	14............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - a proposal from the Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Finance. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-15-PT12-392-U133	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-15-PT12-392-U134	15............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - a proposal from the committee responsible. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-15-PT12-392-U135	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-15-PT12-392-U136	16. - a proposal from the Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Finance. Supported and editorially clarified.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-15-PT12-392-U137	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-15-PT12-392-U138	17. - a proposal from the Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Finance. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-15-PT12-392-U139	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-15-PT12-392-U140	18. - Member's Money proposal. Not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-15-PT12-392-U141	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-15-PT12-392-U142	19. - a proposal from the committee responsible. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-15-PT12-392-U143	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-15-PT12-392-U144	20............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - a proposal from the committee responsible. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-15-PT12-392-U145	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-15-PT12-392-U146	21............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - a proposal from the Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Finance. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-15-PT12-392-U147	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-15-PT12-392-U148	22. - Member's Money proposal. Partly supported, included in proposal 24.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-15-PT12-392-U149	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-15-PT12-392-U150	23............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - a proposal from the Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Finance. Partly supported, included in proposal 24.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-15-PT12-392-U151	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-15-PT12-392-U152	24. - a proposal from the committee responsible. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-15-PT12-392-U153	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-15-PT12-392-U154	25. - a proposal from the Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Finance. Partially supported, included in proposal 26.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-15-PT12-392-U155	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-15-PT12-392-U156	26. - a proposal from the committee responsible. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-15-PT12-392-U157	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-15-PT12-392-U158	27. - a proposal from the Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Finance. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-15-PT12-392-U159	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-15-PT12-392-U160	28. - a proposal from the committee responsible. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-15-PT12-392-U161	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-15-PT12-392-U162	29. - A proposal from the Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Environmental Protection and Regional Development. Partly supported and included in proposal 31.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-15-PT12-392-U163	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-15-PT12-392-U164	30. - Member Latkovsky's proposal. Partly supported, included in proposal 31.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-15-PT12-392-U165	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-15-PT12-392-U166	31. - a proposal from the committee responsible. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-15-PT12-392-U167	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-15-PT12-392-U168	32. - Member's Money proposal. Not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-15-PT12-392-U169	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-15-PT12-392-U170	33. - The proposal of the Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Finance, Mr Putra. Proposals 34 and 35 have been partly supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-15-PT12-392-U171	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-15-PT12-392-U172	34. - a proposal from the committee responsible. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-15-PT12-392-U173	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-15-PT12-392-U174	35. Proposal from the committee responsible. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-15-PT12-392-U175	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-15-PT12-392-U176	36. - a proposal from the committee responsible. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-15-PT12-392-U177	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-15-PT12-392-U178	37. - a proposal from the Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Finance. Supported and editorially clarified.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-15-PT12-392-U179	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-15-PT12-392-U180	38. - A proposal from the Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Environmental Protection and Regional Development. Not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-15-PT12-392-U181	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-15-PT12-392-U182	39. - a proposal from the Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Finance. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-15-PT12-392-U183	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-15-PT12-392-U184	40. - Member's Money proposal. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-15-PT12-392-U185	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-15-PT12-392-U186	41. - The proposal of the Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Finance, Mr Putra. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-15-PT12-392-U187	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-15-PT12-392-U188	42. - a proposal from the committee responsible. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-15-PT12-392-U189	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-15-PT12-392-U190	43. - a proposal from the committee responsible. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-15-PT12-392-U191	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-15-PT12-392-U192	Proposal 43A is on a separate page. The Commission is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-15-PT12-392-U193	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-15-PT12-392-U194	44. - a proposal from the Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Finance. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-15-PT12-392-U195	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-15-PT12-392-U196	45. - the proposal from Member Ilmar Latkovsky. Not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-15-PT12-392-U197	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-15-PT12-392-U198	46. - the proposal from Member Ilmar Latkovsky. Not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-15-PT12-392-U199	Let's start a debate. Name to Member Ilmar Latkovsky.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-15-PT12-392-U200	If proposal 45 is not supported... A summary of the business community about this draft law is that one of the most important innovations is not created either, and the legislator should call on the Ministry of Finance to try again and immediately. But now there is a call, with proposals 46 and 47, at least to bring this draft law to a close. The nature of these proposals is that the contracting entity can use guidelines developed by sectoral experts or organisations in public procurement. In proposal 46, this concerns the definition of criteria and 47. - identification of abnormally low tenders. It would be a reminder, an encouragement to take into account the business sector and trust it, otherwise all small purchases (up to 42 thousand or in construction - up to 170 thousand), without blinking eyes, simply rolling at the lowest price, and all. It's simple. Several sectoral associations in cooperation with the Procurement Monitoring Office are working on such guidelines, development or redevelopment of them - how to offer the most favourable criteria. In a more general context, however, this norm is already in Article 60 of this draft law, but the proposal of entrepreneurs is very specific to refer to it also with regard to the criteria and in particular to the identification of the abnormally lowest price. To this end, I call for support at least for proposal 46 and also 47.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-15-PT12-392-U201	The debate is closed. Is there anything to add on behalf of the Commission? There is nothing to add. Please call me! We will vote for 46. - Member Ilmar Latkovsky's proposal! Please vote mode! Please get the result! On - 28, against - 24, abstaining - 29. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-15-PT12-392-U202	47. - Member Latkovsky's proposal. Not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-15-PT12-392-U203	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-15-PT12-392-U204	48. - a proposal from the Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Finance. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-15-PT12-392-U205	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-15-PT12-392-U206	Proposal No 48A. The Commission is supported. This proposal is available to Members on a separate page.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-15-PT12-392-U207	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-15-PT12-392-U208	49. - a proposal from the Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Finance. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-15-PT12-392-U209	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-15-PT12-392-U210	50. - a proposal from the Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Finance. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-15-PT12-392-U211	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-15-PT12-392-U212	51. - Member Matīss's proposal. Partly supported and included in proposal 54.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-15-PT12-392-U213	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-15-PT12-392-U214	52. - Member Matīss's proposal. Partly supported and included in proposal 54.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-15-PT12-392-U215	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-15-PT12-392-U216	53. - a proposal from the Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Finance. Partly supported, included in proposal 54.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-15-PT12-392-U217	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-15-PT12-392-U218	54. - a proposal from the committee responsible. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-15-PT12-392-U219	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-15-PT12-392-U220	55. - a proposal from the Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Finance. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-15-PT12-392-U221	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-15-PT12-392-U222	56. - a proposal from the Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Finance. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-15-PT12-392-U223	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-15-PT12-392-U224	57. - a proposal from the committee responsible. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-15-PT12-392-U225	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-15-PT12-392-U226	58. - A proposal from the Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Environmental Protection and Regional Development. Partly supported, included in proposal 59.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-15-PT12-392-U227	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-15-PT12-392-U228	59. - a proposal from the committee responsible. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-15-PT12-392-U229	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-15-PT12-392-U230	60. - A proposal from the Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Environmental Protection and Regional Development. Partly supported and included in proposal 61.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-15-PT12-392-U231	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-15-PT12-392-U232	61. - a proposal from the committee responsible. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-15-PT12-392-U233	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-15-PT12-392-U234	62. - a proposal from the Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Finance. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-15-PT12-392-U235	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-15-PT12-392-U236	63. - a proposal from the Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Finance. Partly supported, included in proposal 64.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-15-PT12-392-U237	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-15-PT12-392-U238	64. - a proposal from the committee responsible. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-15-PT12-392-U239	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-15-PT12-392-U240	65. - a proposal from the Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Finance. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-15-PT12-392-U241	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-15-PT12-392-U242	Colleagues! All the proposals have therefore been examined. Please support the draft law at third, final, final reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-15-PT12-392-U243	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote for the draft law on public procurement in the third, final, reading! Please vote mode! Please get the result! It's not about - 86, it's against and refrains from - it's not. The law is passed. Draft law “Amendments to Law “On Sworn Auditors”, third reading. On behalf of the Commission for Budget and Finance (Tax) - Member Edgars Putra.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-15-PT12-392-U244	Hello, colleagues! See the draft law “Amendments to Law “On Sworn Auditors”, third reading. We have received 12 proposals from the Commission. 1. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. The Commission has received support.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-15-PT12-392-U245	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-15-PT12-392-U246	The proposal is a proposal from the responsible commission - the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-15-PT12-392-U247	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-15-PT12-392-U248	3. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-15-PT12-392-U249	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-15-PT12-392-U250	4. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-15-PT12-392-U251	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-15-PT12-392-U252	5. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-15-PT12-392-U253	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-15-PT12-392-U254	6. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. The Commission is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-15-PT12-392-U255	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-15-PT12-392-U256	7. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. The Commission has received support.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-15-PT12-392-U257	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-15-PT12-392-U258	8 / 8 - a proposal from the Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Finance. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-15-PT12-392-U259	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-15-PT12-392-U260	9. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. The Commission is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-15-PT12-392-U261	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-15-PT12-392-U262	10............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Supported by changing the numbering of points accordingly.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-15-PT12-392-U263	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-15-PT12-392-U264	11. - the proposal of the responsible, Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-15-PT12-392-U265	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-15-PT12-392-U266	12. - the proposal for the budget and financial (tax) commission for the entry into force of the law. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-15-PT12-392-U267	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-15-PT12-392-U268	We have examined all the proposals. Colleagues, I call for support for the draft law at third, final, reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-15-PT12-392-U269	Please call me! We will vote in favour of the draft law “Amendments to Law “On Sworn Auditors”” in the third, final reading! Please vote mode! Please get the result! It's not about - 85, it's against and abstains. The law has been passed. Ladies and gentlemen, it is time for a break. Please register the call! Please check-in mode! Please, check-in result! As long as the results of the registration are collected, the name of the notice to the Member Gaidis Berzins.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-15-PT12-392-U270	Dear colleagues from the Legal Commission. Meeting of the Legal Commission after five minutes at the premises of the Legal Commission. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-15-PT12-392-U271	Name for reading the results of the registration to Gunārs Kūtris, member of the Saeima Secretary.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-15-PT12-392-U272	Dear colleagues, Currently not registered: Boriss Cilevičs, Inese Laizāne, Atis Lejiņš, Romanas Mežeckis, Ināra Mūrniece, Imants Krādnieks, Romualds Ražuks, Arturs Rubiks, Veiko Spolitis, Juris Vectirāns and Jānis Vucāns.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-15-PT12-392-U273	Thank you. Interruption until 11 a.m. ( Interruption)
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-15-PT12-392-U274	Dear colleagues, Colonel is 11.00. Please, take your seats! We're continuing the Saeima sitting. We shall continue with the draft law on high-speed electronic communications submitted by the Cabinet of Ministers and the alternative draft law on high-speed electronic communications provided by the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy. First reading. Dear colleagues, I would like to remind you, as is the case here. So, on behalf of the Commission, Member Edward Smilten will report on both draft laws, then there will be a possible debate on both draft laws, and then we will have to vote on the draft law tabled by the Cabinet of Ministers and then on the alternative draft law. So, on behalf of the commission responsible, Member Edward Smilten.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-15-PT12-392-U275	Colleagues! So we have two draft laws: one from the Cabinet of Ministers and the other, prepared by the Commission. The Parliamentary Commission on Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy does not support this first draft law and therefore calls for a 'no' vote. According to the first paragraph of Article 85 of the Saeima Rules of Procedure, the Committee on Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy of the Saeima has developed and submitted an alternative draft law “Agricultural Electronic Communications Network Law”. So, what does it mean? This draft law is designed to introduce the requirement of the Directive on the establishment of a single point of contact for the provision of minimum information on physical infrastructure and to establish a framework for ensuring the receipt of information from the network operator when it is not available from the single point of contact for the purposes of monitoring physical infrastructure, access to it, cooperation with network operators in the construction process and an effective dispute settlement mechanism in the event of disagreement between the two parties in the above processes. Colleagues, this draft law aims to promote the deployment of high-speed electronic communications networks in Latvia and thus to stimulate economic development in general, and thus in the outermost rural regions, because the digital economy has the potential for the internal market thanks to innovation, speed and cross-border impact and will only be available if there is an adequate high-speed electronic communications network in the country. Colleagues! So the procedure is that the debate is possible on both draft laws, but on behalf of the Commission I call on you to vote as follows: on the first draft law to vote 'no', so do not support it, and on the second alternative to vote 'yes', so support it.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-15-PT12-392-U276	Thank you. No one has applied for a debate. So we first vote in favour of the draft law “Law on high-speed electronic communications network” submitted by the Cabinet of Ministers at first reading. Please call me! We will vote for the first reading of the draft law “Law on high-speed electronic communications network” submitted by the Cabinet of Ministers! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Draft law has been rejected. Please call me! We will vote for the first reading of the draft alternative law on high-speed electronic communications law drawn up by the committee responsible! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 76, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Draft legislation supported at first reading. Please set a deadline for the second reading of the proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-15-PT12-392-U277	Thank you, colleagues, for following the Commission's call to support this. And let us wait next year - 5. ... January.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-15-PT12-392-U278	Next year's fifth... Will you say a month too? ( Insight: “In March! In April!’ ) In January, probably.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-15-PT12-392-U279	January 5.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-15-PT12-392-U280	Members shall not object. The next item is the first reading of the draft law on the information system of the designated territories. On behalf of the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy, Member Edward Smilten.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-15-PT12-392-U281	Colleagues, we are working on the draft law on the first reading of the Law on the Information Systems of the Occupied Territories. This draft law is designed to meet the requirements of the European Union Directive concerning the obligation for the Member State to make available information on infrastructure held by public authorities by 1 January of 2017, i.e. next year. The Information System Law of the territory of the territory of the territory of the territory of the Republic of Lithuania currently provides that the preparation and delivery of the data contained in the information system of the affected territory is to be ensured from 1 January 2018, therefore amendments to this Law are necessary, providing that the data necessary for implementation of the requirements of the Directive are to be submitted to the State Land Service by 31 December of this year, but the State Land Service ensures the preparation and delivery of these data from 1 January of the following year. In the Commission, we have examined this draft law at first reading and, colleagues, I call on you to support it.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-15-PT12-392-U282	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote in favour of the first reading of the draft law "Amendments to the Law on the Information System of the Occupied Territories"! Please vote mode! Please get the result! Not by - 82, not by - and refrains. Draft legislation supported at first reading. Please set a deadline for the second reading of the proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-15-PT12-392-U283	Colleagues, let us wait next year - until January 5.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-15-PT12-392-U284	January 5. Members shall not object. The next item is the draft law amending the Law on Electronic Communications, first reading. On behalf of the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy, Member Edward Smilten.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-15-PT12-392-U285	Colleagues! We work with the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Electronic Communications” at first reading. This has been seen by the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy. This draft law has been drafted taking into account the current geopolitical situation and the need to strengthen the field of state security, as well as the implementation of state administration functions defined in Section 9 of the Law on State Administration in Crisis Situations. The legal framework for the national electronic communications network for emergency situations is clarified. The aim of the project is to clarify the concept of an emergency national electronic communications network as defined by law, as well as to clarify the range of entities using that network in order to avoid any restriction on its use for information only between public administrations. In order to ensure the continuity of the legal framework, the draft provides that the specified provisions on electronic communications networks (Article 16, sixth paragraph) will enter into force at the same time as the High-Speed Electronic Communications Network Law, which we have already decided on. I therefore call on the Commission to support the draft law at first reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-15-PT12-392-U286	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote in favour of the first reading of the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Electronic Communications”! Please vote mode! Please get the result! It's not about - 83, it's against and refrains from - it's not. The draft law at first reading has been supported. Please set a deadline for the second reading of the proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-15-PT12-392-U287	We invite you to prepare qualitative proposals and submit them by 5 January 2017.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-15-PT12-392-U288	Members shall not object. The next item is the draft law on the amendment to the Civil Service Law, second reading. On behalf of the National Administration and Municipal Commission, Member Sergej Dolgopolovs.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-15-PT12-392-U289	Hello, dear colleagues! The draft law prepared by the Cabinet of Ministers “Amendments to the Law on State Civil Service” provides for clarification of Section 7 of the Law, where it concerns mandatory requirements to be imposed on the applicant. In examining this draft law, the Commission has received eight proposals, which were mainly supported. 1. - Dolgopolov's proposal. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-15-PT12-392-U290	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-15-PT12-392-U291	2. - Dolgopolov's proposal. Partly supported, included 3. - on a proposal from the committee responsible.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-15-PT12-392-U292	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-15-PT12-392-U293	3. - Commission proposal. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-15-PT12-392-U294	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-15-PT12-392-U295	4. - Dolgopolov's proposal. Partly supported and included 5. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-15-PT12-392-U296	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-15-PT12-392-U297	Responsible... I'm sorry... 5. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-15-PT12-392-U298	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-15-PT12-392-U299	6. - Dolgopolov's proposal. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-15-PT12-392-U300	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-15-PT12-392-U301	7. - The proposal from the Member's neighbor. Not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-15-PT12-392-U302	Let's start a debate. The floor in the debate for Member Artus Neminiņš.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-15-PT12-392-U303	So, I'll start with the good news. Three weeks ago we passed a law here to prevent those people who do not pay aliments to their children from driving. We voted by ourselves. One Member was 'no'. I can tell you something like that. In the last three weeks, at least 500 thousand euros have been credited to the Maintenance Guarantee Fund. Half a million weeks have been counted! In order to know you, the country pays around €3.2 million a year to these non-payers... children of non-payers. With this law, we have already got half a million in the fund in two weeks! Half a million! Applause for all of us! But this is only the first point of the law. What I offer here is for people who are officials... if they are on this List of Maintenance Guarantee Fund, so that they may not be officials. Because if you can't answer for your children, you can't do the official functions that the municipalities give you, where you're doing all this. Yeah, who's paying you the money? Taxpayers! So please support this proposal. I hope that this series will not come from us: this is once again a proposal from the wrong Member, but that is why we will not support it. This case has begun to work. Please support this proposal. I'll be very happy if you do that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-15-PT12-392-U304	Thank you. Name to Member Sergey Dolgopolov. ( Internouncing call.)
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-15-PT12-392-U305	Dear colleagues, It is very pleasant to hear emotional speeches. Naturally, there is some rational grain in each proposal, but there must, however, be a certain sense of proportionality. In this case, we can attach a lot of demands. I think that in this case, the commission, which unanimously did not support this proposal, followed precisely the principle of proportionality and the logic of life. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-15-PT12-392-U306	Thank you. The name to Member Artus Neimins, for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-15-PT12-392-U307	This... What's that? They forgot that... I've heard this rhetoric already when we tried to run this previous rule, so it goes... about these people who can't... who doesn't pay, and then they don't go. And it was exactly what you just said, Mr Dolgopolov, that... Well, what's going to happen now? Now how? The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. S.Dolgopolovs: “Don’t talk to the grass!” ) You are not a hall, you are Dolgopolov. Then it's about...
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-15-PT12-392-U308	Mr. Neighbours, follow the Rule of Conduct.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-15-PT12-392-U309	You're spending my time... I mean, it's about...
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-15-PT12-392-U310	Mr. Neighbour, it is forbidden to discuss with the chair of the sitting.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-15-PT12-392-U311	Yeah, but I have time now. You're bothering me!
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-15-PT12-392-U312	I'll take you away right away!
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-15-PT12-392-U313	So, a person who doesn't pay his child's maintenance goes to that list only if he doesn't have any contact with that list... with the Maintenance Guarantee Fund. If he has this communication, he's obviously not on this list. And here, each case will be dealt with separately, as will this driver's right. If he is a bus driver, then he goes and says, “I’m a bus driver, I need a bus so I can earn this money for my child!” I'll be with the officials. If he is an official and he needs to work so he can support his child, then - okey, go and work, but make contact with the Maintenance Guarantee Fund! This is all part of this proposal. So that we don't need to defend them, the officials aren't some kind of holy cows! You don't have to defend it! Support this case, and Latvian children will still be grateful to you! The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. A.Kamiņš' camera falls off the hall.) Oh, my God, my camera! Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-15-PT12-392-U314	Thank you. Name to Member Valdis Kalnozols. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. A.Kamiņš: “This has never been before!” ) Council Regulation (EC) No 1257/96 of 20 June 1996 concerning humanitarian aid (OJ L 163, 2.7.1996, p. 1).
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-15-PT12-392-U315	I'm calling: Artus, you're a man with children! (Laughter)
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-15-PT12-392-U316	The debate is closed. Is there anything to add on behalf of the Commission?... Is there anything to say on behalf of the commission? The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. A.Kamiņš: “Create children!” ) Council Regulation (EC) No 1257/96 of 20 June 1996 concerning humanitarian aid (OJ L 163, 2.7.1996, p. 1).
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-15-PT12-392-U317	Dear colleagues, On behalf of the Commission, I call for this proposal not to be supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-15-PT12-392-U318	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote in favour of 7. - Member Artus Neighmina's proposal! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 18, for - 45, for - 11. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-15-PT12-392-U319	8 / 8 - Dolgopolov's proposal. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-15-PT12-392-U320	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-15-PT12-392-U321	All the proposals have therefore been examined. I call for support for this draft law at second reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-15-PT12-392-U322	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote for the draft law “Amendment to the Law on State Civil Service” at second reading! Please vote mode! Please get the result! It's not about - 85, it's against and abstains. The draft law was approved at second reading. Please set a deadline for the third reading of the proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-15-PT12-392-U323	The deadline for submitting proposals shall be 20 January of the following year.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-15-PT12-392-U324	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-15-PT12-392-U325	Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-15-PT12-392-U326	The next item is the draft law on Amendments to the Law on the Markets in Financial Instruments, first reading. Member of the Commission for Budget and Finance (Tax) Mārtiņš Bondars.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-15-PT12-392-U327	Colleagues! We are working on the draft law on Amendments to the Law on the Markets in Financial Instruments. The Budget and Finance (Tax) Commission asks for support for the draft law referred to at first reading. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. S. Aboltiņa: “You speak so quietly that no one can hear!” ) Once again? Need it more? If the head of the sitting...
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-15-PT12-392-U328	Please, quiet in the room! Please call me! We will vote in favour of the first reading of the draft law "Amendments to the Law on the Markets in Financial Instruments"! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 84, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The draft law at first reading has been supported. Please set a deadline for the second reading of the proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-15-PT12-392-U329	On the deadline for submitting proposals, we ask for the deadline to be set for 6 January 2017.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-15-PT12-392-U330	Members shall not object. The next item is the draft law on Amendments to the Law on Immigration, second reading. On behalf of the Commission for Defence, Home Affairs and Anti-Corruption - Member Kārlis Sergeant.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-15-PT12-392-U331	Good morning, colleagues! We propose amendments to the Immigration Law at second reading. The proposal is a proposal from the Commission on Defence, Home Affairs and the Prevention of Corruption, which has been supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-15-PT12-392-U332	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-15-PT12-392-U333	2. - the proposal of the Commission on Defence, Home Affairs and the Prevention of Corruption, which defines the term "trainee". It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-15-PT12-392-U334	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-15-PT12-392-U335	3. - the proposal of the Minister for the Interior, Kozlovsky. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-15-PT12-392-U336	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-15-PT12-392-U337	4. - Commission proposal. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-15-PT12-392-U338	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-15-PT12-392-U339	5. - Commission proposal. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-15-PT12-392-U340	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-15-PT12-392-U341	6. - Commission proposal. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-15-PT12-392-U342	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-15-PT12-392-U343	7. - Commission proposal. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-15-PT12-392-U344	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-15-PT12-392-U345	8 / 8 - the proposal of the Minister for the Interior, Kozlovsky. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-15-PT12-392-U346	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-15-PT12-392-U347	9. - The proposal of the Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Economics, Chersch. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-15-PT12-392-U348	Let's start a debate. The floor in the debate for Member Ķirsim.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-15-PT12-392-U349	Hello, fellow Members, again! Despite the problems that we currently have in other sectors, there are sectors in Latvia where we go to other Baltic countries. One such sector is the creation and development of start-ups. This week, a publication appeared in Lithuania that the founders of Lithuanian start-ups are moving to Latvia. The former Estonian Minister of Economics was also very interested in the steps we take in Latvia to develop this sector. And why not? We have all the preconditions for developing this direction. Latvia has knowledgeable people with international experience and education in this field. Three weeks ago, within the framework of the budget, we adopted a Law to support the activities of the new companies, which is a rapid step towards the development of this direction. Of course, we are happy with ideas that are born in Latvia and developing, but these ideas should also be attracted in Latvia from a wider world, because Latvia is small and the idea is how much it is, how much it is. We therefore propose the introduction of a so-called 'new company operating visa'. That is, the idea. One third country person with the idea of going to the Embassy of Latvia, setting out what it is and proving that he has the funds to stay in Latvia. He's coming, he's being given a residence permit for three months. During these three months, he must set up a company, become a member of the board, and then, under the responsibility of the Office for Citizenship and Migration, obtain a residence permit for a further period of three months. During this time he must find his idea a qualified venture capital investor who is ready to invest in his idea of 30,000, which is a very difficult task because... Such a qualified venture capitalist is registered either in Latvia - in the case of Latvia it is the Financial and Capital Market Commission - or in another country of the world - in an equivalent institution, and such venture capitalists will be prepared to risk their money only if they are very good ideas. And it's actually a filter. This is the most important step that needs to be taken so that this idea can be further developed. We have also appreciated those who would like to reach Latvia, who are guided by other goals. But it's much easier for them to do this when you get a tourist visa, because then you don't have to, say, sing some mystical business plan for your idea, you just get a visa for three months and you can stay here. Consequently, the most important condition for attracting this qualified venture capitalist is indeed excluded. Even when the New Business Support Act was reviewed at the Saeima, there were proposals to extend this range of investors to everyone who has money, but no, we in principle argued that it should be such an investor, because the development of new ideas is not just about money, but it is about the competence of this venture capitalist and the ability to help the product to enter the global market. These skills are essential, not money. So on behalf of the new company community in Latvia, on behalf of the Ministry of Economics and, of course, on its own behalf, I call for support for proposals 9 and 22. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-15-PT12-392-U350	Thank you. The debate is closed. Is there anything to add on behalf of the Commission?
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-15-PT12-392-U351	There is nothing to add. Let me just remind you that the Commission supported this...
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-15-PT12-392-U352	Are Members asking for a vote? Members agree. We shall proceed with proposal 10.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-15-PT12-392-U353	10............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - Minister Kozlovsky's proposal. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-15-PT12-392-U354	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-15-PT12-392-U355	11. - Commission proposal. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-15-PT12-392-U356	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-15-PT12-392-U357	12. - Minister Kozlovsky's proposal. Partially supported, included 13. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-15-PT12-392-U358	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-15-PT12-392-U359	13. - Commission proposal. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-15-PT12-392-U360	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-15-PT12-392-U361	14............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - Commission proposal. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-15-PT12-392-U362	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-15-PT12-392-U363	15............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - Commission proposal. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-15-PT12-392-U364	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-15-PT12-392-U365	16. - Minister Kozlovsky's proposal. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-15-PT12-392-U366	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-15-PT12-392-U367	17. - Minister Kozlovsky's proposal. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-15-PT12-392-U368	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-15-PT12-392-U369	18. - Mr Kirštein's proposal. Not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-15-PT12-392-U370	Let's start a debate. Name to Member Alexander Kirštein.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-15-PT12-392-U371	Honourable Members! The very nice and very necessary draft law is still in second reading, and that is very good because, I think, for the third reading we should tidy up these deadlines, because we now have it: three months, one year, two years, three years, five years. And these groups are many and different, and if we do not go into detail specifically and in detail, we cannot focus. What concept would we need, and why is my proposal for one year? A representative of a foreign businessman... If we look at the third paragraph of Article 23, first paragraph, we see that the members of the Boards, the Boards, procurators, administrators, liquidators, members of the personal societies who have the right to represent the businessman and carry out activities related to the branch, and so on, and so on, are already mentioned. They already have one deadline. Now we are writing, representatives of foreign businessmen. Are they not those board members, management members, procurators? They have already been mentioned once. We don't know why we're writing them a different term, two years. They're there four years, five years. Consequently, I think that we should stick to a common system. And why else? I'll tell you. We often now say that we have an out-of-date society and lack highly qualified specialists. We need jobs and there will be no pension-paying ones. At the same time, we are seeing very well that it is precisely those countries that build skyscrapers, where perhaps only 40 percent of citizens live, that deal very successfully with these issues with very strict immigration laws, with a term of one year in principle. Why is this one year? Because they enter into contracts with these specialists and after a year they come to others. In exceptional circumstances, the period could be extended by decision of the Cabinet of Ministers. If we don't do that, we create a number of consequences. Let us remember that we are a weakened nation as a result of various occupations. We cannot behave as if 98 percent were in Poland. With our 60 and a few percent, we cannot afford a situation like Mr Flik, for example. He comes from Germany Treuhand here to give advice. Those of his valuable advices are, you know, two weeks of work about what he gave to the Privatisation Agency. As a good guy, he saw that there were huge opportunities to receive 27 thousand lats a month, and he immediately extended this permission, started working in various works, then left the Privatisation Agency and started working on airBaltic, the Opera Council and where it was not. He's married. In a word, he ended up, went to Germany, where he appears to have another wife. ) (I mention this because we will have another proposal on family reunification). Consequently, I think that in this case we can talk only about the specialists who are lacking in Latvia. The ships are being built, for example, by we are being driven by welders from Ukraine. There are a lot of good information technology specialists and also builders in Ukraine, which we lack. Why can't they go for one year? Construction is a seasonal work. It is common to say that in the course of some kind of construction work, after six months, these entrepreneurs have no place to put these people. So if they are given two or three years in this way or if they become members of a board of directors in companies, they wander without work here, try to go somewhere else with these residence permits and create a continuous chaos. I think that, for the third reading, we need to review these deadlines once again. Basically, it must remain for one year, as is the case in other economically more successful countries than Latvia, and in exceptional cases the authorisation to extend only by decision of the Cabinet of Ministers. If anyone else has doubts, then, honourable colleagues, look at paragraph 16 in the same article 23, where, for example, we do not know why we are allowing only one year of religious activity. Thank you. I call for my proposal to be supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-15-PT12-392-U372	Thank you. The debate is closed. Is there anything to add on behalf of the Commission?
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-15-PT12-392-U373	Yeah. The Commission has been discussing this, and yet we have argued that it is better for this migrant worker to go in for two or three years at once rather than every year this flow will change and will have to spend the appropriate resources of the security authorities every year in order to check these migrant workers and give them their permissions. This would only be an additional burden. But for the third reading, of course, proposals can be made. 19. - Commissions...
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-15-PT12-392-U374	Wait a minute, I understand that the Member Kirštein wants to vote in favour of this proposal. Please call me! We will vote in favour of 18. - That's Alexander Kirstein's proposal! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 12, for - 62, for - 3. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-15-PT12-392-U375	19. - a proposal from the Commission on Defence, Home Affairs and Anti-Corruption. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-15-PT12-392-U376	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-15-PT12-392-U377	20............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - a proposal from the Minister for the Interior. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-15-PT12-392-U378	Members agree. ( Interface: ‘ Vote! ’) ) Members ask for a vote. Please call me! Let us vote in favour of 20. - the proposal of the Minister for the Interior, Kozlovsky! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 62, for - 10, for - 2. The proposal is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-15-PT12-392-U379	21............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - a proposal from the Minister for the Interior. Not supported. In some words, however, I will inform you. It was a proposal to increase contributions by investing accordingly in government securities. The Treasury was also willing to increase this amount because, with the current refinancing interest, the Treasury practically did not generate any income. However, since no one came from the Treasury, it is true to vote... we did not vote, but it was agreed that, at the third reading, the Treasury would indeed come. And if they can show and justify these calculations to us, then there will be no problem in increasing this amount at third reading. Since this proposal was not supported by the Commission for the time being, everything may change at third reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-15-PT12-392-U380	But Members are asking for a vote. Please call me! We will vote in favour of 21. - the proposal of the Minister for the Interior, Kozlovsky! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 32, for - 34, for - 15. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-15-PT12-392-U381	22. - The proposal of the Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Economics, Chersch. It's supported. I just want to add a few words. Here we are talking about so-called startup companies that could come in with some new technologies, and for the third reading we have asked the Ministry of the Interior and the Legal Bureau to develop qualified features so that it can be more clearly established that this is a startup company, so that we do not have to break our head and look for all this. So please support.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-15-PT12-392-U382	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-15-PT12-392-U383	23............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - Mr Kirštein's proposal. Not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-15-PT12-392-U384	Let's start a debate. Name to Member Alexander Kirštein.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-15-PT12-392-U385	No, of course, if we reject one year, then we can only be happy: for immigration, the door is open! And if we do not support my proposal... I will give you one example. That is, here, for three or four years, a Vietnamese, for example, procurator or board member of a home chaotic trading company, and so he gains the right to unite with his family. Well, I looked at the record, 17 children. Well, let's say, at best, seven. So in this way, we can increase the population in Latvia very quickly. And, of course, for a good job and after a short period of time, you can even apply for a permanent residence permit and then become a citizen. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-15-PT12-392-U386	The name of Member Ilze Viņķelis.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-15-PT12-392-U387	Colleagues! Partly related to the proposal. I would like to say that Mr Kirstein stands out with the ability to fuel hatred in places where it is not necessary. And I'm committed: every time you come over again, either at the fifth column, or at the arrival of a Vietnamese producer procurator with 17 children, I'll come to the platform and say it's unacceptable. (Applause)
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-15-PT12-392-U388	Name to Member Alexander Kirštein, for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-15-PT12-392-U389	Mrs. Viņķele always stands out for stupidity. I'll always come and remind you. In addition, I want to draw attention to the fact that she also lingered...
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-15-PT12-392-U390	I call on you, however, to think about what you're talking about from the parliamentary tribunal!
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-15-PT12-392-U391	... The Jewish Community of Latvia is opposed to the use of this word, so I want to point it out to Mrs Viņķele. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-15-PT12-392-U392	The debate is closed. Is there anything to add on behalf of the Commission?
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-15-PT12-392-U393	No, it's not. The Commission did not support this proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-15-PT12-392-U394	Please call me! We will vote in favour 23. - Mr Kirstein's proposal! Please vote mode! Please get the result! It's not about 11, it's against -63, it's abstaining - it's not. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-15-PT12-392-U395	24. - a proposal from the Minister for the Interior. Is partially supported, included in 25. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-15-PT12-392-U396	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-15-PT12-392-U397	25. - Commission proposal. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-15-PT12-392-U398	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-15-PT12-392-U399	26. - a proposal from the Minister for the Interior. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-15-PT12-392-U400	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-15-PT12-392-U401	27. - a proposal from the Minister for the Interior. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-15-PT12-392-U402	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-15-PT12-392-U403	28. - a proposal from the Minister for the Interior. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-15-PT12-392-U404	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-15-PT12-392-U405	29. - Commission proposal. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-15-PT12-392-U406	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-15-PT12-392-U407	30. - Commission proposal. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-15-PT12-392-U408	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-15-PT12-392-U409	31. - The proposal of the Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Economics, Chersch. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-15-PT12-392-U410	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-15-PT12-392-U411	32. - The proposal of the Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Economics, Chersch. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-15-PT12-392-U412	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-15-PT12-392-U413	33. - the proposal of the Minister for the Interior, Kozlovsky. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-15-PT12-392-U414	And included commission...
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-15-PT12-392-U415	And included 34. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-15-PT12-392-U416	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-15-PT12-392-U417	34. - Commission proposal. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-15-PT12-392-U418	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-15-PT12-392-U419	35. - Commission proposal. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-15-PT12-392-U420	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-15-PT12-392-U421	36. - a proposal from the Minister for the Interior. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-15-PT12-392-U422	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-15-PT12-392-U423	37. - a proposal from the Minister for the Interior. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-15-PT12-392-U424	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-15-PT12-392-U425	38. - Commission proposal. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-15-PT12-392-U426	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-15-PT12-392-U427	39. - a proposal from the Minister for the Interior. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-15-PT12-392-U428	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-15-PT12-392-U429	40. - A proposal from the Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Economic Affairs. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-15-PT12-392-U430	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-15-PT12-392-U431	41. - the proposal of the Minister for the Interior, Kozlovsky. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-15-PT12-392-U432	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-15-PT12-392-U433	All the proposals have therefore been examined. Please support at second reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-15-PT12-392-U434	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote in favour of the second reading of the draft law on "Amendments to the Law on Immigration". Please vote mode! Please get the result! Not by - 82, not by - and refrains. The draft law at second reading has been supported. Please set a deadline for the third reading of the proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-15-PT12-392-U435	Proposals for the third reading are expected by 9 January 2017.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-15-PT12-392-U436	January 9th? Please turn on the microphone for the Member Ivars Zariņš!
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-15-PT12-392-U437	I want to talk about the procedure. Yeah... I would like to call on the head of the sitting to ask Members to follow the code of conduct and, speaking to each other, to call not fools, but idiots. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. A.Kamiņš: “It’s right! I agree!” ) Because it is political correction! It will be political corrections, and it will be in line with the decision of the Commission on Mandates, Ethics and Applications. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-15-PT12-392-U438	The next item is the draft law on Amendments to the Credit Register Act, second reading. On behalf of the Commission for Budget and Finance (Tax) - Member Jānis Trupovnieks.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-15-PT12-392-U439	The Budget and Finance (Tax) Commission has examined amendments to the Law on the Credit Register for second reading. Two proposals have been received - both from the Saeima's Legal Office. The proposal has been approved by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-15-PT12-392-U440	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-15-PT12-392-U441	The proposal has also been endorsed by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-15-PT12-392-U442	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-15-PT12-392-U443	Please support the draft law at second reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-15-PT12-392-U444	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote in favour of supporting the second reading of the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Credit Registers”! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 81, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. The draft law has been adopted at second reading. Please set a deadline for the third reading of the proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-15-PT12-392-U445	Deadline for the third reading of the proposals - 9 January 2017.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-15-PT12-392-U446	Members shall not object. The next item is the draft law “Amendment to the Law on Preservation and Defence of the Historical Centre of Riga”, first reading. On behalf of the Commission for Education, Culture and Science - Member Inguna Rībena.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-15-PT12-392-U447	Hello, honourable colleagues! We work with document number 2750. I inform you that the Education, Culture and Science Commission has examined the submitted draft law “Amendment to the Law on Conservation and Protection of the Historical Centre of Riga”, which is designed to ensure the protection of the territory of nature and plantings, parks, gardens and historical cemetery areas indicated in the plan of the Historical Centre of Riga and its protection zone. The Commission decided to support this draft law. I call, and ask, for your support for the draft law in question and for a sufficiently long deadline to be set for the submission of proposals, because it will not be so easy to clarify the term 'historic boundaries' alone, and also for very many other concepts to require negotiations, discussions and clarifications. So I ask you to vote in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-15-PT12-392-U448	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote for the support of the draft law “Amendment to the Law on Preservation and Defence of the Historical Centre of Riga” at first reading! Please vote mode! Please get the result! -69, against -5, refrains - not. The law at first reading has been adopted. Please set a deadline for the second reading of the proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-15-PT12-392-U449	The deadline for submitting the proposals for the second reading will be February 1, 2017.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-15-PT12-392-U450	February 1. Members shall not object. The next item is the draft law on voluntary work law, first reading. On behalf of the Commission for Social and Labour Affairs - Member Einārs Cilinskis.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-15-PT12-392-U451	Sir, Honourable Members! The draft law “Amendment to the Voluntary Labour Law” is related to the next issue to be considered – the draft law “Social Entrepreneurship Law”, and it includes one provision that states that social entrepreneurs will also be entitled to organise voluntary work. Economic operators have not so far been entitled to do so. At the same time, it should be borne in mind that the draft law on social entrepreneurship provides that voluntary workers may be attracted to activities that are not related to corporate governance. And, of course, the fourth paragraph of Article 4 of the Voluntary Labour Law must be respected: “With the volunteer worker there is no substitute for the employee.” On behalf of the Commission, please support the draft law at first reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-15-PT12-392-U452	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote in favour of the first reading of the draft law on voluntary work. Please vote mode! Please get the result! Not by - 82, not by - and refrains. The draft law has been adopted at first reading. Please set a deadline for the second reading of the proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-15-PT12-392-U453	Deadline for the submission of proposals for second reading - 20 January.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-15-PT12-392-U454	January 20th. Members shall not object. The next item is the draft law on social entrepreneurship, first reading. On behalf of the Commission for Social and Labour Affairs - Member Einārs Cilinskis.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-15-PT12-392-U455	Honourable Members! The Commission has drawn up this draft law for quite a long time. A working group of representatives from all responsible ministries as well as from the non-governmental sector has met regularly over a period of one and a half years, involving future social entrepreneurs, who are currently either in the position of non-governmental organisations or as usual entrepreneurs. A number of public consultations have also taken place. Social enterprises use business methods and approaches to find a sustainable and safe solution to a major problem in society and invest resources in solving it. The purpose of this Law is to promote the improvement of the quality of public life and the employment of the population at risk of social exclusion, as well as to create a favourable social business environment. The draft law provides that a social enterprise is a limited liability company which meets the criteria set by the law and which, in addition to the status of the enterprise, has been granted the status of a social enterprise in accordance with the procedure laid down by the law. In particular, it is granted by the responsible ministry, which is the Ministry of Welfare, or by an institution authorised by it, on the basis of the opinion of the committee, which includes both the ministries involved and the non-governmental sector. The Social Enterprise Act provides for a number of advantages, i.e. a corporate tax credit of up to 100 per cent, and a public person can also give financial resources and movable property or transfer property for the free use of the social enterprise for the duration of its activities. The social enterprise can receive donations, but without the tax credit that the public benefit organization has. Thus, a social enterprise is also entitled to attract voluntary workers, which we have already considered in the previous draft law. The social enterprise does not distribute profits into dividends. The assets and financial resources of a social enterprise shall be permitted only for the purposes specified in the statutes. A social enterprise shall comprise reserve capital, which shall include all the profits of the accounting year. Similarly, the law identifies a number of areas in which a social enterprise may not operate. When a social enterprise loses its status, if it pays corporate income tax for three tax periods, it may become a normal company. And given that the draft law involves a number of other draft laws (one we already adopted at first reading and the other to be submitted to commissions), there is still quite a lot of work to be done. Thus, the draft law package on social enterprise will enter into force from 1 January 2018. On behalf of the Commission, please support the draft law at first reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-15-PT12-392-U456	Let's start a debate. The name of Member Lolita Chigan.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-15-PT12-392-U457	Dear members of the Bureau. Dear colleagues, I would like to point out this bill as one of the initiatives that confirm that sometimes Members say that one Member can do nothing in the Saeima is absolutely not true. Because here we see a draft law that has been the result of a long and patient work, and the manager of this work has been Einārs Cilinskis. And with my personal participation in the Working Party on the Development of Social Entrepreneurship Law, I have seen a very high level of patience and tolerance and the ability initially to find a common denominator and agree on a common outcome, really very difficult contradictions. Dear colleagues, Some of you were surprised when I applied to talk about the draft law, which we all seem to support and very much hope that it could enter into force in the middle of next year. However, I think there is a case here where we really have reason to be proud of our fellow Member who has done this. And we also have reason to say that the Saeima of the Republic of Latvia has noticed that social enterprises are operating in Latvia and that they are functioning very successfully, involving socially disadvantaged groups in Latvia. And if once there has been one consistent policy that we have tried to build, both by supporting people who are prepared to do business and by highlighting social problems, then we have done this by this law. I personally very much hope that the objective that the Commission has set itself, namely that this law will enter into force in the middle of next year, will be fulfilled, and we will therefore welcome those people who are already working in this area. Thank you. (Applause)
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-15-PT12-392-U458	Name to Member Ilmar Latkovsky.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-15-PT12-392-U459	Colleagues, I, too, cannot refrain from saying a positive message in the sense of this initiative. It could really unite us all for a good job. It is necessary to wish that this absolutely necessary but very difficult process should not be completed, as is the case with micro-enterprises, for example. Let us do better in this event!
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-15-PT12-392-U460	The debate is closed. Is there anything to add on behalf of the Commission?
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-15-PT12-392-U461	Yeah, thank you. On behalf of the Commission, I would like to thank Parliament's lawyer Ilze Oša for making a very important contribution to this law. I call for support at first reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-15-PT12-392-U462	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote in favour of the first reading of the draft law on social entrepreneurship! Please vote mode! Please get the result! It's not about - 85, it's against and abstains. The draft law has been adopted at first reading. Please set a deadline for the second reading of the proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-15-PT12-392-U463	The deadline for the second reading of the proposals for this law is also 20 January of next year.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-15-PT12-392-U464	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-15-PT12-392-U465	Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-15-PT12-392-U466	The next item is the draft law amending the Law on Microbusiness Tax, first reading. On behalf of the Commission for Budget and Finance (Tax) - Member Edgars Putra. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. A.Kamiņš: “Don’t make fun of it!” ) Council Regulation (EC) No 1257/96 of 20 June 1996 concerning humanitarian aid (OJ L 163, 2.7.1996, p. 1).
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-15-PT12-392-U467	Yes, colleagues! On Tuesday, we examined the draft law “Amendments to the Microbusiness Tax Law”. The draft law was designed so that the tax burden, which was foreseen from 1 January of next year, was for micro-enterprises with an average turnover of 15 thousand euros... So up to 40 thousand euros a year... a moderate increase in the tax burden, not for example 40 or 45 per cent or even 50 per cent of companies with an annual turnover of between EUR 3-4 000. That is why this issue must, of course, be looked at in the context and in conjunction with the question that Mrs Barch will be reporting on. It is a matter of minimum social contributions. In particular, the regulation that would enter into force on 1 January is that we abolish these minimum social contributions, but at the same time, the tax on micro-enterprises is raised to 15 per cent instead of the previous nine per cent. Essentially next year, 70 percent of this 15-interest rate... In other words, more than 10.5 per cent is allocated to social budgets, social contributions, and payments of social contributions on average increase by 62 per cent next year for these taxpayers. So, in part, this issue is being dealt with gradually, and in 2018 this tax... This difference has risen to 80 percent. 80 per cent of 15 per cent is directed to cover social contributions. Thus, as I said, this social issue is, of course, gradually being addressed. And that's the trend with the increase in turnover... at the same time - also with an increase in the rate... is that these people are already becoming much more socially secure. During the meeting of the Commission, Member Imants Debtor estimated that this situation is such that in fact the average taxpayer of micro-enterprises with a turnover of 14-15 thousand euro next year will pay about half of it... If we compare with the standard regime, then we see that in fact he will already pay half-time wages compared to what was before when social contributions were made in the amount of EUR 30-40 per person per month. Of course, the President of Latvia has also asked, so to say, to recast the solution on the substance of this issue. The President too believes that this tax burden, as it were intended, is disproportionate for small businesses as such, and he asks for a review, as well as for concrete facts and examples that show that... assuming the situation that... if this minimum social contribution plus five per cent becomes effective... If we don't change anything there, then there's... The Legal Bureau named us seven, but there were even more aspects of the Constitutional Court. Because, by the nature of the matter, the President tells us that this regulation is incomplete, it is not fair to the employer and the worker, and it can also have the opposite effect. During the Commission's sitting, I believe that most of the positions, that is to say, the FAO and the National Union, and, of course, the opposition parties also took part in the debate on this issue. I have to say that colleagues from SAVE, in fact, gave us the vision that is acceptable to us during the committee meeting, and I think for the second reading we can agree that 40 percent... Turnover up to 40 thousand... However, there will also be options, because what colleagues from the Unity have offered is, of course, part of this issue as well... Colleagues, we are talking about the second reading of these proposals. You are making an alternative bill. At the same time, you are criticizing the Saeima and the government that this... that the legislative process as such is opaque and entrepreneurs do not know what the rate will be1. January. In fact, by submitting these alternative draft laws, you are precisely promoting this ignorance. And what this draft law now proposes, along with the draft law that we will look at next, is clearly and unequivocally said: “On January 1, it will be like this and we will live according to this regulation in the future!” That is why the Commission, when examining this issue and, of course, given that today is already 15 December... In fact, in order to reduce this uncertainty, the Commission decided and voted for the urgent nature of this draft law, which I also ask to support in the sitting of the Saeima.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-15-PT12-392-U468	According to the parliamentary roll of order, one Member may speak "for", one may be "no" to assign urgency to the draft law. The name of the Member, Andrejs Judin.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-15-PT12-392-U469	Dear colleagues, I really wonder if I have to talk about urgency or the content of the law, but my question is not about 15 percent or 20 or five percent, but the question is different. ( Milestones.) Quite recently, we have been talking about the budget. And I remember that both the Minister of Finance and the people of the Committee on Budgets and Finance (Tax) told us that the budget was good, that everything was prepared correctly and that in principle 'yes' must be voted in favour. Yes, not all of us are experts in budgetary matters, but I had reason to believe that the budget was thought out, that the experts had expressed their views and that we could vote in favour of such a law. But what do I see now? On December 15, we are invited to amend the law and to provide for other taxes and other rates in two weeks' time. I understand very well what reasons this is being done for. I have heard several stories about small businesses that cannot pay social tax. But there's a question: why didn't we discuss the problem in summer...
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-15-PT12-392-U470	Mr Judine, we are now talking about either granting or not granting urgency. You are currently talking about the substance of the bill. This is the next debate.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-15-PT12-392-U471	Yeah. ( The utterances: “Let it speak! ” ) I can, of course, take advantage of the opportunity to speak again if this interferes with it. I'm right then...
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-15-PT12-392-U472	No, let's just respect the Rally of Order!
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-15-PT12-392-U473	Yeah, okay, I'll try to talk later.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-15-PT12-392-U474	But are you “for” or “for” urgency? According to Rule 54 of the Rules of Procedure, one can speak “for”, one - “to”.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-15-PT12-392-U475	I believe that the laws relating to taxes should not be amended if two weeks are left until the law is implemented. Time is late! Consequently, such matters cannot now be decided as a matter of urgency. We are talking about the fact that the law adopted during the year does not guarantee quality. Now we are offered two weeks to correct the law and one mistake to correct with the other. That's not right! I will, of course, take the opportunity to talk about the relevant draft law, about substantive problems. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-15-PT12-392-U476	Thank you. Name to Member Edgars Putras. He will obviously talk about the urgency.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-15-PT12-392-U477	Colleagues! I call for urgent support. In fact, that is what I have already said. It is now the end of the year, it is two weeks left, and the public only says: “I don’t know how it will be after 1 January... “ I want to say straight away, the law also includes a norm that states that it will be possible to apply for regulation not only until December 15, but until January 31. Let us quickly understand whether this regime is beneficial or not. And we have to do this by the end of this year, with the corresponding amendments to the law and voting in favour of this draft law again this year, in the extraordinary session of 20 December.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-15-PT12-392-U478	Thank you. According to the Rules of Procedure, we must first vote in favour of granting urgency to the draft law. Please call me! We will vote for the urgent recognition of the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Microbusiness Tax! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 39, for - 8, for - 18. The draft law has been declared urgent.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-15-PT12-392-U479	Colleagues! I call for support to be given to the draft law at first reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-15-PT12-392-U480	Let's start a debate. Name of Member Inguna Silver.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-15-PT12-392-U481	Dear colleagues, We're following. I believe that this is the capitalisation of Members of the political groups in the position. You should be able to raise that white flag and acknowledge your mistakes and take responsibility! When we examined the budget, neither the people's picket at the Saeima, nor the discussions in committee meetings, nor the proposals submitted by the opposition to open their eyes and understand that in Latvia people still want to work here, that they want the conditions on which they are able to pay taxes and are able to take care of their families. Now, on 15 December, a large part of them have already changed their way of working: they have left micro-enterprises' tax status. And maybe part of... I have just heard about one businessman who sells her cafe because she is unable to exist and work here and who is leaving Latvia. It is easy to talk about decisions for people who, in my opinion, have never made anything in their lives, have never answered anything and have not achieved any result to be proud of. This is not the way to appreciate those people who do a little bit but are able to take care of themselves and achieve results. Why does the "Welcome to Latvia" group support this draft law? It is precisely because we are for people in Latvia to exist and want to work here in Latvia. I do not know how you would deal with the conditions that were created in these laws and that required people to pay taxes even when they have no income! You can imagine how it would be if you had to answer for something in such circumstances and - even more so! - be able to create a business?Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Many people have asked me these days: what happens here or can we trust... Is that so? And we have talked to many entrepreneurs to understand the conditions that are acceptable to them. People are not indifferent; they are not those who do not want to take responsibility for themselves. When it comes to tax rates that people consider acceptable when working in small business - micro-business - these 15 percent are the maximum. In the second reading, we in the Group of the Heart for Latvia will also put forward a proposal to bring this rate to 12 per cent for small entrepreneurs with an annual turnover of no more than seven thousand euros. We also talked to entrepreneurs because they are reading conceptual documents, including those drafted by the Cabinet of Ministers, and in one of these conceptual documents, which unfortunately have not turned into the necessary laws, which could already be adopted this year, so that the whole system can be organised, it is intended that these small, so-called lifestyle companies, which have a turnover of up to seven thousand euros, have a completely proportional rate of 12 percent. I therefore call for the end of these political games, the intrigues that are being cut here, and finally for us to see that there are still people in Latvia who are able to start a business, who have started it and want to continue it. I call for the tax regime to be organised more quickly so that people have clarity about the rules. And above all, the rules must not be those that work only for a few days or months, but must be those on which people can rely for several years. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-15-PT12-392-U482	Thank you. The name of the Member, Andrejs Clementyev.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-15-PT12-392-U483	Good afternoon, honourable Members! Strange day today: members of the opposition are asking the ruling coalition to adopt a law that would sort out the tax system and are asking for the planned levy to be implemented in the budget for next year. It comes out that we are not responsible for not being able to adopt the budget correctly two weeks ago. We warned from the outset that there would be no execution, and the Social and Labour Commission said from the outset that its mandatory social contributions would destroy all of these people - 70-80,000 people - who are working part-time today, working for hours. Public organisations, people with disabilities, as well as the victims of the Chernobyl disaster... We had a number of people who warned the ruling coalition: “Please withdraw the mandatory social contributions!” I agree with the rapporteur, Putra, that we need to look at these two laws in a binding manner. If we do not support the raising of taxes, we will have to give up the good idea that was endorsed by the Social and Labour Commission that we need to abolish mandatory social contributions. THE situation is now very difficult. Since we are really social democrats, the only ones in Latvia who are represented in the parliament... The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. A.Judins: “Do not tell me!” ) I understand the ruling coalition that you don’t like it. But we are at 1st place in the ranking today, we have the largest group, and every step and every vote is very politically binding to us in accordance with our principles, so we believe that we cannot support the draft Social and Labour Affairs Commission, because compulsory social contributions must be abolished. We also understand that if we support it, but do not support the poorly prepared draft law on Putra on which he is reporting today, then there will be a gap of 61 million. How are we gonna cover it? Let us tell the pensioners that there will be no indexation? Neither can we. We will also support Bondar. Correctly, Reir is politically responsible for the fact that he, as a finance minister, did not harmonise his draft laws and his regulations of the Cabinet of Ministers with all 13 categories that we wanted to release - give them a different regime. But SAID is a group responsible, and we should make a decision today to put an end to the chaos, the bardaque, the quail that the President, together with Parliamentary Secretary Putra... We are now talking, two weeks ago, about what chaos is in the ruling coalition. We will help you today. We will support both draft laws. We do not support the grey zone, we do not support envelope wages. We will also not support those rules which impose a greater tax burden on the labour force. But we don't have another way today. It is a pity that we have no choice. If we were a ruling coalition and could actually correct the national budget, we would have deleted it already two weeks ago. But you decided, at your secret coalition meeting on the 2nd floor of this house, not to let go of the discussion table. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. M.Bondars: “We don’t let either!” ) Yes, it is difficult, but today we support the two draft laws in a socially responsible way so that people will have clarity next year - how much to pay. We believe that the second draft law is more important for people. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-15-PT12-392-U484	Thank you. The name of the Member, Andrejs Judin.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-15-PT12-392-U485	Dear colleagues, I have the feeling that we are debating various draft laws today. I see it, I hear it. In principle, if someone looks at the name of the law, he will see the word “tax”. And the essence of this law is very simple. This law provides for an increase in the tax, with the idea that the new rate will be in force in two weeks' time. It is currently written that the tax is five per cent. From 1 January it is proposed to set the rate of 15 per cent. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. M.Bondars: “Not written “five”! It is written “nine”! Andrej!’ ) I am sorry. Five percent are foreseen from January 1, and 15 percent is now available. Of course, rates can be increased. This is not prohibited. This time I'm embarrassed by the fact that it's two weeks. That's one thing. The other thing that makes me very embarrassed. Both the Ministry of Finance and Mr Putra and others are talking about a so-called medium-sized company that will lose nothing. I am very happy with the medium-sized company. It is indeed very good that such a company will not lose anything. But, in my view, taxation in Latvia is not paid by medium-sized enterprises, but by certain companies, and small companies with a small turnover will indeed benefit. So if we want to set such a rate in two weeks' time, we can do so. This is not a big problem. It's a gift from the Saeima. But the problem is different. There are different companies. What are we supposed to do, let us accept, with regard to a company with a turnover of 50 thousand? Default... it is now written in the law that there will be a tax of five percent, which means 2.5 thousand plus social taxes. Let's assume there's one employee. There's a total of 3.5,000. If the new rate is 15 percent, it will cost 7.5 thousand. So four thousand are there. Dear colleagues, what does that mean? This means that now an entrepreneur who plans his business can expect a great surprise that he will have to pay a higher tax. And here's the story of the fact that on average we're going to win, I think it really doesn't work. So I see a big problem. Namely, if this law is adopted, there will be entrepreneurs who will exercise their right to achieve justice and to prove in the Constitutional Court (Interface: “With you!” ), that the principle of legitimate expectations is not respected. And that's a big problem! I spoke to my colleagues, and when we spoke openly, I heard such a reply: “Yes, in principle we can lose in the Constitutional Court, but the loss will be when there will be a new Saeima when people sit in their chairs again. That is not the problem!’ The companies are different. The fact that there are several facts about the inability to pay taxes, the fact that micro-enterprises are basically destroying the system - all I think is rightly said. However, the laws should be amended in due time so that we do not change the law and then lose it in the Constitutional Court, because the law has been adopted hastily and people could not foresee such amendments exactly then. Colleagues! I think so: if we want to change the law because there are problems - I am thinking above all about social contributions - this can be done. I have heard from my dear colleagues, from the STECF, that there is, in principle, a problem with the budget: we want to balance the budget, so money needs to be found somewhere. But not in the way you want to do it. If we don't want to give it money, if we can't give it money, you can't just distribute it! You can't make such surprises! Please consider the substance of your proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-15-PT12-392-U486	Thank you. The name of the Member, Martin Bondar.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-15-PT12-392-U487	Dace and Aigars, owners of Madcafe, have published a letter about the fact that they are forced to stop their business. They point out that, for many years, tax policy has hit us thoroughly and continues to hit us. They reveal that they are not able to operate and continue their business in a fair way. The cafe representatives facebook writes: “Dear friends, we appreciate the support that you have given us for almost two and a half years now, so we want to be as open as before. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. S.Absolute intermediates.) We are now at a point where it is clear that we cannot continue our business in a fair way. The way in which other catering companies operate for more than two years is not surprising. There are a number of factors that make this possible. But that is not our way. We have no investors, no lobby, no fictitious accounting, no communications in the right institutions, and we do not have the desire to get something from it. We also don't have credit banks that would force us to continue at all costs, or time to think what and how to bypass everything. In our view, it should be enough to act, to carry out this desire with joy and to be honest with ourselves, our employees and the state, every day. Unfortunately, we are in a category for which the sadly famous Member said that it is not an entrepreneur who is unable to pay taxes. And we can't. We want to, but we can't!" Colleagues! The changes to the Microbusiness Tax Act that you have proposed, or to us, are, in fact, the following step: the law adopted so far is worse than what you promised before the elections, but is now being offered a little better than the bad one. Well why do you offer us a vote for a bad product?Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, ( Independence: “Do not vote! ”) ) Why do you invite us to vote to the detriment of Latvian entrepreneurs, Latvian small entrepreneurs, who are fighting for paying, paying their bills every day and feeding themselves and their families?Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. We, the Association of the Regions of Latvia, cannot support this. We believe that the tax on micro-enterprises should be maintained at nine per cent, but that it should be reduced to five per cent for small turnover. So that for the second reading, the Association of the Regions of Latvia will definitely come forward with its proposals and help you arrange this law. And, colleagues, if you already lack the money for the quotas and other entertainment you want in some way, let's say, satisfy... Well, fight for Latvia's national economy to be bigger, wider and have more revenue in the state budget! And I'll have to spend something on you! I in different gravestones, in different roofs and doors (Interface: “Interactive boards!” ) and in all entertainment activities. And finally. I really have a great surprise that today, here in the hall, there is no Dana Reizniece-Ozola who... I believe that there is a very critical moment during her ministry. She should have come here with her head fixed, confessed everything that's curated, confessed her sins and asked us to adopt a different law. Only Dana Reizniece-Ozola is not here for some reason. All right! I hope she comes next Thursday! Next Thursday, colleagues, when we look at her request for resignation. And thank you to all those who really supported it! The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. A.Kamiņš: “Take good!” ) I believe that responsibility for the incurable chaos, for the damage suffered by Latvian companies and the people of Latvia must be borne by anyone. If a minister can take responsibility for his bud, he must also take responsibility for this chaos. So, colleagues, I call for no support for the draft law at first reading and for the vote to be 'no'. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-15-PT12-392-U488	Thank you. The floor in the debate for the Member, Janis Kruz.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-15-PT12-392-U489	Dear colleagues, I am not here the biggest speaker, as I have stressed many times. However, it has to be objectively acknowledged that the quail is indeed rude. And the moor was ripped up more than a year ago, when... ( Insight: “Two years ago! ” ) Well yes, you already, see, better remember when this quail was boiled. And the cooks were already very much at the cooking of this quail. And now we really have to try to turn this into a good thing, as we are already learning. You see, in my view, the greatest disaster is that taxation and entrepreneurship are the most judged by those who have never found anything, have not worked and maybe will not work (Interface: “It will come!” ), but maybe they will also work once in business, and then they will be very, very hard. Why do I say that? You know, here a few years ago there was such a powerful Wald Zatler Reform Party. And there was one such Member in this party, Gunārs Estonia. He was sitting around where Mārtiņš Schics was sitting... And its party was also very famous and great, and I understood a lot. And now it's happened that this Gunārs Estonia is now a small businessman in Latgale, he's no longer a Member. And very many of us too, maybe in a few years' time, will no longer have Members and will have to think, "What to do?" The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. A.Kamiņš: “There can’t be, Crag!” ) No, it is clear: the actor already remains an actor, it will always have a job. (Laughter) It's like a personal...
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-15-PT12-392-U490	Mr. Crag, please don't talk to the hall.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-15-PT12-392-U491	And now I just want to read the text sent to me by Gunārs Estonia, with which I have been in touch: "The change in the tax on micro-enterprises to 15 per cent is the most appropriate solution to this problem, so that small rural tourism companies are not quickly slaughtered. Thank you for this, and I hope that you will be pragmatic and take this decision." Well, it's written by our former colleague Gunārs Estonia. Therefore, I think and am convinced that, unfortunately, there is nothing better at this point than to support this 15-percent rate. And then - watch and measure for seven times and cut once so that such foams are not continually boiled. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-15-PT12-392-U492	Thank you. Dear colleagues, It is time for a break, but the Saeima Bureau has received an application from five Members - Smilten, Cilinski, Brigmanis, Dalder and Viņķele - to continue the sitting without interruption until the entire agenda is examined. Do Members have objections? Members shall not object. So continue the debate and continue the sitting without interruption. ( Intercretion: “To victory! ” ) The name to the Member Valdis Kalnozolas.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-15-PT12-392-U493	I fully agree with what the Chairman of our party - the Green Party - said - that our tax system should be put in order. And it's not good that these taxes are changed after the adoption of the budget, but it's already a tradition, and Unity will not be what this tradition... Well, I'll say it's bad. This has already been done. But I am sure that the greens and the farmers will do everything to make our country grow predictable. And I am deeply convinced that our proposal by Edgar Tatar that the tax system should be organised in such a way that it is in the long term... And not only the tax system needs to be organised, but also the public administration system needs to be organised. The motivation system of our Heads of State must be organised, arranged so that we can develop the country in a predictable way in the long term. ( Interface: “Idealist! ” ) And I have a great request: let us finish this political game! We know very well that at the moment we are playing political games, not looking after taxes. Let us support this proposal and put the tax system together until the next budget is adopted!
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-15-PT12-392-U494	Thank you. The name of Member Ilze Viņķelis.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-15-PT12-392-U495	We achieve new creative peaks in our legislative process. In other words, we are generally proud of having evidence-based policies, whereas we are creating text messages, facebook entries and tviter-based policies. I can only very much regret that Mr Klazka had not received this prophetic text two years ago; it would perhaps have helped us with this law, which was already with these magical 15 percent here in the Saeima, accepted, with a colleague from the ZZS and the National Union, not to be taken down, and then we would not sit down here and not begin. All this was decided two years ago. So either activate your text writers in time or place, or let us review how we work!
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-15-PT12-392-U496	Thank you. Name to Member Andrejs Judin, for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-15-PT12-392-U497	Dear colleagues, I see that our debate has one major problem of this kind. When I spoke, I saw that some people were sitting there, staying there, probably telling each other that I was talking wrong things; that everything would be different. But I do not see that, for example, Mr Putra or someone else would like to speak and answer a question that I asked in my own name, not on behalf of the Commission. Unfortunately, this is not visible! But I beseech you to take this opportunity and to answer a simple question, not only to tell you about those people who will benefit. It is very good that we can improve the situation. That is very good. But please answer what we will do if there are people, companies that will lose because of the amendments that we want to accept. Of course, social democrats can decide for themselves what to do with increasing taxes and, if five percent are to be replaced by 15, vote in favour. It's not our business. Every political power decides on its own. But I very much ask the draft law applicants to tell if they have assessed the risk associated with contesting the norm in the Constitutional Court. Because when I read the annotation, I see the emphasis on the fact that medium-sized enterprises will be good. Please take the opportunity and debate.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-15-PT12-392-U498	Name of Member Inga Bite.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-15-PT12-392-U499	Dear colleagues, I would like to remind you of one principle that I think not only lawyers, but every Member sitting here - the principle of legitimate expectations. If we want to change tax systems and taxes, giving entrepreneurs 15 days to prepare for them is not a sufficient transitional period and violates the principle of legitimate expectations. So, as has already been mentioned here, changing so quickly, raising taxes almost twice. (Interior: “Five times!” ), we can get to the Constitutional Court quite safely. However, on the issue of text messages and TV-based policies, I would like to remind Mr Kaimiņš of the way in which, on the basis of some telephone conversations, a project presented by the Unity colleagues was created. And I would also like to talk about unity.lv on December 12th, a survey published on Twitter, the results of which are obviously also based on this draft law, so it is hardly enough that colleagues from Unity are those who should talk about text messages and Twitter. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-15-PT12-392-U500	Thank you. Name to Member Sergey Dolgopolov.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-15-PT12-392-U501	Dear colleagues, Nothing is new under heaven. All these disputes, perhaps less severe than today, are repeated every year. Because every year there is a fierce battle and a fight between accountants and developers. And all these last years, this fight has been won by accountants. So all attempts to improve something for the benefit of accounting or good accounting, naturally, are not on the right side of development. In my speech, when we had a debate on the Prime Minister's report, I said it would be very good if we introduced a moratorium on tax policy, because there is nothing crazy for entrepreneurs than an annual change in the rules of the game. We can get used to heavy taxes. Good taxes can be promoted. But variable taxes discourage any investor, any businessman. Today we are talking about what is better: to improve the brothers who were allowed or not to fix their brothers. There is also another solution. But another solution will affect accountants. In other words, both standards can be left in the state in which they existed before they were changed. This means postponing for one year all the changes that were quickly accepted in the budget. Where to take the money to cover those holes in the budget? Mr Bondara has already mentioned here that, despite the great breakthrough, perhaps one should think about having a little belt and also thinking about spending positions. So that the year is a constant game rule. But it's another philosophy, another policy that's good for business and that's good for our country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-15-PT12-392-U502	Thank you. Name to Member Carl Sergeant.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-15-PT12-392-U503	Listening to the previous speakers, it is quite clear to me that, as it was before the epoch of the great quail, it was impossible to stay because, in practice, how did this situation develop? The situation developed so that 80 percent of all micro-enterprises were registered in Riga. And it is clear that these 80 percent were not those who were involved in the creation of ecological food or small guest houses. They were mostly micro-destructive builders, taxists, as we now know, also security staff, and this process would have just continued. So it couldn't stay. However, the thing that I would like to expect from the Ministry of Finance and what I am looking forward to really second reading is that the Ministry of Finance is trying to find out and here from the workshop perhaps also tell us the facts and calculations of the number of entrepreneurs who really create some product, who have at least some significant turnover, and the number of entrepreneurs who have just become such, including those forced by an employer, such as Lattelecom, where we hear about 500 micro-entrepreneurs. And apparently this figure will continue to rise. We can, of course, say that we are destroying business (which is not a business at all), but we must also be aware that in some years there will be thousands of people standing with a stretched hand and asking for a pension. So I would like to see such data from the Ministry of Finance, and then my vote may be more convincing and more secure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-15-PT12-392-U504	Thank you. Name to Member Artus Neminis.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-15-PT12-392-U505	Listen, you have an anti-constitutional formation on Mondays - Coalition Council, huh? You, the coalition, meet there and then decide which one will or will not vote on Thursday. I'm looking at it. There's no coalition in the Saeima anymore. That's cool! ZZS wants one thing, Solvita wants the other with Unity, the nationals in the middle of some kind of Lavender, but THE FATHER will now save Latvia, won't it? ( Laughs.) Depp. I.Zariņš: “ Vo! Everything is getting together in its places!” ) Here! Right?Oh, no, no, no, Why do you have the whole event that you have on those Mondays? What are you not doing there? What's going on? Now, suddenly, you've figured out, Johaid, you can't leave the Saeima house anymore, and you can't go on the street again. Forgive those officials, the thousands, the hundred thousand that we have. Reduce the number of ministries! People will be grateful to you for this. Reduce the office in Latvia! You know, for yourself, how much this visa is needed to prepare one document in SRS, 21 if I am not mistaken. It was the last incident last night. The person was made redundant - thank you. But now you touch something you can't touch. Yes, Mr. Sergeant! You need to move with a filter over the greedy, those who get... The fact that in Riga... What? You didn't know we didn't have decentralisation and everything happened there as in the capital? It's normal that 80 or... How many times did you say? 70 percent are in Riga. That wouldn't be the main thing. The main thing is that those indecents are, and they can be found in some way, “complicate”. But you're forgetting something... A request for a resignation has been submitted to both Reira, the former Minister of Finance and Reizniece-Ozola, the current Minister of Finance. There are still non-payers during these two ministers; in the context of the SRS, I called you top 5 but there are at least twenty others. And there are those millions. If you, the coalition that we no longer have, will reduce the number of posts, it will be great at all! Perhaps someone will choose if you do so. Maybe not. God knows it. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. L. Cigan: “On the topic!” ) But in any case the CPV remains with the fact that we will not vote in favour of this, simply you indicate what you should do. Well, if you probably don't know.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-15-PT12-392-U506	Thank you. The name is Mr. Vilnis Ķirsim.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-15-PT12-392-U507	First of all, it is a pleasure that both Mr Putra and his colleagues from the Union of Greens and Farmers are ready to admit their error and are ready to guide the current idea that was rejected a couple of years ago. Well, it's clear that there's a lesson to learn from this. In the terminology of the chess, it should be said: once Mr Putra and his colleagues in the Ministry of Economics played with white pegs and could afford not to think about the consequences of their call, but there is a different party and black pegs are already being played, with which you cannot only express popular things, but at the end of the day you must be able to draw together the balance and watch where the money flows. It is, of course, good that we recognise errors, but it must be done in some tasteful, understandable, logical way. Can't do it simply by saying two weeks before the rate enters into force that it will be twice or even three times larger! That is why Unity has offered this option, and I do not really understand, Mr Putra, what you say is that we will change something there for the second reading, because you have rejected the draft law which included the option, but the draft law which does not say anything about the option, today. Well, that's funny. So that I personally will abstain from voting on this bill, even though, of course, I supported the idea two years ago and I supported it today.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-15-PT12-392-U508	Thank you. The name to Member Martin Bondar, for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-15-PT12-392-U509	Colleagues! I would ask you to listen to what Mr Sergeant said about the substance of the proposed amendments to the micro-enterprises tax. But at the same time, there is no information about the number of these people who optimise their taxes by using micro-enterprises; the number of these people who use micro-enterprises to cheat; the number of these people who, in good faith, are currently developing the theme called "Let us use micro-enterprises to obtain the benefits that we do not have." Only these loud slogans, these loud headlines, are mentioned, but no specific figures are revealed. But it was Dana Reizniece-Ozola's duty! Either she should have come personally to the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission... Well, if not to the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission, it would have come here to the Saeima sitting and presented it to all of us. And the second thing Mr Sergeant said about, and I would also like to mention, is that state-owned companies have forced their employees to switch to micro-enterprises. Friends, you are the ones who are currently overseeing state-owned companies! How did you let that happen? With what right?Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Why did you allow a state-owned company to force workers to switch to micro-enterprises in order to optimise taxes itself and actually limit social guarantees for these people? It is your responsibility, and it is your negligence! Think about it! I hope that, for the second reading, these documents, on which Mr Sergeant spoke, will be available to us all - both to the position and to the opposition - and we will be able to speak on the basis of the figures that the Ministry of Finance will present. Hopefully, the State Revenue Service will prepare them. Mr. Putra, and now you have the name. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. J.Adamson: “Sitting manager doesn’t need it at all!” ) Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-15-PT12-392-U510	Thank you. Name to Member Edgars Putras.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-15-PT12-392-U511	Mr Bondara, you must have a short memory. We talked about concrete figures at the committee meeting on Tuesday... 11 months this year. There are 81 companies and more than 771 employees with a sign - previously worked in the company, was made redundant, now working on a service contract in the same company. It's just one year. If you remember, this mode... The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. M.Bondar: “What paper? What paper?Oh, no, no, no, no, no, “ Well, it’s also a story about whether or not you believe these numbers... The question is more about the year in which this regime was then adopted. It was adopted in the last decade. Well, if this year, for example, it's 81 companies, it means that we have... It is not yet ten years, but is now approaching a decade of this regime, and these optimists (let's not call them on behalf of individual companies) are realistic. It's a problem... And in this respect, I'd like to say that these 15 percent are, so to speak... With one shot, we shoot two hares, because this micro-enterprises tax regime was originally aimed at those people who have lost their jobs, those young entrepreneurs who want to develop their business capacity. None of these companies at first would work with 100, 70 or 80 thousand turnover per year! 15 per cent - it is a rate that benefits most micro-enterprises' taxpayers at present, i.e., for a larger profile. The kind of regulation that will be beneficial to everyone, well, we're not sure we're ever going to come up with. ( Interface: “Let’s go! ”) ) Those companies that may be approaching the 100 thousand threshold... I think one large part is also on the list of 81 companies this year. Well, one large part of them then also has the potential risk of tax optimisation, and it may be time for these companies to think and perhaps come back to work in a standard setting, and to pay taxes fairly so that we can talk about sufficient funding for health, education and other important areas in the future. Thank you. Let us support this draft law at first reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-15-PT12-392-U512	Thank you. Name of Member Solvita Āboltiņš. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. A.Kamiņš: “Solvita, no personal, please!” ) Council Regulation (EC) No 1257/96 of 20 June 1996 concerning humanitarian aid (OJ L 163, 2.7.1996, p. 1).
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-15-PT12-392-U513	Hello, colleagues! There is such a very difficult situation, and I must have felt so bad ever. — Dep. A.Kamiņš: “I don’t believe!” ), because two weeks ago we accepted a brother. We made a sensible decision back years: we were determined to make sure that all people in our country would be socially protected in the long term. ( We are not talking about the pensions that we will have to receive, we are talking about any of us who have an incapacity for work, who are unemployed and who will receive an early or late pension.) But we were not able within a year - neither were we within a year! - to make this coalition a sensible solution, so that people do not have to worry that they have to pay more in social tax than they pay in wages. I am sorry to everyone that we have not been able to do this, and we now have to look for some extraordinary solutions. I also apologise for the fact that Unity was so incapable, so cowardly and in search of compromises that we were unable to stand up two years ago for something to be done with the tax on micro-enterprises. We were unable to defend the original rule - 19 per cent - in 2018, when this idea emerged at all. Then we saw all this turning into a tax-shaping scheme, and our attempts to put this system in a coalition were against numerous compromises, and we were unable to do so. What's going on today? Today, we find suddenly that on 1 January there will be a great deal of people who will not be able to pay the social tax that we have adopted last year, with the correct alignment of that with all the stakeholders, both employers and trade unions, with all - as was agreed. And the other thing we find suddenly is that if we cancel all this, there's a hole of more than 70 million in the budget. And what are we doing? The nature is correct when there is such a hole, to open the budget and to correct. Well, maybe let's really give up something that's been wasted there. That is something we cannot recognise. We can't all admit that we've made a mistake, that we've worked in a hurry, that we haven't been professional enough. What are we doing? We figure out: well, then, two years ago, that was the opinion, we also quickly talk to the social partners - and ahead! And now we... This is where everyone speaks and defends... tells us how the state will be saved, both the Social Democrats, who never raise taxes, and the very national people who talk about the stability of the coalition and cannot do so with the SAID voices... We are now trying to say that we will prevent chaos and sort out the system. No, we're not going to get rid of chaos. Without moving the deadline, but with the abolition of social contributions, we will bring about 100 000 people at risk who will not have any social security. Let us all answer ourselves honestly - or next year, when there will be municipal elections, or next year... If we have excluded this rule from the law, we will tell people that we respect the principle of legitimate expectations and that we really want everyone to pay social tax - a reasonable tax, one that can be paid? Everyone, however, ensures that sickness, unemployment and other social protection provisions are provided and provided with sufficient means. Therefore, we propose to postpone the start of this law and, if we have been so lazy and have not been able to do it within a year, then perhaps within this nine-month period, however, to propose a sensible solution. On the tax on micro-enterprises. It is simply offered to replace, as it is a budget hole suppression tax... And here are those two sides - is that good or is it bad? And will that be predictable? Mrs Silver, it will now be a predictable system for years. This week there were two tax measures. One is our own. All social partners discussed taxes and said that they wanted a predictable system, a system geared to the development and growth of the country. Will this provision, which we will adopt today to oblivion of the budget and to rob people of social protection, be its sustainable norm? Yesterday, a seminar, a large tax seminar, was held in which the World Bank pointed out that micro-enterprises' tax generally distorts competition and haste to think about other norms. The Minister for Finance said yesterday: "We will have a new balanced system within four months." So what do we deceive, and who speaks the truth at some point? What we're going to accept today will miss just a hole. Just miss the hole for a moment. This will not create predictability, stability or a business environment in which national growth could be discussed. We're deceiving ourselves. That is why we offer that if there is a mistake, we apologize, sit down and come up with a process that is sustainable. This solution proposed today is unsustainable. That is why the Unity will abstain.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-15-PT12-392-U514	Thank you. Name to Member Igor Pimenov.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-15-PT12-392-U515	Hello! I'll be brief. The first reading is coming to an end, closing, but in my mind begins... at least a serious debate on the future of the special social budget needs to be launched. Who should be responsible for contributions to the social budget? For the worker and the employer or the State? That is a serious question. If social contributions or social tax, as we call it, become a burden for future producers, it will also be a burden for development. And I think that this very serious conversation must be remembered in the future so that we do not repeat our arguments. This time I am calling for this draft law to be supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-15-PT12-392-U516	Thank you. Name to Member Ivars Zarins.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-15-PT12-392-U517	It is tragic and, at the same time, amusing to listen to the fact that, here, from this troupe, coalition Members come and say that tax policy must be established responsibly, that they must not unwisely raise taxes. Some good coalition Members are even coming here and telling us that the political forces in power are those that ensure stability and progress in economic development in the country. You know, listening to everything you're talking about here, I finally understand the decision taken by the Committee on Mandates, Ethics and Application that it is ethical to call a Member an idiot. Sorry, but now you are making the whole country as idiots. Because if you had some responsibility in front of the country and society, you would come with a single proposal today not to do this circus, but to do it, as you will have done. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. S.Absolute intermediates.) But you're making this circus now in the calculation of the suffocation, and when the opposition makes you... Then you will put it on the opposition that, you see, you have already had a solution, but the opposition did not give you that opportunity. No, we'll give you that opportunity. Prove that you have this solution, as you will demolish this quail. Show it, or understand that it is time for you to go home! Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-15-PT12-392-U518	Thank you. Name to Member Janis Urbanovich.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-15-PT12-392-U519	Highly honored Saeima! In my view, all this day is about everything, not about things and not about the substance. In fact, Mr Vejonis, the President of Latvia, is going to gas this government because he has rejected the entire budget package. You all spoke, told me, shouted out of this troop that neither this micro-enterprise tax nor any loyalty amendments can be removed, because it is a single package and otherwise it will collapse. Now everything is collapsed, we continue to debate something. One day at one table and probably with one pen, Mr Vejonis has rejected the budget, and then the budget rejected - without any leaves being broken, sent here - has been approved. In my view, in this situation, if Kučinski did not understand what should be done, then the Saeima should have said: “Beloved, come back, even come together again in the same composition, pick up the same beaks and continue to sit and linger with each other for nothing. But the government has fallen.” I think that there are legal consequences and opportunities that, after some time, everything that this government has decided on from another political elite will probably be challenged and not legitimised for any second. That is the situation. And now the question is, why is this happening? Because the greatest concern in the coalition is about different rebs, not the essence of the law. The opposition is never heard at all, even when it offers what you are now defending in different ways. Well, there's no way this country can't lead! Go home!
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-15-PT12-392-U520	The debate is closed. Is there anything to add on behalf of the Commission? Mr. Putra! ( Intercretion: Mr. Putra!) ) Council Regulation (EC) No 1257/96 of 20 June 1996 concerning humanitarian aid (OJ L 163, 2.7.1996, p. 1).
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-15-PT12-392-U521	On behalf of the Commission, I call for support for the draft law at first reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-15-PT12-392-U522	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote for the first reading of the draft law “Amendments to the Microbusiness Tax Law”! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For -59, for -6, for -18. Draft legislation supported at first reading. Please set a deadline for the submission of the proposals for the second reading as well as the date of the second reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-15-PT12-392-U523	Deadline for the submission of proposals - 15 December 2016 at 16.00, second reading Saeima extraordinary sitting on 20 December.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-15-PT12-392-U524	Members shall not object. The next item is the draft law on "Amendments to the Law on State Social Insurance", first reading. On behalf of the Commission for Social and Labour Affairs - Member Aija Barča.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-15-PT12-392-U525	Dear Sir, Members of the Saeima Bureau! Dear Members and honourable Members, On behalf of the Commission for Social and Labour Affairs, I would like to report to you on the draft amendments to the Law on State Social Insurance. And I would like to begin with a quote from the letter from the President of Latvia to the Saeima on 9 December (letter 637). Here’s a quote from the President of Latvia: “I would like to draw attention to the fact that the obligation to pay state social insurance contributions for employees from the state’s minimum monthly salary, regardless of whether the employee has actually done the job in this amount and received the relevant salary, is unfair both for the employer and for the employee. By imposing such a tax burden, the employer will increase the cost of the part-time employee's employment, which could result in a loss of part-time workers and thus a possible increase in unemployment. Moreover, such regulation can drive full-time workers out of the labour market (the grass has increased noise. The head of the sitting shall knock down by means of a hammer.) time employment is not possible due to age, health or family conditions. At the same time, such a framework does not facilitate the search for additional employment opportunities for part-time workers who could work in full-time work, which in turn could reduce productivity. The additional tax burden on the employer to pay state social security contributions for employees does not less than the national minimum monthly wage includes the risk that the employer could avoid paying these taxes by changing the number of employees or salaries.’ And so on. In his letter, the President of Latvia also said that the amendments to the Law “On State Social Insurance” adopted by the Saeima on 30 November 2015 would most likely not achieve the goal of strengthening social protection of citizens and increasing revenue in the special state social insurance budget –, but – on the contrary! - equalisation of the minimum national social security contributions to the national minimum monthly wage in the current situation will increase unemployment and promote the informal economy. Therefore, honourable colleagues, on behalf of the Commission for Social Affairs and Labour, I would like to call on you today to think very seriously about the draft law prepared by our commission and in cooperation with both the Ministry of Finance and the responsible officials at the Ministry of Welfare, as well as with the parliament's Legal Office. Moreover, I had to listen to the people who had gathered at the Saeima last Tuesday at 15.00 and who wanted to speak to Members in every way (preferably from all the political groups). And we repeated this conversation with representatives - as we have now 15 - at 12:00 last Friday. And people who represented both micro-enterprises and individual workers, as well as small companies with limited liability (LLC) thus clearly and lightly said: “We will endure the increase in the tax on micro-enterprises, but compulsory social insurance contributions for employees working for a short period of time – we will not be able to endure this.” These people, who were very interested and ready for a constructive discussion, were also charged with the draft laws drafted by our commission, and they accepted them. Dear colleagues, If we are talking about 30 November 2015, if we are talking about working groups established in 2015 and very serious work, then from that time until now the Employers' Confederation of Latvia, as well as the Chamber of Industry and Commerce, have considered quite a lot of things. And lately, they say that such changes are really necessary. Next year, we must work together and include members of the Saeima (at least those working in the Committee on Budgets and Finance (Tax) and the Commission on Social and Labour Affairs) in these serious working groups, and without rush, with very serious discussions and calculations... And only if we have so serious draft laws, including amendments to the Law on State Social Insurance, will we look at three readings, speaking very seriously and weighing every proposal, obviously the result will not be the same as today. Dear colleagues, I believe that it is not necessary to quote the annotation of the draft laws prepared by our commission, this is something that you have all met; also the calculations that have been added to the annotation; and also the fact that no new institutions are needed in addition, that the same will be done by the same State Social Insurance Agency. And the bill, too... If some colleagues say that it may be necessary to change the Law on State Social Insurance again in the course of the year, then it should be recalled that the Commission on Social and Labour Affairs, colleagues, has already done, in my opinion, a good job that you could have known in the draft law (number 771), which we have today withdrawn by a decision of the Commission. But I very much hope and believe that those social groups to whom this acceptance would be due will probably be looked at again in the future. On behalf of the Commission, colleagues, I call for the urgent nature of the draft law.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-15-PT12-392-U526	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote for the urgent introduction to the draft law “Amendments to the Law on State Social Insurance”! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 66, for - no, for - 19. The draft law has been declared urgent.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-15-PT12-392-U527	Dear colleagues, On behalf of the Commission, I call for the adoption of the draft law at first reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-15-PT12-392-U528	Let's start a debate. Name in the debate for Member Hosam Abu Meri.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-15-PT12-392-U529	Colleagues! Putra is a very healthy food, and it is the traditional breakfast of Latvia at all. It is understandable, therefore, why we now have a quail. But now the amendment to the law that Mrs Barch spoke about. I am very happy that you really offer that next year we sit and talk and look and so on and so on. But I do not understand why we should completely abolish. Why not move for some time? And let us do what you, Mrs Barch, now promise to do! I am not so naive as to believe that we are going to do something or change something next year or next year, because there are definitely two in front of the elections and no one is going to change something. Next thing. I am very grateful to the Social Democrats that you voted today and saved the country, but I also do not understand how the Social Democrats, who are not interested in the social guarantees, pensions, benefits and so on of their constituents, can be. You didn't support it, you cancelled it altogether. If almost one third of all people who are socially insured contribute less than the national minimum wage, certain groups of people would need 50 to 90 years of work in order to raise at least the capital required for the minimum old-age pension. Therefore, logically, there is a possibility that this third of people may not even earn a minimum pension at all. Consequently, I believe that this is a very serious amendment to the law. If we withdraw completely, I do not believe that we will talk about this again next year or next year. Just as I abstained on the committee's vote, I will do the same right now and the group will do the same.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-15-PT12-392-U530	Thank you. The name of the Member, Einer Cylinskis.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-15-PT12-392-U531	Sir, Honourable Members! When more than a year ago the Saeima adopted this proposal, you see, the idea was that by then the Ministry of Economics would draw up a law on lifestyle enterprises, which could then solve at least part of these problems for people who really work for a short time, and so on. This has not been done. And so, if such a norm were to come into force at the moment, then, like the one mentioned in the letter from the President of Latvia by Mrs Barča, it would mean that a whole range of people who work part-time (and they really work in this way, and this situation is very different in Riga and in regions, as mentioned in the text quoted by Mr Klazda), would actually remain even poorer for many people who are already at risk of poverty. And that's what would happen if we adopted this law in this way at the moment. It is therefore necessary to abolish these minimum contributions and work much more carefully on the complex solution, which includes both this lifestyle company and perhaps also a social enterprise, which we voted on today at first reading, so that we could employ these people from risk groups to part-time, and so we would not contribute to poverty in one group of people that would be subject to it if we continued to apply these minimum contributions as is currently the case in legislation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-15-PT12-392-U532	Thank you. The name is Mr. Vilnis Ķirsim.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-15-PT12-392-U533	Colleagues! As the Latvian Ombudsman has said in recent days, we are approaching the edge of the social abyss and we will soon take a broad step forward. In Latvia, out of some 900 thousand employees in social protection systems, it actually participates only 600 thousand, and the remaining 300 thousand pay either minimum contributions or under them, and several tens of thousands pay zero. These people do not, above all, participate in the current solidarity programme; they do not think about modern pensioners; they do not think about themselves, about their own illness, about their own pension (Dep. E.Smilten: “They think, but don’t let them!” )... Yes, they think, but they may not be allowed to do so. One thing is clear: they will have a deplorable pension in old age. Clearly, we, society, of course, will not allow anyone to die in hunger, but we will support them even if their pension is just EUR 45, or so. This is now a fundamental problem for us. It is a time bomb that will explode after 10, 15, 20 years, and at that time it will not be possible to solve it. But today we can still find and gradually eliminate the solution by taking targeted steps. But what does this draft law foresee? This draft law provides that we do not make a solution for some time, for a half-year or for a year, and in the meantime we are looking for other solutions, but this draft law proposes to wipe this problem under the guise, forget about it and then wait slowly for this great social explosion. Colleagues, I would be prepared to support such a draft law if it really had a deadline, no matter half a year, or something like that, and we would be committed to finding a solution. And the other thing. If the State Revenue Service was not prepared to start collecting these contributions, then the solution was to postpone them for some time, not to forget them altogether. And finally. It has been said here that the Ministry of Economics is guilty that there are no rules for these lifestyle enterprises and start-ups. However, I must remind you that, six months after this decision was taken that such regimes had to be developed, ministers and parliamentary secretaries were from another party, and when Mr Asheraden came to the ministry, work on these mechanisms had been done precisely zero, and as far as he could at this time could, so far as was done. And a lot was done! In the summer, the government offered these directions, which these lifestyle companies and start-ups could look like. The Minister for Economics said in the government that it cannot be done to close the micro-enterprises regime without giving way to anything else, and called for it to be looked at in a single package, but the government considered it necessary to move forward quickly - that we must close the micro-enterprises regime from the outset and then, sometime in spring, we will be offering other new regimes. So let us be accurate when we insult someone! Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-15-PT12-392-U534	Thank you. The name of Member Aija Barch.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-15-PT12-392-U535	Dear colleagues, Absolutely than personal, however, I would like to draw particular attention to the highly respected young colleagues. Mr Smilten says that there is no possibility now if a person wants to pay additional social security contributions. That's the chance! There is a special programme for national social security. In particular, those people who work under the micro-enterprises regime and want to pay more than this percentage of micro-enterprises' tax has been set today, go to the State Social Insurance Agency and pay additional money. This is the way in which families who are preparing for the birth of a child are currently taking action in Latvia. Here I am talking about future mothers. But to my colleague, Mr. Kerry (The Head of the sitting knocks down with a hammer.) I want to say: when you either lead the Riga City Council or work at the 15th or 16th Saeima (and I truly wish you that!) , then, please remember 30 November 2015 and perhaps still think seriously at the moment! I hope that after many years you will also be one of those who will say that it was not only the green farmers who were guilty that this quail was ripped off, but it was the Unity, and you will remember one evening - perhaps at the glass of tea - as we were working at the Saeima. I really wish you, young people, success in politics, but first of all we have to start with an explanation, with what the President of Latvia said in his letter, we have to invite those working in Latvia to pay taxes, because otherwise there is no right to request services. I call for support for the draft law at first reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-15-PT12-392-U536	Thank you. Name to Member Igor Pimenov.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-15-PT12-392-U537	The Vilnius Chers' replica actually proves what I spoke about in my previous speech: that there is a serious debate on what the reform of the social protection system should be. Our welfare ministers - both the existing Minister, Mr Reira, and those former Ministers - remind us, and Mr Reira, that we have one of the best social protection systems in the world, that this system is highly appreciated by European experts and experts. But I would like to express the following opinion: the principle of solidarity does indeed work if the country's economy flourishes. If there is no prosperity, then this principle and the existing system actually weaken social protection and become a development brake. And in order to improve social protection and prevent its weakening, it is now necessary to make specific amendments that the Saeima has just reported to the Chair of the Commission on Social Affairs and Labour. But it's just the first step, it's really a problem suppression. We need a serious reform, and the way forward, in my view, is, however, to make social budget contributions not only from employers' and workers' pockets, but also from the general budget. Only in this way will we provide real social protection. ( The interdependencies of the fraction are: “Rightly! ” ) Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-15-PT12-392-U538	Thank you. The debate is closed. Is there anything to add on behalf of the Commission?
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-15-PT12-392-U539	Dear colleagues, Out of the 12 members working in the Social and Labour Commission, 10 supported the first reading of the draft law. On behalf of the Commission, please support the draft law at first reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-15-PT12-392-U540	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote for support for the first reading of the draft law “Amendments to the Law “On State Social Insurance”! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 65, for - no, for - 18. The draft law at first reading has been supported. Please set a deadline for the submission of the proposals as well as a date for the second reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-15-PT12-392-U541	The Commission of Social and Labour Affairs invites to set a deadline for the submission of proposals for the second reading - 16 December at 16.00 and consideration - in the extraordinary sitting of the Saeima on 20 December.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-15-PT12-392-U542	Members shall not object. The next item is the draft law on maternity and sickness insurance, first reading. On behalf of the Commission for Social and Labour Affairs - Member Aija Barča.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-15-PT12-392-U543	Dear colleagues, The draft law “Amendment to the law “On Maternity and Sickness Insurance”” is closely related to the amendments to the law “On State Social Insurance”. I therefore call for urgency to be given to the draft law on behalf of the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-15-PT12-392-U544	Please call me! We will vote for granting of urgency to the draft law “Amendment to the Law on Maternity and Sickness Insurance”! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 62, for -no, for -19. The draft law has been declared urgent.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-15-PT12-392-U545	On behalf of the Commission, I call for the adoption of the draft law at first reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-15-PT12-392-U546	Please call me! We will vote for support for the first reading of the draft law “Amendment to the Law on Maternity and Sickness Insurance”! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For -63, for -no, for -19. The draft law has been adopted at first reading. Please set a deadline for the submission of the proposals as well as a date for the second reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-15-PT12-392-U547	On behalf of the Commission, I ask you to set a deadline for the submission of proposals - 16 December at 16.00 and for the second, final reading - for the extraordinary sitting of the Saeima on 20 December.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-15-PT12-392-U548	Members shall not object. The next item is the draft law on unemployment insurance, first reading. On behalf of the Commission for Social and Labour Affairs - Member Aija Barča.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-15-PT12-392-U549	Dear colleagues, On behalf of the Commission for Social and Labour Affairs, given that the draft law on unemployment insurance is also related to the amendments to the law on state social insurance, please determine the urgency of the draft law.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-15-PT12-392-U550	Please call me! We will vote for the urgent introduction to the draft law “Amendment to the Law “On Unemployment Insurance””! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 60, for - no, for - 19. The draft law has been declared urgent.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-15-PT12-392-U551	On behalf of the Commission, I call on the draft law to be supported at first reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-15-PT12-392-U552	Please call me! We will vote for support for the first reading of the draft law on unemployment insurance! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 64, for - no, for - 19. The draft law has been adopted at first reading. Please set a deadline for the submission of the proposals for the second reading as well as the date of the second reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-15-PT12-392-U553	On behalf of the Commission for Social and Labour Affairs, I call for a deadline to be set for the submission of proposals at 16.00 on 16 December and for consideration at the extraordinary meeting on 20 December.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-15-PT12-392-U554	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-15-PT12-392-U555	Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-15-PT12-392-U556	Dear colleagues, Let us start by looking at the next item on the agenda: "Previewing draft decisions". Draft decision on the extension of the deadline for the submission of proposals for the second reading of the draft law “Amendments to the Law on European Commercial Companies” (No 747/Lp12) until 6 January 2017. Please call me! We will vote on the draft decision “On extension of the deadline for submitting proposals in the second reading of the draft law “Amendments to the Law on European Commercial Companies” (No 747/Lp12) until 6 January 2017”! Please vote mode! Please get the result! It's not about - 80, it's against and refrains from - it's not. Decision adopted. Draft decision on the extension of the deadline for the submission of proposals to the second reading of the draft law on Amendments to the Law on Economic Interest Groups of Europe (No 745/Lp12) until 6 January 2017. Please call me! We will vote on the draft decision on the extension of the deadline for submitting proposals to the second reading of the draft law on Amendments to the Law on Economic Interest Groups of Europe (No 745/Lp12) until 6 January 2017! Please vote mode! Please get the result! Not by - 82, not by - and refrains. Decision adopted. Draft decision on the extension of the deadline for the submission of proposals for the second reading of the draft law “Amendments to Commercial Law” (No 749/Lp12) until 6 January 2017. Please call me! We will vote on the draft decision on the extension of the deadline for submitting proposals to the second reading of the draft law “Amendments to the Commercial Law” (No 749/Lp12) until 6 January 2017! Please vote mode! Please get the result! Not by - 82, not by - and refrains. Decision adopted. Draft decision “On extension of the deadline for the submission of proposals for the second reading of the draft law “Amendments to the Law on European Cooperatives” (No 748/Lp12) until 6 January 2017. Please call me! We will vote on the draft decision “On extension of the deadline for the submission of proposals in the second reading of the draft law “Amendments to the Law on European Cooperative Society” (No 748/Lp12) until 6 January 2017”! Please vote mode! Please get the result! It's not about - 83, it's against and refrains from - it's not. Decision adopted. Dear colleagues, We have therefore examined the agenda of today's sitting. I would like to inform you that today at 17.00 there was a provision for answering Members' questions. The question of Member Zariņa, Artūra Rubika, Agešina, Tutina and Raimonds Rubika, Minister of Finance Dana Reizniece-Ozola “On action to detect violations in the area of state revenue”. The response received in writing does not satisfy the applicants, but the Minister informs that it will not be possible to come to the oral response today, because it will be on a pre-planned visit to Kurzeme. The question by Member Zariņa, Arthur Rubika, Agešina, Tutina and Pimenov to the Minister for Health Anda Čakša “On the progress of implementation of the new project of P.Stradiņa Clinical University Hospital and its relevance to public interests.” The applicants have been answered in writing, but they are not satisfied with the written reply, but the Minister informs you that they will not be able to come to the oral response today because they are on a mission. As a result, no response meeting is held today. However, a number of new questions have been received from Members. The question of Members Elksniņa, Urbanoviča, Agešina, Zemlinska and Potapkina has been received to the Minister of Defence Raimonds Bergmanis “On mechanisation of the National Armed Forces”. We refer the question to the Minister of Defence. Members Elksniņa, Potapkina, Agešina, Urbanoviča and Ribakova question to the Minister of Health Anda Chakša “On the implementation of the e-health project” has been received. We put the question to Anda Chakša, Minister of Health. Members Elksniņa, Urbanoviča, Orlova, Potapkina and Raimonds Rubika's question to Finance Minister Dana Reizniece-Ozola “On State Revenue Service” has been received. We refer the question to the Minister for Finance. The question of Members Zarina, Tutina, Agešina, Ribakova and Potapkinas has been received to the Minister of Environmental Protection and Regional Development Kaspars Gerhardas “On the application of the future e-health system project”. The question is referred to the Minister for Environmental Protection and Regional Development. The question of Members Zarina, Tutina, Agešina, Ribakova and Potapkinas has been received to the Minister of Environmental Protection and Regional Development Kaspars Gerhardas “On verification of the functionality of the eHealth system”. The question is referred to the Minister of Environmental Protection and Regional Development. The question to the Minister of Health Anda Chakša “On successful implementation of the first and second stages of the e-health project” has been received. We shall refer the matter to the Minister for Health. The question to the Minister of Health Anda Chakša “On the implementation of the next round of the eHealth system” has been received. We shall refer the matter to the Minister for Health. Member Zarina, Orlova, Agešina, Tutina and Raimonds Rubika's question to Finance Minister Dana Reizniece-Ozola “On the justification of financial motivation for the staff of the Treasury” has been received. We shall refer the matter to the Minister for Finance. And the question of Members Zarina, Raimonds Rubika, Agešina, Urbanovich and Orlovas has been received to Prime Minister Maris Kučinskis about the proper implementation of the e-health system. We put this question to Prime Minister Maris Kučinskis. Ladies and gentlemen, it is time for registration. Please call me! Please check-in mode! Please, check-in result! As soon as the results of the registration are collected, its name will be read to Gunārs Kūtris, a member of the Seimas Secretary.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-15-PT12-392-U557	Dear colleagues, Not registered: Boris Cilevičs, Lolita Chigan, Walter Dambe ; dep. A.Kimiņš: “Where is he? Show me where he is!Is that so? “), Nelli Kleinberga, Inese Laizāne, Atis Lejiņš, Roman Mežeckis, Ināra Mūrniece, Imants Raudnieks, Romualds Ražuks, Arturs Rubiks, Veiko Spolitis, Mārtiņš Šics... ( Interface: “Mārtiņš Šics is! ” ), Juris Vectirāns and Jānis Vucāns.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-15-PT12-392-U558	Thank you. So I declare the Saeima sitting closed.
