ParlaMint-LV_2016-05-05-PT12-362-U1	Ladies and gentlemen, I call for seats to be held in the Saeima's Chamber. Let's start the Saeima sitting on May 5. Before starting to discuss the agenda of the Bureau meeting, proposals for amendments to it should be examined. The Legal Commission asks to amend the agenda of the sitting and to include in it the draft law “Amendments to the Law on the State Cadastre of Real Estate”. Are Members opposed to this amendment of the agenda? There is no objection by Members. The agenda has been amended. The Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy asks for an amendment to the agenda of the meeting and the inclusion of a draft law on ‘Amendments to the Law on Public Procurement’. Are Members opposed to this amendment of the agenda? There is no objection by Members. The agenda has been amended. The Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy asks for an amendment to the agenda of the meeting and the inclusion of a draft law on ‘Amendments to the Law on Public Service Providers’. Are Members opposed to this amendment of the agenda? There is no objection by Members. The agenda has been amended. With regard to the draft decision submitted by Member Jānis Dombrava, Gaida Berzina, Raivja Dzinta, Aleksandra Kiršteina, Kārlis Krēsliņa, Romana Moneyiņa, Ingunas Ribena, Andra Buikis, Ritvars Jansons and Ilmars Latkovska “On the withdrawal of Member Jānis Dombrava from the Parliamentary Investigation Commission on the impact of corruption, lobbying, organised crime and smuggling on tax collection and investigation of economic and financial crimes, as well as the assessment of the personal liability of officials of the Interior, the Ministry of Justice, the Ministry of Finance and other public institutions in the light of public interest and good governance principles”, I would like to inform you that Member Gaidis Berzins has referred to his signature. Consequently, the draft decision cannot be considered to have been submitted. We begin to examine the agenda of the approved sitting. Reports by the Bureau on draft legislative acts submitted. The Saeima Presidium proposes that the draft law presented by the Cabinet of Ministers “Amendments to the Law “On Accounting” be submitted to the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission, stating that it is the committee responsible. Do Members have objections? There is no objection by Members. The draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Saeima Presidium proposes that the draft law presented by the Cabinet of Ministers “Amendments to the Law on Society and Foundations” be submitted to the Commission of State Administration and Local Government, stating that it is the committee responsible. Do Members have objections? There is no objection by Members. The draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Presidium of the Saeima proposes that the draft law “Amendment to the Law on Land Management” submitted by the Commission of the State Administration and Local Government be referred to the Commission of the State Administration and Local Government, stating that it is the committee responsible. Do Members have objections? There is no objection by Members. The draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Saeima Presidium proposes that the draft law “Amendment to the Law on Remuneration of Officials and Employees of State and Municipal Institutions” submitted by Member Artusa Kaimina, Inguna Silverba, Gunāra Kūtra, Aivars Meija and Arvidas Platopera be referred to the National Administration and Municipal Commission, stating that it is the committee responsible. ‘ For” applied to speak Member Artuss Kaimiņš.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-05-05-PT12-362-U2	Good morning, dear Members! At the moment, I would like to emphasise the word "expensive" really literally, because some of you are too expensive for taxpayers. In particular, members of the Saeima are paid by Latvian taxpayers. I have tabled these amendments to the law so that Members do not receive too many premiums for their Members' work. One example of this is Augusta Brigman, who received the highest salary in the Saeima in March. Mr. Brigmann has received EUR 3398 on his hand. Mr Brigmanis's duties are to be carried out by the Chair of the ZZS Group, the Chairman of the Appeals Commission and the Secretary of the Commission on Human Rights and Public Affairs. As Group President, Brigmanis receives a premium of 1.39 times 818 euro (this is the average salary), which is 1137 euro. As chairman of the commission, he receives exactly the same, that is, an additional EUR 1137. As the committee secretary he receives 0.35 times 818, that is, 286 euros. In total, Brigmann's salary is as follows: EUR 2617 plus EUR 1137 plus EUR 1137 plus EUR 286; in total it is EUR 5177 per paper, or gross. Good salary, Mr. Brigman! By deducting taxes, it results that he has received EUR 3.4 000. If we accept this amendment, he could only choose one – one! – from these your premiums, i.e. the biggest ones, not all, which are now cumulative. We can also take the example of an ACP which, as Chairman of the Group, Chairman of the National Security Commission and Chair of the Subcommittee on Justice Policy of the Legal Commission, receives a basic salary of EUR 2617, EUR 1137 on the Group's leadership (Dep. S. Aboltiņa: “You lie! You're lying! You lie!” ), EUR 1137 – for the management of the... The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. S. Aboltiņa: “But she has renounced the bonus!” ) I already said, “Never stop me!” Total: EUR 5112. The fact that she has given up some premium is just... Well, it's honest, it's not a law. I propose that only one premium can be received by law, not all. Kūtris, who has also signed this paper and is currently at the Bureau... Currently, as a member of the Saeima Secretary, the Chair of the Sub-Commission on Criminal Law Policy of the Legal Commission and a member of the Group, he receives a basic salary of EUR 2617, EUR 1210 for work in the Bureau, plus EUR 220 for the management of the Sub-Commission, plus EUR 286 for the function of the Group Chairman. Total: EUR 4335. Dzintar... Where is he now? We don't know... Raivis Dzintars is a group president, a member of the Education, Culture and Science Commission and a chairman of the State Education and Youth Sub-Commission, receiving a basic salary of EUR 2617, EUR 1137 for group management, EUR 220 for sub-committee management, plus EUR 286 for commission president. Total: EUR 4261. Our “breast” from SASKANA – Vitalijs Orlovs... Vitaly! Vitaly, you are Chairman of the Commission on Mandates, Ethics and Applications, Secretary of the Sub-Commission on Public Health, you receive a basic salary of EUR 2617 for the management of the Commission plus EUR 1137 as Secretary of the Sub-Commission. You receive a total of EUR 3893. I will not name all those who receive these many bonuses here. I urge you to accept this... The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. S. Apple: “It can be read on the Internet!” ) Stop talking in the middle! Now what do you have, huh? The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. S. Apple: “Select their Order rollers once after one and a half years!” ) I therefore urge the draft law to move forward. It doesn't matter here whether I come from a position or from an opposition. You all get these bonuses. I believe that this is not fair and taxpayers do not have to pay for your work in the Saeima. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-05-05-PT12-362-U3	Thank Member Artus Neminis. ‘ Ināra Mūrniece, Member of Ināra Mūrniece, has applied for the referral of this draft law to the commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-05-05-PT12-362-U4	The debate in Parliament is becoming more and more colorful and beautiful... I only want to say three things about this draft law. In January of this year, the Saeima Bureau decided on the arrangements by which the Saeima Members join their posts in the Saeima and it is very clear that the Saeima Member is entitled to waive one or more parts of the monthly salary. Such a right existed before the decision of the Saeima Bureau but was made even clearer by that decision. That's one. Second point: If we are talking about principles, then I call on the draft law-makers themselves to stick to the principles they have declared and to do so consistently, not when, for example, a parliamentary committee of inquiry ends. And if we are talking about principles, I would like Members who do not receive the allowances to do their job in good faith and attend both the sittings of the Saeima and the sittings of the commissions. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. A.Brigmanis: “And solemn sittings!” ) And, thirdly... The third principle. I call for a democratic decision. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. A.Kimiņš: “Democraticly?Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, “)
ParlaMint-LV_2016-05-05-PT12-362-U5	Thank you. One Member has spoken for, one against handing over the draft law to the commission. Please call me!
ParlaMint-LV_2016-05-05-PT12-362-U6	We will vote in favour of handing over the draft law “Amendment to the Law on Compensation of Officials and Employees of State and Municipal Institutions” to the Commission of the State Administration and Local Government, establishing that it is the committee responsible! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 33, for - 6, for - 40. The draft law has not been passed on to the commission. The Presidium of the Saeima proposes that the Member Gunāra Kūtra, Inguna Silverba, Silvia Šymfas, Arvidas Platopera and Aivars Meija be referred to the National Administration and Municipal Commission, stating that it is the committee responsible. ‘ On” applied to speak Member Gunārs Kūtris.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-05-05-PT12-362-U7	Good morning, honourable colleagues! A year and a half ago, scientists had carried out a study of democracy in Latvia and had drawn a number of conclusions. And one of these conclusions, I think we all know clearly now: in Latvia people participate in the elections very passively, i.e. the number of people who want to go to the elections is gradually decreasing. In the mid-1990s, 60 per cent participated in municipal elections, whereas in the last municipal elections only 46 per cent were present. What was even worse, of course, was the elections to the European Parliament: only 30 per cent of the citizens with the right to vote took part. And then the idea appeared in the public space that, you know, now it is necessary to introduce mandatory participation, almost by providing for the punishment of non-Participation. At the same time, the authors of this idea forgot two good lessons. The first is the people’s lesson that you will not become loved by power. And the second is the lesson, or rather, the lesson we learned during the Soviet period, when people were punished for not going to the elections. The lack of participation in the elections is explained by the passiveness of the people of Latvia in public processes, but, dear colleagues, we can see very well that at those times when the people feel that their voice is weightful, they participate. Look how active people have recently signed up to calls on the ManaBalss.lv portal! In particular, they feel that it is possible to move things forward at least here. They do not yet know what the results will be, but they have the opportunity to participate actively. What is the cause of this obsession in municipal elections? Citizens who did not participate in the 2013 municipal elections indicated, as the main reason for the SKDS survey, that they did not see the meaning or that they had no faith and did not trust anything. The responsibility of the Saeima - our duty - is to create laws so that people should not be forced to carry out their civil duty, but to make people glad to go and do so that they feel that their work for the State makes sense. How could it be affected? We know clearly that in Latvia people often say when they go to the elections: “I don’t know what to vote for. There are good people on a number of lists. But it is for this party that I do not really want to vote for." And at that point, people think: “What can you do? Don't go at all? Is it still necessary to support one party - or, as you say, to fulfil your duty of honesty?" Our proposed draft law is a small solution to this problem node. We do not call for a radical change in the electoral system, nor do we remove party lists, although personally I believe that it would perhaps be completely unnecessary in the municipal elections. These certain legal provisions, which would be included in the law, would provide an additional opportunity for people to vote in favour of really well-known and honest candidates for parliamentary office, although they are not on the same list. The vote would take place as usual: the voter chooses the list of the same party and can delete it or draw other copies into it. However, in addition, three candidates from other parties could be added to the list. In other words, a person would choose those he knows and knows about who he needs in the municipality as good workers for the quality of his work. It is nothing new: neither did the pre-war Latvia fear such free lists even in the Saeima elections. I believe that now, a hundred years later, people in Latvia are definitely not more silly... that they are not so silly that they don't understand what that means. The Saeima committee working group, which looked at the electoral law of the Saeima, presented the same proposals for the Saeima elections. And at that point, colleagues, understanding this idea, said: "Yes, a very good idea, but the Saeima elections will have problems with counting. But in municipalities, you could definitely do that. Yes, colleagues, send this proposal regarding the law on municipal elections!" We have submitted. I understand that all those colleagues who in the working group were with their head that it was a good idea will now also vote in favour of us, Members, to ensure that Latvian citizens in municipal elections can also vote for those people who are not on the same list, namely to vote for the best, most honest candidates for municipal Member. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-05-05-PT12-362-U8	Thank you. Do Members object to a draft law being passed on to the Commission? Members have reservations. Please call me! We will vote in favour of handing over the draft law “Amendments to the Law “Law on Elections of City Council and District Council of the Republic” to the Commission of State Administration and Local Government, stating that it is the committee responsible! Please vote mode! Please get the result! On - 8, against - 60, refraining from - 12. The draft law has not been passed on to the commission. The Saeima Bureau proposes that the member Andrejs Klementyeva, Jānis Adamsons, Mārtiņš Bondara, Gunārs Kūtras and Artuss Neiminis refer the draft law “Amendment to the parliamentary order roll” to the Legal Commission, stating that it is the committee responsible. ‘ For” applied to speak Member Jānis Adamsons.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-05-05-PT12-362-U9	Highly honored Presidium! Dear colleagues, This amendment is necessary in order to enable Members of the Saeima, including members of the opposition, to fulfil more fully one of the parliamentary functions of controlling the executive power. Parliamentary committees of inquiry are one of the most effective ways to implement this function, so it is important that the parliamentary committee of inquiry is fully operational. At the same time, this draft law provides for respect for democratic procedures in the work of Parliament and is related to Articles 1 and 59 of the Satversme. What does this draft law provide? The draft law provides for the election of the Member who has signed up to the need to set up an investigative commission as the head of the commission. We often wonder and fear that Parliament has a very, very low rating. Where is the problem? We are lowering this rating ourselves with our own actions and opposition. I hope that when Mr Balozh presents his book, what concerns the history of the parliamentary committees, he will also reflect it there. We can give examples of the fact that one or the other parliamentary committee has acted more successfully or less unsuccessfully. An example of failure. I think very many of the people here too were outrageous when an investigative commission was set up in the context of the G-24... on possible irregularities of Unibanka and Krajbanka in the privatisation process. What happened then? A very simple process took place. Since, according to Article 26 of the Satversme, a parliamentary committee of inquiry must be formed, then the coalition achieved the appointment of Members, whose main task was to block the work of the parliamentary committee of inquiry, and as a result, the work of this committee ended with nothing. At the moment, a parliamentary committee of inquiry has been set up to understand the situation regarding corruption that exists in the country, the shadow economy and why the law of lobbying does not work for us. I'll start from the last one. For the first time, the Law on Lobbying was presented in Parliament five years ago. Until now, it has not come to the Saeima. ‘ New time” (and then Unity) entered the policy in 2002 with the slogan “Fight against corruption!” , and an anti-corruption commission was also set up. With variable success, the “New Time” and the Unity were present all the time in the coalition as Prime Minister, Minister of Finance, Minister of the Interior, Head of Defence, Head of the Defence and Home Affairs Commission, Head of the Sub-Committee on the fight against corruption, Head of the Budget and Finance (Tax) Commission, and this list could be continued indefinitely. But, as the Speaker of the Saeima announced yesterday, we are losing at least EUR 5 billion on corruption-related issues. Think about it, it's practically the other state budget! The opposition Members, given that the commissions I have mentioned do not carry out sufficient parliamentary scrutiny, shall set up a parliamentary committee of inquiry. In violation of any democratic principles, three people from six elect a head of commission. We've worked for the month, nothing goes forward. A coalition representative has been appointed as the head of the commission, who has no understanding at all of what should be done, let alone administrative work. So far, there is no plan or commission management. In order to prevent this error and to allow Parliament to carry out its duties effectively and to carry out parliamentary control, it is precisely for this reason that we have these amendments to the Rules of Procedure, namely that we have a situation in which those who sign up to the creation of a parliamentary committee of inquiry, those who have an understanding of what they want to achieve, what the objectives are and what the tasks are, so that they can then also work better or more unsuccessfully. I call for these amendments to be supported. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-05-05-PT12-362-U10	Thank you. ‘ Against’ applied to speak Member Ringolds Balodis.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-05-05-PT12-362-U11	Hello, colleagues! Whatever I want to support what Adamson said, this cannot be done because of the order of the Saeima, as you know. One must talk about, and the other one must speak against the bill. Mr. Adamson has spoken about, so I have to say 'no'. Mr. Adamson, what were you talking about? You listed numerous articles and principles of the Satversme. I think that this draft law should not be supported for the following reasons. The majority of the parliamentary committees of inquiry are encouraged by the opposition, because the majority already has a government. Parliamentary investigations are based on the natural displeasure of the opposition against the government. The opposition has so far been given the right to conduct such parliamentary investigations because it is in line with the principle of separation of powers, and the principle of division of power in Parliament is a derivative of the special eye of the parliamentary minority towards the government formed by the majority. This draft law provides for legal strengthening of the Latvian parliamentary tradition, because in the last committee of inquiry, in what is currently the Commission number 31, this tradition was changed with the will of the majority. Now the parliamentary tradition is based on a perceptible opposite trend: the majority of the Saeima has strengthened the principle that the opposition cannot under any circumstances allow the accusations raised to be proved. We need to appoint an inflationer, who tries to talk about the goal at each meeting of the committee, promises to start work and to take time at the next meeting of the committee. And if it turns out that it's true... Is that so? What if it turns out that the investigators are right? And if really billions of state budgets can be collected, if the Law on Lobby is adopted, if KNAB's activities are effective, the activities of SRS are improved? Oh, the horrors that could happen, even fear the loudness of this tribunal to talk about it! Members! Please do not support the particular draft law, because it would result in those who are accused being forced to prove it too. Maybe they could even succeed. This does not correspond to the political culture of the majority of Latvia. Cartelism, a flat and a arrogant smile against the needs of the people. If the draft law is supported, it can improve the political culture in Latvia. What does that mean? This means that the ability of the majority (positions) of the Saeima and the minority (opt) of the Saeima to cooperate constructively in the interest of the common good can be improved. There's going to be a reduction in the pattern. Well, it's negative! If such a draft law were to be adopted, it would no longer be possible, as it is now, to chart the situation and put a Member under the authority of an investigative commission who is not even fully taken up by his own and who does not know what the minutes of the hearing are and how it is confirmed. In Latvia, the right of opposition of the parliament is derived from the principles contained therein, which ensure effective work of the opposition, and from Article 1 of the Constitution, the roll of order of the Saeima, which specifically regulates the work of the Saeima. I would like to quote the authority of national law - the judge of the Court of Justice of the European Union Egil Levit: "The opposition is not a formal but actual political institution, which is included in the constitutional structure of parliamentary democracy. It shall have the formal constitutional rights provided for in the Constitution and which still result from it, aimed at ensuring that the legal arrangements are such as to fulfil this task. Parliamentary procedures should therefore also be consistent with this logic, which is based on the political division of Parliament between the ruling majority and the opposition. They must lay down special rights for a minority of Parliament, i.e. the opposition, whose dominant majority cannot block." Please do not support the draft law, because it is fair, but unfortunately it does not meet the hypocritical cartel of the parties of Latvian parliamentaryism and the wish of the majority to rule at any price. After the Saeima meeting, a press conference will take place, where we will not feel like members of the National Alliance - whether or not to withdraw Dombrava... Dombrava wants to leave, but Dombrava doesn't let him. After the Saeima sitting there will be a press conference where you can hear. Thank you, colleagues.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-05-05-PT12-362-U12	Please call me! We will vote in favour of handing over to the Legal Commission the draft law “Amendment to the parliamentary order roll”, which states that it is the committee responsible! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 36, for - 46, for - 3. The draft law has not been passed on to the commission. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. A.Kimiņš: “Sorry!” ) The Presidium of the Saeima proposes that the draft law on the retirement pensions of officials and employees of the State Probation Service presented by the Social and Labour Commission be referred to the Commission of Social and Labour Affairs, stating that it is the committee responsible. Do Members have objections? There is no objection by Members. The draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Parliamentary Bureau proposes that the draft law on ‘Amendments to the Law on Public Procurement’ presented by the Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy Commission be referred to the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy, stating that it is the Commission responsible. Do Members have objections? There is no objection by Members. The draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Parliamentary Bureau proposes that the draft law on public service procurement presented by the Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy Commission be referred to the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy, stating that it is the Commission responsible. Do Members have objections? There is no objection. The draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The next item is entitled ‘On the granting of leave’. The Saeima Bureau informed that she had received a request from Member Andrejs Elksniņš to grant him unpaid leave on 28 April this year. The Bureau has granted leave and shall inform the Saeima thereof. This appropriation is intended to cover the cost of any adjustments to remuneration during the financial year in accordance with Article 21 of Regulation (EU, Euratom) No 966/2012 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 25 October 2012 This appropriation is intended to cover the cost of any adjustments to remuneration during the financial year in accordance with Article 21 of Regulation (EU, Euratom) No 966/2012 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 25 October 2012 The Saeima Bureau shall inform that it has received an application from Member Artuss Neimins requesting him to be granted unpaid leave on 3 May of this year. The Bureau has granted leave and shall inform the Saeima thereof. For unpaid leave granted to Dzints Zakis on 4 and 5 May of this year. For unpaid leave granted to Dzints Zakis on 4 and 5 May of this year. The Saeima Bureau shall inform that it has received an application from Dzintars Zakis, to grant him unpaid leave on 4 and 5 May of this year. The Bureau has granted leave and shall inform the Saeima thereof. On 4 and 5 May this year, in respect of the unpaid leave granted to Ms Inese Laizāna, Member, On 4 and 5 May this year, in respect of the unpaid leave granted to Ms Inese Laizāna, Member, The Saeima Bureau shall inform that she has received an application from Ms Inese Laizane to grant her unpaid leave on 4 and 5 May of this year. The Bureau has granted leave and shall inform the Saeima thereof. On 5 May this year, Rihard Cole was granted unpaid leave. On 5 May this year, Rihard Cole was granted unpaid leave. The Saeima shall inform the Bureau of the receipt of a request made by Mr Rihards Kola to grant him unpaid leave on 5 May this year. The Saeima Bureau has granted leave and shall inform the Saeima thereof. On 5 May this year, Alexey Loskutow was granted unpaid leave. On 5 May this year, Alexey Loskutow was granted unpaid leave. The Bureau of the Saeima shall inform the Bureau of the receipt of a request made by Mr Alexey Loskkov to grant him unpaid leave on 5 May this year. The Saeima Bureau has granted leave and shall inform the Saeima thereof. Honourable Members! The Commission of the State Administration and Local Government asks to amend the agenda of the sitting and review the draft law “Amendment to the Law on Land Management” at first reading without re-examination by the responsible commission. Are Members opposed to this amendment of the agenda? There is no objection by Members. The agenda has been amended. The Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy asks to amend the agenda of the meeting and to review the draft law “Amendments to the Public Service Providers Procurement Law” at first reading without re-examination by the responsible committee. Do Members have objections? Members want to vote. Please call me! We will vote for the agenda of the sitting to be amended and for the draft law on Public Service Procurement to be examined at first reading without re-examination by the committee responsible! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The agenda has been amended. The Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy asks to amend the agenda of the meeting and to review the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Public Procurement” at first reading without re-examination by the responsible committee. Do Members have objections? Members want a vote. Please call me! We will vote for amendments to the agenda of the sitting and the draft law on Amendments to the Law on Public Procurement to be discussed at first reading without re-examination by the committee responsible! Please vote mode! Please get the result! It's not about - 80, it's against - 5, it's not. The agenda has been amended. On the agenda - Re-reading of the law “Amendments to the Law on Immigration”. Dear colleagues, On 29 April this year, the President of Latvia has sent the Saeima for re-reading the law “Amendments to the Immigration Law” adopted by the Saeima on 21 April this year. The Commission for Defence, Home Affairs and the Prevention of Corruption is responsible for this law. In line with the parliamentary order, we must set a deadline for the submission of proposals, as well as the date on which the law is re-examined at the parliamentary sitting. Please turn on the microphone for Ainars Latkovsky.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-05-05-PT12-362-U13	Time limit for submission of proposals - 17 May, review of the law at the Saeima sitting - 2 June.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-05-05-PT12-362-U14	Thank you. There are no other proposals. Consequently, the deadline for the submission of proposals - 17 May this year, consideration at the sitting of the Saeima - on 2 June this year. Thank you. The next item on the agenda - Election, approval, appointment, dismissal or dismissal of officials, expression of trust or distrust. On the agenda - draft decision “On the approval of Dzintra America as a judge of the Supreme Court”. On behalf of the Legal Commission, Mr Valery Agešin, Member.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-05-05-PT12-362-U15	Good morning, dear colleagues! The draft decision “On the approval of Dzintra America as a judge of the Supreme Court” was reviewed at the sitting of the Legal Commission of the Saeima on 27 April this year. Members of the Commission have unanimously supported the draft decision. On behalf of the Saeima Legal Commission, I call on Dzintra America to approve as a judge of the Supreme Court while releasing him from office of a judge of the Administrative Regional Court.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-05-05-PT12-362-U16	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote for the draft decision “On the approval of Dzintra America as a judge of the Supreme Court”! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 84, for - no, for - 1. The decision has been taken. On the agenda - draft decision “On approval of Zigmunda Dundura as a judge of district (city) court”. On behalf of the Legal Commission, Mr Valery Agešin, Member.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-05-05-PT12-362-U17	At the meeting of the Legal Commission of the Saeima on 27 April, the draft decision “On the approval of Zigmunda Dundura as a judge of a district (city) court” was reviewed. The members of the Commission have unanimously supported the draft decision. On behalf of the Legal Commission of the Saeima, I call on Mr Zigmunds Dunduru to approve the judge of the district (city) court without any limitation of his term of office.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-05-05-PT12-362-U18	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote for the draft decision on the approval of Zigmunda Dundura as a district (city) court judge! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 84, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The decision has been taken. On the agenda - draft decision “On the dismissal of Eduarda Veisa from the office of a judge of a district (city) court”. On behalf of the Legal Commission, Mr Valery Agešin, Member.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-05-05-PT12-362-U19	At the meeting of the Legal Commission of the Saeima on 27 April this year, the draft decision “On the dismissal of Eduarda Weiss from office of a district (city) judge” was reviewed. Members of the Commission have unanimously supported the draft decision. On behalf of the Saeima Legal Commission, I call on Eduards Weiss to release from office the judge of the district (city) court from his own wish from June 9, 2016.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-05-05-PT12-362-U20	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote for the draft decision “On the dismissal of Eduarda Veissa from office of a district (city) judge”! Please vote mode! Please get the result! Not by - 82, not by - and refrains. The decision has been taken. The next item is Members' requests. On the agenda - request of Member Mārtiņš Bondara, Daiņa Liepiņa, Valija Agešina, Ivars Zariņa, Jānis Urbanoviča, Inga Bites, Jura Viļuma, Jānis Ruka, Gunārs Kūtra and Andrejs Klementjevs to the Minister of Justice Dzintars Rasnačs About the State Audit Report of the Republic of Latvia “Is the Real Estate of the Justice Sector managed legally and effectively?” the conclusions.’ Member of the Commission of the European Union Augusts Brigmanis.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-05-05-PT12-362-U21	Good morning, honourable colleagues! Indeed, the issue was dealt with by the Request Commission. The process of constructive consideration of this issue needs to be announced. In my opinion, the Commission's meeting outlined the situation constructively by Member Mārtiņš Bondars and drew attention to a number of aspects of this issue. Of course, I would like to say that, in the context of the examination of this request, the question of the responsibility of ministers in answering Members' questions arose because, in our view, Members' questions are nevertheless an essential form of Parliament's work, and if, let us say, ministers cannot come to answer Members' questions, there must be a very reasonable answer, a reasoning and a timely warning so that later, let us say, misunderstanding or failing to explain the matter is not the basis for any particular request made by Members. The Minister of Justice also took part in the Commission's meeting, and I am pleased that he is taking part in this sitting today. The Ministry of Justice set out this issue and reasoned why such a situation has arisen. Of course, the issue of the Audit Report of the State Audit Office is currently also within the scope of supervision of the law enforcement institutions, and when considering this issue carefully from all aspects, by sharing the votes of Members, 7 - against and 3 - in favour, this request was rejected. Consequently, on behalf of the Commission, I call for this request not to be supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-05-05-PT12-362-U22	Thank you. Let us start a debate. The name of the Member, Martin Bondar.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-05-05-PT12-362-U23	Dear colleagues, Dear colleagues, I know that you will reject this request. And you will reject it, not because you have no suspicion of a transaction in which a private person has been able to acquire real estate from the country in a very short time, then “turn around his own axis” and earn a million euros. No, the fact that you have no suspicion will not be a reason why you will reject it. The real reason is that you have an agreement between the coalition that you are not looking at each other. This is particularly true when it is still far from the elections. This principle presupposes that, by nature, every minister from every political organisation does what he has in mind, and the political parties simply turn their heads on the other side, whatever happens there. In the nation this principle is called “the crow of the crow in the eye”. Your mutual solidarity has been seen in the Panel meeting. You were not embarrassed by the fact that the Treasury had gone by one million euros, you were not encouraged by the fact that this transaction took place under the supervision or supervision of two state-owned professional real estate companies. You were satisfied that the Minister of Justice argued in its explanation that the State does not need this property either, that the State has so far organised two unsuccessful auctions and only the third applied for this private person, who acquired this property and then sold it very successfully. You were satisfied with the argument that the Minister of Justice has written an application for this case to the prosecutor's office. And the question of the Minister of Justice at the meeting of the Commission: “What responsibility do you have here?” is quite significant. For you, as representatives of the coalition, are ready to pretend that you do not know what responsibility is. You believe that it is only when the prosecutor's office initiates a case, captures the perpetrator and is criminal... But there are many other responsibilities. There is also, however, a political responsibility that you seem not to see. But you know very well that the best protection is an attack. And instead of asking questions about the substance of the Minister of Justice, you start to shame the applicants, because, you see, they don't let work work, they listen to what the State Audit Office says. And one of the members of the coalition said at the meeting of the Committee on Petitions that in general the work of the State Audit Office was ineffective and questionable and that due to the activities of applicants in general it was not possible to sell real estate belonging to the Court House Agency in Jēkabpils. All this assembled yew around these properties in Jurmala... Colleagues! I see that many of you have computers in front of you. I invite you to enter the website of the Judicial House Agency. If you think you'll see in it that there's real estate in Jēkabpils, which should be sold, then you're terribly mistaken. The Justice House Agency sells books. It's a book store. It's not a real estate agency. It's not an agency dealing with information systems for courts, but it's a book store. These questions should in principle be put to Prime Minister Maris Kučinskis. But recently, in his television interview, Maris Kučinskis said very clearly and lightly that he was studying the great extent of corruption in the country, which allegedly resulted in the country's economy losing five billions a year... Well, he doesn't believe it. And, knowingly or unconsciously, Maris Kučinskis mixed the size of the economy with the size of the budget. That means something! And what the Member of the Group of the National Alliance and the Speaker of the Saeima, Ināra Mūrniece, said yesterday: “Recently, the media were surrounded by the news that, due to corruption, Latvia’s losses, or the money that has not been obtained from the budget, could amount to about five billion euros. Only a few have read the explanation that these estimates of the study are based on citizens' subjective perceptions of the level of corruption in their own country.’ Whether these words were given from the heart and in essence, or they are just a mild and sweet irony - we will see this in the vote after a few minutes, or after a few speakers have spoken. Colleagues! However, I call on the ministers to be responsible, in substance, for the transactions that have taken place in their own ministries. However, I call on the executives to also take political responsibility, not only for the responsibility that is assumed if they are caught at the time of taking a bribe. Therefore, the request does not reject and support this request. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-05-05-PT12-362-U24	Name: Dzintars Rasnačs, Minister of Justice.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-05-05-PT12-362-U25	Dear President, Presidium! Dear colleagues, First of all, thank you for the opportunity to be here. ( Independence: “Come again! ”) ) Thanks to the applicants who have transformed the question into a request by Members. And let's talk about the facts. Events took place in 2011 and 2012. The question and demand is in 2016. However, the facts are presented as they have just happened. Read more about the facts. In the auction there were two real properties - apartments and a piece of land. This auction was necessary to cover the expenses incurred as a result of the construction of the new court house in Jurmala. The auction was public; you and your colleagues who were then dealing with real estate sales could also apply. But you didn't! You also had the opportunity to take advantage of the fluctuations in market prices and earn this million. If we are talking about the House of Justice agency, it's not a bookstore, Mr. Bondar! It was founded in 1997 and its main activities are: the first - real estate management and development; the second - information technology; the third - publication of legal literature. More than 70 thousand employees in the state administration use this legal literature - also in the prosecutor's office, also in courts. I'm sorry you don't use it. Go on. If we are talking about monitoring processes, the Commission for Public Expenditure and Audit is already 10 February - 10 February! - heard the State Audit Office, the management of the Judicial House Agency and the Ministry of Justice and received a full reply, and given specific tasks: first - the Ministry of Justice; second - the Judicial House Agency; thirdly - the State Audit Office. February 10th! In line with these ten specific tasks, there is an action plan under the strict control of the Public Expenditure and Audit Commission led by Andris Bērziņš. Despite the fact that this commission carries out its duties strictly and thoroughly, on 25 February there appeared a question from Members containing 14 specific questions, all of which have been answered. These replies are apparently not satisfactory and the question is reworded in the request. And finally about Jēkabpils. If we are talking about Jacob’s castle, then it seems that the first applicant has a little bit of confusion in the facts. So the analogy between 2012 and today is this. In 2012, when selling these real estates, it was necessary to cover the construction costs of Jurmala court house. And they are necessary for the country - not necessary, as you said! - they are necessary as a contribution to new investments. About Jēkabpils. Nothing is being sold in the city of Jacob, Mr. Bondara, you've been mixing or listening to something. In Jēkabpils we build a new court house, where judges, prosecutors, policemen, State Land Service, Register of Enterprises will work. They expect it to be done. And to do this, this development requires resources. It's not taxpayers' money! These are the funds that will be obtained from the sale of real estate sold on Šķuņu Street. The fifth auction is announced, the price is not reduced. Nobody buys this property. You have the opportunity to buy and sell a million more in a year's time. And there will be an opportunity for Members to investigate whether the law has been violated or not. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-05-05-PT12-362-U26	Thank you. Name to Member Andris Burns.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-05-05-PT12-362-U27	Yes, dear colleagues! Not, let us say, the falseness that Mr Bondara asks about what the State Audit Office has examined, and it really is... There are problems. And I don't want to say... Mr Bondara has been with us in the Commission, and I call on us to come back when we come back to this issue and see what has been done in these ten points, which were put by the Saeima and also by the State Audit Office. Welcome to this commission. As for whether we bet or not as a crow in the eyes, I think we are bet. And you are well aware that we are trying to be in principle, both for those in the position and for those in the opposition, at the meetings of the commission. On these issues, you are right... It was assigned to the Ministry of Justice... In particular, attention was paid to real estate related to Jurmala. Did Jurmala have to sell this real estate exactly at the time it was sold? It was a question of number one, because when this real estate was sold, there were the lowest prices for real estate. And so, let's say, the benefit of the building it sells... More specifically, it was not the building that was the subject. The building was very old, it had to be dismantled, and the main question was directly related to the land. Of course, I think that the Minister of Justice (he was not the Minister of Justice at that time) will also assess how useful... and the commission was also tasked with... the usefulness of the concrete people who have carried out this evaluation and sale - was it useful to do so and was it good for the state? However, we will come back to this if I am not mistaken, in the autumn. So that, Mr Bondara, this question will not appear. Of course, you have... we cannot say that what you have said is not true and that is, well, populism on the part of the opposition. Undoubtedly, this... This was also demonstrated by the audit of the State Audit Office. Well, I don't know who was the person who said that the State Audit Office, which carried out their audit... that the State Audit Office performed it non-professionally, uselessly or, let us say, trendy. It's hard for me to say this; maybe you can tell me after the Saeima sitting, you'll blow in my ear. But I think it has been done... That it is necessary. These documents have been analysed and the real situation has been analysed, and, as the Minister has already said, the Ministry has indeed been tasked with... These ten points are indicated, which will need to be followed. And I really welcome you to come when the question of whether or not those tasks have been fulfilled is re-examined, and when the question of all these real estates will also be analysed, and also the responsibility of those people who have acted positively or unpositively, have taken such a decision, have proposed to the Ministry to decide on the sale of this real estate. I... From my point of view... I agree. I thought it was very funny and incomprehensible why it was at that time. If we sold some plot of land somewhere in remote areas, where there is no price... where the fluctuations are quite small, then I would agree. Well, in Jurmala the land prices have always been and will be high. So, Mr Bondara, I kindly call you. Well, I'm sorry to forgive me! - I can't support your request, but I'd like to see you... and not because you were speaking at the Saeima sitting today... I would really like to see you at this meeting of the Commission, and then you will be able to speak and evaluate what the Ministry of Justice has done on this matter. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-05-05-PT12-362-U28	The name to Member Martin Bondar, for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-05-05-PT12-362-U29	Mr. Burns! Thank you for your invitation to attend the committee meeting when the evaluation made by the Judicial Houses Agency will be considered. Thank you, too, for... Thank you for giving me the opportunity to blow your ear after the Saeima sitting. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. A.Bērzins: “I am already in a blink!” ) I'll definitely embarrass you that it was John Crag. ( Merry laughter.) Minister, thank you for coming to this sitting. Because many ministers would have even ignored. I really appreciate that. It is really worthy of ministers, and that is to some extent what... That is what we expect from every politician. However, I would like to point out to you that all the goods belonging to the state are, however, taxpayers' goods. It is not the case that if taxpayers have paid to the state budget, then only it is the taxpayer's property. No, no! Also, the property belonging to the Court House Agency, the State Real Estate Agency, the Bank of Latvia and other public institutions - it is also a taxpayer's or the Latvian people's property. Secondly. You know very well that the Court House Agency has no vision, no plan or no meaningful oversight of this agency by the Ministry of Justice. That's what it is. And you can't deny that. This will be confirmed in all the documents and can be seen in absolutely all the responses we have received in relation to the Court Houses Agency. And finally. You mentioned that the Court House Agency has the following three tasks: to manage real estate, to maintain information systems and also to sell books. I really see the sale of books here, but I could not find their real estate on Šķuņu Street, Minister, what you already tried to sell in five auctions on this website. Really! I can't even see. ( Shows your computer.) The 19th edition of Latvian Administrative Violations Code is more important than the house of Šķuņu Street? The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. A.Kimiņš: “Yes? No way!’ ) Well, what are you doing? Well, that's laughing! It's a joke! At least make a normal website (Dep. A.Kamiņš: “It’s made!” ), where the directions of action of the agency of that country appear, the priorities of the agency of that country, the work to be done by the agency of that country. Well, please, Minister, do it! Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-05-05-PT12-362-U30	The name of the Member, John Crag.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-05-05-PT12-362-U31	The Bureau and honourable colleagues! I don't even know how to tell you, Mr. Bondar... Thank you for giving me my name. Although I did not prepare the speech, I was ready to come here to express my opinion and name because of the perhaps heresy thought I expressed at the commission meeting. When I went to the committee meeting, I also thought that this transaction had such a bad smell, if you can say so, and the foot of the goat was fat, black, hairy. Of course, the property was sold and some brokers earned a million that passed through the country. Yeah, that sounds bad. But when the minister came, and when did this agency employee or manager of the Court Houses - who was she? - told me the circumstances of the situation, I... ( And I'm not here a crow that someone tries to be in the eye. If someone tries to get a beak in my eye, then I'll really answer it with a beak as well. I was not convinced that there were any signs of a criminal or an illegal offence there. That's right. Mr Burns and I have not reconciled our views, but I also said at the committee meeting that apparently this transaction took place at the worst time, at the worst time. Yes, you can blame it, but now you know how public institutions work, it's already a whole process until you get to some sort of deal. There are a number of procedures. And if there have been several auctions to talk more about, if they are public, open? But, look, this whole fable has begun with the State Audit Office report. And my thoughts are as follows: This transaction has been submitted to the General Prosecutor’s Office for evaluation. And if the Prosecutor General's Office finds that there are features of a criminal offence in this transaction, I will climb this platform and again apologize to the State Audit Office. But if the Prosecutor General's Office doesn't think there's something like this, then it means there's been a storm in a glass of water and we're cooking here for nothing. In other words, we are giving such reports an opportunity, for example, for opposition to come here on the platform and give the impression that everyone is a thief and a crowbar in the eye. Mr Bondara, I think that this is not the case. And I spoke at this committee meeting. What I said, I said to my mind, and I believe that this request from you must be rejected.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-05-05-PT12-362-U32	Name of the Minister of Justice Dzintars Rasnačs, for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-05-05-PT12-362-U33	Dear President, Presidium! Colleagues! It's very short. This presentation was distributed to all Members within the Panel. If someone has not yet had an opportunity to get acquainted with it, then you can read it now. It also lists all positive opinions on the work of the Judicial Houses Agency, and there are many of them. And if we compare an agency with other related institutions, a country with a large number of countries, which manage real estate and perform similar activities, then it is one of the best, if not the best, Mr Bondar! Of course, nothing is good enough not to be even better, and the ten measures plan will be implemented, but the budget - here you have said completely wrong. I am talking about budget resources. All this does not require budgetary money, budgetary expenditure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-05-05-PT12-362-U34	Thank you. I closed the debate. Does the rapporteur want to add something?
ParlaMint-LV_2016-05-05-PT12-362-U35	Colleagues, you saw how passionate a debate! Well, that's what we did with the Request Commission. And I would remind you once again that this issue is really being dealt with by the Prosecutor General's Office. The Prosecutor General's Office will obviously provide a final conclusion in this case, and then we will see that true assessment of the situation. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. A.Kamiņš: “So support!” ) But today, I recall, there is a decision by the Commission, and that is as follows: the request has been rejected.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-05-05-PT12-362-U36	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote for the Member Mārtiņš Bondara, Daiņa Liepiņa, Valērija Agešina, Ivars Zariņa, Jānis Urbanoviča, Inga Bites, Jura Viļuma, Jānis Ruka, Gunārs Kūtra and Andrejs Klementyev, the Minister of Justice, Dzintars Rasnačs, on the State Audit Report of the Republic of Latvia “Is the Real Estate of the Justice Sector managed legally and effectively?” conclusions’! Please vote mode! Please get the result! There's no one for - 36, against - 50, abstaining. The request is rejected. The next item is "Provision of draft legislation". On the agenda - draft law “Amendments to the Law on State Administration Structure”, third reading. On behalf of the Commission of the State Administration and the Municipality, Member of the Commission of the Republic of Lithuania, Ms Nelli Kleinberga.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-05-05-PT12-362-U37	Dear colleagues, I informed you that no proposal had been received for the third reading of the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Public Administration Equipment”. Therefore, on behalf of the Commission, I ask you to support the draft law at third, final, reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-05-05-PT12-362-U38	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote for support for the third, final reading of the draft law “Amendments to the Law on State Administration Equipment”! Please vote mode! Please get the result! It's not about - 85, it's against and abstains. The law has been passed. On the agenda - draft law “On real estate disposal of part of Augusta Deglava Street 37, Riga for public needs – ensuring construction of the East Highway”, third reading. Member of the Legal Commission Gaidis Berzins.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-05-05-PT12-362-U39	Dear Chairman of the Saeima. Dear colleagues, For this draft law, the Legal Commission prepared and supported one proposal, which is as follows: this law enters into force on 2 June 2016. This is due to the fact that the large amendments to the Law on disposal of real estate necessary for the needs of the Company, which were adopted by the Saeima, will enter into force on 1 June 2016. So, as I have already pointed out, there is one proposal - the Legal Commission proposal - which has been supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-05-05-PT12-362-U40	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-05-05-PT12-362-U41	Colleagues! We have therefore examined all the proposals. On behalf of the Legal Commission, please support the draft law “On disposal of part of real estate at Augusta Deglava iela 37, Riga, for public needs - ensuring construction of the East Highway” at the third, final reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-05-05-PT12-362-U42	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote for support for the third, final reading of the draft law “On disposal of part of real estate at Augusta Deglava Street 37, Riga, for public needs - ensuring construction of the East Motorway! Please vote mode! Please get the result! It's not about - 83, it's against and refrains from - it's not. The law has been passed. On the agenda - draft law “On real estate disposal of part of Augusta Deglava Street 39A for public needs – ensuring construction of the East Highway”, third reading. Member of the Legal Commission Gaidis Berzins.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-05-05-PT12-362-U43	Colleagues! Thus, there is also one proposal for this draft law, which has been developed and supported by the Legal Commission and which, identically, provides that the law will enter into force on 2 June 2016. The Commission has supported this proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-05-05-PT12-362-U44	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-05-05-PT12-362-U45	We have therefore examined all the proposals. On behalf of the Legal Commission, please support the draft law “On disposal of part of real estate at Augusta Deglava iela 39A, Riga, for public needs - ensuring construction of the East Highway” at the third, final reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-05-05-PT12-362-U46	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote for support for the third, final reading of the draft law “On the disposal of part of real estate at Augusta Deglava iela 39A, Riga, for public needs - ensuring the construction of the East Highway! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 84, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The law has been passed. On the agenda - draft law on civil protection and disaster management, third reading. On behalf of the Commission for Defence, Home Affairs and Anti-Corruption - Member Kārlis Krēsliņš.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-05-05-PT12-362-U47	Dear colleagues, We see a draft law on civil protection and disaster management at third reading. 47 Proposals 1. - The proposal from the Legal Bureau of the Saeima. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-05-05-PT12-362-U48	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-05-05-PT12-362-U49	2. - The proposal from the Legal Bureau of the Saeima. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-05-05-PT12-362-U50	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-05-05-PT12-362-U51	3. - The proposal from the Legal Bureau of the Saeima. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-05-05-PT12-362-U52	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-05-05-PT12-362-U53	4. - The proposal from the Legal Bureau of the Saeima. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-05-05-PT12-362-U54	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-05-05-PT12-362-U55	5. - The proposal from the Legal Bureau of the Saeima. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-05-05-PT12-362-U56	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-05-05-PT12-362-U57	6. - The proposal from the Legal Bureau of the Saeima. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-05-05-PT12-362-U58	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-05-05-PT12-362-U59	7. - The proposal from the Legal Bureau of the Saeima. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-05-05-PT12-362-U60	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-05-05-PT12-362-U61	8 / 8 - The proposal from the Legal Bureau of the Saeima. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-05-05-PT12-362-U62	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-05-05-PT12-362-U63	9. - The proposal from the Legal Bureau of the Saeima. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-05-05-PT12-362-U64	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-05-05-PT12-362-U65	10............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - The proposal from the Legal Bureau of the Saeima. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-05-05-PT12-362-U66	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-05-05-PT12-362-U67	11. - the proposal of Mr Kaspars Gerhard, Minister for Environmental Protection and Regional Development. There is no support in the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-05-05-PT12-362-U68	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-05-05-PT12-362-U69	12. - The proposal from the Legal Bureau of the Saeima. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-05-05-PT12-362-U70	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-05-05-PT12-362-U71	13. - The proposal from the Legal Bureau of the Saeima. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-05-05-PT12-362-U72	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-05-05-PT12-362-U73	14............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - The proposal from the Legal Bureau of the Saeima. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-05-05-PT12-362-U74	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-05-05-PT12-362-U75	15............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - The proposal from the Legal Bureau of the Saeima. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-05-05-PT12-362-U76	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-05-05-PT12-362-U77	16. - The proposal from the Legal Bureau of the Saeima. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-05-05-PT12-362-U78	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-05-05-PT12-362-U79	17. - The proposal from the Legal Bureau of the Saeima. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-05-05-PT12-362-U80	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-05-05-PT12-362-U81	18. - The proposal from the Legal Bureau of the Saeima. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-05-05-PT12-362-U82	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-05-05-PT12-362-U83	19. - a proposal from the Minister for the Protection of the Environment and Regional Development. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-05-05-PT12-362-U84	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-05-05-PT12-362-U85	20............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - The proposal from the Legal Bureau of the Saeima. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-05-05-PT12-362-U86	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-05-05-PT12-362-U87	21............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - a proposal from the Minister for the Protection of the Environment and Regional Development. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-05-05-PT12-362-U88	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-05-05-PT12-362-U89	22. - The proposal from the Legal Bureau of the Saeima. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-05-05-PT12-362-U90	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-05-05-PT12-362-U91	23............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - The proposal from the Legal Bureau of the Saeima. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-05-05-PT12-362-U92	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-05-05-PT12-362-U93	24. - The proposal from the Legal Bureau of the Saeima. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-05-05-PT12-362-U94	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-05-05-PT12-362-U95	25. - The proposal from the Legal Bureau of the Saeima. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-05-05-PT12-362-U96	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-05-05-PT12-362-U97	26. - The proposal from the Legal Bureau of the Saeima. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-05-05-PT12-362-U98	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-05-05-PT12-362-U99	27. - The proposal from the Legal Bureau of the Saeima. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-05-05-PT12-362-U100	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-05-05-PT12-362-U101	28. - The proposal from the Legal Bureau of the Saeima. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-05-05-PT12-362-U102	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-05-05-PT12-362-U103	29. - The proposal from the Legal Bureau of the Saeima. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-05-05-PT12-362-U104	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-05-05-PT12-362-U105	30. - The proposal from the Legal Bureau of the Saeima. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-05-05-PT12-362-U106	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-05-05-PT12-362-U107	31. - The proposal from the Legal Bureau of the Saeima. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-05-05-PT12-362-U108	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-05-05-PT12-362-U109	32. - The proposal from the Legal Bureau of the Saeima. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-05-05-PT12-362-U110	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-05-05-PT12-362-U111	33. - The proposal from the Legal Bureau of the Saeima. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-05-05-PT12-362-U112	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-05-05-PT12-362-U113	34. - The proposal from the Legal Bureau of the Saeima. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-05-05-PT12-362-U114	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-05-05-PT12-362-U115	35. - The proposal from the Legal Bureau of the Saeima. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-05-05-PT12-362-U116	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-05-05-PT12-362-U117	36. - The proposal from the Legal Bureau of the Saeima. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-05-05-PT12-362-U118	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-05-05-PT12-362-U119	37. - The proposal from the Legal Bureau of the Saeima. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-05-05-PT12-362-U120	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-05-05-PT12-362-U121	38. - The proposal from the Legal Bureau of the Saeima. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-05-05-PT12-362-U122	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-05-05-PT12-362-U123	39. - The proposal from the Legal Bureau of the Saeima. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-05-05-PT12-362-U124	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-05-05-PT12-362-U125	40. - The proposal from the Legal Bureau of the Saeima. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-05-05-PT12-362-U126	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-05-05-PT12-362-U127	41. - a proposal from the Commission on Defence, Home Affairs and Anti-Corruption. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-05-05-PT12-362-U128	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-05-05-PT12-362-U129	42. - The proposal from the Legal Bureau of the Saeima. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-05-05-PT12-362-U130	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-05-05-PT12-362-U131	43. - The proposal from the Legal Bureau of the Saeima. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-05-05-PT12-362-U132	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-05-05-PT12-362-U133	44. - The proposal from the Legal Bureau of the Saeima. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-05-05-PT12-362-U134	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-05-05-PT12-362-U135	45. - The proposal from the Legal Bureau of the Saeima. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-05-05-PT12-362-U136	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-05-05-PT12-362-U137	46. - The proposal from the Legal Bureau of the Saeima. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-05-05-PT12-362-U138	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-05-05-PT12-362-U139	47. - a proposal from the Commission on Defence, Home Affairs and Anti-Corruption. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-05-05-PT12-362-U140	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-05-05-PT12-362-U141	Request to support the draft law as a whole.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-05-05-PT12-362-U142	Thank you. Please call me! Let us vote in favour of the third final reading of the draft law on civil protection and disaster management! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 81, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. The law has been passed. On the agenda - draft law “Amendments to the Education Law”, third reading. On behalf of the Commission for Education, Culture and Science - Member Jānis Upenieks.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-05-05-PT12-362-U143	Honorable Saeima Presidium! Dear colleagues, See ‘Amendments to the Education Act’ in the draft law. The Commission has received two proposals. 1. - a proposal from the Commission for Education, Culture and Science. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-05-05-PT12-362-U144	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-05-05-PT12-362-U145	2. - a proposal from the Commission for Education, Culture and Science. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-05-05-PT12-362-U146	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-05-05-PT12-362-U147	We have therefore examined all the proposals. I call for support for the draft law at third reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-05-05-PT12-362-U148	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote in favour of supporting the third, final, reading of the draft law "Amendments to the Law on Education". Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 84, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The law has been passed. On the agenda - draft law “Amendments to the Law “On Excise Tax”, third reading. Member of the Commission for Budget and Finance (Tax) Jānis Vucāns.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-05-05-PT12-362-U149	President-in-Office of the Saeima. Dear colleagues, Dear colleagues, See the draft law “Amendments to the Law “On Excise Tax” (No 480/Lp12), third reading. For the third reading, the Budget and Finance (Tax) Commission received 17 proposals. 1. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-05-05-PT12-362-U150	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-05-05-PT12-362-U151	2. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-05-05-PT12-362-U152	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-05-05-PT12-362-U153	3. - the proposal by the Minister for Finance, Dana Reizniece-Ozola. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-05-05-PT12-362-U154	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-05-05-PT12-362-U155	4. - a proposal from the Minister for Finance. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-05-05-PT12-362-U156	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-05-05-PT12-362-U157	5. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-05-05-PT12-362-U158	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-05-05-PT12-362-U159	6. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-05-05-PT12-362-U160	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-05-05-PT12-362-U161	7. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-05-05-PT12-362-U162	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-05-05-PT12-362-U163	8 / 8 - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-05-05-PT12-362-U164	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-05-05-PT12-362-U165	9. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-05-05-PT12-362-U166	Partially supported, included 10. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-05-05-PT12-362-U167	Yeah, I'm sorry. 9. - partially supported, included in 10. - the proposal made by the committee.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-05-05-PT12-362-U168	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-05-05-PT12-362-U169	10. is a proposal from the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission, which has been supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-05-05-PT12-362-U170	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-05-05-PT12-362-U171	11. - the proposal of the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission, which has been supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-05-05-PT12-362-U172	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-05-05-PT12-362-U173	12. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-05-05-PT12-362-U174	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-05-05-PT12-362-U175	13. - a proposal from the Minister for Finance. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-05-05-PT12-362-U176	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-05-05-PT12-362-U177	14............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - a proposal from the Minister for Finance. The Commission is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-05-05-PT12-362-U178	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-05-05-PT12-362-U179	15............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-05-05-PT12-362-U180	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-05-05-PT12-362-U181	16. - a proposal from the Minister for Finance. It has not been supported, as the deadline for the entry into force of certain draft laws has now passed.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-05-05-PT12-362-U182	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-05-05-PT12-362-U183	17. is a proposal from the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission, which has been supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-05-05-PT12-362-U184	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-05-05-PT12-362-U185	I therefore ask that this draft law be supported at third, final, reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-05-05-PT12-362-U186	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote for the support of the draft law “Amendments to the Law “On Excise Tax”” in the third, final, reading! Please vote mode! Please get the result! It's not about - 85, it's against and abstains. The law has been passed. On the agenda - draft law “On disposal of real estate at Augusta Deglava Street 25A, Riga, for public needs - the construction of the section of the East Motorway from Ieriķu Street to Vietuvas Street”, first reading. Member of the Legal Commission Gaidis Berzins.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-05-05-PT12-362-U187	Dear Chairman of the Saeima. Dear colleagues, During the examination of this draft law before the first reading, the commission invited the owner of real estate, representatives of the Ministry of Environmental Protection and Regional Development and the Riga City Council, as well as representatives of the Association of Latvian Property Evaluators. In the course of the examination of the draft law, the Commission concluded that historical property on 25A Deglava Street had been a unified property, divided into two properties during the Soviet occupation (the other is Purvciema Street 6, the disposal of which is also provided for under a separate law, the draft of which is now transferred to the Legal Commission). The disposal of part of the property would create a situation in which the East motorway would be built between these properties and the owner would actually own the real estate on the red lines without building rights, but with the obligation to pay real estate tax and to maintain the property, which, in the opinion of the Commission, is disproportionate. Moreover, neither the Ministry of Environmental Protection and Regional Development nor representatives of Riga City Council could specify in the meeting the right of access to this property. At the meeting of the Commission it was also established that the methodology that serves as the basis for determining the valuation of immovable property by applying the coefficient “50 per cent” is probably contrary to the aim of Article 105 of the Satversme and the Law on the disposal of immovable property necessary for the needs of the Company. In this respect, the Commission prepared and sent letters to the Ministry of Finance, the Ministry of Justice and the Ministry of Economics with a request for an appropriate assessment. In view of the above, the Commission did not support that draft law. In turn, in order to ensure the construction of the highway, comparing it with the right of the owner to a fair remuneration, the Commission invited the Riga City Council to evaluate the possibility to dispose of all real estate; moreover, as I indicated, the Commission also invited the responsible institutions to assess whether the valuation methodology complies with Section 105 of the Satversme and the purpose of the Law on the disposal of real estate necessary for the needs of the Company. I therefore call on the Commission not to support this draft law.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-05-05-PT12-362-U188	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote for the disposal of part of the draft law “On Real Estate at Augusta Deglava iela 25A, Riga, for public needs - construction of the section of the East Motorway from Ieriķu iela to Vietuvas iela”! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For -6, for -72, for -1. Draft law has been rejected. On the agenda - draft law “Amendments to the Law “On State Social Insurance”, first reading. On behalf of the Commission for Social and Labour Affairs - Member Einārs Cilinskis.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-05-05-PT12-362-U189	Madam President of the Saeima. Honourable Members! The draft law, which we are considering today at first reading, provides that persons who have an agreement on the restriction of the professional activity of an employee, after termination of the employment legal relationship, continue to be socially insured as employees during the entire period of the agreement; that, upon receiving information about the employment or insurance of a person abroad, the State Social Insurance Agency cancels the person’s registered contributions made from the general budget and special budgets of the State. The draft law lays down the procedure for transferring social insurance contributions to or from Latvia in case the person has been employed and the social insurance contributions are paid simultaneously in Latvia and another country of the European Union or the European Economic Area. The draft law provides that from 2017 self-employed persons will have the right to correct the submitted report on social contributions once a month. The draft law defines the status of the information system of the State Social Insurance Agency, aims and sources of information accumulated in the information system. The draft law also provides for the improvement of the state social insurance services, the procedure for the recovery of the state social benefit and overpayment of retirement pensions in order to recover overpaid services more quickly. Therefore, on behalf of the Commission, I ask you to support the draft law at first reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-05-05-PT12-362-U190	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote for support for the first reading of the draft law “Amendments to the Law “On State Social Insurance”! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 84, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The draft law at first reading has been supported. Please set a deadline for the second reading of the proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-05-05-PT12-362-U191	The Commission will wait until 1 June of this year.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-05-05-PT12-362-U192	Thank you. Proposals shall be submitted by 1 June of this year. On the agenda - draft law “Amendment to the Law on Higher Education”, second reading. Member of the Commission for Education, Culture and Science Arvīds Platopers.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-05-05-PT12-362-U193	President-in-Office of the Saeima, very much. Dear Members, honourable Members, The Commission for Education, Culture and Science has examined the draft law “Amendment to the Law on Higher Education” (No 529/Lp12). There was a proposal to amend the University Law: “The Cabinet of Ministers lays down the procedure for determining the remuneration of colleges within the framework of the Ministry of the Interior and their students’ self-financing and academic staff. No proposals were received for a second reading of the draft law. I call for the vote in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-05-05-PT12-362-U194	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote in favour of the second reading of the draft law “Amendment to the Law on Higher Education”! Please vote mode! Please get the result! Not by - 82, not by - and refrains. The draft law at second reading has been supported. Please set a deadline for the third reading of the proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-05-05-PT12-362-U195	Deadline for the third reading of the proposals - 10 May 2016.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-05-05-PT12-362-U196	Thank you. Proposals should be submitted by 10 May of this year. Colleagues! It's time for a break. Please call me! Please check-in mode for Members! While the results of the registration are being prepared, I would like to inform you that Jānis Trupovnieks, a Member, celebrated his 55th anniversary yesterday. And we welcome him. (Applause) Name Member of the Saeima, Gunars Kūtris, to read the results of the registration.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-05-05-PT12-362-U197	Dear colleagues, Currently not registered: Guntis Belēvičs, Boriss Cilevičs, Ojārs Ēriks Kalniņš, Rihards Kols, Janīna Kursīte-Pakule, Inese Laizāne, Inese Lībiņa-Egnere, Aleksejs Loskutovs, Roman Mežeckis, Imants Krodnieks, Juris Šulcs and Dzintars Zaķis. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-05-05-PT12-362-U198	Thank you. Interruption until 11 a.m. ( Interruption) ( Interruption)
ParlaMint-LV_2016-05-05-PT12-362-U199	Honourable Members! I invite you to take your seats in the Chamber! We're going to keep the Saeima sitting. On the agenda - draft law “Law on Official Electronic Address”, second reading... Dear colleagues, I call for seats to be held in the Chamber. On behalf of the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy, Member Edward Smilten.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-05-05-PT12-362-U200	Hello, colleagues! We work with the draft Law on Official Electronic Address at second reading. I would remind you that this is a draft law, the adoption of which will greatly facilitate communication between the state of Latvia and its citizens, entrepreneurs. So there will be one official electronic address, just like the State Revenue Service in the EDS system, where you can write applications, receive answers, and which will significantly reduce the amount of paper and letters to be sent. A total of 17 proposals have been submitted. 1. - the proposal of the Legal Bureau of the Saeima, which intends to change the title of the law. In the Commission, we discussed and did not support this proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-05-05-PT12-362-U201	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-05-05-PT12-362-U202	2. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. This is partly supported and included in the next proposal: 3.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-05-05-PT12-362-U203	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-05-05-PT12-362-U204	3. - a proposal from the committee responsible. Has received support from the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-05-05-PT12-362-U205	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-05-05-PT12-362-U206	4. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-05-05-PT12-362-U207	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-05-05-PT12-362-U208	5. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-05-05-PT12-362-U209	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-05-05-PT12-362-U210	6. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-05-05-PT12-362-U211	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-05-05-PT12-362-U212	7. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Has been supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-05-05-PT12-362-U213	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-05-05-PT12-362-U214	8 / 8 - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Has received support from the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-05-05-PT12-362-U215	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-05-05-PT12-362-U216	9. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. There has also been support.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-05-05-PT12-362-U217	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-05-05-PT12-362-U218	10............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - Legal Bureau's proposal on the establishment and use of an e-address. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-05-05-PT12-362-U219	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-05-05-PT12-362-U220	11. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-05-05-PT12-362-U221	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-05-05-PT12-362-U222	12. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-05-05-PT12-362-U223	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-05-05-PT12-362-U224	13. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Has been supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-05-05-PT12-362-U225	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-05-05-PT12-362-U226	14............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-05-05-PT12-362-U227	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-05-05-PT12-362-U228	15............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-05-05-PT12-362-U229	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-05-05-PT12-362-U230	16. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-05-05-PT12-362-U231	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-05-05-PT12-362-U232	And the last one is 17. - Legal Bureau's proposal, which provides that the deadline for the entry into force of the law shall be 1 July 2017. The Commission has received support.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-05-05-PT12-362-U233	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-05-05-PT12-362-U234	We have therefore examined all the proposals. On behalf of the Commission, I call for the vote on the draft law at second reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-05-05-PT12-362-U235	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote in favour of the second reading of the draft law “Law on Official Electronic Address”! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 69, against and refrains. The draft law at second reading has been supported. Please set a deadline for the third reading of the proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-05-05-PT12-362-U236	Yes, colleagues! If you have any valuable proposals, let us wait until May 19.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-05-05-PT12-362-U237	Thank you. Proposals are due by 19 May this year. On the agenda - draft law “Amendments to the Law “On State Revenue Service”, second reading. Member of the Commission for Budget and Finance (Tax) Jānis Vucāns.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-05-05-PT12-362-U238	Dear colleagues, We can see the draft law prepared for second reading “Amendments to the Law on State Revenue Service”. The Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission has received four proposals. All these proposals are the proposals of the Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Finance, Edgars Putra. The proposal is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-05-05-PT12-362-U239	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-05-05-PT12-362-U240	Two more. - the proposal of the Parliamentary Secretary has been supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-05-05-PT12-362-U241	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-05-05-PT12-362-U242	Also 3. - the proposal of the Parliamentary Secretary has been supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-05-05-PT12-362-U243	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-05-05-PT12-362-U244	And also 4. - the proposal of the Parliamentary Secretary has been supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-05-05-PT12-362-U245	Let us start a debate. Name of Member Inguna Silver.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-05-05-PT12-362-U246	Dear colleagues, Of course, we very much support the fact that officials, employees in our public administration are becoming fairer and that the executive is very much fighting for this. However, I would like to draw your attention to this proposal in the sense that the following question arises: can there be a change in the situation in the entire public administration with some shackling - some cracks? Should the employees of the State Revenue Service only fill in the declarations of their officials in good faith? Should not this be done either for those working in the central apparatus of the Ministry of Finance or for other institutions? Does this not apply to police officers or any other staff or officials? In my opinion, there were proposals of a kind that would not create these very wonderful issues. Workers in the public administration are subject to absolutely the same requirements irrespective of where the employee or official works. Once again, the executive's action is that there has been a problem somewhere, and we are trying to eliminate this problem in the fire-fighting regime, but we are not touching the roots of the problem. I urge the executive to be careful about the demands of all employees working in the state administration and to prepare amendments to the laws governing all civil servants in order not to create differences or funny issues, for example, why suddenly only those working in the State Revenue Service should fill out the declarations in good faith, but this does not apply to everyone else? Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-05-05-PT12-362-U247	Mrs Silver, are you in favour of the vote on this proposal?
ParlaMint-LV_2016-05-05-PT12-362-U248	Yes, I support the vote. Because... I repeat, I am against Parliament being used as a fire-fighting machine.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-05-05-PT12-362-U249	Thank you. I closed the debate. Does the rapporteur wish to add something on behalf of the Commission?
ParlaMint-LV_2016-05-05-PT12-362-U250	On behalf of the Commission, I confirm that there was indeed a discussion in the Ingun Silver Commission on such aspects. In substance, the members of the commission did not object to this type of provision being applied horizontally to the entire public service, but this is a matter of other law. On behalf of the Commission, I ask you to support this proposal, Amendment 4.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-05-05-PT12-362-U251	Thank you. Please call me! Let us vote in favour of 4. - The proposal from the Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Finance, Mr Putra! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The proposal is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-05-05-PT12-362-U252	Therefore, I ask the draft law “Amendments to the Law “On State Revenue Service”” to be approved at second reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-05-05-PT12-362-U253	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote in favour of the second reading of the draft law “Amendments to the Law “On State Revenue Service”! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 78, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The draft law at second reading has been supported. Please set a deadline for the third reading of the proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-05-05-PT12-362-U254	10 May 2016.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-05-05-PT12-362-U255	Thank you. Proposals should be submitted by 10 May of this year. On the agenda - draft law on Customs, second reading. Member of the Commission for Budget and Finance (Tax) Jānis Vucāns.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-05-05-PT12-362-U256	The Budget and Finance (Tax) Commission has prepared for second reading the draft law “Customs Law”. It is a new law that takes place instead of the previous law governing the customs process, because if it were to be amended, the number of such amendments would be disproportionately high. The Commission had received... more precisely, the table proposed for second reading contains 55 proposals. All these proposals are either supported or partly supported. And now I will come forward with these proposals in turn. 1. is a proposal from the Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Finance, Edgars Putra, who is supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-05-05-PT12-362-U257	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-05-05-PT12-362-U258	2. There is also a proposal from Parliamentary Secretary Edgars Putra. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-05-05-PT12-362-U259	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-05-05-PT12-362-U260	3. - a proposal from Parliamentary Secretary Edgars Putra. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-05-05-PT12-362-U261	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-05-05-PT12-362-U262	4. - a proposal from the Parliamentary Secretary. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-05-05-PT12-362-U263	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-05-05-PT12-362-U264	5. - a proposal from the Parliamentary Secretary supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-05-05-PT12-362-U265	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-05-05-PT12-362-U266	6. - a proposal from the Parliamentary Secretary. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-05-05-PT12-362-U267	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-05-05-PT12-362-U268	7. - a proposal from the Parliamentary Secretary. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-05-05-PT12-362-U269	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-05-05-PT12-362-U270	8 / 8 - a proposal from the Parliamentary Secretary. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-05-05-PT12-362-U271	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-05-05-PT12-362-U272	9. - a proposal from the Parliamentary Secretary. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-05-05-PT12-362-U273	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-05-05-PT12-362-U274	10............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - a proposal from the Parliamentary Secretary. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-05-05-PT12-362-U275	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-05-05-PT12-362-U276	11. - a proposal from the Parliamentary Secretary. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-05-05-PT12-362-U277	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-05-05-PT12-362-U278	12. - a proposal from the Parliamentary Secretary. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-05-05-PT12-362-U279	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-05-05-PT12-362-U280	13. - a proposal from the Parliamentary Secretary. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-05-05-PT12-362-U281	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-05-05-PT12-362-U282	14............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - a proposal from the Parliamentary Secretary. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-05-05-PT12-362-U283	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-05-05-PT12-362-U284	15............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - a proposal from the Parliamentary Secretary. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-05-05-PT12-362-U285	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-05-05-PT12-362-U286	16. - a proposal from the Parliamentary Secretary. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-05-05-PT12-362-U287	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-05-05-PT12-362-U288	17. - a proposal from the Parliamentary Secretary. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-05-05-PT12-362-U289	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-05-05-PT12-362-U290	18. - a proposal from the Parliamentary Secretary. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-05-05-PT12-362-U291	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-05-05-PT12-362-U292	19. is a proposal made by the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission, which has been supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-05-05-PT12-362-U293	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-05-05-PT12-362-U294	20............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - Proposal by Mr. Edgars Putra, Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Finance. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-05-05-PT12-362-U295	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-05-05-PT12-362-U296	21............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - a proposal from the Parliamentary Secretary. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-05-05-PT12-362-U297	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-05-05-PT12-362-U298	22. - a proposal from the Parliamentary Secretary. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-05-05-PT12-362-U299	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-05-05-PT12-362-U300	23............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - a proposal from the Parliamentary Secretary. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-05-05-PT12-362-U301	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-05-05-PT12-362-U302	24. - a proposal from the Parliamentary Secretary. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-05-05-PT12-362-U303	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-05-05-PT12-362-U304	25. - a proposal from the Parliamentary Secretary. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-05-05-PT12-362-U305	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-05-05-PT12-362-U306	26. - a proposal from the Parliamentary Secretary. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-05-05-PT12-362-U307	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-05-05-PT12-362-U308	27. - a proposal from the Parliamentary Secretary. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-05-05-PT12-362-U309	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-05-05-PT12-362-U310	28. - a proposal from the Parliamentary Secretary. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-05-05-PT12-362-U311	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-05-05-PT12-362-U312	29. - a proposal from the Parliamentary Secretary. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-05-05-PT12-362-U313	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-05-05-PT12-362-U314	30. - a proposal from the Parliamentary Secretary. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-05-05-PT12-362-U315	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-05-05-PT12-362-U316	31. - a proposal from the Parliamentary Secretary. The Commission is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-05-05-PT12-362-U317	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-05-05-PT12-362-U318	32. - a proposal from the Parliamentary Secretary. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-05-05-PT12-362-U319	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-05-05-PT12-362-U320	33. - a proposal from the Parliamentary Secretary. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-05-05-PT12-362-U321	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-05-05-PT12-362-U322	34. - a proposal from the Parliamentary Secretary. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-05-05-PT12-362-U323	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-05-05-PT12-362-U324	35. - a proposal from the Parliamentary Secretary. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-05-05-PT12-362-U325	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-05-05-PT12-362-U326	36. - a proposal from the Parliamentary Secretary. It is partly supported by the Commission and included in it 37. - the proposal made by the committee.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-05-05-PT12-362-U327	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-05-05-PT12-362-U328	37. - the committee responsible's proposal, which has been supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-05-05-PT12-362-U329	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-05-05-PT12-362-U330	38. - a proposal from the Parliamentary Secretary. It shall be supported by changing the numbering of the following paragraphs accordingly.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-05-05-PT12-362-U331	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-05-05-PT12-362-U332	39. - a proposal from the Parliamentary Secretary. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-05-05-PT12-362-U333	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-05-05-PT12-362-U334	40. - a proposal from the Parliamentary Secretary. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-05-05-PT12-362-U335	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-05-05-PT12-362-U336	41. - a proposal from the Parliamentary Secretary. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-05-05-PT12-362-U337	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-05-05-PT12-362-U338	42. - a proposal from the Parliamentary Secretary. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-05-05-PT12-362-U339	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-05-05-PT12-362-U340	43. - a proposal from the Parliamentary Secretary. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-05-05-PT12-362-U341	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-05-05-PT12-362-U342	44. - a proposal from the Parliamentary Secretary. The numbering of the paragraphs of the following article has been supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-05-05-PT12-362-U343	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-05-05-PT12-362-U344	45. - a proposal from the Parliamentary Secretary. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-05-05-PT12-362-U345	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-05-05-PT12-362-U346	46. - a proposal from the Parliamentary Secretary. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-05-05-PT12-362-U347	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-05-05-PT12-362-U348	47. - a proposal from the Parliamentary Secretary. Partly supported and included 48. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-05-05-PT12-362-U349	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-05-05-PT12-362-U350	48. - the committee responsible's proposal, which has been supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-05-05-PT12-362-U351	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-05-05-PT12-362-U352	49. - a proposal from the Parliamentary Secretary. Partly supported and included 50. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-05-05-PT12-362-U353	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-05-05-PT12-362-U354	50. - the committee responsible's proposal, which has been supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-05-05-PT12-362-U355	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-05-05-PT12-362-U356	51. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. It is supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-05-05-PT12-362-U357	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-05-05-PT12-362-U358	52. - a proposal from the Parliamentary Secretary. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-05-05-PT12-362-U359	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-05-05-PT12-362-U360	And 53th is also the proposal of the Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Finance, Edgars Putra. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-05-05-PT12-362-U361	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-05-05-PT12-362-U362	54. - a proposal from the Legal Bureau, which received support from the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-05-05-PT12-362-U363	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-05-05-PT12-362-U364	And there is also the 55th proposal from the Legal Bureau, which is supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-05-05-PT12-362-U365	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-05-05-PT12-362-U366	Therefore, please approve the draft law at second reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-05-05-PT12-362-U367	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote in favour of the second reading of the draft law on customs! Please vote mode! Please get the result! It's not about - 85, it's against and abstains. The draft law at second reading has been supported. Please set a deadline for the third reading of the proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-05-05-PT12-362-U368	10 May this year.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-05-05-PT12-362-U369	Thank you. Proposals should be submitted by 10 May of this year. On the agenda - draft law “Amendments to the Law on Real Estate State Cadastre”, first reading. Member of the Legal Commission Gaidis Berzins.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-05-05-PT12-362-U370	Dear Chairman of the Saeima. Dear colleagues, The draft law provides to postpone the entry into force of the cadastral values specified in paragraphs 33 and 34 of the Transitional Provisions of the Law on State Cadastral of Real Estate for one year, so that before the entry into force of a new cadastral value base there would be an opportunity to review all of them and to draw up proposals for changes in the regulation of real estate tax, preventing a rapid increase in real estate tax (especially for dwellings), which could result from the increase of the cadastral value base at fixed rates of property tax. The Commission calls for the said draft law to be declared urgent.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-05-05-PT12-362-U371	It is therefore necessary to vote in favour of declaring the draft law urgent. Please call me! We will vote for the recognition of the draft law “Amendments to the Law on the State Cadastre of Real Estate” as urgent! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The draft law has been declared urgent.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-05-05-PT12-362-U372	On behalf of the Commission, I call for support for this draft law at first reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-05-05-PT12-362-U373	Please call me! We will vote for support for the first reading of the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Real Estate State Cadastre”! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 81, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The draft law at first reading has been supported. Please set the deadline for the second reading of the proposals and the time for the session of the Saeima.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-05-05-PT12-362-U374	Colleagues! Proposals must be submitted by 10 May of this year, and consideration of the draft law - at the meeting of 19 May this year.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-05-05-PT12-362-U375	Thank you. Consequently, proposals should be submitted by 10 May of this year, and consideration by the Saeima at its meeting on 19 May this year. On the agenda - draft law “Amendment to the Law on Land Management”, first reading. On behalf of the National Administration and Municipal Commission - Member Aldis Adamovičs.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-05-05-PT12-362-U376	Dear President, Colleagues! So we look at the amendment of the Land Management Act at first reading. The amendment provides for the right for municipalities to impose a prohibition on hazardous ice. On behalf of the Commission, please support this amendment at first reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-05-05-PT12-362-U377	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote in favour of the first reading of the draft law on Land Management. Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 79, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The draft law at first reading has been supported. Please set a deadline for the submission of the proposals for second reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-05-05-PT12-362-U378	The deadline for the submission of proposals for second reading is 26 May this year.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-05-05-PT12-362-U379	Thank you. Proposals are due by 26 May this year. On the agenda - draft law “Amendments to the Law on Public Service Procurement”, first reading. On behalf of the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy, Member Ingmārs Līdaka.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-05-05-PT12-362-U380	Hello, dear colleagues! To your attention, two essentially interrelated draft laws, that is, “Amendments to the Public Procurement Act” and “Amendments to the Public Service Providers Procurement Act”. The case is that Latvia already has part of its legislation (the grass has increased noise. The head of the sitting shall be knocked down by means of a hammer.) has taken over the Public Procurement Directive of 26 February 2014, but things remain that have not been taken over by this legislation. It has to be acknowledged that the officials of the Ministry of Finance have slept in deep nightmare sleep, but let the new minister take care of his officials! And she will deal with them! We need to ensure that European money is not hindered, that is to say, the procurement of European money, which could really be hindered without rapid transposition of this directive. As regards both of these draft laws, it should be said that the Saeima's Legal Office has closely followed this large amount, which is here before you. There should be no derogations from the text of the Directive. I therefore urge you to call for these two draft laws to be declared urgent. Let me give you something else. Currently, on the agenda of the Cabinet of Ministers there are new amendments to the procurement law, which will soon be reached by the Saeima. Therefore, I invite all colleagues to be wise and wait for the draft law that will come from the Cabinet of Ministers to the Saeima. And if you have any proposals, then expect the draft law to move ahead, not set up and make your own proposals in the light of the draft laws. I therefore ask for urgency to be given to amendments to the Public Service Providers' Procurement Act.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-05-05-PT12-362-U381	Thank you. ‘ Inguna Silverba, a member of the law, has applied for the urgent determination of the law.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-05-05-PT12-362-U382	Dear colleagues, I think it's gonna be a nightmare for some officials - or maybe for most officials? - is of such a very long duration as this directive was already adopted in February 2014. And already in March 2014, the Ministry of Finance established a working group. It has already started to take rather operational action to draft the necessary amendments to the procurement law (I am talking about both procurement laws), but unfortunately the first meeting of this commission was only held in November 2014. When we asked Prime Minister Maris Kučinskis how his work was organised and whether there was an assessment of the responsibility of officials for not having been able to draft the necessary amendments to the law for more than two years so that all the requirements of the directives were implemented, we were given a reply prepared by the Minister of Finance and, in his reply, she believed that the actions of the officials were very responsible, operational and that they were in line with the principles of good governance. If you consider this to be a truly responsible act that complies with the principles of good governance, then I think it is regrettable that Parliament once again agrees with the fact that the executive can treat the public so irresponsiblely, the business community. Only when entrepreneurs start protesting that procurement will be significantly impeded (and we are talking about European Union funds of more than five billion, which concern various construction projects, most of which concern the construction of roads), is this very responsible and operational action aimed at preparing rapid amendments to the law. What else should happen if two years of action are impossible, but suddenly, within a few nights, it is possible to prepare such amendments to the law?Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. I am therefore opposed to the fact that the Saeima legitimises all such an executive action and allows the executive to continue acting so irresponsiblely. We do not respect ourselves if we allow such amendments to the law to be adopted by the Saeima without careful consideration, without analysis. I call on the parliamentarians to respect the parliamentary working style and to be treated in a manner that requires responsible action from the executive, not every time they cover the failure of the executive and allows the executive to act increasingly cynically with each time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-05-05-PT12-362-U383	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote for the urgent recognition of the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Public Service Procurement”! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The draft law has been declared urgent.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-05-05-PT12-362-U384	Please approve the draft law at first reading. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. Mr Bondars is late in tabling a debate.)
ParlaMint-LV_2016-05-05-PT12-362-U385	Please call me! ( The transcripts are: “I’m beautiful! ” “Let’s talk!” ) We will vote in favour of the first reading of the draft law "Amendments to the Law on Public Service Procurement"! Please vote mode! Please get the result! The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. M.Bondars: “I-to!” ) For - 70, for - 8, and for - no. The draft law at first reading has been supported. Please set a time limit for the submission of proposals and a time limit for consideration at the sitting of the Saeima.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-05-05-PT12-362-U386	Submission of proposals - till today, May 5, at 5 p.m. And consideration - next Saeima sitting, that's, May 12.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-05-05-PT12-362-U387	Thank you. Proposals can be submitted today by 5 p.m. So the deadline is on May 5, at 5 p.m. Review at the Saeima sitting on 12 May this year. Colleagues are invited to apply for a debate in due time; there is an opportunity to apply electronically as well as using green application sheets. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. M.Bondars: “I will write a letter!” ; Subscription: ‘Insert!’ ) On the agenda - Draft law on Amendments to the Law on Public Procurement, first reading. On behalf of the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy, Member Ingmārs Līdaka.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-05-05-PT12-362-U388	As I have already mentioned, this draft law is essentially related to the previous draft law which has just been examined. Thus, by adopting this Directive of 26 February 2014, several provisions of the Law on Public Procurement, including the norm on tax dues verification, are amended. It also takes over the point that it is necessary to adopt simplified procurement procedures for social and other specific services, which are then also summarised in Annex 2 to this draft law. And, in reply to Mrs Silver, I would say that it would not be fair to punish entrepreneurs instead of these officials. For if we delay the adoption of these laws, then the officials will not receive any punishment. In fact, drivers who will continue to drive on bad roads will be punished, entrepreneurs who will already count on their resources to get European funds. We will not be punishing officials in any way in principle, hindering the progress of these draft laws.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-05-05-PT12-362-U389	The Commission is therefore asking for the draft law to be declared urgent. Please call me! We will vote for the urgent recognition of the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Public Procurement”! Please vote mode! Please get the result! -67, against -12, refrains - not. The draft law has been declared urgent.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-05-05-PT12-362-U390	Please adopt the draft law at first reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-05-05-PT12-362-U391	Let us start a debate. The name of the Member, Martin Bondar.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-05-05-PT12-362-U392	Colleagues, in 2015 the remuneration of the State Secretary of the Ministry of Finance was 110 000 euros. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. A.Kamiņš: “In the Moon?” ) Her work was declared innocent and excellent, to be more precise, and on all this she received the Order of Three Stars. Now, it turns out, the Union of Greens and Farmers has found that the Ministry of Finance has been in peace with the marmot and that nothing good has happened in connection with the procurement law, and that in fact Latvian entrepreneurs are prevented from obtaining available orders from European Union funds. As a result, the economy is stifling and the economy is not developing. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. A.Barch's intermediate calls.) When I drew the Minister of Finance's attention to these issues, which the State Secretary of the Ministry of Finance has laid down, and when I said that perhaps that salary does not match her job, her success and her work, I received the answer that everything is in order. Mr Līdaka, I must tell you honestly: your hope that the Minister for Finance will deal with these nightmares is absolutely unnecessary. He won't be able to deal with these marmoties! I would therefore like to say to you, my fellow Members, that we, as Parliament, as Mrs Silver has already said, should be required to bear the responsibility of those officials who have deposited all of this. Having laid down the progress of these laws so that these funds can be learned as quickly and as qualitatively as possible in the Latvian economy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-05-05-PT12-362-U393	Thank you. I closed the debate. Is there anything to add on behalf of the Commission?
ParlaMint-LV_2016-05-05-PT12-362-U394	I can only remind you that Mr Bondara, as the leader of the opposition, has every opportunity to write requests, questions, to act as a proper opposition and to claim responsibility. Now I'm being asked to take responsibility... The Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy is required to be responsible for this draft law. And I can only say that this draft law is qualitatively prepared and there will be no problems with the Public Procurement Act.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-05-05-PT12-362-U395	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote in favour of the first reading of the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Public Procurement”! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The draft law at first reading has been supported. Please set the deadline for the second reading of the proposals and the time for the session of the Saeima.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-05-05-PT12-362-U396	Similar to the previous draft law, the proposals will be expected today, May 5, by 5 p.m., and the draft law will be reviewed at the Saeima sitting on May 12.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-05-05-PT12-362-U397	Thank you. So the proposals should be submitted by 5 May at 17.00 this year, and the sitting of the Saeima on 12 May. Thank you. The agenda for the sitting of the Saeima has been examined, but I would like to inform you about the replies to Members' questions scheduled for today at 5 p.m. The question of Members Dolgopolova, Adamson, Urbanovich, Tretyaka and Zemlinskis to Prime Minister Maris Kučinskis “On the future accommodation centre “Mucenieki” of foreign residents detained.” The question was referred to the Minister of the Interior, Rihard Kozlovski. The written replies received shall not be satisfied. The Minister informs us that no oral answer can be given today. The question to the Minister of Economics Arvilas Asheradens about the possible compatibility of the acquisition of shares of joint stock company Latvijas Gāzes with the interests of the State was raised by Members Zarina, Agešina, Arthur Rubika, Ribakova and Pimenov. A written reply has been received. The Minister informs that an oral answer can be given, but the questioners do not want to ask further questions. The question of Members Silver, May, Platoper, Baloža and Šymfas to Prime Minister Maris Kučinskis “On the information report on the evaluation of the proposals contained in the final report of the parliamentary committee of inquiry of the Saeima”. The written replies received shall not be satisfied. The Prime Minister informs that due to the planned work schedule (no noise has increased in the hall. The head of the sitting shall be knocked down by means of a hammer.) cannot come to an oral answer. The question of Members Silver, Kūtra, Šimfas, Platopers and Maya to the Minister of Education and Science Kārlis Šadurskis “On the organisation and implementation of the subject “Music” in Latvian general education schools”. The written replies received shall not be satisfied. The Minister informs that due to previously planned work arrangements, no oral answer can be given today. The question of Members Silver, Shifas, Kūtra, Maya and Platoper to Prime Minister Maris Kučinskis “On Draft Law”. The question was referred to Minister for Finance Dana Reizniece-Ozola. The written replies received shall not be satisfied. The Minister informs that, due to the measures previously planned, it is not possible to come to an oral response today. Consequently, the replies to Members' questions scheduled for today at 17.00 will not be given. ( FROM a faction: “Where is the government? ” ) New questions have been submitted to Members. Members Bite, Viļums, Bondars, Ruks and Šics have submitted the question “On the efficiency of the insolvency administration” that we submit to the Minister of Justice Dzintars Rasnačs to reply. The reason for the question is for the Member Inga Bite.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-05-05-PT12-362-U398	Dear colleagues, The Sub-Committee on Judicial Policy of the Saeima has dealt with the work of the insolvency administrator and the insolvency administration in two sub-committees already, and will continue to look at this issue, most probably, at several sub-committee meetings. So far, it is obvious that the quality of work of the insolvency administration is not satisfactory. The answer given by the Insolvency Administration to a study by the Council of Foreign Investors and Deloitte also shows that, unfortunately, employees of the Bank’s Administration are not able to look at this issue more widely at the moment and are unable to see neither the objectives nor the meaning nor the nature of their activities and its necessity. The only thing that has been stressed in the answer is that the insolvency administration has a lot of work; that the figures shown differ from the report to the report and that the report is therefore not reliable. There could be no real problem in the area of insolvency. However, we have asked questions to the Minister. We hope the Minister will answer them.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-05-05-PT12-362-U399	Thank you, Mrs Betes. The time of the question was one minute. Members of Silver, Symfa, Platoper, Maya and Balodis have asked the question “On the closure and reorganisation of educational institutions in local governments of Latvia”, which we hand over to Minister of Education and Science Kārlis Šadurskis for reply. Members Zarins, Agešins, Arturs Rubiks, Tutins and Ribakovs submitted a question “As regards the inability of EM to provide economic justification for the possible compatibility of the acquisition of shares of joint stock company Latvijas Gāze with the public interest”. We hand it over to the Minister for Economic Affairs, Arvil Asheraden, for a reply. The reason for the question is given to the Member Ivars Zarins.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-05-05-PT12-362-U400	Hello, colleagues! We asked the Minister for Economic Affairs to provide economic justification for his allegations that the state should buy the Latvijas Gas shares. As has already been adopted, our Ministry of Economics was not able to provide any economic justification for its claims in the face of security aspects which are important for the security of energy supply. Then we ask the Minister to explain exactly what energy security issues the country will solve by paying existing shareholders several tens of millions, and are we really prepared to deal with energy security issues at any price. If that's not the case, please tell me where the border we're ready for... where we can see that this is reasonable. And we also ask the Minister for Economics to explain whether he has assessed alternatives at all, how, perhaps otherwise, by spending these 10 million, the country could ensure its energy security. Let us look forward to the answers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-05-05-PT12-362-U401	Thank you. Please call me! Please check-in mode for Members! While the results of the registration are being prepared, the name of the notice to the Member Ringold Balodim.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-05-05-PT12-362-U402	So, colleagues, the press conference will take place immediately after the Saeima sitting. And the subject of the press conference is the cessation of the activities of the parliamentary commission for combating smuggling, or the way to get parliamentary control from an effective Institute of Constitutional Law into the plight of taxpayers' money.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-05-05-PT12-362-U403	Name for reading the results of the registration to Gunārs Kūtris, member of the Saeima Secretary.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-05-05-PT12-362-U404	Colleagues! Not registered at the moment: Solvita Āboltiņa, Guntis Belēvičs, Boriss Cilevičs, Rihards Kols, Janīna Kursīte-Pakule, Inese Laizāne, Aleksejs Loskutovs, Roman Mežeckis, Imants Krādnieks, Juris Šulcs, Dzintars Zaķis and Mihails Zemļinskis.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-05-05-PT12-362-U405	Thank you. I'm closing the sitting.
