ParlaMint-LV_2016-02-11-PT12-346-U1	Dear colleagues, Dear colleagues, Please take your seats in the Chamber. We started the extraordinary sitting of the Saeima on 11 February 2016. On the agenda there is one question – the draft decision “On the admission of Gerar Renno to Latvian citizenship for special merits for Latvia”. Member Ilmārs Latkovskis shall report on behalf of the Commission on Citizenship, Migration and Social Solidarity.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-02-11-PT12-346-U2	The President of the sitting is very respectful. Colleagues! Members! Dear guests! Observers! I ask you to pay some attention to another important and responsible event on this tense, event-rich day. Draft decision on taking Gerars Renno in Latvian citizenship on special merits for Latvia. A little more information for your attention. The application - the request for admission of the Honorary Consul General of Latvia in Lebanon Mr. Gerars Renno to Latvian citizenship for special merits for Latvia - was received by the Commission of Citizenship, Migration and Public Solidarity in October 2015. Aware of the importance of the issue of admission to citizenship, the Commission has carefully assessed all the conditions during this period. The Commission received a positive reply from the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of Latvia from Mr Renno. It indicates that Mr Renno has been representing Latvian interests in Lebanon since 2000. On his active role in promoting cooperation between Latvia and Lebanon, especially in view of his contribution to the evacuation of Latvian citizens from Lebanon during the summer of 2006, when an armed conflict between Israel and the Hezbollah Group took place, he was granted the post of honorary Consul General and later the Ministry of Foreign Affairs’ Recognition. The Ministry of Foreign Affairs points out that Mr Renno's performance in favour of Latvia is also particularly prominent among honorary consuls, because although the title of honorary consul in itself is a special status compared to the honorary consul, Mr Renno's excellence in this special status is particularly significant. The Commission for Citizenship, Migration and Social Solidarity also met with the applicant for citizenship and listened to his motivation to acquire Latvian citizenship in Latvian. The applicant has also given a promise of trust to the Republic of Latvia and signed it. The Office of Citizenship and Migration Affairs has carried out the verification prescribed by the Law on Citizenship and has not found that any restrictions on granting of citizenship referred to in Section 11 of this Law would apply to Mr Renno. The members of the Commission on Citizenship, Migration and Social Solidarity unanimously supported the admission of Gerars Renno to Latvian citizenship for special merits for Latvia. To this end, on behalf of the Commission, I invite you to support the draft decision of the Saeima - to accept Gerara Renno as a citizen of Latvia for special merits for Latvia.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-02-11-PT12-346-U3	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote for the draft decision “On taking Gerar Renno into Latvian citizenship for special merits for Latvia”! Please vote mode! Please get the result! It's not about - 86, it's against and refrains from - it's not. The decision was adopted unanimously. (Applause) Gerard Renno is in the hall. Congratulations to him on obtaining citizenship of the Republic of Latvia. Colleagues, therefore, all items on the agenda have been dealt with at this extraordinary meeting today. Please register to register your presence. Before the results of the registration are prepared and read, I would like to inform you that, due to the fact that we approved the new Cabinet of Ministers and today's first meeting of the Government, as well as the new Transport Minister, who takes over the mandate, the answer to the question of Member Zariņa, Agešina, Arthur Rubika, Tutina and Ribakova to the Minister of Transport “On the Investor of Air Baltic Corporation” will not be given today. The Saeima Bureau will refer the matter to the new Minister for Transport. Please, Mr. Curry!
ParlaMint-LV_2016-02-11-PT12-346-U4	Dear colleagues, The results of the registration. Not registered: Jānis Adamsons, Ringolds Balodis, Raivis Dzintars, Andrejs Elksniņš, Artuss Kaimiņš, Jānis Kžads, Romanas Mežeckis, Ināra Mūrniece, Vitalijs Orlovs... There, Edgars Putra and Julia Stepanenko... Yes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-02-11-PT12-346-U5	Thank you. So I closed the emergency sitting.
