ParlaMint-LV_2016-11-18-PT12-387-U1	Hello, honourable Members! The official sitting of the Saeima on 18 November 2016 dedicated to the 98th anniversary of the announcement of the Republic of Latvia.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-11-18-PT12-387-U2	Name of the holiday address to Ināra Mūrniece, Speaker of the Saeima of the Republic of Latvia.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-11-18-PT12-387-U3	Mr. President-in-Office of the Republic. Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council of Ministers. Dear Members of the Saeima! Excellency! Ladies and gentlemen! Dear people! Latvia goes to the centenary for big steps! Today we celebrate the 98th birthday of our country! 98 years ago, the Latvian nation's dream of statehood was fulfilled. The First World War had just ended, but our countrymen, loving their people, knew and managed to put Latvia on the map of the world as a national independent state. The state of Latvia did not appear as a chance or a happy coincidence. The Latvians had cherished their desire for freedom through the centuries. The formation of the Latvian nation over the centuries was mostly influenced by Western civilization. And in Latvians, the idea of the people's right to self-determination was the most profound consideration. This idea was experienced at the beginning of the 20th century. Economics and teachers, lawyers and poets, officers and students gathered together in various places of Latvia. Everyone was unanimous about the goal – we have to build our country! While waiting for the centenary of Latvia, we have better understood many historical events that mark the path of our country and nation. One such is the first Latgale Latvian Congress in Rezekne. It decided that Latgale, Vidzeme and Kurzeme Latvians are one nation and Latgale should join with other Latvian countries. The next spring we will gather to celebrate the anniversary of this event in the very heart of Latgale – Rezekne. Next year it is 100 years since the Latvian Interim National Council met in Valka. It postulated the main political objectives – to unite Latvia territorially, to form an independent state, to convene a Constitutional Meeting. The values of Western democracy are those on which Latvia relied 98 years ago and is based today. That is why Latvia is founded as a democratic republic, in which both the government of the Latvian nation and the involvement of all citizens in public administration are implemented on an equal basis. You can also say it's simpler – Latvians have long developed into a united nation. The state of Latvia was created as the only framework in which the Latvian people together with other nations can live and develop fully through the centuries. And this principle is enshrined in the Constitution. Latvia is our treasure, our wealth, our glory. Latvia is not only much dreamed, but also a lot of martial law. While living on the western and eastern border, Latvians have become good soldiers. These were in the struggles of Freedom and in both world wars. Our soldiers are the best for us today – heroic, intelligent, zealous patriots of our land. And Latvia's independence cannot be imagined without our soldiers and landguards. Thanks to them, we can be sure of our Fatherland. We have been a NATO member for 12 years now. Taking care of our security, we strengthen NATO's collective defence capabilities with our participation. We have strong and reliable allies. We have seen this not only in our words but also in our actions. At a time when the Kremlin is demonstrating its military muscles and its escalating threats in our region, strengthening NATO's presence is the main way to prevent it. In the spring of next year, multinational NATO force battle groups will arrive in the Baltic States. We are grateful to Canada, which has taken the lead in the battle group in Latvia. The government is currently preparing intensively for the practical reception of NATO forces. However, as a host country, we must provide not only infrastructure – barracks, roads, warehouses. The support and positive attitude of our citizens towards the soldiers who have arrived to protect us is very important. I know we can do that. Latvia and Canada have very good cooperation and warm human contacts. It is also crucial that the United States, our main strategic partner, remains on Latvia's land. We are grateful to the United States for the firm fulfilment of NATO's commitments. Latvia and the United States share close ties, shared values and a broad agenda to face common security challenges. We now have intensive work ahead of us on the implementation of the Warsaw Summit decisions. What our citizens expect today from the European Union is also about security. The European Union must continue to work very actively to strengthen external borders and energy security, to continue the fight against terrorism, hybrid threats. Security is also at the heart of Baltic cooperation. We can cope with geopolitical challenges if we are together. Close cooperation with the Baltic and Nordic partners is equally important. And in this difficult situation, we must make every effort for the European Union to come out of it stronger than it is today. Because the strength of Europe is also the strength of Latvia. We all have the future of our region, Europe and the entire Western world – stability, peace, democracy, prosperity. And we have confirmed that we can do big things together! Ladies and gentlemen! Jānis Čakste, addressing the Meeting of the Satversme on November 18, 1920, said the following words: “The state of Latvia has grown out of the Latvian people’s consensus, it has remained strong through the consensus of the Latvian people and will flourish and sting further through the consensus.” It is very important that, at the moment, we are united in basic things, so that Latvia can be maintained as a whole, an indistinguishable set of values. We must not allow Latvia to be divided into multipliers. We need to be able to maintain and strengthen the central force that our country has built up and exists all this time. Now people in Latvia are more bright than ever they are aware of their individuality and claim their rights. Various social groups – professional, interest, and sectoral organisations – are becoming more and more representative. The fact that our society is civilly active is also visible at the moment when the budget is being discussed in the Saeima. However, in defending our interests, we will not lose the great overview, our great goal – the state of Latvia. It is the consensus that is needed to build something. There is no need for concerted action to break down something. Therefore, let us not allow anyone to try to park the district against the county, Riga against Latvia, Latvia against Europe and the Western allies! Honourable Members! Many ask: does Europe still have a little future, or has the Western democracy model not ‘eat itself’? Will the European Union be at risk of conflict, populism and the migration crisis? In a context of globalisation, democracy is becoming increasingly technical, bureaucratic and dry. Today, more and more knowledge is needed to prepare political and economic decisions. Citizens may feel that participation has become more difficult. Understanding political decisions has become more difficult. This feeling makes the gap between power and society wider. And this part of society begins to live its own separate life. For many, it seems easier to hear those who make simple messages, not to look into those who make attractive, even unrealistic promises. We are witnessing that, today, populism has become a cheap weapon in order to achieve political victory in the short term. But they are always followed by bitter memory. So we need to talk to each other and society, tell the truth and show the facts. After all, the most important thing is the reality, the practical progress that we will have made together. Conversation, explanation, not to shut down in a narrow range of interests. This principle best helps to combat misinformation, rumours and populism. It helps people to be informed, to understand each other, to create together ideas and to fulfil them together. This is particularly important in the current hybrid war situation, the central component of which is the information war. However, the fog of lies and misinformation, in which our societies are trying hard to roll, is repudiable. Everyone needs to be more critical of the information he receives. Learn better to separate the grain from the ash. We need to learn better to decipher against our country and, more broadly, against the values of the West. Latvia's membership of Western democracy, the European Union means that we are in a free part of the world. We must not waste our historical gift – the years of peace and democracy in our own country. Ladies and gentlemen! Latvia is growing, developing, becoming increasingly beautiful. Districts with their order often exceed the capital. People are investing a lot of work in this order, and everyone is aware of it. I'm happy about that. We have a rich cultural life. Highly developed information technologies. Excellent scientists. Innovative manufacturers. Talent young people. At the same time, we still have a lot to do. There is a need to improve roads, promote entrepreneurship and implement various reforms. There is a need to create the conditions for creating new jobs, to provide easier access to health care, and to provide quality education. We need to invest the most in people and create more faith in the country! A number of painful problems must continue to be tackled. People are becoming increasingly intolerant to various forms of corruption. A well-defined priority for society from KNAB is expected, with a clear outcome. In order not only to detain large fish, but also to have the skills to gather the necessary evidence. It is positive that the government has a plan to significantly reduce the shadow economy. Its points are the elimination of envelope salaries, the limitation of cash transactions, the control of suspicious banking transactions and others. The competitiveness and attractiveness of our economy in the eyes of investors depends very much on how well the judicial system is organised in the country. The Saeima is currently taking steps to improve insolvency proceedings. Legal rules must be such as to promote a fair business. Next year's budget significantly increased funding for social protection, including pensions and social benefits. We spend more than one third of the budget on social protection in Latvia. It is a pleasure that EUR 19 million is earmarked for demographics. But the demographic support programme should be extended in the future so that third and fourth children are more often born in Latvian families. We are proud of our new generation! Young people are patriotic, enthusiastic, intelligent, open to the world. Our students win international competitions and Olympics. But I have to understand that it will not be possible to live in education without reforms. Education must increasingly focus on excellence, money must be used more efficiently. The choice is so specific – either we reform or we remain on the ground. Dear compatriots near and far, in Latvia and everywhere in the world! What would we be without our language, culture, history, their roots and traditions, without Latvia's nature and the time of the year? Imagine each family meeting! Several generations, different professions and opinions come together. We are all as though different, but we are clearly aware that there is a strong invisible bond that unites us. We see that we ourselves have received an inheritance from the ancestors, the character, the experience. And we see all this going on in our children and children. We are aware that each of our own is very important to us. We're not going to be against each other. We will see how we can support one another. On the most important issues, we need to be united, as this is how we are stronger. Today, on occasion, let us take a closer look at ourselves. What is my real self? Does anyone who wants to go on the easy way of resistance, who wants to escape from difficulties and responsibilities? Does the one who is willing to go a hard way, but to fulfill his destiny, feel his strength? When we are talking about a country, we need to understand that these choices never end. Our ancestors made their choice 98 years ago. The Latvian people confirmed their choice more than 25 years ago. And today we are the ones who continue this chosen path. After a few decades, we will be judged. Do you know how to stand up for your own country? Can we find consensus on key issues? What have we done to make the future better so that we can be proud? We are the ones who are currently leading Latvia to the centenary! Only together with Latvia we become people who form history, present and future. The state of Latvia cannot exist without us. We make it. And Latvia – Latvia creates us. Let us make Latvia eternal! God bless Latvia! (Applause) ( The national anthem of Latvia is being played.) (Applause) ( The national anthem of Latvia is being played.)
ParlaMint-LV_2016-11-18-PT12-387-U4	The official sitting of the Saeima on 18 November 2016 dedicated to the 98th anniversary of the announcement of the Republic of Latvia, I declare it closed. I invite everyone to celebrate the celebration together!
