ParlaMint-LV_2016-01-21-PT12-339-U1	Good morning, dear colleagues! I'm calling for seats. Let's start the meeting of the Saeima on 21 January. Before starting to discuss the agenda of the Bureau meeting, proposals for amendments to it should be examined. The Prime Minister asks to consider “The Prime Minister’s Report to the Saeima on the National Security of Latvia” as the first item on the agenda. Do Members have objections? There is no objection by Members. The agenda has been amended. The Committee on Defence, Home Affairs and the Prevention of Corruption asks to amend the agenda of the sitting and to include the draft law “Amendments to the Law on the Prevention and Combating of Corruption”. Do Members have objections? There is no objection. The agenda has been amended. The Budget and Finance (Tax) Commission asks for an amendment to the agenda of the meeting and the inclusion of the draft law on amending the Law on Budget and Financial Management. Do Members have objections? ( Interface from the drug: ‘ Yes! ’ ) Members have reservations. So we have to vote. Please call me! We will vote in favour of amending the agenda of the sitting, including the draft law on amending the Law on Budgets and Financial Management! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 53, against - 28, refrains. The agenda has therefore been amended. The Budget and Finance (Tax) Commission asks for an amendment to the agenda of the meeting, including the draft law on the Market in Financial Instruments Act. Do Members have objections? There is no objection by Members. The agenda has been amended. The Budget and Finance (Tax) Commission asks for an amendment to the agenda of the meeting and the inclusion of the draft law on the Investment Management Company Law. Do Members have objections? There is no objection. The agenda has been amended. The Budget and Finance (Tax) Commission asks to amend the agenda of the sitting and to include in it the draft law “Amendment to the Law on State Funded Pensions”. Do Members have objections? There is no objection. The agenda has been amended. The budget and financial (tax) commission asks for an amendment to the agenda of the meeting and for it to include the draft law “Amendment to the Law on Private Pension Funds”. Do Members have objections? There is no objection. The agenda has been amended. The Budget and Finance (Tax) Commission asks to amend the agenda of the meeting and to include the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Corporate Tax”. Do Members have objections? There is no objection. The agenda has been amended. The Social and Labour Commission asks for an amendment to the agenda of the meeting to include the draft law on the movement of tobacco products, herbal smoke products, electronic smoking devices and their liquids. Do Members have objections? There is no objection by Members. The agenda has been amended. Let us start by looking at the amended agenda. On the agenda “Review of the Prime Minister to the Saeima on the National Security of Latvia”. Name to Prime Minister Laimdota Straujuma.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-01-21-PT12-339-U2	Dear Chairman of the Saeima. Honourable Members and Members! Ladies and gentlemen! Today, on the day of the barricades, commemorating our fighters for free Latvia, I have the honour to present to you the “Review of the Prime Minister to the Saeima on the National Security of Latvia”. The main objectives of Latvia's national security are: firstly, to ensure the existence of a safe and stable state of Latvia, protecting its constitutional structure, fundamental values and freedoms, as well as promoting the well-being and growth of society; secondly, to contribute to the creation of a safe and stable international environment, which, taking into account globalisation and the interaction between countries, will also reduce the security risks and challenges of Latvia. Although there are currently no real threats to the state of Latvia, its security and welfare, both internally and externally there are various security risks and threats, the timely identification and prevention of which is important for ensuring national security and stability. The submitted report provides an assessment of the Latvian security authorities and ministries of responsible sectors on the most important risks and actions of Latvia's national security to reduce them. No information classified in this report is provided. Honourable Members! We, in Europe and in the world, are living in a turbulent time today. Last year, we have seen attempts to question international order as well as increasing terrorist threats and an unprecedented migration crisis. Russia's aggression in Ukraine continued to threaten peace and stability in Europe in 2015. Significant progress has not been made so far in resolving the crisis - despite the fragile ceasefire in the east of Ukraine. Russia's attempts to influence Latvia's national security continue. Aggressive propaganda, the imposition of economic sanctions, the demonstration of military force and the concentration of troops before the Baltic borders are what we must continue to do. Despite the search for peace, the military conflicts in Syria, the Middle East region and North Africa continue and form the ground for strengthening terrorist groups. The terrorist attacks in Paris and elsewhere in Europe in January and November 2015 show how brutal so seemingly distant conflicts can affect our lives. The increase in uncontrolled migration flows has also become a new challenge for Europe. Although a number of concrete decisions have been taken concerning the strengthening of the European Union's external borders and the return of illegal arrivals, there is no reason to believe that this year the influx of refugees will drop sharply. In such a situation, strengthening national security and reducing security risks is a priority for the Latvian Government. Honourable Members! Strengthening the internal and external security of a country is not only a priority for this government. I believe, and I am sure, that this will also be a high task on the agenda for the next government. Latvian security cannot be imagined without NATO. NATO's central role in the Euro-Atlantic security area has increased. In 2015, Latvia has managed to start strengthening collective defence both politically and practically, both in terms of NATO response capabilities and military presence in Latvia. Latvian allies with their works help and will continue to help care for the security of our country. The surveillance of the Baltic airspace in 2015 was provided by eight destroyers. For the first time in the history of the country, a permanent NATO force structure headquarters has been deployed in Latvia. In 2015, soldiers and military equipment of the U.S., Great Britain, Germany and other countries lived in rotational order in Latvia. Participation in international operations and missions is part of Latvia's international commitments aimed at strengthening collective security and promoting international security. In 2015, the National Armed Forces continued to participate in the NATO operation in Afghanistan, the European Union military operations ATALANTA and SOPHIA, and the EU Training Mission in Mali. The Saeima just approved the mandate for Latvia's participation in missions in Iraq and Mali, which is our contribution to the fight against terrorism. This is the first time Latvia participates in the UN mission. In 2015, Latvia continued to participate in European Union civilian missions as well as OSCE missions. The long-term presence of NATO in our region is an objective to be pursued. Latvia's task is to reach an agreement at the Warsaw Summit on strengthening NATO's military presence in Latvia in the long term. First of all, though, we must take care of our own security. Therefore, I am pleased that the state budget provides for an increase in defence funding to 2 percent of gross domestic product as early as 2018. Strengthening and developing national self-defence capabilities is a priority of Latvia's security. We implement projects such as mechanisation of the land force, protection of the air, strengthening of the Earthguard, and construction and development of the infrastructure of the defence sector. The key issue of national security is border control and the restriction of illegal migration. Last week, the government approved the report on the control and protection of the eastern border of the country. In cooperation with the Ministry of the Interior and the Ministry of Defence, as well as with our allies, we ensure that the external border of Latvia as a member of the European Union and NATO will be modern, orderly and secure. I would remind you that the second largest budget for this year has been allocated to strengthen internal security, including the strengthening of the eastern border. Honourable Members! The security of Latvia cannot be imagined without the European Union. The security model of Latvia is based on the principles and values of the European Union - respect for human rights and fundamental freedoms, the rule of law, democracy, tolerance and solidarity. In response to the terrorist attacks in Paris and Copenhagen, security issues were prioritised during the Latvian Presidency of the Council of the European Union. Progress can be seen as the approved internal and external priorities of the European Union for combating terrorism; improved cooperation and information exchange between the institutions of the European Union and the Member States; intensified cooperation on counter-terrorism with other international organisations. Latvia fought for the immediate approval of the establishment of the Passenger Data Register in the European Parliament; implementation of reinforced control of the external border of the European Union and closer cooperation between security services. During the Latvian Presidency of the Council of the European Union, a decision was taken on the preparation of the European Union Global Strategy for Foreign and Security Policy by June this year. It is in our interest that the strategy strengthens the transatlantic link, cooperation between the European Union and NATO, as well as the European Union's capacity to respond to hybrid threats. It is also in our interests that the Member States and the institutions of the European Union work together to defend the values and interests of the European Union. Energy security is an integral aspect of security, both at European and national level. I am pleased that it was during the Latvian Presidency that work was started on building the Energy Union, as diversification and security of supply is particularly important for Latvia. At regional level, for example, the opening of NordBalt and LitPol is a concrete achievement. Also after the improvement of Klaipeda-Kienni infrastructure we have access to alternative natural gas sources and roads. Latvia still has to complete its domestic work: the gas market has to be opened up. All of us will benefit from greater choice and lower prices. Honourable Members! Last year was a test for a united and operational European Union. Overcoming the financial crisis in Greece has shown that the European Union is capable of taking joint and several decisions. We want to continue living in a united, efficient and solidarity-based Europe. We want to maintain the greatest achievements of the European Union - the euro, the free movement of persons and the Schengen area. These great benefits we must bear in mind in defending our interests in Brussels. Increasing migratory flows to Europe is a long-term challenge that will need to be addressed. A number of concrete decisions have been made on how to better control this process - strengthening the external borders of the European Union, improving cooperation with third countries, speeding up the return process. I am convinced that the European Union's migration policy must be even stricter. However, no one can provide guarantees that all these decisions will put a complete stop to migration to Europe. The issue of refugees in Europe also involves risks to the radicalisation of society and the increase in xenophobia. Our common task is to act responsibly and to prevent the sowing of hatred, ignorance and fear in society. The reception system for refugees has been developed in Latvia. Our security authorities are actively working and working to address any new challenges to national security in this process. Our task is to ensure the successful integration of these persons into Latvian society and the learning of Latvian, while ensuring comprehensive control and supervision of the people to be received by the responsible institutions. Every newcomer will have to comply with the laws and order of our country. Otherwise, let us turn to him with all the harshness of the law. Honourable Members! I will now address internal security issues. The activities of organised criminal groups have been of a criminal nature in recent years: several of the organised criminal groups are engaged in a wide range of criminal activities, i.e. trafficking in drugs, trafficking in human beings, sexual exploitation of persons, smuggling of weapons, economic crimes, including extortion and debt recovery, and less in theft. In 2015, new organised criminal groups were identified in areas such as the illegal circulation of narcotic drugs and psychotropic substances and the illegal movement of excise goods, as well as the relationship of illegal immigration processes with organised crime. The government has consistently and purposefully addressed the fight against organised crime by strengthening the capacity of law enforcement authorities. The responsible services also improve their efforts to combat cybercrime and hybrid threats in general. Strengthening the rule of law, the fight against corruption and the shadow economy are issues of national security. A significant risk of security is the lack of effectiveness of the judicial system, which leads to a situation where the imposition of a penalty does not take place within a reasonable time after the offence has been committed. In order to strengthen the independence of the judiciary, amendments to the Law “On Judicial Power” were adopted in 2015, and last year the Arbitration Courts Law came into force. Although progress has been made in speeding up judicial procedures and introducing certain legal improvements, such as in the area of insolvency, reforms in the area of justice need to be stepped up significantly. Unfortunately, corruption risks are still regarded as high. I am convinced that the recent changes to the KNAB law will improve the capacity of this institution to act more effectively in the fight against corruption. There is also a need to strengthen public awareness in order to reduce tolerance to corruption cases. The State Revenue Service is working hard to reduce the shadow economy. In this context, we need to strengthen police and investigative capacity, as well as to continue building the competences of prosecutors and judges. A plan to combat the shadow economy has been prepared and must be approved in the near future. On the whole, the strengthening of internal security is important for the effective functioning of the services of the home affairs system, for guaranteeing the security of an individual and for the protection of national critical infrastructure. Our security is also most directly linked to the economic growth of the country and the improvement of the quality of life of every person. Honourable Members! 2015 has been a stable year for Latvia's economy - despite instability beyond Latvia's borders and the euro area. The assessment by the Central Statistical Office of Latvia's gross domestic product shows that in the third quarter of 2015 gross domestic product after seasonally unadjusted data was 2.5 percent higher than one year ago. Although the recovery of the euro area growth is slow and exports to Russia have decreased due to the country’s economic downturn, the growth rate of the Latvian economy has been faster in the last two quarters than in the second half of 2014. I am pleased that Latvian producers have successfully reoriented and expanded their trade with European Union partners and third countries. It is important for us to maintain a stable macroeconomic environment and invest in improving the competitiveness of the country. We need to continue our efforts to continue learning new export markets and to attract foreign investment. We need to reflect economic growth in the raising of the standard of living of every peer. There is a need to reduce income inequalities, ensure adequate access to healthcare and access to education that provides good jobs that are suited to skills. Reducing social inequalities and exclusion has been one of the priorities of this government. In 2015, some national social benefits were increased. A differentiated non-taxable minimum has been introduced and the minimum wage has been increased to EUR 370. The cohesion of society and the strengthening of national identity and membership of our country play an important role in strengthening national security. The government continues to support the activities of minority organisations geared towards mutual communication and intercultural dialogue. The media space has a growing impact on national security today. Our task is to disprove disinformation and lies and to strongly respond to the preaching of hatred and violence, but it is equally important to develop long-term, systematic and purposeful public awareness and critical thinking about the content of the media. In the context of national security, it is essential to adopt Latvian media policy guidelines for 2016-2020. It is important to ensure the independence and financial independence of public media and to support independent, research and regional media. Honourable Members! In general, when assessing all the safety risks considered in the National Safety Report, we see that the responsible services and institutions have implemented or started implementing processes and actions to prevent them and protect national interests, guaranteeing public security and stability. National security is not just a policy and action of public administration and law enforcement authorities. Equally important is public awareness and involvement in the implementation of national security priorities. For a safe, developed and arranged Latvia we all need to continue our work wherever we are at the workplace. Honourable Members! Thank you for your cooperation over this two-year period and I hope for a joint collegial and responsible work in the Saeima for the sustainable development of Latvia. These are the days of the barricades' memory. They make us realize once again that freedom can be priced at a high price, but freedom without nation and without land is not perfect, and man without freedom of his land is unfulfilled. Every tree needs the sky, every nation needs freedom, every person needs their happiness and their contribution to Latvia. That unites us all. Let Latvia have a safe future! Thank you. (Applause)
ParlaMint-LV_2016-01-21-PT12-339-U3	Thank you Prime Minister Laimdota Straujuma. Let us start a debate. Name of Member Inguna Silver.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-01-21-PT12-339-U4	Madam Prime Minister, very much. Members! Ministers! When I read this report by the Prime Minister to the Saeima on the national security of Latvia, I was asked for a long time: what have the authors wanted to say with this text? My hands seemed to have come from a student's diploma work, where there is both the theory that national security is a broad, comprehensive concept, and the information that everyone could find in the mass media, and the above-mentioned reflections about what is good in our country and what is bad. Unlike real diploma work, there is no more than references to the literature and sources used. A more specific presentation of what the National Armed Forces and the Border Guard are doing in this area, for example, is also available, but the document remains descriptive. If any problem that needs to be addressed in order to improve safety is also mentioned, then there is no analysis as planned. Likewise, it is not clear what the government is going to do at all, what hinders it, what help from Parliament is needed. The answer is why the document is exactly as it is, without waiting for the accompanying instructions on what the review body should be and which authorities had to prepare information. It is obvious that materials have been collected from different institutions, slightly processed and simply assembled together. Therefore, the chapters in the report are so different in terms of both content and grammatical form. There have probably not been specialists in the security policy so that using this material would be able not only to define problems, but also to analyse them and offer possible solutions. And so the problems are, at best, only identified. For example, the authors of the review write that, unfortunately, law enforcement authorities often lack the human resources, technological capabilities and knowledge, which includes conducting computer system inspections and expertise, and that it is therefore not possible to obtain information containing evidence of a criminal offence within a reasonable period of time. Clearly, the problem has been identified here! But what will happen next? What does the government and the responsible ministry intend to do to solve this problem? What is the problem with what kind of parliamentary assistance is needed? Similar questions arise from a description of what is happening with the circulation of narcotic drugs and psychotropic substances. We find out how wide the market is, but when we should follow proposals on how to change, the authors are unexpectedly taking civil protection measures. When it comes to aligning wishes with practical action, it is pointless to regret that, for example, employees leave the State Probation Service due to low remuneration, if there is no plan to change when and how remuneration is changed. Although the reality of life shows that the plan sometimes does not mean anything, the authors, looking at the issue of asylum seekers, note that the Cabinet of Ministers has supported the action plan for persons in need of international protection for resettlement and reception in Latvia. In addition, out of the 48 measures included in the plan, 28 even provide for funding. The authors have decided to obey how the remaining 20 measures will be implemented without money. On the other hand, it is noted that one of the priorities is to ensure predictable development of tax policy. I have to ask: how was this priority implemented in the adoption of the 2016 budget, and is there really a guarantee that everything will be different in the future and that the priorities will not remain on paper alone? The fact that the shadow economy is planned to be combated by the development of an ongoing work plan by public authorities to reduce the shadow economy is no longer surprising. As empty as the beginning of the document, it is just as empty as the end of it. If someone has not noticed in the introduction, at least one can read again that national security is a broad concept, as well as find out that the capacity of both NBS and law enforcement authorities needs to be strengthened, and so on, if anyone does not yet know. But, in my opinion, the quality of the document is symbolically characterised by a recommendation designed to prevent potential radicalisation and social alienation of society. And now listen! I quote: ‘The reduction of income and opportunities is therefore identified as one of the most important priorities of the government’. I assume that neglect, because it was probably intended to reduce the inequality of income and opportunity. But you have to ask yourself, ‘ Did anyone even notice that? Either the only strange statement!Is that so?
ParlaMint-LV_2016-01-21-PT12-339-U5	Mrs. Silver, I have to say your time is over.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-01-21-PT12-339-U6	Yeah, I finished. I want to ask if there's...
ParlaMint-LV_2016-01-21-PT12-339-U7	You have the opportunity to use two extra minutes as you speak for the second time. Two, yeah. Thank you. Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-01-21-PT12-339-U8	I would like to ask: does it make sense for officials to have time to produce such a document, which does nothing to improve national security policy? Could the officials have done something more beneficial to society during the time they spent on these articles? Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-01-21-PT12-339-U9	Name to Member Alexander Kirštein.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-01-21-PT12-339-U10	Dear President, Honourable Members! I would like to start by thanking the Prime Minister for her work and a relatively transparent report, which I would like to add, perhaps with some ideas, given that we are currently working on a new government declaration and building a new government. I wouldn't have come to the platform if I wasn't surprised by the statement of one border guard officer that winter helped them to protect Latvia's border. I realized that winter is the best border guard of Latvia. It turns out, the bigger and deeper the snow, the greater the safety of Latvian citizens: it is possible to see the feet well and then to catch those across the border along these feet. I always think that the main task of border guards is to protect the border so that no one exceeds it. It turns out that I am seriously misguided: the main task of border guards is to catch all those who have crossed the border. How much is this man, one, two or ten? It turns out, no. They go hundreds, they go absolutely without any problems. Go the Afghans, go the Iraqis, who absolutely do not know our local conditions. And then the question is: if, after all these events in Ukraine, the threat to us, and also in the world and Europe, has increased, is it not that it is very easy to pass through this border??? agents, mercenaries, green people, not to mention smugglers and everyone else? Because I was most surprised that even women with children would move peacefully across this border. This is such a surprise in the 25th anniversary of the restored independence of Latvia. But I think that work will be done there and that the new government will solve this problem. When we also asked the Minister for the Interior why in the 25th century Latvia's restored independence not only did we not have a border, but we did not even close the border in summer for several hundred kilometres, it turned out that we had no money for it. On the other hand, we have money to protect the Greek-Italian border. The Prime Minister mentioned terrorists in Paris here. But we are more threatened by terrorism in Cologne, which is closer to it, and even more by terrorism in the nearby Stockholm. In Stockholm, one of these refugees, as you know, recently caught a Lithuanian citizen, a student. These issues are not, to a certain extent, widely addressed. Then we can ask: is our security not also threatened by political correctness and self-censorship? Because we know that in Germany, four days in the media - not on radio, not on television, not on the press - nothing has been reported. There are now more than 700 applications in Cologne. Is the violation of human security, personal abuse, rape, sedition and robbery terrorism or not terrorism? This terrorism has not already occurred in one city, as we are trying to serve. The same processes took place in Helsinki, where the police lost out of these terrorists, and even in Salzburg, Düsseldorf, not to mention Cologne. And there is still a whole line of other cities that are smaller and do not report. So terrorism is next to Latvia, it's a few hundred kilometres away. Madam Prime Minister, you did not mention your speech... Are you not surprised by the fact that Sweden is first in terms of the number of rape cases in Europe and second in the world outside South Africa, where there are fewer rape cases? But in South Africa, these statistics are destroyed by Lesotho, which is, as you know, a reserve. So, Sweden... This is the result of our policy! Of course, what Mrs Prime Minister said is more about foreign affairs, and we are going to wait with interest for the Foreign Minister's report on the foreign policy of the country, and maybe then we will be clear about what is more at stake - whether they are, let us say, some terrorists, whether they are at risk by Merkel and Mogerini, who is inviting a million guests. As Landsberģis (latest) said in Lithuania, nothing of this is a threat to the security of the Baltic States, so also the security of Lithuania and, I think, also the security of Latvia, as the actions of Chancellor Merkel of Germany - to invite a million guests to lunch and then to ask for the bill to be paid by the neighbours. Is nothing to be said to our Foreign Minister and Government in this regard?
ParlaMint-LV_2016-01-21-PT12-339-U11	Mr Kirstein, your speaking time is over. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. I.Zariņš: “Let me finish!” ) Council Regulation (EC) No 1257/96 of 20 June 1996 concerning humanitarian aid (OJ L 163, 2.7.1996, p. 1).
ParlaMint-LV_2016-01-21-PT12-339-U12	Yeah, thank you. So let us also await with interest the Foreign Minister's report on our foreign affairs and on the impact that all this has on national security. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-01-21-PT12-339-U13	Thank you. Name to Member Janis Dombrava.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-01-21-PT12-339-U14	Very honourable Speaker of the Saeima! Prime Minister! Honorable Saeima! A wider debate on foreign and security policy is certainly expected next week, when there will be a report on foreign policy. In this review of Latvia’s national security, I was attracted by the paragraph on page 8: “In view of the commitment of the Latvian Government to the internal solidarity mechanism to receive in Latvia up to 776 asylum seekers, it is predictable that this issue will create new risks and challenges to national security in the near future, as there is a possibility that persons associated with terrorist organisations will come to the country, as well as the location of refugees in Latvia may create ethnic tensions and feelings of insecurity in society.” If such a paragraph appears in the report on national security of Latvia, then it is necessary to ask: why was such a decision taken? In view of the developments in Europe, I think it would be only right and fair to admit that both the Merkel policy was a mistake, and the two decisions of the Latvian government - to take asylum seekers in Latvia - have been a mistake, as well as the statements made by the Committee of Foreign Affairs last summer by last summer that NATO will no longer protect us and that European Union funds will be taken away if we refuse to receive asylum seekers and do not take asylum seekers, were a very serious mistake. And the solution will not be this called integration either. It does not matter what language these people will speak, who will represent a completely different culture, other public values and other views. In Germany, as we know, when they committed crimes, many of them spoke German to these victims. That doesn't work! If we want to solve the problem, then it is really necessary to strengthen the external borders of the European Union, including those of Latvia; it is not clear why they have not been strengthened for many years, especially if we are talking about the border with Belarus; we have been marked for a very long time. And I would really like to expect those responsible to say that this decision on the reception of asylum seekers was made because there was pressure from politicians in some Western European countries, and that it was a wrong decision that the future government would have to review, especially in the light of these national security risks. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-01-21-PT12-339-U15	Name to Member Juris Villums.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-01-21-PT12-339-U16	Ladies, dearly respected! Ladies and gentlemen, Madam Prime Minister! Ministers! We talk about national security every year, at least once, here when we look at the government's report. Of course, there is also a lot of talk about it in everyday life. But it seems that often this spoken and expressed thoughts, ideas really are like ducks of water that pass through. National security is, of course, not just two or another specific number per cent of gross domestic product. Everything is related to national security. And perhaps we cannot find an area that would not be related to it. Language, border, refugees, media... It is important what they tell or do not tell not only in Latvian but also in Russian and English. By the way, there will be no more information in English in the Latvian public media... ( Interviews from the drug: “There will be! Yes!’ ) Thank you. Hopefully, the coalition Members will follow this up so that it really does. Education is also important in terms of national security. Minorities, as colleagues have already mentioned. Health care. I will not mention specific cases. Demography, regional development, strengthening democracy, cyber security, the rule of law and time limits for hearing cases in the judiciary; also, of course, the National Armed Forces and the equipment at their disposal, as well as the Earthguard. As a separate area of national security, I should mention regions and lack of administrative regions in Latvia. And speaking about it and analysing the situation, I would probably not have had three minutes. This is a separate issue on which I hope we will also open a much broader debate here in the Saeima. Perhaps we will ever sit separate, as we are now doing for national security and foreign affairs. I have some questions for myself, as we have already come from regions, from a particular region, which I would like to ask. Perhaps they're going to get caught by the ear to the current head of government or her successor somewhere, so to speak. Will Latvia be ready to respond to attempts to divide society, to threaten the country's democracy and security not only in Latgale, but also here in Riga? How will opposition against Russian propaganda in international activities and in the media continue? Will the measures to strengthen Latgale Media Space continue? Unfortunately, some people in the eastern region of the country still live in another information space. Unfortunately, also part of the population here in Riga. And the new year's night's fireworks at 23.00 in many major cities of Latvia are still exceeding the midnight straw. Will the education system finally be a priority in developing critical thinking among children and young people, thus promoting the immunity of every individual to any form of foreign propaganda in a preventive manner? The district's teaching, in my opinion, is a compulsory introduction to schools. It could serve as a basis for strengthening identity throughout the country and, of course, at the border, as well as promoting nationalism and patriotism. Unfortunately, the plans of many young people for the continuation of their lives outside Latvia are very popular in recent years. In my opinion, the development of the Youth Guard movement in schools would be important. Learning the skills of patriotic education and survival is an important tool. In schools, the New Guard is an object of choice. However, this should attract additional funding so as to increase the interest of school management in this movement. Finally, I would like to add - also, of course, in connection with the fact that yesterday we remembered 25 years of history and tried to mark the heroic people who were not afraid of doing so - that soon we will praise those who formed our country 100 years ago. But I think it is important for us to answer the question of whether we have and what exactly are our heroes today and whether they will be tomorrow. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-01-21-PT12-339-U17	Name to Member Ivars Zarins. ( Interface: Anekdoti!) ; dep. I.Zariņš: “The report is for this!” ) Council Regulation (EC) No 1257/96 of 20 June 1996 concerning humanitarian aid (OJ L 163, 2.7.1996, p. 1).
ParlaMint-LV_2016-01-21-PT12-339-U18	Hello, colleagues! Undoubtedly, energy security is an important aspect of national security. Unfortunately, this report neglects it as well as the real work to be done to strengthen this energy security in the most targeted and beneficial way. In other words, Latvia still does not have its own energy strategy - unlike Lithuania, which not only has such a strategy, but also implements it purposefully. And you can compare the energy performance in these two countries. You can, of course, wrought and frighten the public with our energy dependence on our eastern neighbour, which is indeed an objective historical development. And it seems that it is beneficial for the existing power - to maintain this fear and insecurity in society, so that it can present itself as a guarantee of security and justify its existence. However, it would be important that we take real steps to reduce this dependence. And once again, there is a concrete example here: yes, we do not have our own gas, we do not have oil either (in fact, but we have done nothing to get it), but we have renewable energy sources. Colleagues! The draft law on renewable energy has been stuck by the Saeima since last Saeima, and since then it has not moved forward. So a law that could be a framework for a sector that could actually create competition for the existing energy sources that we are forced to import is not at all moving forward. It's all stopped, nothing happens. More! I will give you very fresh examples. As you know, we are now... we complete the phase of liberalisation of the Latvian gas market. It is a work that is truly very important and that has long had to be done. The housework was to be long performed! What does the Ministry of Economics do? They say to the public: "Yes, it is very important that our model, which we will now implement, will ensure greater security of supply of natural gas." But what about the truth? In fact, the Ministry of Economics cannot tell us how it will be done with this new model. Even more! The Ministry of Economics has a great deal of opposition to any proposals made by Members (the coalition Members - I will note!) and aimed at ensuring that security of gas supply is effectively ensured. And do you know what reasoning the Ministry of Economics mentioned yesterday in the committee sitting? The representative of the Ministry said: “It is not necessary because I met Gazprom and they promised us that gas would be there.” Colleagues, what's going on? And here really would be a place to remember and draw conclusions from what the Ukrainian tragedy teaches us. Why was this possible, and why could something like this happen in Ukraine? And those main reasons are obvious. First of all, it was the devolution of power from society, the inability to deal with social problems; it was a focus on its own interests, and ultimately it led to the alienation of society, disbelief in its own power and division of society. I call on you to think seriously about this. I call on you to think seriously about the existing government and the new government and to realise that the greatest threat to our national security at the moment is the failure of existing power, its inability or perhaps lack of interest in solving the challenges it has been given, to do what would be important for society. Think about it, please, the builders of the next government!
ParlaMint-LV_2016-01-21-PT12-339-U19	The name of the Minister for the Interior, Rihard Kozlovski.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-01-21-PT12-339-U20	President-in-Office of the Saeima. Madam Prime Minister! Colleagues! Honourable Members! I would like to touch on the issue of the border, the issue of our border security, a little bit trying to explain what the situation is, what has not been done and what has been done, and what we are going to do. If we are talking about winter, then it is a purely natural obstacle to these migratory flows not only in Latvia, but also in the European Union as a whole. Of course, nature should not hold them back and ensure the security of our borders. But if we are talking about why this was not done before, then I would like to emphasise that only last year, for the first time, when drawing up this year's budget, internal security was identified as one of the priorities. Unfortunately, without funding, no border can be set up. If we compare with our Estonian colleagues, then... Yesterday, when we met in the format of the Baltic Interior Ministers, once again discussing border security accordingly, the Estonian colleague stressed that Estonia had invested EUR 75 million in the threshold for three years (and the Estonian border is much shorter than our eastern green border). It is a question for the next government: will we also be able to do so and properly build... Is that so? It is clear that currently capacity is insufficient. However, the government has already granted funding last year, and work has been started on setting up an eastern border between Russia and Latvia, and this work will continue. Accordingly, additional funding has been allocated to the medium-term budget. I must say thank you that the home sector was the second sector after the defence sector, for which there was an increase in funding. But we are also well aware of the need to be guided by fiscal discipline and the budgetary opportunities we have. In any case, this work has begun, and I very much hope that it will continue in the next government, which will ensure that this border is built. This, in my opinion, is very important so that we can ensure that the border is protected. I would not like to agree that the border is free to walk along the side, but that would not, in my opinion, be an appropriate assessment of the work of the State Border Guard. The number of persons detained shows that this movement and migration flows are indeed very variable. We see: indeed, last year, these indicators have grown considerably, because our border guard has secured detention. In cooperation with the Ministry of Defence, a conceptual report has been produced that has been supported by the government and provides for very specific measures and appropriate funding. Therefore, I would like to emphasise once again that without funding, there could be no border between modern and today's situation. Taking a little further note of Latvia's commitments regarding the resettlement of these persons, it should be noted that the situation as it stood at the beginning of last year is completely different from what it is today. To a certain extent, Latvia is jointly and severally, and - I would like to emphasise again! - have been voluntarily involved in those initial relocation measures. As we know, there was then an attempt to introduce compulsory quotas. Latvia has always opposed it and I think it will continue to oppose it. I hope that this course will not change in the future government either. However, I would like to emphasise that the situation in Latvia cannot necessarily be compared either with that in Germany or with that in Sweden. We now have sufficient resources to face such challenges. Despite the fact that, until today, we have not resettled anyone within this asylum project, last year, we have examined more than 300 asylum applications from different countries, and so far, there have been no incidents and no problems. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-01-21-PT12-339-U21	Thank you Minister. The name of the Member is Going to Spolitis.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-01-21-PT12-339-U22	President of the Saeima. Colleagues! I thank the Minister for Home Affairs for his clarification. In addition to this explanation, it should be noted that the construction of the border cannot take place before its demarcation takes place in nature. And the demarcation between Latvia and Russia was only completed last year. As a result, this construction has begun, and thank you to the State Border Guard and all the services involved and carried out it. But I also listened very carefully to what the respected opposition said about the safety of people, the understanding of Latvian citizens about how they feel in their country... Undoubtedly, these are very important arguments about how people feel, so what conclusions they draw on whether to stay here or to leave in the event of a possible conflict. And in this case, we also heard comparisons with Estonia. However, in my opinion, one argument is missing in this whole discussion: this argument is the events of 2008, 2009. Unlike Estonia today, our total debt is not 8 percent of GDP, but 32 or 33, I do not know exactly these percentages now. So this EUR 7.5 billion loan, which we were forced to take, thanks to the 'gasifiers', is also an argument that forces us to put much more work on the budget-makers, because we do not have as much money as our northern neighbours. Therefore, thank you to all the heads of the services who have been able, in this difficult budget, to do so to the minimum necessary, both to secure the border, to strengthen the police and also to strengthen the army. So thank you all. And the wish for the current and future heads of government would be this. Looking at the evaluation of the sociological surveys, we now see that last year the most popular institutions in Latvia were educational institutions, no matter how funny it would sound: 65.9 per cent - public support. Then followed by a church with 42.8 percent, the third is an army with 42.4 percent, and the police are unfortunately only in the tenth place. So I wish the police, after having received this funding, also their capacity to grow. And the second wish for both the defence industry creators and the rest of us is to think about it: if we look at our northern neighbours - both Estonia and Finland - then we see that almost 90 percent... More than 90 percent of Finnishs and Estonians are ready to defend their country. We have 60 percent. Since, of course, there are differences between the mandatory service and the professional army, it certainly affects these percentages, but the recommendation would be that at least three years - until 2018 - of these 60 percent we would climb up - to some 70-75 percent. Thank you, and let it go.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-01-21-PT12-339-U23	Thank you. I closed the debate. Does Prime Minister Straujuma want to add something?
ParlaMint-LV_2016-01-21-PT12-339-U24	I would first like to thank all those who discussed. And I would like to remind Mrs Silver that this is a public overview and that it does not contain classified information or information for service purposes. Consequently, the public report does not show many measures and plans within the scope of the Ministry of the Interior and the Ministry of Defence. For refugees. As the Minister for the Interior said, Latvia has been against compulsory refugee quotas over the last year. And we have always emphasised in the Councils of the European Union - both the Foreign Affairs Council and the Justice and Home Affairs Council - that the first challenge is to strengthen the borders - the external borders of the European Union - and to take other measures, such as the return of refugees, the setting up of points for the distribution of refugees, not simply the division of refugees. And I would like to call on the next government and next prime minister to keep up our course, our position against mandatory refugee allocation quotas (it is not really clear what the name of the mechanisms is). Proposals are currently under way for the distribution mechanism for refugees, but I believe that we cannot agree to such distribution, because if it is mandatory, then we will never be able to see where it has a border. So thank you all once again for your interest and good luck.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-01-21-PT12-339-U25	I thank the Prime Minister, Mrs Straujuma, and the Government, as well as all the ministers present. We do not have to vote on this report, and so the agenda item “Review of the Prime Minister to the Saeima on National Security of Latvia” is considered. The next item is the reports by the Saeima Bureau on draft laws submitted. The Saeima Presidium proposes that the draft law presented by the Cabinet of Ministers “Amendments to the Law “On Excise Tax” be submitted to the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission, stating that it is the committee responsible. Do Members have objections? There is no objection by Members. Draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Saeima Presidium proposes that the draft law “On the status of a member of the barricades of 1991” submitted by the Social and Labour Commission be referred to the Legal Commission, as well as the Commission of Social and Labour Affairs, establishing that it is the committee responsible. ‘ For” applied to speak Member Romualds Ražuks.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-01-21-PT12-339-U26	Very honourable Speaker of the Saeima! Colleagues! Prime Minister Laimdota Straujuma started and finished his speech on national security with commemoration of the 25th anniversary of the barricades, honoring the courage and self-deligacy of those people who at that time defended our independence in the barricades. During the year working group worked under the auspices of the Social and Labour Affairs Commission, which, following the recommendation of the Marupe Association of members of barricades in 1991, drafted a draft law “On the status of participant of the 1991 barricades”. We have presented it at the meeting of the Social and Labour Commission. The working group was attended by a large number of representatives of our public organisations, which bring together barricades. In the working group, we heard interested representatives of the ministries without denying the right of the Saeima to adopt such a draft law. Ministers stressed that this draft law would still have to be worked on, that the fiscal impact would then be clarified and that what would be expected in the future. But we believe that this is what all members of the Social and Labour Commission of the Saeima have taken on board when voting and supporting the handover of this draft law to the Saeima Bureau that this will be discussed at this parliamentary meeting. And this bill today, when we celebrate the 25th anniversary of the barricades, this phenomenon, which is stable in its position next to the strife's era in 1919 and the struggles for freedom, is about people who were selflessly willing to sacrifice their life in the name of Latvia's independence. The draft law provides for the honoring of participants, giving them both a memorial sign, a certificate, and, I would say, minimum social security salts, which provide for the possibility to retire one or two years earlier and increase the non-equitable pension minimum for members of the barricades to 280 euros, as well as the possibility to receive 50 percent discounts in public transport. We also talked about the need to exempt members of barricades from patients' contributions, thus improving access to healthcare. The draft law states that municipalities should voluntarily support members of barricades within the budget by granting real estate tax discounts, as well as other tax and municipal payment discounts. Dear colleagues, This draft law does not only apply to our veterans - to people who are already at a promised age. This is extremely important in the current geopolitical situation for our young generation too, so that they see that the state remembers, the state takes care of, the state honors its defenders. We must give up on many of the myths with which this problem has grown. The main one - is it possible to count the participants in the barricades? It's possible. Over the last 20 years, recommending that people be awarded with the barricade participant's commemorative sign and awarding it, we have gained 32 000 barricades defender. After the expiry of the presentation of the memorial sign in 1991, the Board of the memorial sign of the participant of the barricades continues to present the statements of gratitude. A thousand more. So it would be 33,000 people. Perhaps another thousand will come at the moment - until the law comes into force. Around one third is no longer among us, and one third is not yet in retirement. So we're talking about a very small number of people. Let us adopt this bill, we will present this gift on 25th anniversary of the barricades to our heroic barricades!
ParlaMint-LV_2016-01-21-PT12-339-U27	Thank you. Do Members have objections? Members have reservations... Mr. Schnore, have you applied to speak against? So, Edwin Schnore, a member of the family, applied to speak against.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-01-21-PT12-339-U28	Dear Chairman of the Saeima. Dear colleagues, It was from Mr. Gauluk's... I heard it: how can you look at people without supporting his bill? Well, I will say this: I also took part in the barricades, and it will be really difficult for me to look in the eyes of those people, those people who are oppressors who receive the discounts that this draft law provides very similar to those that I will now receive. Let me say, discounts for outpatient care, discounts - 50 per cent for ticket, real estate tax and so on. All this will happen to me, just like the oppressors who have been in Gulag for 25 years and have damaged their health there. I'll have almost the same for three days in barricades! Well, I really cannot look in the eyes of those people and support such a bill. I will therefore simply not vote in this case. Thank you. (Applause) From the medicine: “Rightly right!” ) Council Regulation (EC) No 1257/96 of 20 June 1996 concerning humanitarian aid (OJ L 163, 2.7.1996, p. 1).
ParlaMint-LV_2016-01-21-PT12-339-U29	Thank you. So one Member has spoken in favour, one Member against, and we must vote. Please call me! We will vote for the transfer of the draft law “On the Status of a Member of the Barricades of 1991” to the Legal Commission, as well as the Commission on Social and Labour Affairs, establishing that it is the committee responsible! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 49, for - no, for - 16. The draft law has been passed on to the commissions. The Saeima Presidium proposes that the draft law “On disposal of part of real estate at Augusta Deglava iela 25A, Riga, for public needs – for construction of the section of the East Motor from Ieriķu iela to Vėlvas iela” be submitted to the Legal Commission, stating that it is the committee responsible. Do Members have objections? There is no objection. The draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Saeima Presidium proposes that the draft law “On disposal of part of real estate at Augusta Deglava iela 39A, Riga, for public needs – for construction of the section of the East Motor from Ieriķu iela to Vėlvas iela” be submitted to the Legal Commission, stating that it is the committee responsible. Do Members have objections? There is no objection by Members. The draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Saeima's Bureau proposes that the draft law on budgetary and financial management presented by the Budget and Finance (Tax) Commission be referred to the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission, stating that it is the Commission responsible. Do Members have objections? There is no objection by Members. The draft law has been passed on to the Commission. Dear colleagues, The Budget and Finance (Tax) Commission requests that the agenda for the sitting be amended and that the draft law on amending the Law on Budget and Financial Management be placed on the agenda for the sitting. Do Members have objections? There is no objection by Members. The agenda has been amended. Members Šadurskis, Āboltiņa, Abu Meri, Smiltēns and Loskutov are asking for amendments to the agenda of the sitting of the Saeima on 21 January this year and to consider the draft law on the law on budgetary and financial management as the first section on the examination of draft laws. Do Members have objections? There is no objection by Members. The agenda has been amended. The next item is entitled ‘On the granting of leave’. On 14 January this year, Arvīds Platoper was granted unpaid leave. The Saeima Bureau has received an application from Member Arvīds Platoper, requesting him to be granted unpaid leave on 14 January this year. The Bureau has granted this leave and shall inform the Saeima thereof. For the granting of unpaid leave to a Member of the European Parliament, Mr Nikiforov, on 28 January this year. The Saeima Bureau informed that it had received applications from Member Nikiforov to grant him unpaid leave on 28 January this year, and we have to vote in favour of granting leave. Please call me! We will be voting for the granting of unpaid leave to Member Nikiforov on 28 January this year! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 89, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. Consequently, leave is granted. For granting unpaid leave to Member Hosam Abu Meri from 15 February to 19 February this year. The Saeima Bureau has received an application from Member Hosama Abu Meri requesting him to receive unpaid leave from 15 to 19 February this year, and we must vote in favour of granting the leave. Please call me! We will be voting to grant unpaid leave to Member Hosam Abu Meri from 15 to 19 February this year! Please vote mode! ( From the drug depot. A.Clementyev: “What will he do?” ) Please see the result. No, 87, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Consequently, leave is granted. For granting unpaid leave to Member Janis Rucks from 16 February to 18 February this year. The Saeima Bureau has received an application from Member Janis Rucks requesting him to be granted unpaid leave from 16 to 18 February this year, and we must also vote in favour of granting this leave. Please call me! We will vote for granting unpaid leave to Member Janis Ruck from 16 to 18 February this year! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 88, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. The leave has been granted. The next item is "Provision of draft legislation". On the agenda - Draft Law Amending the Law on Budget and Financial Management. On behalf of the Commission for Budget and Finance (Tax) - Member Kārlis Šadurskis.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-01-21-PT12-339-U30	Dear colleagues, The Law on the State Budget for 2016 incorporates the permission of the Minister of Finance to grant a state loan of up to EUR 47 million to the Single Resolution Board to provide pre-financing for the resolution of credit institutions if necessary. In turn, the Law on Budget and Financial Management requires a technical amendment in order to enable the Minister of Finance to exercise these powers. The Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission has drafted this bill and is asking for urgency.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-01-21-PT12-339-U31	Thank you. So we must vote for urgency. Please call me! We will vote for the recognition of the draft law on budgetary and financial management as urgent! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 78, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The draft law has been declared urgent.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-01-21-PT12-339-U32	Dear colleagues, I call for support for the draft law at first reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-01-21-PT12-339-U33	Please call me! We will vote in favour of the first reading of the draft law on budgetary and financial management. Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 78, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The draft law at first reading has been supported. Please set a deadline for the second reading of the proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-01-21-PT12-339-U34	Colleagues! In view of the fact that this is a very simple and technical draft law, I call for its immediate support at second reading as well.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-01-21-PT12-339-U35	Do Members have objections? There is no objection. Please call me! We will vote in favour of the second, final, reading of the draft law on budgetary and financial management! Please vote mode! Please get the result! It's not about - 80, it's not 7, it's not. The law has been passed.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-01-21-PT12-339-U36	Colleagues, thank you for your support.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-01-21-PT12-339-U37	On the agenda - draft law “On First and Second Amendments to the Espoo Convention of 25 February 1991 on Environmental Impact Assessment in a Transboundary Context”. Member Ojārs Ēriks Kalniņš on behalf of the Commission on Foreign Affairs.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-01-21-PT12-339-U38	Thank you, Presidium. Dear Members, The Foreign Affairs Commission examined the draft law “On the first and second amendments to the Espoo Convention on Environmental Impact Assessment of 25 February 1991 in a cross-border context”. We did not get any proposals. We supported the draft law and, on behalf of the Commission, I call for it to be supported at second, final, reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-01-21-PT12-339-U39	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote in favour of the second final reading of the draft law “On support for the first and second amendments to the Espoo Convention on Environmental Impact Assessment of 25 February 1991 in a cross-border context”. Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 89, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. The law has been passed. On the agenda - draft law “On the Protocol on Strategic Environmental Assessment of 21 May 2003 to the Espoo Convention on Environmental Impact Assessment of 25 February 1991”. Member Ojārs Ēriks Kalniņš on behalf of the Commission on Foreign Affairs.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-01-21-PT12-339-U40	The Foreign Commission reviewed the draft law “On the Protocol on Strategic Environmental Assessment of 21 May 2003 to the Espoo Convention on Environmental Impact Assessment of 25 February 1991”. We have not received any proposals and therefore, on behalf of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, I call for support for the draft law at second, final, reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-01-21-PT12-339-U41	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote for the support of the draft law “On support of the Protocol on Strategic Environmental Assessment of 21 May 2003 to the Espoo Convention on Environmental Impact Assessment of 25 February 1991 in the second, final reading! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 89, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. The law has been passed.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-01-21-PT12-339-U42	Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-01-21-PT12-339-U43	On the agenda - draft law on the movement of energy drinks, third reading. On behalf of the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy, Member Ivars Zarins.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-01-21-PT12-339-U44	Good afternoon, colleagues! We work with the draft law on the Law on the Movement of Energy Drinks. In the Saeima corridors, this bill started several years ago, so I will briefly remind you of what it is about. The purpose of this law is to protect human health, especially the health of our future generation - children - from the adverse effects of energy drinks on the body. We propose that these draft laws be approved at final reading. There has been a very serious debate to bring this to the third reading. The debate has been conducted with all the interested parties; the European Commission has also been presented with this draft law so that we can obtain harmonisation. All this has now been done and draft laws at third reading. We have received 12 proposals from the Commission. Proposal No 1 - Members Līdaka and Matīss, which intend to increase caffeine concentration more than twice as defined in the definition of energy drinks. Not supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-01-21-PT12-339-U45	Members agree... Members ask for a vote. Please call me! We will vote in favour of 1. - the proposal tabled by Members Ingmars Līdak and Annie Matīss! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 12, for - 57, for - 16. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-01-21-PT12-339-U46	Thank you, colleagues. Here's two. - A proposal from Members Līdaka and Matīss. Not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-01-21-PT12-339-U47	Members ask for a vote. Please call me! We will vote in favour of 2. - the proposal tabled by Members Līdaka and Matīss! Please vote mode! Please get the result! On - 3, against - 60, refraining from - 16. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-01-21-PT12-339-U48	3. - Līdaka's proposal. Not supported by the Commission. ( Intercretion: ‘ Vote! ’) ) Council Regulation (EC) No 1257/96 of 20 June 1996 concerning humanitarian aid (OJ L 163, 2.7.1996, p. 1).
ParlaMint-LV_2016-01-21-PT12-339-U49	Members ask for a vote. Please call me! We will vote in favour of 3. - Līdaka Member's proposal! Please vote mode! Please get the result! About - 1 (Interior: “Gundar! You're a doctor! Doctor! You were!” ), to - 61, abstain - 18. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-01-21-PT12-339-U50	4. - Member Līdaka... No, no... 4. - Līdaka's proposal. Neither is it supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-01-21-PT12-339-U51	Members ask for a vote. Please call me! Let us vote in favour of 4. - Līdaka Member's proposal! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For -1, for -69, for -10. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-01-21-PT12-339-U52	5. - a proposal from the committee responsible. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-01-21-PT12-339-U53	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-01-21-PT12-339-U54	6. - Līdaka's proposal. Not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-01-21-PT12-339-U55	Members ask for a vote. Please call me! We will vote in favour of 6. - Līdaka Member's proposal! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For -6, for -67, for -11. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-01-21-PT12-339-U56	7. - Member Liepiņš's proposal. There is no support in the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-01-21-PT12-339-U57	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-01-21-PT12-339-U58	8 / 8 - Member Liepiņš's proposal. There is no support in the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-01-21-PT12-339-U59	Partially supported, included in the committee responsible...
ParlaMint-LV_2016-01-21-PT12-339-U60	I'm sorry. Yes, partly supported and included in proposal 9, drawn up by the Commission responsible.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-01-21-PT12-339-U61	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-01-21-PT12-339-U62	9. - a proposal from the committee responsible which has been approved by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-01-21-PT12-339-U63	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-01-21-PT12-339-U64	10............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - Member Liepiņš's proposal. There is no support in the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-01-21-PT12-339-U65	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-01-21-PT12-339-U66	11. - the Līdak Member's proposal, which has been partly supported and included in the next proposal, 12 - the committee responsible.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-01-21-PT12-339-U67	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-01-21-PT12-339-U68	12. - a proposal from the committee responsible. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-01-21-PT12-339-U69	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-01-21-PT12-339-U70	Thank you, colleagues. I call for the final, third, reading of this draft law to be supported. Let our children have a healthy future! Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-01-21-PT12-339-U71	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote in favour of the third, final, reading of the draft law on the movement of energy drinks! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 88, for - 2 and for - 1. The law has been passed. On the agenda - draft law “Amendments to the Law on the Electricity Market”, first reading. On behalf of the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy, Member Edward Smilten.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-01-21-PT12-339-U72	Hello, colleagues! So we are working on amendments to the Electricity Market Act at first reading. These amendments are based on the guidelines of the European Commission on State aid for environmental protection and energy from 2014 to 2020, which came into force on 1 July 2014, which include conditions to be respected by the Member States of the European Union, inter alia, by developing support mechanisms for the promotion of renewable energy, with conditions significantly different from 1 January 2016 for new support for the production of energy from renewable sources. In the Commission, we have examined this draft law and I call on the Commission to support it at first reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-01-21-PT12-339-U73	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote in favour of the first reading of the draft law "Amendments to the Law on the Electricity Market"! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 88, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. The draft law at first reading has been supported. Please set a deadline for the second reading of the proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-01-21-PT12-339-U74	In the Commission, let us wait until 11 February this year.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-01-21-PT12-339-U75	Thank you. Proposals should be submitted by 11 February this year. On the agenda - draft law “Amendment to the Law “On Public Service Regulators”, first reading. On behalf of the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy, Anrijs Matīss.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-01-21-PT12-339-U76	Madam President, Dear colleagues, We work with the draft law “Amendment to the Law on Public Service Regulators”. This draft law is closely linked to the next item on the agenda - the draft law on amendments to the Railway Law - and provides that regulation of the railway sector is excluded from the role of regulators - in particular, the function of licensing of passenger transport, the function of monitoring the rail passenger transport market, the function of assessing complaints. These tasks are planned to be transferred to the State Railway Administration, to the State Railway Directorate of Road Transport and to the State Railway Technical Inspectorate. The Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy asks for this draft law to be declared urgent.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-01-21-PT12-339-U77	Thank you. We must therefore vote on urgency. Please call me! We will vote for the recognition of the draft law “Amendment to the Law “On Public Service Regulators”” as urgent! Please vote mode! Please get the result! It's not about - 82, it's against - 7, it's not. The draft law has been declared urgent.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-01-21-PT12-339-U78	On behalf of the Commission, please support this draft law at first reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-01-21-PT12-339-U79	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote in favour of the first reading of the draft law “Amendment to the Law on Public Service Regulators”! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The draft law at first reading has been supported. Please set a deadline for the second reading and a deadline for the second reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-01-21-PT12-339-U80	Thank you. The deadline for submitting proposals - two weeks, that is, 4 February, and consideration at the Saeima sitting - 18 February.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-01-21-PT12-339-U81	So, February 4th and...
ParlaMint-LV_2016-01-21-PT12-339-U82	... February 18th and February 18th.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-01-21-PT12-339-U83	February 18th. Thank you. Consequently, the proposals should be submitted by 4 February this year, and consideration by the Saeima at its meeting - 18 February this year. On the agenda - draft law “Amendments to the Railway Law”, first reading. On behalf of the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy, Anrijs Matīss.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-01-21-PT12-339-U84	We work with the draft law on amendments to the Railway Act. These amendments to the law are quite large and are intended to implement a number of European Union directives. This concerns mainly the allocation of railway infrastructure capacity, the charging of charges for the use of railway infrastructure and safety certification; it also lays down a number of new requirements for crews, the services to be provided to the carriers, the operators of service facilities, their operating principles, the principles for determining charges for the services to be provided on site, the basic principles of the performance scheme applicable throughout the rail network, as well as the basic principles and parameters of the contract to be concluded between the competent national authority and the infrastructure managers, and so on. These amendments therefore provide for the introduction of a number of European Union directives and, in view of the need for implementation, the Commission has examined the draft law and asked for it to be declared urgent.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-01-21-PT12-339-U85	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote for the urgent recognition of the draft law on amendments to the Railway Law! Please vote mode! Please get the result! It's not about - 80, it's not 7, it's not. The draft law has been declared urgent.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-01-21-PT12-339-U86	On behalf of the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy, please support the draft law at first reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-01-21-PT12-339-U87	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote in favour of the first reading of the draft law "Amendments to the Railway Law". Please vote mode! Please get the result! It's not about - 81, it's against - 7, it's not. The draft law at first reading has been supported. Please set a deadline for the submission of proposals for the second reading and the time for the second reading at the Saeima sitting.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-01-21-PT12-339-U88	Thank you. So let's wait till 4 February, consideration at the Saeima sitting - 18 February.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-01-21-PT12-339-U89	Thank you. Consequently, the proposals should be submitted by 4 February this year, and consideration by the Saeima at its meeting - 18 February this year.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-01-21-PT12-339-U90	Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-01-21-PT12-339-U91	On the agenda - draft law “Amendment to the Law on Service of Officials of the Office for Prevention and Combating Corruption”, second reading. On behalf of the Commission for Social and Labour Affairs - Member Andrejs Klementjevs.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-01-21-PT12-339-U92	Thank you. The Social and Labour Commission examined the draft law and did not receive any proposal. The draft law was unanimously supported. Let us look forward to the next proposals for the third reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-01-21-PT12-339-U93	First of all...
ParlaMint-LV_2016-01-21-PT12-339-U94	I know, but...
ParlaMint-LV_2016-01-21-PT12-339-U95	... and to support...
ParlaMint-LV_2016-01-21-PT12-339-U96	Yes, then more active, Members, please!
ParlaMint-LV_2016-01-21-PT12-339-U97	... second reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-01-21-PT12-339-U98	I am more actively asking Members to take part in the work. I understand that a very serious law, and not everyone is at risk of tabling proposals. But the employees of KNAB assured us that they would not accept all the amendments in this bill personally. Thank you. Please support me.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-01-21-PT12-339-U99	Please call me! We will vote for support for the second reading of the draft law “Amendment to the Law on Long-term Pensions of Officials of the Office for Prevention and Combating Corruption”! Please vote mode! Please get the result! It's not about - 83, it's against and refrains from - it's not. The draft law at second reading has been supported. Please set the tabling of the proposals...
ParlaMint-LV_2016-01-21-PT12-339-U100	I did not expect any other vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-01-21-PT12-339-U101	... time for the third reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-01-21-PT12-339-U102	29 days.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-01-21-PT12-339-U103	Submission of proposals... Is that so?
ParlaMint-LV_2016-01-21-PT12-339-U104	29.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-01-21-PT12-339-U105	Is that January 29?
ParlaMint-LV_2016-01-21-PT12-339-U106	Yeah, yeah.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-01-21-PT12-339-U107	Thank you. The proposals should therefore be submitted by 29 January this year. Colleagues! It is time for a break, and we have to register. Please call me! Please check-in mode for Members! Please get the result! Name of Secretary of the Saeima Gunars Kūtris to read the results of the registration as soon as they are prepared.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-01-21-PT12-339-U108	Dear colleagues, Not registered at the moment: Ringolds Balodis... The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. R. Balodis: “Chow!” ) is, Mārtiņš Bondars, Ints Dālderis, Guntis Kalniņš, Ilmārs Latkovskis and Juris Viļums... Yes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-01-21-PT12-339-U109	Thank you. Interruption until 11 a.m. ( Interruption)
ParlaMint-LV_2016-01-21-PT12-339-U110	Dear colleagues, I invite you to take your seats in the Chamber so that we can continue the Saeima sitting. On the agenda - Draft Law on Public Transport Services, second reading. On behalf of the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy, Member Edward Smilten.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-01-21-PT12-339-U111	Colleagues! We are working on the draft law on Public Transport Services, which is under consideration at second reading. The Commission has worked very hard. No proposals have been received, and on behalf of the Commission, please support the draft law at second reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-01-21-PT12-339-U112	Please call me! We will vote in favour of the second reading of the draft law on public transport services! Please vote mode! Please get the result! It's not about - 71, it's against and refrains from - it's not. The draft law at second reading has been supported. Please set a deadline for the third reading of the proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-01-21-PT12-339-U113	In the Commission, we will wait until 28 January 2016.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-01-21-PT12-339-U114	Thank you. The proposals should therefore be submitted by 28 January this year. On the agenda - draft law on “Amendments to the Law on National Security”, second reading. On behalf of the Commission for Defence, Home Affairs and Anti-Corruption - Member Ainars Latkovskis.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-01-21-PT12-339-U115	Colleagues! No proposals for second reading have been received. Please support the draft law.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-01-21-PT12-339-U116	Please call me! We will vote in favour of the second reading of the draft law on "Amendments to the Law on National Security". Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 73, against and refrains. The draft law at second reading has been supported. Please set a deadline for the third reading of the proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-01-21-PT12-339-U117	January 26th.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-01-21-PT12-339-U118	Thank you. Proposals should be submitted by 26 January this year. On the agenda - draft law “Amendment to the Law on the National Armed Forces”, second reading. On behalf of the Commission for Defence, Home Affairs and Anti-Corruption - Member Ainars Latkovskis.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-01-21-PT12-339-U119	One proposal from the Minister of Defence. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-01-21-PT12-339-U120	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-01-21-PT12-339-U121	I call for support at second reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-01-21-PT12-339-U122	Please call me! We will vote in favour of the second reading of the draft law “Amendment to the Law on the National Armed Forces”! Please vote mode! Please get the result! On - 74, against and refrains - not. The draft law at second reading has been supported. Please set a deadline for the third reading of the proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-01-21-PT12-339-U123	January 26th.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-01-21-PT12-339-U124	Thank you. Proposals should be submitted by 26 January this year. On the agenda - draft law “Amendment to the Cabinet of Ministers’ Equipment Law”, second reading. On behalf of the Commission for Defence, Home Affairs and Anti-Corruption - Member Ainars Latkovskis.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-01-21-PT12-339-U125	One proposal has been received: that of the committee responsible. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-01-21-PT12-339-U126	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-01-21-PT12-339-U127	Thank you. And I call for support for the draft law at second reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-01-21-PT12-339-U128	Please call me! We will vote for support for the second reading of the draft law “Amendment to the Cabinet of Ministers’ Equipment Law”! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 77, for - no, for - 1. The draft law at second reading has been supported. Please set a deadline for the third reading of the proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-01-21-PT12-339-U129	January 26th.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-01-21-PT12-339-U130	Thank you. Proposals should be submitted by 26 January this year. On the agenda - draft law “Law on Psychologists”, second reading. On behalf of the Commission for Social and Labour Affairs - Member Silvija Šimfa.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-01-21-PT12-339-U131	Hello, honorable and honorable Bureau and honourable and honorable colleagues! On behalf of the Commission for Social and Labour Affairs, I have proposed that you assess and support the draft law on Psychologists' Law at second reading. The history of creating a draft law has been rather difficult and complex. We inherited it from the previous Saeima. However, I think that we have managed to prepare a sufficiently high-quality proposal for you at second reading, because we have devoted enough time to this draft law. I would remind you that we adopted it at first reading on 18 December 2014 and the proposals for the second reading were submitted by 27 March last year. After this date, working group meetings were held, as the panel set up a working group to evaluate the proposals and prepare a qualitative version. This working group consisted of representatives of professional psychologists' organisations. I think that it is not a secret to those colleagues who have worked on this issue that psychologists' organisations were divided into two such camps as the opposite and were unable to find a common language. However, this working group, working on this draft law, managed to achieve such a common view, a compromise, and perhaps there was some convergence between these opposing, perhaps even diametrically opposite, psychologists' camps. This working group was attended by specialists of ministries and representatives of the Latvian Medical Association. So I propose moving to the second reading of the draft law, namely the proposals, and going by point. 1. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. It's supported. The Commission has supported this and we ask you to support this proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-01-21-PT12-339-U132	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-01-21-PT12-339-U133	The proposal has not been supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-01-21-PT12-339-U134	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-01-21-PT12-339-U135	Proposal No 3. Partly supported and included 40. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-01-21-PT12-339-U136	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-01-21-PT12-339-U137	4. - supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-01-21-PT12-339-U138	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-01-21-PT12-339-U139	5. - supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-01-21-PT12-339-U140	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-01-21-PT12-339-U141	6. - supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-01-21-PT12-339-U142	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-01-21-PT12-339-U143	7. - partially supported and included 9. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-01-21-PT12-339-U144	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-01-21-PT12-339-U145	8 / 8 - partially supported, incorporated 9. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-01-21-PT12-339-U146	Let us start a debate. Name of Member Inga Bite.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-01-21-PT12-339-U147	Dear colleagues, The essence of the proposal is to trust the existing education system in the Republic of Latvia and to recognise that a person who has obtained a diploma from an educational institution and programme accredited in Latvia can work in his profession. What is currently provided for in the draft law... The draft law provides for a distinction between psychologists, that is to say, people who have completed an educational institution, and not only in the bachelor's programme, but also in the master's programme, and certified psychologists, which provides that only the other will be able to actually work in the psychologist's profession. And the difference is that the bill provides for a specific period of supervision, which means - work under supervision. Yeah, exactly... Thank you to Mrs Barch for the reproof! Proposal No 8 provides that a psychologist can work when he has received education. If there are problems with psychological education, these problems need to be addressed in an educational institution. If more practice is needed, longer monitoring or other activities that are not currently being offered in the education process must be included in the education process. However, it would not be reasonable to say that a person who has studied or is already enrolled in a higher education institution with the aim of obtaining this diploma and working in his profession will not be able to work there without investing several thousands of euros in reality paid by this draft law supervision. Proposal No 8 provides that a person can work through education. The Commission has pointed out that it is partly supported and included in the next proposal - Amendment 9, and this, of course, is to some extent in line with the truth. The next proposal - 9 provides for this additional monitoring, an additional period of supervision. And I would like to remind you once again that it is not about the fact that a person needs practical knowledge and experience; it is about the fact that it costs enough money so that the psychologist we need in a school, the psychologist we need in a home, in a prison or in another country paid place, could simply not afford it for his own, unfortunately minimum, salary. Therefore, colleagues, I am asking for support for proposal 8, which provides that the person who has received education, together with this educational document (there are other proposals that will provide for it), will receive his first certificate, then will continue to raise his qualifications, attend courses, operate under the supervision of a supervisor, so that he can be recertified in his future professional work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-01-21-PT12-339-U148	Thank you. I closed the debate. Does the rapporteur wish to add something on behalf of the Commission?
ParlaMint-LV_2016-01-21-PT12-339-U149	Yeah. This opinion, expressed by Mrs Betes, and the proposal put forward by Mr Freeer and Mrs Kleinberg, has been discussed very seriously and thoroughly, as it is one of the cornerstones of this draft law. And also about this article, which determines who is a psychologist, who is recognized as a psychologist and a certified psychologist. So that is the basis and it must be very precise, clear and unambiguous. And the part that concerns this clarity and clarity, from the proposal of our colleagues, Mr Freeer and Mr Kleinberg, we put in the Commission's proposal, but we rejected this term, the term 'equivalent education'. There was a lot of discussion about this, because it is a different term that can be translated and understood in different ways, and it cannot be allowed in this draft law. And so I ask you not to support Amendment 8, but to support Amendment 9. - the proposal submitted by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-01-21-PT12-339-U150	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote in favour of 8. - the proposal put forward by Members Freeer and Kleinberg! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 19, for - 15, for - 34. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-01-21-PT12-339-U151	9. - The proposal of the Commission on Social and Labour Affairs. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-01-21-PT12-339-U152	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-01-21-PT12-339-U153	10............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - Member's Proposal. Partially supported, included 13. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-01-21-PT12-339-U154	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-01-21-PT12-339-U155	11. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-01-21-PT12-339-U156	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-01-21-PT12-339-U157	12. - the proposal from Members Freeer and Kleinberg. Not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-01-21-PT12-339-U158	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-01-21-PT12-339-U159	13. - The proposal of the Commission on Social and Labour Affairs. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-01-21-PT12-339-U160	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-01-21-PT12-339-U161	14............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - the proposal from Members Freeer and Kleinberg. Not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-01-21-PT12-339-U162	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-01-21-PT12-339-U163	15............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - The proposal of the Commission on Social and Labour Affairs. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-01-21-PT12-339-U164	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-01-21-PT12-339-U165	16. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-01-21-PT12-339-U166	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-01-21-PT12-339-U167	17. - the proposal from Members Freeer and Kleinberg. Partly supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-01-21-PT12-339-U168	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-01-21-PT12-339-U169	18. - The proposal of Members Freeer and Clearberg...
ParlaMint-LV_2016-01-21-PT12-339-U170	The Commission has not supported this. Let us start a debate. Name of Member Inga Bite.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-01-21-PT12-339-U171	Dear colleagues, Just by rejecting the previous proposal, you have supported the fact that a psychologist, in addition to education acquired, still needs years of experience under the supervision of a supervisor in order to be able to work. Let it be! But what the commission offers next... There are not only practices but also specializations in the specific six (and no more than six) career areas of psychologists. Unfortunately, when studying more deeply, it should be said that these six (and no more than six) areas of the psychologist's activities contained in the draft law do not correspond to any internationally defined areas of the psychologist's activity, nor to areas where it is possible to specialize in the process of acquiring education. In fact, these areas come from those areas where there are, perhaps, psychologists in an organisation. Such a division is in fact an artificially created administrative obstacle - an administrative additional barrier! - the activity of the psychologist, all the more so because in one of these selected areas, such as military psychology, approximately ten people are actually active. At the same time, in addition to these six fields, there are enough areas of psychologist activity in the world, such as cognitive psychology, development psychology, social psychology, religion psychology, family psychology, even baby psychology, where people specialize and learn, including abroad, to work in these areas. But the Latvian law will not provide for this. What I will ask to support is an open list of proposals 18: so, in addition to the six areas that have been supported by the Commission, we offer to allow a psychologist to work in another area, if he specialises in it in Latvia or abroad, and thus also to allow those people who have acquired specific knowledge in a narrow specific area, including by paying for their training abroad. Please support Amendment 18.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-01-21-PT12-339-U172	Thank you. The name to Member Mārtiņš Schics... The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. M. Schics: “I’ve called!” ) I therefore close the debate. Does the rapporteur wish to add something on behalf of the Commission?
ParlaMint-LV_2016-01-21-PT12-339-U173	On behalf of the Commission, I can say that we are asking for support for the Commission's proposal, because we believe that the second paragraph of Article 4 created by the Commission makes more precise the point that Mrs Betes has made to us. We therefore ask not to support proposal 18, but to support further Commission proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-01-21-PT12-339-U174	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote in favour of 18. - the proposal put forward by Members Freeer and Kleinberg! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 20, for - 31, for - 26. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-01-21-PT12-339-U175	19. - The proposal of the Commission on Social and Labour Affairs. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-01-21-PT12-339-U176	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-01-21-PT12-339-U177	20............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - the proposal from Members Freeer and Kleinberg. Not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-01-21-PT12-339-U178	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-01-21-PT12-339-U179	21............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Partly supported and included 24. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-01-21-PT12-339-U180	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-01-21-PT12-339-U181	22. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-01-21-PT12-339-U182	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-01-21-PT12-339-U183	23............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - the proposal of the Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Education and Science, Edward Smilten. Not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-01-21-PT12-339-U184	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-01-21-PT12-339-U185	24. - The proposal of the Commission on Social and Labour Affairs. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-01-21-PT12-339-U186	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-01-21-PT12-339-U187	25. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Partially supported, included 26. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-01-21-PT12-339-U188	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-01-21-PT12-339-U189	26. - The proposal of the Commission on Social and Labour Affairs. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-01-21-PT12-339-U190	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-01-21-PT12-339-U191	27. - The proposal of the Commission on Social and Labour Affairs. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-01-21-PT12-339-U192	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-01-21-PT12-339-U193	28. - The proposal of the Commission on Social and Labour Affairs. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-01-21-PT12-339-U194	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-01-21-PT12-339-U195	29. - the proposal from Members Freeer and Kleinberg. Partially supported, included 30. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-01-21-PT12-339-U196	Let us start a debate. Name of Member Inga Bite.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-01-21-PT12-339-U197	Thank the Commission for its partial support for this proposal. Unfortunately, this support is not a support for the conceptual part of this proposal. In particular, we are currently talking about the Psychologist certification board, how this board would be set up. And before I start talking about it, I would like to point out that the Psychologist certification board is the body that decides on all issues relating to the future activities of psychologists, including the issue of a certificate, the granting of a supervisor's right, the suspension of a certificate and the withdrawal of a certificate. So in fact, it will decide the fate of all the psychologists in our country. At the moment it is planned, and the Commission is proposing to support the fact that the Certification Council for these Psychologists is composed of representatives of five state institutions, and that the draft law does not specify who appoints these institutions, how they are appointed, whether there are any criteria for the experience, education and activity of the representatives of these institutions; whether they have to have any connection with psychology at all, and whether there are five people in the public administration who have acquired, say, the education of the psychologist and who are prepared to judge and evaluate it. In addition to these five unknown representatives of state institutions, it is proposed to include two representatives from the Latvian Association of Psychologists and two representatives from the Latvian Federation of Psychologists Associations. Those who have studied more in this process know that these are two psychologists' unifying organisations (probably the largest; I believe that the Commission has studied it) whose opinions differed radically during the initial phase of the draft law; I understand that as a result of the thorough work of the Commission they are now approaching. However, I would like to remind the Saeima that in 2012, the then President of Latvia Andris Bērziņš, who was to be re-visited by one particular draft law (The Amendments to the Republic of Latvia State Security Law), indicated that the delegation of management tasks to certain legal entities, namely certain associations and federations, is an exception and not a fundamental principle. And such a conclusion, as the President of Latvia pointed out at that time in his letter, applies in particular to cases where there is even the least possibility to choose another solution. Colleagues! With this proposal, I want to offer this opportunity - to choose another solution. In particular, the proposal of my fellow Members Freeer and Kleinberg provides for the creation of a Psychologist Certification Board - similar to the creation of supervisory organisations for others... for legal professions, such as... either, not other legal professions, but other liberal professions... Yes, I will recognise - this example is taken from the legal professions - from sworn notaries. In particular, this board - the Psychologists Certification Council - would be elected by the general meeting of all psychologists for seven years. It would consist of a total of nine members and would elect eight of them at a general meeting of psychologists. One would be appointed by the Ministry of Education and Science, which has the task of conducting this register, as well as otherwise assisting and supporting the work of the Psychologists Certification Board. So one person would not have been elected, but everyone else would have been elected at the general meeting of psychologists, and in seven years' time they could be reelected by psychologists themselves within the framework of their profession. Please, colleagues, take this least opportunity and choose another solution, firstly, without identifying specific organisations and, secondly, allowing psychologists to choose from among themselves those people who have the certification process - and not just the certification process! - They'll monitor and monitor. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-01-21-PT12-339-U198	Thank you. I closed the debate. Will the rapporteur add a note on behalf of the Commission?
ParlaMint-LV_2016-01-21-PT12-339-U199	The Commission had a very serious debate on this issue. This was one of the most debated issues, and we discussed this at the working group meetings and also at the committee meetings, and I can say that we came up with the proposed option because it is not only psychologists who can make such a board. The ministries, state institutions and municipal institutions that buy these psychologists’ services are also interested in the effective functioning of this council and implementation of the law and ensuring the operation of the law. And to some extent, this draft law is designed to ensure the quality of these services, and so we assumed that there should also be representatives of state institutions and psychologists on this board, and there should also be representatives of these two umbrella organisations of psychologists' organisations. These psychologists' organizations are several - many. They have come together like two groups, and each of them has its own agreement that it represents one... or that this roof organisation represents the other group. And in future, in order to prevent the use of wasteful force between different fights and fight against each other and to work together to address these issues of psychologists' activities, we decided that both, on the one hand, these equally minded representatives of psychologists' organisations and, on the other, the other. And the psychologists themselves have also accepted that this could be the optimal option to put an end to these infertile struggles and move to constructive work, and so I also ask for support for the Commission's proposal and not to support these Members' proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-01-21-PT12-339-U200	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote in favour of 29. - the proposal put forward by Members Freeer and Kleinberg! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 24, for - 14, for - 40. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-01-21-PT12-339-U201	Proposal No 30 Proposal from the Commission on Social and Labour Affairs Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-01-21-PT12-339-U202	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-01-21-PT12-339-U203	31. - the proposal of the Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Education and Science, Edward Smilten. Not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-01-21-PT12-339-U204	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-01-21-PT12-339-U205	32. - the proposal from Members Freeer and Kleinberg. Not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-01-21-PT12-339-U206	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-01-21-PT12-339-U207	33. - the proposal of the Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Education and Science, Edward Smilten. Not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-01-21-PT12-339-U208	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-01-21-PT12-339-U209	34. - The proposal of the Commission on Social and Labour Affairs. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-01-21-PT12-339-U210	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-01-21-PT12-339-U211	35. - the proposal from Members Freeer and Kleinberg. Not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-01-21-PT12-339-U212	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-01-21-PT12-339-U213	36. - The proposal of the Commission on Social and Labour Affairs. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-01-21-PT12-339-U214	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-01-21-PT12-339-U215	37. - the proposal from Member Šimfas. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-01-21-PT12-339-U216	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-01-21-PT12-339-U217	38. - The proposal of the Commission on Social and Labour Affairs. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-01-21-PT12-339-U218	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-01-21-PT12-339-U219	39. - The proposal of the Commission on Social and Labour Affairs. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-01-21-PT12-339-U220	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-01-21-PT12-339-U221	40. - The proposal of the Commission on Social and Labour Affairs. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-01-21-PT12-339-U222	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-01-21-PT12-339-U223	41. - the proposal from Member Šimfas. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-01-21-PT12-339-U224	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-01-21-PT12-339-U225	42. - the proposal from Member Šimfas. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-01-21-PT12-339-U226	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-01-21-PT12-339-U227	43. - the proposal from Member Šimfas. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-01-21-PT12-339-U228	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-01-21-PT12-339-U229	44. - Member's Proposal. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-01-21-PT12-339-U230	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-01-21-PT12-339-U231	45. - the proposal from Members Freeer and Kleinberg. Not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-01-21-PT12-339-U232	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-01-21-PT12-339-U233	46. - the proposal from Members Freeer and Kleinberg. Not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-01-21-PT12-339-U234	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-01-21-PT12-339-U235	47. - the proposal from Members Freeer and Kleinberg. Partly supported and included 54. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-01-21-PT12-339-U236	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-01-21-PT12-339-U237	48. - Member's Proposal. Supported by 54. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-01-21-PT12-339-U238	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-01-21-PT12-339-U239	49. - Member's Proposal. Partially supported, included 54. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-01-21-PT12-339-U240	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-01-21-PT12-339-U241	50. - Member's Proposal. Partially supported, included 54. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-01-21-PT12-339-U242	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-01-21-PT12-339-U243	51. - the proposal from Members Freeer and Kleinberg. Not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-01-21-PT12-339-U244	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-01-21-PT12-339-U245	52. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Partially supported, included 54. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-01-21-PT12-339-U246	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-01-21-PT12-339-U247	53. - the proposal from Member Šimfas. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-01-21-PT12-339-U248	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-01-21-PT12-339-U249	54. - The proposal of the Commission on Social and Labour Affairs. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-01-21-PT12-339-U250	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-01-21-PT12-339-U251	55. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-01-21-PT12-339-U252	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-01-21-PT12-339-U253	56. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-01-21-PT12-339-U254	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-01-21-PT12-339-U255	57. - the proposal of the Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Education and Science, Mr Smilten. Not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-01-21-PT12-339-U256	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-01-21-PT12-339-U257	58. - the proposal from Members Freeer and Kleinberg. Not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-01-21-PT12-339-U258	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-01-21-PT12-339-U259	59. - Member's Proposal. Partially supported, included 60. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-01-21-PT12-339-U260	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-01-21-PT12-339-U261	60. - The proposal of the Commission on Social and Labour Affairs. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-01-21-PT12-339-U262	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-01-21-PT12-339-U263	61. - the proposal from Members Freeer and Kleinberg. Not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-01-21-PT12-339-U264	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-01-21-PT12-339-U265	62. - the proposal of the Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Education and Science, Mr Smilten. Not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-01-21-PT12-339-U266	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-01-21-PT12-339-U267	63. - the proposal by Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Education and Science, Mr Smilten and Members, Mr Freezer and Mr Kleinberg. Not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-01-21-PT12-339-U268	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-01-21-PT12-339-U269	64. - Member's Proposal. Supported 65. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-01-21-PT12-339-U270	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-01-21-PT12-339-U271	65. - The proposal of the Commission on Social and Labour Affairs. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-01-21-PT12-339-U272	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-01-21-PT12-339-U273	66. - the proposal from Members Freeer and Kleinberg. Not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-01-21-PT12-339-U274	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-01-21-PT12-339-U275	67. - The proposal of the Commission on Social and Labour Affairs. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-01-21-PT12-339-U276	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-01-21-PT12-339-U277	I ask my colleagues to vote in favour of this draft law at second reading as a whole.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-01-21-PT12-339-U278	Please call me! We will vote in favour of the second reading of the draft law on psychologists' law! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 61, for - 1, for - 20. The draft law at second reading has been supported. Please set a deadline for the third reading of the proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-01-21-PT12-339-U279	For the third reading on the deadline for the submission of proposals, we propose 4 March.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-01-21-PT12-339-U280	Thank you. Proposals should be submitted by 4 March this year. On the agenda - draft law “Amendment to law “On the recognition of regulated professions and professional qualifications”, second reading. On behalf of the Commission for Social and Labour Affairs - Member Silvija Šimfa.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-01-21-PT12-339-U281	Thank you for your word. I informed that the draft law “Amendment to the Law on Regulated Professions and Recognition of Professional Qualifications” is related to the previous draft law, and on behalf of the Commission I informed that no proposals had been received by the commission for the second reading. Please vote in favour of the draft law Amending the law on the regulated professions and the recognition of professional qualifications.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-01-21-PT12-339-U282	Please call me! We will vote for support for the second reading of the draft law “Amendment to the Law on Regulated Occupations and Recognition of Professional Qualifications”! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 82, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The draft law at second reading has been supported. Please set a deadline for the third reading of the proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-01-21-PT12-339-U283	As it is in one package with the previous draft law, the deadline for the submission of proposals for this draft law is 4 March.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-01-21-PT12-339-U284	Thank you. Proposals should be submitted by 4 March this year. On the agenda - draft law “Amendments to the Law on the Expropriation of Real Estate Needed for the Company”, second reading. On behalf of the Legal Commission, Member Inga Bite.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-01-21-PT12-339-U285	Dear colleagues, We work with the draft law “Amendments to the Law on the Expropriation of Real Estate Needed for the Company” at second reading. I would remind you that the essence of the draft law is to protect the rights of mortgage creditors in the process of disposal of immovable property, while balancing these rights also with the rights and interests of other persons involved in the proceedings. Eight proposals have been submitted to the second reading of the draft law. 1. - the proposal of the Minister of Justice Dzintars Rasnačs, which is of a technical nature, is related to the payment of remuneration, which in future will be not immediately held but deposited in the deposit account of the bailiff. The proposal is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-01-21-PT12-339-U286	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-01-21-PT12-339-U287	2. - The legal commission's proposal. It is also of a technical nature, related to the internal references of the law. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-01-21-PT12-339-U288	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-01-21-PT12-339-U289	3. - The legal commission's proposal. This is also linked to the technical details of the remuneration. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-01-21-PT12-339-U290	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-01-21-PT12-339-U291	4. - the proposal of the Minister of Justice Dzintars Rasnačs. This is also linked to the details of the remuneration costs. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-01-21-PT12-339-U292	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-01-21-PT12-339-U293	5. - the proposal of the Minister of Justice Dzintars Rasnačs, which provides for the resolution of cases where insolvency proceedings have been declared to the former owner of real estate. This proposal is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-01-21-PT12-339-U294	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-01-21-PT12-339-U295	6. - the proposal of the Minister of Justice Dzintars Rasnačs. Some support has been given, as proposed 7.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-01-21-PT12-339-U296	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-01-21-PT12-339-U297	And seven. - a proposal by the Legal Commission to regulate the transitional period for the disposal processes already under way. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-01-21-PT12-339-U298	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-01-21-PT12-339-U299	And the last one is 8. - the proposal of the Minister of Justice Dzintars Rasnačs, which provides that the law shall enter into force on 1 April 2016. This proposal is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-01-21-PT12-339-U300	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-01-21-PT12-339-U301	Thank you. Please support the draft law at second reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-01-21-PT12-339-U302	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote in favour of supporting the second reading of the draft law “Amendments to the Law on the Expropriation of Real Estate Needed for Society’s Needs”! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 87, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The draft law at second reading has been supported. Please set a deadline for the third reading of the proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-01-21-PT12-339-U303	January 26th.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-01-21-PT12-339-U304	Thank you. Proposals should be submitted by 26 January this year. On the agenda - draft law “On disposal of real estate at Augusta Deglava Street 37, Riga, for public needs – the construction of the section of the East Motorway from Ieriķu Street to Vietuvas Street”, first reading. Member of the Legal Commission Gaidis Berzins.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-01-21-PT12-339-U305	Dear Chairman of the Saeima. Dear colleagues, We see the draft law “On disposal of real estate at Augusta Deglava iela 37, Riga, for public needs – construction of the section of the East Motorway from Ieriķu iela to Vietuvas iela”. I would like to remind you that forced expropriation of property is permitted, if it occurs for public needs, on the basis of a separate law and in exceptional circumstances. In this case, the needs of this society are the provision of the construction of the section of the East Motorway from Ieriķu Street to Vietuvas Street. On an exceptional basis, I would like to point out that the Legal Commission found that the owners of this property had not actually responded to the letters sent since 2011, when this sale procedure was initiated in Riga City Municipality and in no way tried to agree with the Riga City Council on the transfer of this property to the voluntary principles. It should also be noted that the Legal Commission initially postponed its sitting for the reason that the owners did not appear on it. However, at the next sitting, we re-examined this draft law, warning the owners that the Commission will examine this draft law in the event of the absence of the owners. This time, too, the owners did not show any interest in this draft law as such and its way forward. The Commission heard representatives of Riga City Council, representatives of the Ministry of Environmental Protection and Regional Development and decided to support the draft law for the first reading. On behalf of the Commission, please support the draft legislation.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-01-21-PT12-339-U306	Please call me! We will vote for support for the first reading of the draft law “On disposal of part of real estate at Augusta Deglava Street 37, Riga - building of the East Motorway section from Ieriķu Street to Vietuvas Street”! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 87, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The draft law at first reading has been supported. Please set a deadline for the submission of the proposals for second reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-01-21-PT12-339-U307	February 26th, this year.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-01-21-PT12-339-U308	Thank you. Proposals are due by 26 February this year. On the agenda: Draft law amending the Criminal Law, second reading. On behalf of the Legal Commission, Mr Andrejs Judin.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-01-21-PT12-339-U309	Dear colleagues, We are working on draft law No 351/Lp12 - Amendment to the Criminal Law. Let's see it in second reading. 24 proposals have been received. 1. - the proposal of the Minister of Justice Rasnačs, which provides for the possibility for prosecutors to apply a sentence clause in the event of a serious crime for which responsibility is provided - imprisonment for up to 5 years. The proposal is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-01-21-PT12-339-U310	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-01-21-PT12-339-U311	2. - a proposal by the Legal Commission, which provides for amendments to Article 41, fourth paragraph, relating to the meaning of the property situation by way of a fine. This is a clarification rule. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-01-21-PT12-339-U312	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-01-21-PT12-339-U313	3. - the proposal of the Minister of Justice Rasnačs. A new norm in the fifth paragraph of Article 41 providing for the possibility of deferring payment of the fine for up to three years if a fine exceeding the minimum monthly salary is imposed. The proposal is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-01-21-PT12-339-U314	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-01-21-PT12-339-U315	4. - the proposal by Member Judina, which provides for a clarification on the replacement of unpaid fines. The proposal is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-01-21-PT12-339-U316	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-01-21-PT12-339-U317	5. is an analogous proposal by the Minister of Justice Rasnačs. It is also supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-01-21-PT12-339-U318	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-01-21-PT12-339-U319	6. - the proposal by the Minister of Justice Rasnačs on the restriction of rights, which provides that the prosecutor will in future have the possibility to apply the restriction of rights for a period of up to 5 years if he applies the sentence clause (currently only half of the penalty). The proposal is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-01-21-PT12-339-U320	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-01-21-PT12-339-U321	7. - the proposal made by Member Judina to clarify the procedure for the deletion of criminal records in the event of a person being punished on a condition. The proposal is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-01-21-PT12-339-U322	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-01-21-PT12-339-U323	8 / 8 - the proposal by the Minister of Justice Rasnačs, which provides for an amendment to Article 7.2, enabling the prosecutor to impose a sentence on legal persons in the event of a serious crime punishable by deprivation of liberty for a period of up to five years. The proposal is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-01-21-PT12-339-U324	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-01-21-PT12-339-U325	9. - the proposal of the Minister of Justice Rasnačs, which provides for the possibility for the prosecutor to impose restrictions on legal persons for a period of five years. The proposal is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-01-21-PT12-339-U326	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-01-21-PT12-339-U327	10............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - the proposal of the Minister of Justice Rasnačs to supplement the Criminal Law with a new Article - Article 73.1, which provides for responsibility for financing the production, storage, The proposal is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-01-21-PT12-339-U328	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-01-21-PT12-339-U329	11. - Member Shadursky's proposal. This includes liability for the breach of the rules on remuneration, i.e. the situation where the remuneration was paid in envelopes in breach of accounting rules. The proposal is partly supported, with some clarification. In particular, it has been partly supported by the inclusion of proposal 13.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-01-21-PT12-339-U330	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-01-21-PT12-339-U331	Proposal No 12 is a very similar proposal and is tabled by the Minister of Justice Rasnačs. It has also been partly supported, including 13. - The Legal Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-01-21-PT12-339-U332	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-01-21-PT12-339-U333	13. - the proposal of the Legal Commission, drawn up on the basis of the proposal of the Minister of Justice Rasnačs and Member Shadurskis. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-01-21-PT12-339-U334	Members want to have a debate. Name to Member Igor Pimenov. Proposal No 13, yes.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-01-21-PT12-339-U335	Dear Members of the Saeima! I believe that criminal liability for the payment of envelope wages is a penalty which is disproportionate to the seriousness of the infringement. In criminalising the payment of envelope wages, the Saeima acknowledges the Government’s inability to motivate employers to pay labour taxes by economic means. However, the instrument is and must be used. We are talking about the application of the principle of progressivity in taxation of labour. We are increasingly talking about the application of the principle of progressivity in our tax system. Not only the opposition groups and the opposition, but also the members belonging to the coalition, are talking about this, and this concept is already widely used in the government's discourse. I would like to emphasise that the principle of progressivity does not just mean taxing large recipients of income more than that of labour. This is about reducing the personal income tax rate for the lowest income recipients, among which are the recipients of salaries. And that is very important. By reducing the tax burden on beneficiaries of lower wages, we will thus open a second breath for employers and motivate them to leave the grey economy or at least partially, and that is very important. Did the author or authors assess the economic consequences of this harsh punishment? What will that result? Let us remember that the grey economy is also part of the economy! This problem is vital to the Latvian economy, important not only politically but also economically. If the country cools down with a stick to the grey economy, it will mean that many of those who are now really producing and paying and thus increasing the collection of value added tax in the country will have the motive for them to leave the economy, and that will be a blow to the Latvian economy! I understand that my opposition is in fact in contradiction with their joint support, which all political groups without exception disliked the recipients of envelope wages and envelope salaries as a concept as a phenomenon in the Latvian economy, but I think that all economic consequences are not yet really thought out here. I do not believe that the Legal Commission is the place where this analysis can be carried out, so I urge and ask the Speaker of the Saeima to note in his notes: however, to continue to look at this proposal at least in this particular draft law under consideration at the Budget and Finance (Tax) Commission, which has more experience, which is a larger specialist and has the widest range of experts to analyse the consequences. Finally, I would like to draw attention to the fact that the proposal on the introduction of a progressive tax in the Latvian tax system, which will justify how progressive tax can be used to reduce the grey economy in the country, will be examined by the Tax Sub-Commission as early as next week. Very powerful instrument. Not with a stick, but with a motive, with a carrot we will achieve more! I believe that this proposal has not been fully considered and therefore I cannot support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-01-21-PT12-339-U336	Thank you. Name to Member Karl Shadursky.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-01-21-PT12-339-U337	Dear colleagues, I listened to Mr. Pimenov and did not believe in my ears. Now I've never heard of support for envelope payers from this platform. I listened carefully to what Mr Pimenova said about whip and carrot, and for my part I could indeed recommend to Mr Pimenova that he eat more carrots. It's very healthy. Colleagues, what progressive personal income tax can we talk about here in the context of a proposal that proposes criminalising the cost of envelope wages? Personal income tax - neither proportional nor progressive - is not paid from envelope wages. So, Mr Pimenov, what you said was very difficult to understand. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. I. Pimenov: “You haven’t understood!” ) At present, the Criminal Law contains a provision on tax evasion. But why has this proposal come about? It has been created in cooperation with representatives of the State Revenue Service, arguing that such a norm is more difficult to use. In turn, the payout, which is not shown in the accounting records, is relatively easy to prove and is a much more effective instrument against the payout of envelopes. In addition, I would like to point out that only the pay-out of envelope salaries and not the pay-out of envelopes will be criminalised. Thus, if the recipient of the salary is forced to deal with this situation for some reason, then nothing is changed in this case, but the payment of envelope wages will be punished if it is systemic and systematic in the company. I am sorry, dear colleagues, but all the speeches from this troupe about it having a shocking effect on our economy, to be honest, sounds simply reassuring. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-01-21-PT12-339-U338	The name of the Member, Andrejs Judin.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-01-21-PT12-339-U339	Yes, I would also like to draw attention to the fact that in fact there is no entirely new norm. In fact, we now have both administrative and criminal liability for tax evasion. We are criminalising because, according to the current rule, if the amount is EUR 3700 and taxes have not been paid accordingly, then there is an administrative responsibility. But, I remember, the debate in the Saeima on the need to act was launched two years ago. And we talked and were looking for a solution. At the commission meeting, too, there was no deep conviction that the relevant wording could be adopted at third reading. We kept working. But I don't remember that there would have been any serious counter-warranty, that is, we don't need the regulation. We want and can improve the norm. But, on the principle, I agree with Mr Pimenova in that sense, in that the Criminal Law cannot be the only instrument that can solve all the problems. However, if we can make use of the criminal law and this can help to solve the problem, then I think it would not be right to give up and not to do so. I therefore think it is important for this proposal to be supported at second reading. And if there are proposals to improve the norm, we will definitely try to do so. But such a norm is necessary, because in a situation where no tax is paid, the question is not only that something has not been received in the budget, it is also a question of a situation where a person does not pay social tax. When the day on which this person will have to receive his pension comes, he will be very small, and he will be dissatisfied and complain that the country cannot provide him with a living. Let us therefore take this small step, because it is a step in the right direction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-01-21-PT12-339-U340	Name to Member Igor Pimenov, for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-01-21-PT12-339-U341	Since you, Mr Shadursky, are a member of the Subcommittee on Tax Policy (like me and some other Members of the Committee on Budgets and Finance (Tax)), you, Mr Shadurski, will have a greater, better chance next week to listen to the arguments for the application of the principle of progressiveity precisely to address this problem better, because in Western European countries... This instrument is being applied very actively in the Member States of the European Union. In this respect, Latvia should not make any invention. And for what will work and what will not work. Let us remember that, in the grey economy, employers avoid paying taxes precisely in order not to pay the taxes they are burdened with! And this applies to employers, those entrepreneurs who have a lot of employees, employees. And if this personal income tax rate is reduced by even two percent, that burden will also be reduced and the motivation for the power that is now pushing employers away from the legal economy in the grey. This means that progressive tax is the best economic instrument to motivate our employers to leave the grey economy.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-01-21-PT12-339-U342	Name to Member Janis Urbanovich.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-01-21-PT12-339-U343	Dear President, Dear colleagues, Igor Pimenov rightly said that we cannot support this rule. But that would be only half the truth. Why can't we support it? Because our Saeima has developed a big lesson over many years and energy to impose new and new penalties without solving problems at the root. Everyone knows that the businessman... If he had any chance to develop and pay his salary only to the accounting officer and the accounting officer would pay all legal, official wages, he would not be willing to be caught in this criminal activity. Of course, this is criminal activity. But we, which make and adopt laws, pretend not to see that Latvia has the highest labour taxes, as opposed to other countries that are more successful... which work better and where these taxes are lower. Why is that? Why do we help rich people to keep their property, to help rich people, not those businessmen who are prone to development, not to accumulation? It is a big problem, and our concern is that the Saeima once again... that together we will decide to punish those who have adapted to the situation that we have created with you or our ancestors. See... But we say that we cannot support it; we also understand, of course, that it is a criminal act. Neither can we be against... That's why we... You do not give us the opportunity to do anything different than not to do anything. And I would like to say that we will not participate in this vote, but we are ready to work on what Mr Igor and Mr Judine have just spoken about. We'd be happy to do that. But today, such a complex plan is not being proposed, and as usual, we have this: by making a gesture, threatening with penalties, we are then forgetting about this problem. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-01-21-PT12-339-U344	I closed the debate. Will the rapporteur add a note on behalf of the Commission? The rapporteur does not want to add anything. Please call me! We will vote in favour of 13. - The legal commission's proposal! Please vote mode! Please get the result! On - 62, against - non-, refraining - 1. The proposal is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-01-21-PT12-339-U345	14............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - the proposal of the Minister of Justice Rasnačs provides for an increase of the penalty for the deliberate insertion or placement of false declarations of explosive, toxic, radioactive or That's about those false calls that there's a bomb somewhere, that there's an explosion. And if at present no deprivation of liberty is envisaged, there is only a temporary deprivation of liberty, then the proposal provides in the future for the possibility of punishing the perpetrator for a term of up to one year. The proposal is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-01-21-PT12-339-U346	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-01-21-PT12-339-U347	Further, proposals 15, 16, 17 and 18 are related to Article 285 ‘Illicit transfer of a person across a national border’. We're looking for optimal regulation. 15............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - the proposal of the Minister for the Interior, Kozlovsky. Partly supported by the creation of 18. - The Legal Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-01-21-PT12-339-U348	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-01-21-PT12-339-U349	16. - The motion by the Member is moving. Partly supported by making the 18th proposal mentioned above.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-01-21-PT12-339-U350	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-01-21-PT12-339-U351	17. - the proposal of the Minister of Justice Rasnačs. Partial support for the establishment of the Legal Commission proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-01-21-PT12-339-U352	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-01-21-PT12-339-U353	And now 18. - a proposal from the Legal Commission drawn up in the light of the above-mentioned opinions. And this proposal is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-01-21-PT12-339-U354	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-01-21-PT12-339-U355	19. - the proposal of the Minister of Justice to increase the penalty for providing a person with an opportunity to reside illegally in the Republic of Latvia. The proposal is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-01-21-PT12-339-U356	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-01-21-PT12-339-U357	I'm sorry! 19. - partly supported by drafting proposal 21.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-01-21-PT12-339-U358	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-01-21-PT12-339-U359	20............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - a proposal from the Minister of Justice, which envisages... which also concerns Article 285.1, second paragraph thereof. Partially supported by the creation of 21. - The Legal Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-01-21-PT12-339-U360	The proposal is, however, supported. And the Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-01-21-PT12-339-U361	Support, yeah. And 21 is a proposal from the Legal Commission. This is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-01-21-PT12-339-U362	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-01-21-PT12-339-U363	22. - a proposal by the Minister of Justice to increase the penalty for the disclosure of sensitive information. Here too, it is envisaged that a person may be punished for an offence by deprivation of liberty for a period of up to one year. The proposal is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-01-21-PT12-339-U364	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-01-21-PT12-339-U365	23 is a very similar proposal; it concerns Article 352 and provides for responsibility for the disclosure of military news. The proposal is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-01-21-PT12-339-U366	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-01-21-PT12-339-U367	And lastly, the proposal of the Legal Commission, which concerns transitional provisions and provides for a procedure for the execution of penalties if a person is subject to both police control and supervision of probation at the same time. The proposal is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-01-21-PT12-339-U368	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-01-21-PT12-339-U369	Please support the draft law at second reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-01-21-PT12-339-U370	Thank you. Please call me! Let us vote in favour of the second reading of the draft law on criminal law. Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 69, against and refrains. The draft law at second reading has been supported. Please set a deadline for the third reading of the proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-01-21-PT12-339-U371	Five days - until January 26.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-01-21-PT12-339-U372	Thank you. Proposals should be submitted by 26 January this year. On the agenda - Draft Law Amending the Law on Public Service Providers, second reading. On behalf of the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy, Member Edward Smilten.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-01-21-PT12-339-U373	Yes, colleagues, we are working on an amendment to the Public Service Providers' Procurement Act at second reading. Obviously, in the Commission, this draft law is well-designed - we have not received any proposals. Therefore, on behalf of the Commission, I ask you to support this draft law at second reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-01-21-PT12-339-U374	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote in favour of the second reading of the draft law "Amendment to the Law on Public Service Providers' Procurement"! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. The draft law at second reading has been supported. Please set a deadline for the third reading of the proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-01-21-PT12-339-U375	For the third reading, the proposals are expected until 28 January 2016.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-01-21-PT12-339-U376	Thank you. Proposals should be submitted by 28 January this year. On the agenda - draft law “Amendments to the Law on Public Procurement”, second reading. On behalf of the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy, Member Edward Smilten.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-01-21-PT12-339-U377	Colleagues! We have received three proposals for the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Public Procurement”. 1. - The proposal from the Legal Bureau of the Saeima. The Commission has received support.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-01-21-PT12-339-U378	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-01-21-PT12-339-U379	2. - The proposal from the Legal Bureau of the Saeima. The Commission is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-01-21-PT12-339-U380	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-01-21-PT12-339-U381	And 3. - The proposal from the Legal Bureau of the Saeima. The Commission has received support.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-01-21-PT12-339-U382	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-01-21-PT12-339-U383	Consequently, all the proposals have been examined and, on behalf of the Commission, I call on you, colleagues, to vote in favour of adopting the draft law at second reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-01-21-PT12-339-U384	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote in favour of the second reading of the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Public Procurement”! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 89, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. The draft law at second reading has been supported. Please set a deadline for the third reading of the proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-01-21-PT12-339-U385	Colleagues, let us wait until 28 January 2016.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-01-21-PT12-339-U386	Thank you. So the proposals are due by 28 January this year. Name to Member Juris Viļumas to read the report on the motives for voting by the Group of the Regions of Latvia.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-01-21-PT12-339-U387	In order to avoid distortion of competition in public and municipal procurement, the Group of the Association of the Regions of Latvia submitted to the Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy Commission a proposal to set limits in the Law on Public Procurement, stating that micro-enterprises tax payers may not participate in public procurement either as contractors or as subcontractors if the contract price exceeds 30 thousand euros. At the meeting of the Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy Commission on 13 January this year, the representative of the Ministry of Finance promised that a new Law on Public Procurement will be drawn up within not more than two months, in which these proposals submitted by the Association of the Regions of Latvia will be taken into account. On the basis of this promise, the members of the Group of the Association of the Regions of Latvia withdrew their above mentioned amendments. Today, members of the Group of the Regions of Latvia supported amendments to the Public Procurement Law, hoping and believing that the Ministry of Finance will fulfil its promise.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-01-21-PT12-339-U388	Thank you. On the agenda - draft law “Amendments to the Law on Anti-Corruption Office”, first reading. On behalf of the Commission for Defence, Home Affairs and Anti-Corruption - Member Aleksejs Loskutovs.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-01-21-PT12-339-U389	Dear colleagues, We consider the draft law presented by the Cabinet “Amendments to the Law on the Prevention and Combating of Corruption”. As you know, the Republic of Latvia is invited to join the club of the world's most economically developed countries - the Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development, widely known as the OECD. One of the conditions for joining the Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development is participation in the Working Group on Combating Cooking in International Business Transactions. The fact that the country is implementing the OECD Convention on combating bribery of foreign officials in international business transactions is also a proof of how the country can effectively address corruption. The draft law “Amendments to the Law on the Prevention and Combating of Corruption” was based on the recommendations made by the Working Party on the Prevention of Cooking in International Business Transactions in the 2nd Phase Assessment Report on Latvia, approved on 14 October last year. The amendments proposed in the draft Law on Prevention and Combating Corruption in the Law on Bureau of the Bureau of Corruption specify the status of KNAB, establishing that KNAB is subject to the regulation of the Law on State Administration Equipment, in so far as the Law on Prevention and Combating Corruption in the Law on Bureau of the Bureau does not provide otherwise. However, the amendments are mainly aimed at strengthening the guarantees of independence of the KNAB, since they specify the legal basis for the removal of the head of the Office from office, improve the procedure for removal from office, clearly define the composition of the commission and the conditions for its creation. In order to ensure the participation of representatives of society in the development, implementation and education of anti-corruption policy, the Law of the Office for Prevention and Combating Corruption is supplemented by a new norm, which strengthens the status of the Public Advisory Council of the Office, establishes the procedure for the establishment of the Public Advisory Council and the nature of its decisions. On behalf of the Commission on Defence, Home Affairs and Anti-Corruption, I call on you to support the draft law at first reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-01-21-PT12-339-U390	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote in favour of the first reading of the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Anti-Corruption Office”! Please vote mode! Please get the result! It's not about - 83, it's against and refrains from - it's not. The draft law at first reading has been supported. Please set a deadline for the submission of the proposals for second reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-01-21-PT12-339-U391	Thank you for your support for the bill. Deadline for the submission of proposals for second reading - 26 January.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-01-21-PT12-339-U392	January 26th. So the proposals are due by 26 January this year. On the agenda - Draft Law on the Market in Financial Instruments Act, first reading. On behalf of the Commission for Budget and Finance (Tax) - Member Kārlis Šadurskis.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-01-21-PT12-339-U393	Dear colleagues, This draft law and the three following are also related to the process of Latvia's accession to the OECD organization. This draft law provides for the removal of the conditions that investment research, financial analysis or other general guidance on transactions in financial instruments should be subject to a licence. And, in line with our accession roadmap approved by the OECD, we need to harmonise our legislation with the OECD legal practice, and this is one of such harmonisation elements. Due to the fact that this is a relatively simple and clearly understandable norm, as well as in order to speed up the process of adopting the law, the Commission asks that this draft law be declared urgent.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-01-21-PT12-339-U394	Thank you. Hence the urgency of the vote. Please call me! We will vote for the urgent recognition of the draft law "Amendment to the Law on the Markets in Financial Instruments"! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 83, for - no, for - 1. The draft law has been declared urgent. And obviously the Commission is asking to support the draft law at first reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-01-21-PT12-339-U395	Yeah. Colleagues, please support the draft law at first reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-01-21-PT12-339-U396	Please call me! We will vote in favour of the first reading of the draft law "Amendment to the Law on the Markets in Financial Instruments"! Please vote mode! Please get the result! It's not about - 83, it's against and refrains from - it's not. The draft law at first reading has been supported. Please set a deadline for the submission of proposals for the second reading and a time limit for the second reading at the Saeima sitting.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-01-21-PT12-339-U397	The Commission proposes to submit proposals before 1 February this year and to examine the draft law at the meeting of the Saeima on 4 February.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-01-21-PT12-339-U398	Thank you. Time limit for the submission of proposals for the second reading - 1 February of this year, examination at the Saeima sitting - 4 February of this year. On the agenda - Draft Law Amending the Law on Investment Management Companies, first reading. On behalf of the Commission for Budget and Finance (Tax) - Member Kārlis Šadurskis.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-01-21-PT12-339-U399	Yes, honourable colleagues! By aligning our regulatory framework with OECD practice, this draft law provides for a change of regulation, which currently states that deposits from investment management companies may be made at credit institutions that have an operating licence in Latvia, another Member State of the European Union, as well as in part of OECD countries. This amendment extends the authorisation to all OECD countries. And the Commission also asks for this draft law to be declared urgent.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-01-21-PT12-339-U400	Please call me! We will vote for the urgent recognition of the draft law "Amendment to the Law on Investment Management Companies"! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 85, for - no, for - 1. The draft law has been declared urgent.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-01-21-PT12-339-U401	Please support at first reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-01-21-PT12-339-U402	Please call me! We will vote in favour of the first reading of the draft law "Amendment to the Law on Investment Management Companies"! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 87, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The draft law at first reading has been supported. Please set a deadline for the second reading of the proposals and a time for the second reading of the draft law at the sitting of the Saeima.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-01-21-PT12-339-U403	Like before, proposals must be submitted before 1 February, and consideration - at the sitting of the Saeima on 4 February.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-01-21-PT12-339-U404	Thank you. Consequently, proposals should be submitted by 1 February of this year, and consideration by the Saeima at its meeting on 4 February of this year. On the agenda - draft law “Amendment to the Law on State Funded Pensions”, first reading. On behalf of the Commission for Budget and Finance (Tax) - Member Kārlis Šadurskis.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-01-21-PT12-339-U405	Colleagues! The draft law ‘Amendment to the State Funded Pensions Act’ is, in substance, similar to the previous one. The Commission is asking for the draft law to be declared urgent.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-01-21-PT12-339-U406	Please call me! We will vote for recognition of the draft law “Amendment to the Law on State Funded Pensions” as urgent! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 84, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The draft law has been declared urgent.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-01-21-PT12-339-U407	Please support at first reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-01-21-PT12-339-U408	Please call me! We will vote in favour of the first reading of the draft law “Amendment to the Law on State Funded Pensions”! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 89, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. The draft law at first reading has been supported. Please set a deadline for the second reading and for the session of the Saeima.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-01-21-PT12-339-U409	The Commission will wait until 1 February of this year and please consider the sitting of the Saeima on 4 February.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-01-21-PT12-339-U410	Thank you. Proposals to be submitted before 1 February of this year, consideration at the Saeima sitting - 4 February of this year. On the agenda - draft law “Amendment to the Law “On Private Pension Funds”, first reading. On behalf of the Commission for Budget and Finance (Tax) - Member Kārlis Šadurskis.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-01-21-PT12-339-U411	Dear colleagues, Totally analogous to the previous... It is also envisaged to amend the law on private pension funds by extending the range of countries in which these investments can be made. On behalf of the Commission, I ask you to declare it urgent.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-01-21-PT12-339-U412	Please call me! We will vote for the recognition of the draft law “Amendment to the Law on Private Pension Funds” as urgent! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 87, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The draft law has been declared urgent.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-01-21-PT12-339-U413	Please support at first reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-01-21-PT12-339-U414	Please call me! We will vote in favour of the first reading of the draft law “Amendment to the Law on Private Pension Funds”! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The draft law at first reading has been supported. Please set a deadline for the second reading and for the session of the Saeima.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-01-21-PT12-339-U415	Proposals - 1 February, examination - 4 February.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-01-21-PT12-339-U416	Thank you. Proposals to be submitted before 1 February of this year, consideration at the Saeima sitting - 4 February of this year. On the agenda - draft law “Amendments to the Law “On Corporate Income Tax”, first reading. On behalf of the Commission for Budget and Finance (Tax) - Member Kārlis Šadurskis.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-01-21-PT12-339-U417	Colleagues! The Saeima has adopted the Annual Report and consolidated Annual Accounts Law, and these amendments to the Law “On Corporate Income Tax” are technical amendments to conform to the norms of the current law. We are a little late, because January 1 has already passed, but there will be no disaster if we adopt these technical amendments in the short term. On behalf of the Commission, I call for this draft law to be declared urgent.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-01-21-PT12-339-U418	Please call me! We will vote for the recognition of the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Corporate Tax” as urgent! Please vote mode! Please get the result! It's not about - 85, it's against and abstains. The draft law has been declared urgent.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-01-21-PT12-339-U419	Please support at first reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-01-21-PT12-339-U420	Please call me! We will vote for the support of the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Corporate Tax” at first reading! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 87, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The draft law at first reading has been supported. Please set the deadline for the second reading of the proposals and the time for the session of the Saeima.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-01-21-PT12-339-U421	I propose the deadline for the submission of proposals on 1 February this year and for the examination at the sitting of the Saeima on 4 February this year.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-01-21-PT12-339-U422	Thank you. Proposals to be submitted before 1 February of this year, consideration at the Saeima sitting - 4 February of this year. On the agenda - draft law “Law on the circulation of tobacco products, herbal products, electronic smoking devices and their liquids”, first reading. On behalf of the Commission for Social and Labour Affairs - Member Einārs Cilinskis.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-01-21-PT12-339-U423	Madam President of the Saeima. Honourable Members! The draft law “Law on the Movement of Tobacco Products, Plant Smoking Products, Electronic Smoking Devices and their Liquids” has been drafted on the basis of the need to introduce new requirements of European directives on the approximation of laws, regulations and administrative provisions on the manufacture, presentation and sale of tobacco and related products, as well as on the basis of the proposals set out in the information report of the Cabinet of Ministers and the provisions of the World Health Organisation Convention. It has to be said that this draft law, although designed as a new law, largely and in many articles takes over the provisions of the current legislation, and the new provisions are not so many. However, given that the law has been amended many times, it had to be adopted in a new version according to the legal technique. The government also called for this draft law to be made urgent, on the basis that manufacturers would need to know the labelling and presentation conditions as soon as possible in order to apply production until the law enters into force in May this year, when production with old packaging will no longer be possible, but will be marketed under transitional conditions for another year. However, when examining this issue, the Commission concluded that at the moment these labelling requirements are in fact fully determined by European Union legislation, and therefore, in cooperation with the Ministry of Health, there are no obstacles for manufacturers to start transforming processes into new labelling, which in reality cannot be influenced by Latvian legislation. At the same time, there are a number of issues to be discussed in the draft law. As a result, the Commission decided not to ask for urgency, but to direct the draft law as urgently as possible, with a relatively short deadline for the submission of proposals for second reading. In addition, after the second reading according to the equipment of the Cabinet of Ministers... The Ministry of Health can start to steer regulations that have already been prepared. And finally. The Commission decided to draw the attention of the National Chancellery to the fact that not only this, but also a number of other draft laws relating to compliance with the requirements of the Directive, are submitted in Parliament very late, already close to the deadline for taking over, sometimes even beyond, which leads to a situation in which the Saeima does not have sufficient time to discuss these draft laws carefully. The Commission will invite the State Chancellery to remedy this situation in the future. But now, on behalf of the Commission, I am calling for this draft law to be approved at first reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-01-21-PT12-339-U424	Thank you. Let us start a debate. Name to Member Guntis Belevičs.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-01-21-PT12-339-U425	Dear President of the Saeima. Dear Members, In our small country, where EUR 26 million is spent annually on smoking-related diseases and EUR 2.5 billion is scattered in the wind along with the profits of the dead, in a country where a third of adults smoke, in a country where 15 percent of the dead died last year due to smoking diseases, the draft law drawn up by the Ministry of Health, which is open to discussion in the Saeima, is an absolutely extreme compromise by the Ministry of Health. The directive of the European Union, whose requirements are taken over by this draft law, is a victory in the European Union; it gives us the opportunity to make really significant changes to national legislation and thus also to protect the health of our citizens. But we must also continue to develop our smoking-limiting mechanisms in positions where the European Union does not regulate it. During the examination of the draft law, we, the Ministry of Health, were forced to abandon the total ban on smoking both indoor and outdoor workplaces, as well as regulations to prevent indirect advertising aimed at young people. If we see a great deal of opposition to this compromise that is being offered to the Saeima, we will move forward, not on small promises, but on more radical proposals. Colleagues! I'm talking to you, every one of you! - hopes that in future discussions you will stand in public health watch and remember that a healthy, working person is the core of the Latvian National Development Plan 2014-2020 and economic breakthrough. I strongly call for international commitments to be observed during the legislative process, including those resulting from the World Health Organisation's General Convention on Tobacco Control, ratified in 2005, and in particular from Article 5.3 thereof, which provides that, when defining and implementing public health policies in the field of tobacco supervision, countries are working to protect this policy from commercial and other legitimate interests of the tobacco industry. And I call on you not to fall back, because society not only demands it, but also supports it: the number of smokers among young people in Latvia is decreasing. We must therefore move forward in order to reduce the industry's profits at the expense of our people's lives and the cost of public expenditure. Finally, I call on honourable colleagues from the Saeima... I call on those who smoke to reject this vice. You can quit at any age, and quitting smoking at any age prolongs your life. Thank you. (Applause)
ParlaMint-LV_2016-01-21-PT12-339-U426	Thank you. I closed the debate. Does the rapporteur want to add something on behalf of the Commission?
ParlaMint-LV_2016-01-21-PT12-339-U427	I call for support to be given to the draft law at first reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-01-21-PT12-339-U428	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote for support for the first reading of the draft law on Tobacco Products, Plant Smoking Products, Electronic Smoking Devices and their Liquids! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 89, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The draft law at first reading has been supported. Please set a deadline for the second reading of the proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-01-21-PT12-339-U429	Deadline for the proposals for second reading - 5 February.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-01-21-PT12-339-U430	Thank you. Proposals are due by 5 February this year. Dear colleagues, The agenda of the sitting has been examined but we have received a question from Members. Members Agešins, Urbanovičs, Ribakovs, Tutins and Zemlinskis have submitted a question to Members “On the programme of insulation of apartment houses” that we submit to Minister of Economics Dana Reizniece-Ozola to reply. Colleagues! Time has come to register the presence of Members. Please call me! Please check-in mode for Members! While the results of the registration are being prepared, there are notifications. Name to Member Vital Orlov.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-01-21-PT12-339-U431	Members working in the Saeima Committee on Mandates, Ethics and Applications will be contacted: a committee meeting will take place in half of the premises of the same committee.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-01-21-PT12-339-U432	Thank you. The name to Member Romuald Harvest.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-01-21-PT12-339-U433	Dear members of the Sub-Commission on Public Health. Please go to the meeting room of the Social and Labour Commission, because there will be a sub-committee on Health immediately.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-01-21-PT12-339-U434	The name of the Member, Inese Laizāne.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-01-21-PT12-339-U435	The meeting of the Commission on Human Rights and Public Affairs will be held immediately at the Commission’s premises.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-01-21-PT12-339-U436	Thank you. Name Gunaras Kūtris, member of the Saeima Secretary, for reading the results of the registration.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-01-21-PT12-339-U437	Dear colleagues, Currently not registered: Mārtiņš Bondars, Ints Dālderis and Guntis Kalniņš. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-01-21-PT12-339-U438	Thank you. I'm closing the sitting.
