ParlaMint-LV_2016-06-16-PT12-371-U1	Good morning, dear colleagues! I invite you to take seats in Saeima's meeting room. Let's start the session of the Saeima on 16 June, which is closing in this session, and according to tradition, the President of Latvia says a speech in the Saeima. Name to the President of Latvia Raimonds Vējonis.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-06-16-PT12-371-U2	Good morning! In such a pre-Jain mood, I look at many so that the festival is coming. President-in-Office of the Saeima, very much. Presidium! Dear Members, Honourable Members! At the closing session of the Saeima Spring Session, it is customary to look back at the past year in the Saeima work, evaluate the work done and mark new works. Today, the Saeima will decide on accession to the Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development. The possibility of joining the 34 most advanced countries in the world is highly appreciated. It is an international proof that we are a successful country. Thank you to anyone who has worked hard so that we can decide today on the ratification of this issue in Parliament. Today, we can be pleased, but we must not be late for what has been done. Every citizen of Latvia must work to feel the increase in welfare and feel confident about himself and his family, about his own country and country. Unfortunately, there is still a lack of confidence in the state's authority. There are enough areas where the prosperity of individual people has increased, not the common good. Social inequality and distrust for the power of the state are the gaps that threaten the security and future of our country. These gaps can only be compared to works. Ladies and gentlemen! Almost a year ago, speaking to you for the first time after the official pledge made by the President of Latvia, I mentioned that our main task will be to strengthen the security of Latvia. Last year we have managed to promote the security of Latvia together. In particular, I would like to note the amendments adopted by the Saeima to the Energy Law, which mark the opening of the gas market in Latvia. This will reduce our dependence on one gas supplier. Opening the gas market is not only a question of energy security in Latvia, but also of energy security in the entire Baltic region. The Saeima has also taken the necessary decisions to strengthen supervision of the credit institutions sector, which contributes to the security of banks and the economy in general. The Saeima has also supported the amendments to the National Security Act that I have called for. Thank you for your joint work. In the future, in case of unexpected military invasion, the National Armed Forces will be allowed to fulfil their duty to protect the state of Latvia, its territorial unity and residents from aggression without awaiting a separate order. At a time of danger, neither political subordination to ultimates in another country nor an invitation to remain in their places and not resist aggression will be possible. We will defend our own country, our own country's independence and our own country's freedom. The strong position of the Saeima is also welcomed by the purposeful implementation of the commitment to increase national defence capabilities. As a member of the North Atlantic Treaty Organisation, Latvia must fulfil its obligations under collective security. In the state budget for this year, state security was a priority. This should continue consistently over the coming years, so that security funding reaches at least 2 per cent of gross domestic product in 2018. We strengthen our armed forces and defence capabilities to live in peace and security in our country. There are still serious geopolitical challenges in Europe. In taking on and acting in this capacity, he has therefore actively supported actions and policies which undermine the territorial integrity, The international community is trying to find a solution to break the conflict created and supported by Russia in the east of Ukraine. The European Union continues to seek the most effective solutions to refugee flows caused by the long-standing Syrian conflict, as well as economic and political instability in a number of African countries. In these circumstances, joint and joint action with other countries of the European Union and the North Atlantic Treaty Organisation is essential to our security. As early as July, at the Warsaw Summit, the countries of the North Atlantic Treaty Organisation will decide on a long-term presence in our region. We have credible allies. Dear Members, Honourable Members! Economic growth, local and foreign investment in our economy and development will not be possible without quality laws and strong judiciary. A reliable, predictable and stable legal environment is necessary for our entrepreneurs and for every citizen of Latvia. Society expects quality legislative work and thought-out laws from the Saeima. However, in everyday life we have encountered cases where there are reasonable doubts about the legislative process and the quality of the law itself. I have pointed out several times that I do not agree with the Saeima's practice at third reading to examine and support conceptual proposals that are not related to the purpose and scope of the draft law discussed in previous readings. Such proposals are often not fully developed and discussed. Three times this year, I have asked for a re-reading of the law, and in all three cases, my objections were justified precisely by the proposals included at third reading. It is also necessary to carefully assess when the urgency of draft laws is being used. Difficult proposals require a full discussion, expert hearing and a balanced search for and choice of the best solutions. It is necessary to strengthen the analytical capacity of the Saeima so that Members have access to neutral, qualitative assessments and qualitative analysis of the issues covered by draft laws, their impact on the economy and the legal environment. The legislative process should make greater use of the potential of Latvian Academy of Sciences scientists or possibly it is necessary to create a special analytical unit at the Saeima. Therefore, I have asked the Commission for the Improvement of the Legal Environment set up under my auspices to analyse the legislative process and to submit proposals for its improvement in order to seek solutions to improve the quality of laws. I will already present new ideas and initiatives to improve the legislative process in the autumn. Ladies and gentlemen! The Commission for the Development of the Legal Environment has completed its first report on possibilities to improve the work of the Council for the Judiciary. The Commission has presented proposals to improve the work of the Council for the Judiciary so that it can have a significant impact on the development of the judicial system. Greater responsibility of the judiciary itself for the organisation of the work of the judicial system would contribute to the certainty of the legal environment and public confidence in the judiciary. The report has already been discussed in the Council for the Judiciary and the Saeima Legal Commission. I invite the Saeima to continue its work with amendments to the law “On Judicial Power”. This would be a small but necessary step towards promoting the quality and responsibility of the work of the judiciary. Members of the Saeima! In the coming months and autumn session of the Saeima, we are faced with many important decisions that will have an impact on the life of every Latvian citizen: reforms in education and access to health care; balanced and priority-based planning of the state budget for next year; real measures to combat the shadow economy in order to achieve more revenue for financing public needs; regulation of insolvency proceedings and improvement of supervision of insolvency administrators. We must not forget the measures taken to improve the demographic situation and the necessary support for families. The Saeima will have to decide whether to ratify the Council of Europe Convention on the Prevention and Combating of Violence against Women and Domestic Violence, more commonly known as the Istanbul Convention. The family is the heart of our society. Everyone in their family needs to feel secure and secure. In the ratification process, I call on the Saeima to carry out a neutral legal analysis of compliance of the Convention with our Constitution, as well as to ensure a comprehensive and qualitative discussion of the Convention. The Paris Agreement on Climate Change will also be on the parliamentary agenda. Deciding action will be needed to mitigate the effects of climate change and create the conditions for a more environmentally friendly lifestyle. Dear Members, Honourable Members! As the centenary of our country approaches, we are still on our way to our ideal Latvia. We still have a lot to do. We will work together for the benefit of Latvia and meet our national anniversary! Thank you. (Applause)
ParlaMint-LV_2016-06-16-PT12-371-U3	Thank you. Thank President of Latvia Raimonds Vejonis! Yesterday, the President of Latvia celebrated his 50th anniversary, and we warmly congratulate him! (Applause) Dear colleagues, Changes to the agenda for the Bureau meeting were tabled. The Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy asks for amendments to the agenda of the meeting and its draft decision on the withdrawal of Janina Kursīte from the Central Land Commission. Are Members opposed to this amendment of the agenda? There is no objection by Members. The agenda has been amended. The Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy asks for changes to the agenda of the meeting and the draft decision to be included in it “On the approval of the Saeima Member Laimdotas Straujuma as a member of the Central Land Commission”. Are Members opposed to such an amendment to the agenda? There is no objection. The agenda has been amended. Members Ingmārs Līdaka, Augusts Brigmanis, Jānis Trupovnieks, Ainārs Mežulis and Juris Vectirāns are asking for changes to the agenda of the meeting and draft decision “On the approval of the National Defence Concept” and draft decision “On the participation of Latvian National Armed Forces soldiers in the United Nations Mission in Mali (MINUSMA)” to be transferred before the discussion of draft law. Are Members opposed to this amendment of the agenda? There is no objection by Members. The agenda has been amended. The Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy asks to amend the agenda of the meeting and to include the draft law “Amendments to the Law on the Movement of Alcohol Drinks”. Are Members opposed to this amendment of the agenda? There is no objection by Members. The agenda has been amended. The Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy asks for an amendment to the agenda of the meeting and the draft decision on the Revocation of the Saeima Member Edward Smilten from the composition of the Central Land Commission. Are Members opposed to this amendment of the agenda? There is no objection by Members. The agenda has been amended. The Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy asks for an amendment to the agenda of the meeting, including the draft decision on the approval of the Saeima Member, Ineš Boķis as a member of the Central Land Commission. Are Members opposed to this amendment of the agenda? There is no objection by Members. The agenda has been amended. The Commission of Human Rights and Public Affairs asks to amend the agenda of the sitting by excluding from it the draft law on the status of a member of the Second World War (No. 603/Lp12). Are Members opposed to this amendment of the agenda? There is no objection by Members. The agenda has been amended. The Commission for Human Rights and Public Affairs is asking to amend the agenda of the sitting and to include the draft law “On the status of a member of the Second World War” (611/Lp12). Are Members opposed to this amendment of the agenda? There is no objection by Members. The agenda has been amended. The budget and financial (tax) commission asks to amend the agenda of the sitting and to include in it the draft decision “On the consent of the Saeima to reallocation of appropriations laid down in the Law “On the State Budget for 2016”. Are Members opposed to this amendment of the agenda? Members ask for a vote. Please call me! We will vote for the amendment of the agenda of the sitting, including the draft decision “On the consent of the Saeima to reallocation of appropriations established in the Law “On the State Budget for 2016””! Please vote mode! Please get the result! It's not about - 71, it's against - 11, it's not. Decision adopted. The agenda has been amended. The Budget and Finance (tax) Commission asks to amend the agenda of the meeting and to include the draft decision “On the approval of Aivara Skopiņš as a member of the Board of the Bank of Latvia”. Are Members opposed to this amendment of the agenda? There is no objection by Members. The agenda has been amended. The budget and financial (tax) commission asks to amend the agenda of the meeting and to include the draft decision “On the approval of Arvils Sautiņš as a member of the Board of the Bank of Latvia”. Are Members opposed to this amendment of the agenda? There is no objection by Members. The agenda has been amended. The Foreign Affairs Commission of the Saeima asks to amend the agenda of the meeting and to include the draft law “On the Convention on the Organisation of Economic Cooperation and Development of 14 December 1960 and the Treaty on the Accession of the Republic of Latvia to the Convention on the Conditions of Economic Cooperation and Development of the Republic of Latvia”, and to consider as the first issue under the heading “Review of draft laws”. Are Members opposed to this amendment of the agenda? There is no objection by Members. The agenda has been amended. Prime Minister Maris Kučinskis asks to amend the agenda of the meeting and to include the draft decision “On Expression of Trust to the Minister of Health Anda Čakšai”. Are Members opposed to this amendment of the agenda? There is no objection. The agenda has been amended. The Committee on Mandates, Ethics and Applications asks for an amendment to the agenda of the sitting to include the question “On the approval of the 12th Saeima Member’s mandate”. Are Members opposed to this amendment of the agenda? There is no objection. The agenda has been amended. The commission of mandates, ethics and applications asks for amendments to the agenda of the sitting, including the draft decision “On the approval of the mandate of the Member of the 12th Saeima for a period of time, while the elected Members of the Greens/Famiends Union in the Riga constituency fulfil their ministerial duties”. Are Members opposed to this amendment of the agenda? There is no objection by Members. The agenda has been amended. Members Hosam Abu Meri and Jānis Trupovnieks have withdrawn their signatures to the draft law “Amendments to the Law on the Movement of Tobacco Products, Plant Smoking Products, Electronic Smoking Devices and Their Liquids”, which means that the draft law cannot be considered and can be excluded from the agenda of the sitting. Members Hosams Abu Meri, Dzintars Zaķis, Andrejs Judins, Ainars Latkovskis, Vilnis Ķirsis and Inese Lībiņa-Egnere are asking to amend the agenda of the sitting and to exclude from it the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Sexual and Reproductive Health”. Do Members have objections? ‘ Inga Bite, Member, has applied to speak against’.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-06-16-PT12-371-U4	Dear colleagues, Last week, I climbed this platform with very similar arguments. In particular, we talked last week about extending the deadline for tabling proposals to one specific draft law, and I said from this troupe that the Saeima and the Saeima had an opportunity to work on the draft law and to make their proposals without extending the deadline for submitting proposals. This is also the case here. However, unlike last week's situation, the Saeima Commission and the Saeima Sub-Commission have made use of this opportunity not only once but on several occasions. The Parliamentary Commission and the Subcommittee have debated this draft law, the submitted and not submitted proposals, the letters sent by various non-governmental organisations and individual individuals, not only once, but several times. Mr Abu Meri, you are a member of this committee and you know it very well (Dep. S. Aboltiņa: “Do not talk to the grass!” ) that there have also been votes on this situation. ( Milestones.) That is why this draft law cannot be removed today from the agenda of the Saeima sitting. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. S. Āboltiņa: “The Saeima decides this! You can only invite!” Sounds like noise. The head of the sitting shall be knocked down by means of a hammer.) I call on the Saeima to decide... Yes, thank you, Mrs Āboltiņa, for telling me what the parliamentary roll of order determines. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. S. Aboltiņa: “Do not talk to the grass!” ) So, colleagues, this bill is being examined in the Saeima... In the 11th Saeima it has been viewed for several years, and it will immediately be two years since it is viewed at the 12th Saeima. I therefore believe that removing this draft law today from the Saeima's agenda is not justified, because there is an opportunity for the Saeima to continue to work and to decide itself on the proposals and draft law that have been tabled. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-06-16-PT12-371-U5	Mr Hosam Abu Meri has applied for a speech.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-06-16-PT12-371-U6	Good morning, colleagues! Thank you to the President of Latvia for being here today, at the last session of the Saeima Spring Session, and reminded us that any law for its adoption should be of high quality and supported by society. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. J. Adamson: “He has already spoken about the third reading!” ) If we see, especially in recent times, that the majority of society - and these are our women - are not satisfied with this draft law, this means that we, as Members of the Saeima, cannot move forward. I can say that about what happened in the commission. The Commission has been working on this issue for a long time, and there has been a very serious discussion, there were various experts, there was an Ombudsman, there was a Legal Bureau, and in fact, on the legal side, this proposal is not correct - it does not comply with the Satversme. I'm not going to give you a medical lecture about giving up the eggs of unborn and pregnant women because, most likely, if one of you does not go into this matter, he will not understand correctly. However, I will explain that there were three concerns in the Commission that led to its support. One question was that before the egg was donated there is a hormonal stimulation: a woman needs to drink a hormone to help, and she needs to fry. There were different medical views. Some doctors considered that this could increase the risk of cancer in the unborn woman. This issue has been explored, there have been several publications in the Oxford magazine Human Oxford Journal... Former 109 publications and a number of studies on this issue, and none of these publications actually prove that it is this stimulation that could affect and increase the risk of developing cancer in women. The second issue is the concern about the trade issue that a woman... A young 18 - year - old girl could be willing to donate eggs because of her money without understanding the situation. Well, but colleagues, we have the law, where it is written, already in 2002, that in Latvia, however, there must be a register on this issue. And the register can also organise and control the issue of these concerns... Because actually in any medical manipulation... Each of us, if we go to the hospital and want us to carry out an investigation or serious invasive manipulation there, must certainly sign the relevant documents; these are always signed. One is that we have been introduced to the risks of this procedure, investigation or manipulation and we have decided ourselves that we really want us to be manipulated, and with our signature we have confirmed our consent, knowing about the risks, the complications and so on. Dear colleagues, do we believe here that women in Latvia are not responsible for their health and their body? Do we want the laws we pass to be banned and banned in the future? The public understands what they are doing. There's a man with a head, there's a mind. We're not making a law here to just push and ban, and that's it. It would be easier always. Therefore, please support our proposal to remove it from the agenda so that once again we can work on its proposal, because it really discriminates most of our society, and it is our women. Thank you. ( A Fraction’s Unity Appreciates.)
ParlaMint-LV_2016-06-16-PT12-371-U7	One Member has spoken against, one in favour, and we must vote. Please call me! We will vote in favour of changing the agenda of the sitting by excluding from it the draft law on Amendments to the Law on Sexual and Reproductive Health! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 43, for - 31, for - 6. The decision has been taken. The draft law is excluded from the agenda of the sitting. (Applause) Members Hosam Abu Meri, Dzintars Zaķis, Andrejs Judins, Ainars Latkovskis, Vilnis Ķirsis and others are asking to amend the agenda of the sitting and to include in it the draft decision on the extension of the deadline for the submission of proposals for the third reading of the draft law on sexual and reproductive health (No 25/Lp12). 30 June’. Are Members opposed to this amendment of the agenda? Members ask for a vote. Please call me! We will vote in favour of amending the agenda of the sitting, including the draft decision on the extension of the deadline for the submission of proposals to the third reading of the draft law on sexual and reproductive health (No 25/Lp12) by the following year. 30 June’. Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 70, for - 7 and for - 1. The decision has been taken. The agenda has been amended. We are starting to look at the amended agenda. The next item on the agenda - Election, approval, appointment, dismissal or dismissal of officials, expression of trust or distrust. On the agenda - draft decision on the expression of trust to the Minister of Health Anda Chakšai. Name to Prime Minister Maris Kučinskis.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-06-16-PT12-371-U8	Dear President of the Saeima. Honourable Members of the Saeima! Reforms in health care are already important for any Latvian citizen. We do not have much time: the crisis in the health system is developing faster than what has been done to stop it so far. Doubts and fears of unpopular decisions need to be left behind, we need to move forward. This is important for every patient, for every healthcare worker, as well as for me and you, we have to go forward together. Anda Chakša, the candidate for the position of Minister for Health, who I am calling on, has all the necessary competences to successfully take over the pace of the reform. It is education, experience and, above all, readiness to do this work. You can't be late! I call on the Saeima to confirm the position of Minister for Health Anda Chaksh. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-06-16-PT12-371-U9	Thank you to the Prime Minister. Let us start a debate. The name of the Member, Martin Bondar.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-06-16-PT12-371-U10	Mr. Prime Minister! Ministers! Ladies and gentlemen! I was really happy, Mr Prime Minister, that you came here in the troupe to talk about Anda Chaks as potential candidates for the Minister for Health, but I was a bit sad because your speech was so short. You did not talk at all about the tasks that Anda Chakša would have to do in your government over the next two and a half years. Unfortunately, you only said a few words, one sentence, why Anda Čakša is qualified for this work, but you did not go further. And I'm all the more embarrassed about the fact that you didn't say that Anda Chakša has a Union of Greens and Farmers... the support of the political party. You have just mentioned that there is your support. I very much hope that the political party too... However, the Union of Greens and Farmers will support Anda Chaks and will not do the same as Mārīte Seyle did when Mārīte Seile was in fact an easy donation card at the political tribunal. Of course, despite the fact that you did not provide a comprehensive and full comment on why Anda Čakša would be a suitable candidate and what would be the challenges for Anda Čakša in the next two and a half years, it could also be supported by Anda Čakša. But I have to say that yesterday's meeting was quite clear that Anda Čakša is not ready to take on the role of Minister for Health. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. A.Barča: “Bondar, don’t know!” ) First of all, with regard to her motivation, why she wants to serve as health ministers. The answer was very simple: “Who else, if not me?Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, I like crisis situations." You know, colleagues, this is perhaps a good set of qualities, but what I would like to hear from the candidate for the Minister for Health is the following: "I have been working in this industry for a long time enough, I have seen enough absence there. I am concerned about the future of this industry, and I see that it can no longer live. I, Anda Čakša, am ready to offer my knowledge and expertise to address these issues.” That is what I would have expected from the candidate for the Minister for Health. The second, of course, is the question of professional skills. I have no doubt about Anda Chaksh's knowledge of what is going on in one or the other hospital, but if one of the issues that the future Minister of Health has included not only in his agenda is the issue of health insurance, then we want to know, Mrs Chaksh, what you are thinking of. And if the first words that come from Mrs. Čakša's mouth are as follows: "You know, the Prime Minister has three options on the table, then we'll see," - then... I'm so sorry! In that case, the candidate for the post of Minister for Health should, however, say: "I see a solution to this situation like this, I will offer the government to do so and so, we will do so and so." I would still like this type of writing!” Finally, the question is also about the general understanding of what is happening in the political arena of Latvia. But the government is not only dealing with health issues; the government is also dealing with issues such as refugees. And it will be very interesting for me to see how the National Union will vote today, because when the question was asked yesterday how Anda Chakša would act on the issue of refugees - whether it would act in solidarity with Europe or as a National Union - none and never - then the answer was: 'Solidly with Europe'. That is why I am interested in how the National Association will vote today. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. I. Pastor: “Thank you for taking care of us! Who else will take care of us?” ) I am just as interested in the vote of the Greens/Employees Union. When Mrs Čakša was asked about increasing taxes - staying on the ground or reducing taxes - the answer was very logical and acceptable to me - that we do not increase taxes, but try to collect more. Only recently did the Minister of Finance make it very clear that the tax burden will increase, and the Prime Minister has also mentioned this in his speeches. So the Greens/Farmers Union is heading in one direction, but the candidates who are heading in another direction are heading in the other direction. But I already understand... I understand that, in principle, the Greens Union is very satisfied with the candidacy, as it is possible that the most influential candidate, or... not a candidate, but the most influential politician on the political arena of Latvia - Aivars Lembergs... When I asked him about his influence in this political organisation - the Greens/Family Union - Mrs Čakša replied: "He has a funny costume." ( The paragraphs are: “Well? ” ; “You get hurt?” “It’s already!” ) Colleagues! I will tell you this: in my view, Anda Čakša is not yet ready to serve as health ministers. I therefore call on you to vote against her candidacy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-06-16-PT12-371-U11	The name of Member Ilze Viņķelis.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-06-16-PT12-371-U12	Good morning, colleagues! I would like to wish Mrs. Chaksa every success and endurance. You have seen that things happen in politics. You have the short course in the parliamentary debate today. I hope that you will never take such a style of work - speak a lot, look a good one, but do nothing. It would be one wish, because it's one style, but it means you'll be in opposition forever and ever. You can say that the steam goes in the blow, but the ship doesn't move forward. There is reason to believe that you will not be a politician of this type in any way, because what spoke to me was Mrs. Čakša's saying, when she commented publicly for the first time on why she agreed to become a minister - that every citizen of Latvia should devote her shoulder, her knowledge and her passion to the country at certain times. I think that is a very inspiring motivation. And I would also like to say: if you succeed, Mrs Čakša, in other major Latvian hospitals, which are companies-capital companies, in introducing such financial management as has been achieved at the Children's Clinical University Hospital, if you can somehow multiply your skills as a finance organizer to other hospitals, then I am sure we will be in an incomparably better situation in a year's time, and I wish you luck! And surely don't take to heart what you got here by the opponents of different calculating today in the negotiations! Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-06-16-PT12-371-U13	Name to Member Ingmars Lydak.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-06-16-PT12-371-U14	Hello, dear colleagues! It always happens that when I take the floor of Mr Bondara, I am suddenly totally instinctively drawn to press that button, because I am simply shocked by Mr Bondara... However, he has been in politics for quite a long time, and the fact that Mr Bondara does not know that there is no political party in Latvia such as the Union of Greens and Farmers, this simply proves to me his absolute lack of competence. ( Insight: “On the subject! ”) ) But I can certainly say that Anda Chakša has the full support of all the parties in the Greens/Farmers Union and we are, of course, ready, together with the new ministers, to improve the health care system in Latvia. And, of course, I also understand Mr Bondara because, if Anda Chakša has really praised Mr Lembergs' suits, then I think it was already extremely painful for Mr Bondara that he was not praised for his suit. (Applause)
ParlaMint-LV_2016-06-16-PT12-371-U15	Name of Member Solvita Āboltiņš.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-06-16-PT12-371-U16	Dear colleagues, Dear Prime Minister, Dear Mrs. Chash! We listened to the Unity Group yesterday, Mrs Čakša, and I am coming to speak on behalf of the Group. We have talked a lot about health problems. And now, according to the public surveys, it is the health issues that are the most worrying to society. Society is tired of the loud reform applications, of the loud picket applications, in the end even of the lies that were in this sector. Of course, not all the questions we received were fully answered. But in any case, we saw a group of people who want to do, who will try to do it and who will do it with confidence that it will not be an easy job. Whether this is successful will depend on whether or not there is aid. And each of us, of course, has not only a task in front of the public, but also an obligation to demand that those works be real, that they are enforceable, and to show that Parliament really controls the executive. As a whole, I believe that this is the best solution that can be found at the moment - there is a sufficiently fast and operationally found politically responsible person. Consequently, the Unity will vote in favour of Mrs Čakša, and I call on all the others to support Mrs Čakša as Minister.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-06-16-PT12-371-U17	The name to Member Romuald Harvest.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-06-16-PT12-371-U18	Dear Chairman of the Saeima. Colleagues! Over the last two years, working in various working groups at both the Ministry of Health and the Saeima, I had the opportunity to get to know Mrs. Čakša, and here I want to say the following. I have great hope that Mrs Čakša will be taken as a quality step in this area by setting up a team, both from government ministers and members of the Saeima and from experts. Indeed, Mrs Chakša cannot answer all the questions today. Neither can we. But what we didn't have to do in this important and vitally crucial sector for Latvia is the work of the team. And Mrs Čakša, I think that she will be able to organise this team's work in cooperation with both the Saeima, experts and the public, which she has already demonstrated. I have great expectations.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-06-16-PT12-371-U19	Name to Member Carl Sergeant. ( Insight, “Come on, come on! What have you all got?Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, “)
ParlaMint-LV_2016-06-16-PT12-371-U20	Good morning, colleagues! I would like to inform you that we had a meeting with Anda Chak in the Green Party's Board and we talked in detail about all possible issues, both in detail and in detail, for about one and a half hours. We also had a meeting in the Saeima group, and for about an hour we talked about everything - asking questions, receiving answers. I do not know, of course, what happens when she goes to a party that has already said: 'This is not our government, we will not vote!' - and she sees that there is a leader who hears only himself and sees only himself. Perhaps then she does not want to answer the questions, because there is no point from this, Mr Bondara. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-06-16-PT12-371-U21	Name to Member Artus Neminis.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-06-16-PT12-371-U22	Hello, colleagues! ( Insight: How much profited?) ) I see that Mrs Čakša has been walking around many political groups yesterday. Mrs. Chash, hello! My name is Artus Neighbours. Since you want to become ministers, please also send some message to non-attached Members, because I too am a Member. I do not know anything about you, but I advise any taxpayer to open a declaration by a public official, and in this way you can get acquainted with the officials - how much they deserve or do not deserve. I have a very simple question. If you have a debt of EUR 124 157 for this moment, are you in the course of things that you will be paid a third less than what you are currently doing in the jobs you are working for? Motivation, why do you want to be ministers, I don't know because I've never met you in my life. But you have these debts. And maybe you have some explanation for that? You won't have the opportunity to come to this gallery and tell it, but this declaration... I just have questions: who are you and what are you doing? I cannot support your candidacy, Mrs Čakša, simply because I have never spoken to you. And your declaration raises a number of questions in me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-06-16-PT12-371-U23	Name to Member Ivars Zarins.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-06-16-PT12-371-U24	Good afternoon, everybody! The way in which the Minister for Health is being directed today is a litmus paper that shows what is more important to the governing political forces: the health of his people, the ability to find the most successful solution to the health challenges that have been overcome, or the convenient existence and well-being of his power monopoly. If the coalition had, however, more important interests than the welfare of its monopoly and really cared about finding the best solution for health care, it would have been right that it would also allow the Unity, which expressed its willingness to take political responsibility for the sector, to nominate a candidate for office and to allow these two candidates to debate among themselves, so that the Saeima would have the opportunity to choose the best, most respectable of them. Why was that a fear? CONSUMERITY, given by the fact that you were conducting a debate within this box by a political leader, in parallel with the appointment of your most respected candidate for the Prime Minister, if, when it comes to the real responsibility of power, you do not even have to be certain to discuss the position of Minister for Health? Instead, you turn on the reverse right away and your party leader says: “Well, we believe that this candidate will be able to lead the Ministry of Health.” Sorry, perhaps you have not noticed that this ministry is capable of operating without a minister - and for quite a long time. - and perhaps even more successful than with the Minister. However, it would be important for this health minister not only to be able to manage the Ministry of Health, that is to say, to continue its economic activities, but also to have at least the ability to define a clear solution to the growing problems in the healthcare sector. Unfortunately, we did not hear this either from the Prime Minister's speech today. What are the tasks that you propose to the Minister for Health? What are those tasks? What are the requirements that the Minister should meet? What is the working style that you put forward to him so that we can then assess whether or not this ministerial candidate meets those requirements? Nothing has happened! Yes, much has rightly been said about the situation in health care being dramatically bad. It is justified, looking at patients, on the part of medical staff who are forced to carry all this problem on their shoulders. At the same time, at the same time, in this dramatic situation, where there is a catastrophic lack of funding in the healthcare sector, we see that this situation is quite comfortable and profitable and brings a great deal of prosperity for which the medical staff who carry the weight of the sector cannot even dare to dream, but is provided by, for example, those in leading positions or those who have established their private business through state-funded infrastructure. Also, pharmaceutical business... This is where I mean the dealer... Look, this is one of the most profitable businesses! Millions of tops are located in these people. And that is the case in a situation where the healthcare sector is lacking funding! You know, it clearly shows that the order of things and the movement of money have been deformed in this sector, also for the benefit of someone. Perhaps that is why there is no change in the sector, because it is very beneficial for someone to maintain such a status quo, and that is why we do not have these reforms. Perhaps it would really be better to invite someone who is not part of this system, but who has a healthy, clear mind and a really real desire to reform and organise this sector? That would be the best solution. What concerns me is, let us say, the concrete facts - the last that has appeared as a hospital at P.Stradiņš Clinical University. Do you know that there are real differences in estimates - not just higher, but more often higher? Several times higher than normal in construction! Of course, something may be related to the specifics of this project, but not already to the increases when a construction project costs nth times more than an alternative could do. It's about millions! The question is: What happens to this order? Why does the Ministry of Health so strongly want to keep this order and do not want to hold a new competition and make sure what the real figures are? Can we really not build it more efficiently and less cheaply? And if we can, there would probably be work here for security authorities. Then the Ministry of Health should... If the Minister for Health has really come here to work (and not to carry out economic orders), then one of the work that the Minister for Health should do should be addressed by the KNAB and asked to examine this situation, as it is. If this is the best possible solution, then it is most likely that the real works will be shown at the earliest. The sector is full of challenges, with the work to be done. I appeal: if you are already so sure that this is the best possible option, and you are ready to take political responsibility for it, then let us give the Minister an opportunity to get to work right away. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-06-16-PT12-371-U25	Name to Member Hosam Abu Meri.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-06-16-PT12-371-U26	Colleagues! I would just like to remind you that there is a coalition in politics, there is a opposition, there is a coalition treaty, there are coalition parties that divide areas between themselves. That's why Mr. Bellevič... ( Interface: “This is what it is about! ” ) He was not a Minister of Unity; he was a Minister of the ZZS; therefore, the ZZS also nominated their Minister. Thank you for your quick nomination of the Minister for Health. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. A.Kamiņš: “Hosam, come on! Hosam!’ ) Thank you for agreeing to take on this serious work, because there is a lot of work in the ministry and a lot of strength. And what can be better than putting people in charge of Children's Clinical University Hospital and caring for our children and our future! So please support the new ministers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-06-16-PT12-371-U27	Thank you. I closed the debate. Name to Prime Minister Maris Kučinskis.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-06-16-PT12-371-U28	Dear Members, I deliberately gave a very short speech because I wanted to emphasise that we do not have time, we have to work on it. But in any case, thank you for the debate, thank you for your questions and for your support. I stress that we do not really have time and we have to work, and I am also grateful to everyone - both those who led and made proposals, and those who did not start political games, precisely because in this case we need a professional who can throw from the first day into battle. The requirements I have defined are the competence and ability to work on the team, to listen to all the experts and to form together what you have asked for, that is, the vision of the Minister. I would be very mad if the government action plan that we have adopted, which clearly identifies all the steps - health, education, other areas... They must simply be fulfilled. We can't stop. You can imagine if each new one comes with new promises and turns everything on the other side... To be in the team - as it has now been created in the Cabinet of Ministers - it is like in the battle: one soldier fell - thank you for your work! - Next soldier in place. We're going ahead. We are going to be able to implement how we have built this government so that we can show that with practical, real reforms without fear of decisions, sometimes unpopular decisions, Latvia's growth is possible and it will be. Thank you. And I call for approval by the ministers.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-06-16-PT12-371-U29	Thank the Prime Minister. Please call me! We will vote for the draft decision “On Expression of Trust to the Minister of Health Anda Čakšai”! Please vote mode! The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. H.Abu Meri goes to greet A.Chax with flowers. Imposition: “Hosam, wait!” ) Please see the result. For - 78, against - 3, abstaining - 4. Welcome to the Minister for Health Andes Chucks! (Applause) Thank you. The next item is the approval of the 12th Saeima Member's mandate. Member Vitaly Orlov on behalf of the Commission for Mandates, Ethics and Applications.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-06-16-PT12-371-U30	Thank you, Presidium. Honourable Members! Notification. The Commission of Mandates, Ethics and Application declares that on the basis of the application of 12th Saeima Member Gunta Belēvičs on 12th June 2016 regarding the establishment of a Member’s mandate, the mandate of 12th Saeima Member is approved to Valdis Kalnozols. We would like to inform you that at its meeting on 15 June 2016 the commission examined the application of 12 June 2016 by Gunta Belēvičs, Member of the Saeima, regarding the appointment of the Member's mandate and the application of 14 June 2016 by Askolds Klaviņš, Member's candidate, with whom he agreed to accept the Member's term of office on a temporary basis. At the same time, we inform that on 18 February 2016 Valdis Kalnozols was granted the Member's term of office on the basis of an application made by Member Māra Kučinska on 15 February 2016 regarding the appointment of a Member's mandate for the term of office of the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-06-16-PT12-371-U31	Thank you to the rapporteur. On the agenda - draft decision “On the approval of the mandate of the Member of the 12th Saeima, as long as Members elected from the list of candidates of the Greens and Farmers Union in the Riga electoral region fulfil their ministerial duties”. Member Vitaly Orlov on behalf of the Commission for Mandates, Ethics and Applications.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-06-16-PT12-371-U32	Dear colleagues, In its meeting of 15 June 2016, the Commission examined the application of 12 June 2016 Member of the Saeima Gunta Belēvičs regarding the appointment of the Member’s mandate and the application of 14 June 2016 candidate for the Member’s post, Askolda Kļaviņš, in which he agreed to accept the Member’s mandate for a temporary period, and unanimously supported it. The Commission decided to refer the draft decision of the Saeima at its meeting on 16 June this year “On the approval of the mandate of the Member of the 12th Saeima for as long as Members elected from the list of the Greens/Farmers Union candidates in the Riga constituency fulfil their ministerial duties”. Please support the prepared draft decision.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-06-16-PT12-371-U33	Thank you. I call on Ascold Klavin to make a solemn promise.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-06-16-PT12-371-U34	Hello, honourable Members! I, Askolds Kļaviņš, assume the office of Member of the Saeima, solemnly promises to be faithful to Latvia, to strengthen its sovereignty and Latvian language as the only language of the country, to defend Latvia as an independent and democratic state, to perform my duties in good faith and with the best consciousness. I undertake to respect the Constitution and laws of Latvia.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-06-16-PT12-371-U35	Thank you. I invite you to sign the solemn promise. Thank you. Please call me! We will be voting on the draft decision “On the approval of the mandate of the Member of the 12th Saeima of Asskolda Klavina while the elected Members from the list of the Greens and Farmers Union candidates in the Riga constituency fulfil their ministerial duties”! Please vote mode! Please get the result! It's not about - 83, it's against and refrains from - it's not. The decision has been taken. Congratulations to Member Ascold Klavin. Please take a seat in the Saeima sitting room! (Applause) The next item is the Bureau's reports on draft laws submitted. The Saeima Bureau proposes that the draft law “Amendments to the Arbitration Law” submitted by the Legal Commission be referred to the Legal Commission, stating that it is the committee responsible. Do Members have objections? There is no objection by Members. The draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Parliamentary Bureau proposes that the draft law on the accession of Montenegro to the North Atlantic Treaty presented by the Cabinet of Ministers be referred to the Foreign Affairs Commission, stating that it is the committee responsible. Do Members have objections? There is no objection by Members. The draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Parliamentary Bureau proposes that the draft law “Amendments to the Law on the Remuneration of Officials and Employees of State and Municipal Institutions” presented by Member Gunārs Kūtra, Kārlis Krēsliņa, Jurs Vectirāns, Mārtiņš Šics, Jānis Adamsons, Zentas Tretyakas, Silvija Šimfas and Arvīds Platopera be referred to the National Administration and Municipal Commission, stating that it is the committee responsible. ‘ On” applied to speak Member Gunārs Kūtris.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-06-16-PT12-371-U36	Thank you. Hello, dear colleagues! The title of the law is quite broad, but I would like to inform everyone very briefly of the nature of these minor amendments. At the beginning of 1997, the border forces transferred from the Ministry of Defence to the Ministry of the Interior. And with this transition, the social guarantees changed for those who had worked at the border guard. In particular, for retired border guards, for those people who have retired at the maximum service age, social guarantees have ceased to apply to health care. Yes, one year was a transitional period, and during one year these people maintained these social guarantees. But if we look at this list, those people who participated in the creation of the State Border Guard of Latvia and who left for retirement pension until January 1, 1998, these guarantees were. But those people who wanted to continue their work professionally in the border guard until reaching the maximum age, reaching the service age, and went on to strengthen the Latvian border guard, they lost these social guarantees despite the 20, 30, and even 40-year service period. When examining the exact list submitted by both the State Border Guard and the Ministry of the Interior, we see that this social guarantee has been taken away for these people. It was guaranteed only for one year for the passers-by. The transfer of one service to another, under the authority of another ministry, must not in principle alter the scope of social security for people. If someone believes that this has not been changed, please support this draft law. You say that guarantees were preserved, but in real life their guarantees were not preserved. Thus, in order to restore social justice, these minor amendments have been made, which state that those people who went from one ministry to another and who were entitled to a retirement pension from the Ministry of Defence at the time of their leave, should continue with this service at the Ministry of the Interior and on leaving, that is to say, at the maximum age of service, the same rights should be maintained. I therefore call on you to support this draft law and to resolve it at last after less than 20 years. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-06-16-PT12-371-U37	Thank you. Are Members opposed? Members have reservations. We have to vote. Please call me! We will vote in favour of handing over the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Compensation of Officials and Employees of State and Local Government Institutions” to the Commission of State Administration and Local Government, stating that it is the committee responsible! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 30, for - 4, for - 42. The draft law has not been passed on to the commission. The Saeima's Bureau proposes that the draft law on ‘Amendments to the Law on General Education’ presented by Inguna Silver, Gunara Kūtra, Aivars Meija, Sylvia Simfa, Romana Mezecka, Arvidas Platopera and Ringolds Baloža be referred to the Education, Culture and Science Commission, stating that it is the committee responsible. ‘ “A Member applied to speak about” Silvija Šimfa.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-06-16-PT12-371-U38	Good afternoon, honourable colleagues and honourable colleagues! The “From the heart to Latvia” fraction has been presented to the Saeima and asked to refer the draft law “Amendments to the Law on General Education” to the committee. The draft law is very laconic and clear. It provides that expenditure on the maintenance of boarding schools shall also be covered by the national budgetary envelope. We are saying that teachers' salaries must not be tackled at the expense of children at risk of poverty and social exclusion. The Ministry of Education and Science plans to save €4.8 million at the expense of 2478 orphans, children left without parental care and poor children. But is it thought and calculated what the state, which we as a society will lose at the expense of such savings? What will be the negative social consistency? And there is no doubt that they will. There will be a deterioration in the quality of life of many children, and there will be an increase in the number of children who will stop training, who will be taken out of families who will become dependent on illegal activities. However, according to the previous communication of the Ministry of Education and Science, this does not seem to be of sufficient importance to the Ministry. Narrowly counterproductive interest - a certain amount of money for immediate suppression of teachers' salaries through the purse - is more important. Please don't worry about the idea that ISM will give back to the municipalities of boarding school and they will already be responsible for what is going to happen! Municipal leaders have warned that they will not be able to maintain boarding schools from the existing budgetary resources and that many will have to close down. Firstly, it is illegal to shift public functions - the provision of boarding schools - to municipalities without funding. Secondly, in view of the number of autonomous functions of municipalities and the constant expansion and deepening of the content of those functions, as well as the lack of funding for their execution from year to year, it is irresponsible that the government is trying to save it at the expense of the municipalities by making them perform, once again and again without funding, functions with which the government itself has not managed. The best place for any child is a loving, friendly, supportive family, at least providing the basic needs of the child. There is no doubt about this. However, the reality of our country is a large number of families with absolutely the opposite attitude and financial situation. Where can we save these family children? In families and guardians, which are too few? There are also children's homes and boarding schools. If there are no boarding schools, what will happen to these currently 2478 children? Most will return to their poverty and very often dependence in depressed families, baby homes and ordinary schools, where they will enjoy hard and full life on their skin, what it means to live in an inequality society like our country. The benefit is questionable. However, it will be very realistic and painful for children: routine safe environment, stability, predictability, friends, clean rooms, clothes, bed, regular four meals a day, health care where it is needed, psychological and physical security, a set agenda, attention and assistance for school staff at any time, meaningful leisure time in interest education groups, school and local community activities and cultural events. I did not idealize boarding schools; there are people who are evil without conscience and integrity, as in all our societies. However, these are individual cases. There's more. I call for support for the referral of the draft law to the Commission and for a thorough assessment of all consistency both in the short and long term in the planning of any reform. The changes made by the state must not make people's situation worse. This is not justified for any purpose unless we want to call ourselves a human state. Especially if these reforms, which unfortunately often take the form of social experiments in our country, affect the most vulnerable - children and the elderly. Please vote in favour of our proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-06-16-PT12-371-U39	Thank you. Do Members object to a draft law being passed on to the Commission? Members have reservations. We have to vote. Please call me! We will vote in favour of handing over the draft law “Amendments to the Law on General Education” to the Education, Culture and Science Commission, which states that it is the committee responsible! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 31, for - 8, for - 42. The draft law has not been passed on to the commission. The Saeima Presidium proposes that the draft law “Law on the Maintenance Guarantee Fund” submitted by the Commission of Human Rights and Public Affairs be referred to the Commission of Human Rights and Public Affairs, stating that it is the committee responsible. Do Members have objections? There is no objection by Members. The draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Saeima Presidium proposes that the draft law presented by the Cabinet of Ministers “Amendments to the Law on the Protection of Cultural Monuments” be submitted to the Education, Culture and Science Commission, stating that it is the committee responsible. Do Members have objections? There is no objection by Members. The draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Parliamentary Bureau proposes that the draft law on the Law on the Movement of Alcohol Drinks presented by the Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy Commission be referred to the Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy Commission, stating that it is the Commission responsible. Do Members have objections? There is no objection by Members. The draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Council of the Saeima proposes that the draft law on the status of a member of the Second World War presented by the Commission for Human Rights and Public Affairs (No 611/Lp12) be referred to the Commission for Human Rights and Public Affairs, establishing that it is the committee responsible. Do Members have objections? There is no objection by Members. The draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The next item is "On own-initiative proposals tabled". On the agenda - draft decision “On the way forward of the collective application of 10 496 Latvian citizens “On the abolition of real estate tax for the sole property””. The commission of mandates, ethics and applications has submitted the draft decision “On the way forward of the collective application “On the abolition of real estate tax for the sole property” of 10 496 Latvian citizens”. Do Members object to the inclusion of this own-initiative proposal on the agenda of today's sitting? There is no objection by Members. The draft decision is therefore on the agenda. On the agenda - draft decision “On tasks to be carried out to ensure sustainable, efficient and rational management of Latvian natural resources and public assets”. The Commission for Sustainable Development has presented the draft decision “On the tasks to be carried out to ensure sustainable, efficient and rational management of Latvian natural resources and public assets”. Do Members object to the inclusion of this own-initiative proposal on the agenda of today's sitting? There is no objection. The draft decision is therefore on the agenda. The next item is 'On granting leave'. On 9 June of this year, Mr Janis Klazdas was awarded unpaid leave. The Saeima Bureau shall inform that a request by Mr. Janis Klazkas to grant him unpaid leave on 9 June of this year has been received. The Bureau has granted this leave and shall inform the Saeima thereof. On the agenda - draft decision “On closing the Saeima Spring Session of 2016 and opening the Saeima autumn Session of 2016”. The draft decision of the Saeima is to close the spring session of the Saeima on 20 June this year and to open the autumn session of the Saeima on 2 September this year. Please call me! We will vote for the draft decision on the closure of the Saeima Spring Session of 2016 and the beginning of the Saeima autumn Session of 2016! Please vote mode! Please get the result! It's not about - 80, it's against and refrains from - it's not. The decision has been taken. The next section of the agenda - “On re-reading of the law”. On the agenda - the Law Amending the Maritime Code. Dear colleagues, On 11 June this year, the President of Latvia has sent the Saeima for re-reading the law “Amendments to the Maritime Code” adopted by the Saeima on 2 June this year. The Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy is responsible for this law. In line with the parliamentary order, we must set a deadline for the submission of proposals, as well as the date on which the law is re-examined at the parliamentary sitting. Please turn on the microphone for Ingmars Lydak.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-06-16-PT12-371-U40	Deadline for the submission of proposals - 2 September, and consideration - sitting of the Saeima on 15 September.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-06-16-PT12-371-U41	Thank you. So the deadline for submitting proposals is 2 September this year. Review at the Saeima sitting on 15 September this year. Thank you. Members of the Saeima Smilten, Abu Meri, Ojārs Ēriks Kalniņš, Čigāne and Loskutov are asking for an amendment to the agenda of the Saeima sitting and to move agenda item 53 ahead of item 42 of the agenda. Do Members have objections? There is no objection by Members. The agenda has been amended. The next item is "Provision of draft legislation". On the agenda - draft law “On the Convention of 14 December 1960 on the Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development and the Treaty concerning the Accession of the Republic of Latvia to the Convention on the Conditions of Economic Cooperation and Development”, first reading. Member Ojārs Ēriks Kalniņš on behalf of the Commission on Foreign Affairs.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-06-16-PT12-371-U42	Thank you, Presidium. Honourable Members! Yesterday, the Foreign Affairs Commission of the Saeima examined and unanimously supported for its first reading the draft law “On the Convention on the Organisation of Economic Cooperation and Development of 14 December 1960 and the Treaty concerning the Accession of the Republic of Latvia to the Convention on the Conditions of Economic Cooperation and Development”, thus conceptually supporting the ratification of the convention or Latvia’s accession to the Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development (in English we call it the OECD). Since today is the last session of the Saeima Spring Session and it is important to ratify this historic treaty by autumn so that Latvia can start full participation in this organization in good time, the Foreign Affairs Commission invites the Saeima to adopt this draft law as a matter of urgency.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-06-16-PT12-371-U43	Thank you. So there is a call for a vote on urgency. Please call me! We will vote for the urgent recognition of the draft law “On the Convention on the Organisation of Economic Cooperation and Development of 14 December 1960 and the Treaty on the Accession of the Republic of Latvia to the Convention on the Conditions of Economic Cooperation and Development of the Republic of Latvia”! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 78, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The draft law has been declared urgent.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-06-16-PT12-371-U44	On behalf of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, I call for support for the draft law at first reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-06-16-PT12-371-U45	Thank you. Please call me! Let's vote... Foreign Minister Edgars Rinkēvičs applied for the debate.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-06-16-PT12-371-U46	Very honourable Speaker of the Saeima! Presidium! Dear Members and honourable Members, First of all, thank you very much. - such unanimity in support of this draft law as urgent. I just want to remind you once again why it is essential that we ratify the proposed draft law and become Latvia's Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development, or, as we usually shorten in English, a member state of OECD 35. This agreement concludes the announced return of Latvia to the world and European circulation in the early 1990s – both NATO, the European Union and the OECD. In 1996 Latvia, together with the other Baltic countries, expressed its desire to join this organization - the OECD. This work, this journey for 20 years, has been crowned by the 21 committee approved Latvia's readiness to become a member of the OECD. It is an international quality stamp and proof of the political and economic maturity of Latvia. It is a signal to investors and entrepreneurs about Latvia's compliance with the highest standards in business, financial transactions, combating corruption, international transactions and the management of state-owned enterprises. At the same time, we understand very well that it is not an end in itself, that nothing in itself will happen, that it is just an instrument for improving the development of our own country. The progress made in Latvia's accession to the OECD process is related to the recommendations, which was a strong incentive for the necessary internal reforms. In order to comply with these recommendations and to bring these recommendations closer to OECD standards, almost all public administrations, in general more than 110 experts and policy makers, have contributed. The Saeima has, of course, also played an important role in this process. By decisive action of the Saeima, new laws have been adopted and amendments have been made to existing laws to improve the legal framework on many important issues for Latvia. Firstly, 15 legislative amendments have been adopted in the fight against corruption and money laundering in general, and a number of measures have been taken to improve the supervision of the financial system and the prevention of money laundering risks. But that doesn't end. Already in October 2016, we have to present a report on progress in implementing individual recommendations and in October 2017 a report on progress in implementing other recommendations. It is essential to continue the work on financial sector supervision and improving the legal framework. The second major work is the management of state-owned companies. According to OECD guidelines, a reform has been launched aimed at more effective monitoring of public-owned assets and achieving financial and non-financial objectives. The political influence in capital companies has also been reduced by launching professional and independent councils in the most important state capital companies. Latvia will also have to submit a progress report on this, which will be seen in spring 2017. However, we must understand, of course, that this is not one of the external tasks and, in fact, it is in our own interest to continue to sort out this important area as well. And finally, the third key point that I want to highlight today is the fight against tax evasion. When amending the Law on Credit Institutions, it was ensured that restrictions on foreign jurisdictions to receive information from Latvian banks were lifted. As of 2017, as part of the OECD Global Standard, the State Revenue Service will automatically receive information from tax administrations of other countries, as well as financial centres on the accounts of residents of Latvia in financial institutions. The application of the OECD Convention on Mutual Administrative Assistance in the Field of Taxation provides this legal cooperation mechanism. Finally, I would like to thank all ministries and public administrations, especially my colleagues in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, diplomats, Members of the Saeima, responsible commissions and three governments - Valda Dombrovskis, Laimdota Straujuma and Mara Kučinska - for their actions and support and their ability to mobilise to become a member of this organisation. As I said, if you vote in favour of ratification today, of course, from tomorrow, these benefits will not be visible at once. And it is only our own skill to use this organisation to promote the economic and social development of our country that depends on its added value. I would therefore like to thank the Saeima for ratifying the relevant Treaty of Accession of the OECD today in two readings. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-06-16-PT12-371-U47	Thank you. I closed the debate. Please call me! We will vote for support for the first reading of the draft law on the Convention on the Organisation of Economic Cooperation and Development of 14 December 1960 and the Treaty on the Accession of the Republic of Latvia to the Convention on the Conditions of Economic Cooperation and Development of the Republic of Latvia! Please vote mode! Please get the result! It's not about - 86, it's against and refrains from - it's not. The draft law at first reading has been supported. Please set the deadline for the second reading of the proposals and the time for the session of the Saeima.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-06-16-PT12-371-U48	The deadline for submitting proposals is 15 minutes. There is a request for a second, final reading of the draft law at today's sitting.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-06-16-PT12-371-U49	Thank you. The deadline for submitting proposals - by 10.40 a.m., and consideration - Saeima at its meeting on 16 June this year. The next item on the agenda - Election, approval, appointment, dismissal or dismissal of officials, expression of trust or distrust. On the agenda - draft decision on the withdrawal of Janina Course from the composition of the Central Land Commission. On behalf of the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy, Member Edward Smilten.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-06-16-PT12-371-U50	Good morning, colleagues! We have received an application from the Group's Unity in the Commission: to withdraw from membership of the Central Land Commission the former Members Janina Kursitis. In the Commission, we have discussed this issue and decided to ask you to respect this application and to vote in favour of the withdrawal of Janina Kurse from the Central Land Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-06-16-PT12-371-U51	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote for the draft decision “On the withdrawal of Janina Course from the Central Land Commission”! Please vote mode! Please get the result! It's not about - 86, it's against and refrains from - it's not. The decision has been taken. On the agenda - draft decision “On the approval of the Saeima Member Laimdotas Straujuma as a member of the Central Land Commission”. On behalf of the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy, Member Edward Smilten.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-06-16-PT12-371-U52	Yes, colleagues! Given that Janīna Kursīte has been withdrawn from the Central Land Commission, an application has also been received to direct Laimdota Straujuma to participate in the Central Land Commission. We have discussed this issue in the Commission and we ask you to support the draft decision.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-06-16-PT12-371-U53	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote on the draft decision on the approval of the Saeima Member Laimdotas Straujuma as a member of the Central Land Commission! Please vote mode! Please get the result! Not by - 82, not by - and refrains. The decision has been taken. On the agenda - draft decision “On the withdrawal of the Saeima Member Edward Smilten from the composition of the Central Land Commission”. On behalf of the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy, Member Edward Smilten.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-06-16-PT12-371-U54	Yes, colleagues! An application has also been received by the Commission for the withdrawal of the Saeima Member Edward Smilten from the Central Land Commission. ( Milestones.) In the Commission, this issue has been carefully discussed and it has been decided to ask you, the Saeima, to vote in favour of the withdrawal of Edward Smilten from the Central Land Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-06-16-PT12-371-U55	Please call me! We will vote on the draft decision on the withdrawal of the Saeima Member Edward Smilten from the composition of the Central Land Commission! Please vote mode! Please get the result! It's not about - 83, it's against and refrains from - it's not. The decision has been taken. On the agenda - draft decision “On the approval of the Saeima Member Inves Boķis as a member of the Central Land Commission”. On behalf of the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy, Member Edward Smilten.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-06-16-PT12-371-U56	Yes, colleagues! In order not to leave the place empty, we have received an application from the Group Unity - to move the former member of the Central Land Commission... ( Internouncing call.) ... Oh, local... I'm sorry, Inese Boki, a member of the local land commission, in this post. We have discussed this issue and please support the draft decision at the Saeima sitting.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-06-16-PT12-371-U57	Please call me! We will vote on the draft decision "On the approval of the Saeima Member Inves Bokis as a member of the Central Land Commission"! Please vote mode! Please get the result! It's not about - 83, it's against and refrains from - it's not. The decision has been taken. On the agenda - draft decision “On approval of Aivara Skopiņš as a member of the Council of the Bank of Latvia”. Member of the Commission for Budget and Finance (Tax) Jānis Vucāns.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-06-16-PT12-371-U58	Dear colleagues and honourable colleagues! Yesterday, the Budget and Finance (Tax) Commission discussed in its meeting the proposal by the President of the Bank of Latvia to approve Aivars Skopiņš as a member of the Board of the Bank of Latvia. The Commission decided to recommend that the Saeima approve Aivars Skopiņš as a member of the Council of the Bank of Latvia by 2 July of this year.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-06-16-PT12-371-U59	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote for the draft decision “On approval of Aivara Skopiņš as a member of the Council of the Bank of Latvia”! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 74, for - 2, for - 2, for - 2. The decision has been taken. On the agenda - draft decision “On approval of Arvils Sautiņš as a member of the Council of the Bank of Latvia”. Member of the Commission for Budget and Finance (Tax) Jānis Vucāns.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-06-16-PT12-371-U60	Just as on the previous point, yesterday's meeting of the Committee on Budgets and Finance (Tax) discussed Arvils Sautiņš' candidacy as a member of the Council of the Bank of Latvia, led by the President of the Bank of Latvia. The Commission decided by a vote to invite the Saeima to approve Arvils Sautiņa as a member of the Council of the Bank of Latvia on 2 July this year.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-06-16-PT12-371-U61	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote for the draft decision “On approval of Arvila Sautiņš as a member of the Council of the Bank of Latvia”! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 74, for - 2, for - 2, for - 2. The decision has been taken. Dear colleagues, It's time for a break. Please call me! Please check-in mode for Members! While the results of the registration are being collected, the name of the Member Andris Bērziņš.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-06-16-PT12-371-U62	Colleagues! The Public Expenditure and Audit Commission and the Social and Labour Commission are invited to a short sitting in the Social and Labour Commission room ( 210.), where we have to accept a letter from the Prime Minister and the World Bank about P.Stradiņš Clinical University Hospital. Please, in five minutes!
ParlaMint-LV_2016-06-16-PT12-371-U63	Name to Member Oyars Eriks Kalniņš.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-06-16-PT12-371-U64	I invite all members of the Foreign Affairs Commission to the Foreign Affairs Commission's premises in five minutes' time for the second reading to consider the draft law on accession to the OECD. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-06-16-PT12-371-U65	Name Member of the Saeima, Gunars Kūtris, to read the results of the registration.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-06-16-PT12-371-U66	Dear colleagues, Not registered at the moment: Jānis Kžads, Ivans Klementjevs, Rihards Kols, Anrijs Matīss, Romanas Naudiņš, Arthurs Rubiks, Julija Stepanenko, Inguna Silver, Mārtiņš Šics, Juris Vectirāns and Juris Viļums... There's a vibrating.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-06-16-PT12-371-U67	Thank you. Interruption until 11 a.m. ( Interruption)
ParlaMint-LV_2016-06-16-PT12-371-U68	Honourable Members! I invite you to take your seats in the Chamber. I would like to inform you that Members Kalnozols, Brigmanis, Līdaka, Mežulis, Krauze and others are asking to amend the agenda of the meeting and to include the draft decision “On the withdrawal of the 12th Saeima Member Valdis Kalnozols from the Commission for Education, Culture and Science”. Are Members opposed to this amendment of the agenda? There is no objection. The agenda has been amended. Members Kalnozols, Brigmanis, Līdaka, Mežulis, Krauze and others are asking for amendments to the agenda of the sitting and to include the draft decision on the election of the Saeima Member Valdis Kalnozols to the Foreign Affairs Commission. Are Members opposed to this amendment of the agenda? There is no objection. The agenda has been amended. Members Kļavins, Brigmanis, Līdaka, Mežulis, Vucans and others are asking for an amendment to the agenda of the sitting and to include in it the draft decision on the election of Parliamentary Member Ascolds Kļavins to the European Affairs Commission. Are Members opposed to this amendment of the agenda? There is no objection by Members. The agenda has been amended. Members Kļaviņš, Brigmanis, Līdaka, Mežulis, Vucans and others are asking for an amendment to the agenda of the sitting and to include in it the draft decision on the election of Parliamentary Member Ascolds Kļaviņš to the Education, Culture and Science Commission. Are Members opposed to this amendment of the agenda? There is no objection. The agenda has been amended. The Legal Commission of the Saeima asks to amend the agenda of the sitting and to consider the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Arbitration Courts” at first reading without re-examination by the responsible commission. Are Members opposed to this amendment of the agenda? There is no objection. The agenda has been amended. The Commission of Human Rights and Public Affairs asks to amend the agenda of the sitting and to consider the draft law “On the status of a member of the Second World War” at first reading without re-examination by the committee responsible. Are Members opposed to this amendment of the agenda? There is no objection. The agenda has been amended. The Commission of Human Rights and Public Affairs asks to amend the agenda of the sitting and to consider the draft law “Law on the Maintenance Guarantee Fund” at first reading without re-examination by the committee responsible. Are Members opposed to this amendment of the agenda? There is no objection. The agenda has been amended. The next item is Members' requests. On the agenda - request from Members Ivars Zariņa, Jānis Tutina, Jānis Urbanovičs, Jānis Adamsons, Valija Agešina, Ivana Ribakova, Arthur Rubika, Raimonda Rubika, Sergeja Potapkina and Vital Orlovas to the Minister of Economics Arvilas Asheraden on the Inability of the Ministry of Economics to Address Energy Challenges. Member of the Commission of the European Union Augusts Brigmanis.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-06-16-PT12-371-U69	Hello, colleagues! The Panel examined the request made by Members Ivars Zariņa, Jānis Tutina, Jānis Urbanovičs and other applicants to the Minister of Economics Arvils Aseraden “On the inability of the Ministry of Economics to address energy challenges”. That request was examined by the Commission and rejected by a majority. ( INTERPRETATION FROM THE GROUP: “Quorum was? ” ; dep. A.Kamiņš: “Who was “to”?” ) So the vote was: against -7, in favour - 3.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-06-16-PT12-371-U70	Thank you. Let us start a debate. Name to Member Ivars Zarins.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-06-16-PT12-371-U71	So, colleagues, what was this request about? This was about the inability to address the challenges facing the energy sector. As you know, the energy sector is important for the whole economy. The extent to which it is thought out and arranged has a major impact on other sectors of the economy. Especially the generation sectors where electricity is used in the production process. Although we very much like to sing that energy is really important for Latvia, as we know, we still do not have our own energy strategy. As a result, there is the chaos that we are currently experiencing in this area. On the one hand, we are now fighting the consequences of these unforeseen decisions, which are more widely known as the OIC story. On the other hand, entrepreneurs working in this sector are also not clear about this situation, and they protest that these conditions are not clear to them. Nobody's good. We asked the Minister for Economic Affairs how it had happened. Why is the Ministry of Economics not able to keep this sector in order, at least by establishing a sustainable, understandable framework for it? The Minister for Economics cannot answer that question. The Minister for Economics acknowledged that such a problem exists indeed, that there are these erroneous decisions. But understanding how to fix it, it turned out to be far from what it should be. The Minister said: “Yes, we have drawn up other regulations of the Cabinet of Ministers, where we acknowledge that we will try to correct these errors.” But apologies, this is exactly the same path that has already led this whole sector and, in principle, all of our economies to these fundamental problems in the energy sector, that is, if there is no sustainable framework, if there is no strategy, if there is no legislation at the level of the laws of the law determining these conditions of the game in the energy sector, then depending on where a stronger economic lobby is, the current regulations of the Cabinet of Ministers can be adopted, which will benefit it or otherwise. Now they will be adopted in favour of another lobby. After a while, things will change again and nobody will be clear. The Ministry of Economics continues this process and is taking on this problem deeper, but does not solve it. That is what we pointed out to the Minister at the Panel on Petitions and asked whether he agreed to it. He admitted it. Our next question to him was - and when will there be a law? If you remember, those colleagues who work here, in the Saeima, longer, then, in my opinion, a draft law on renewable energy, drawn up by the Ministry of Economics, had come to the Saeima before the elections. So the right step is what had to be done a long time ago. There should have been such a draft law that defines sustainable, clear conditions for those who want to be in this business who want to operate in it. At the same time, it would also be a clear signal for the entire energy sector to understand what needs to be taken into account. These issues relate not only to the use of renewable energy, but also to energy security, our security, and costs. This would form this sustainable intelligible framework. Unfortunately, the Minister for Economics is unable to respond to this again, which means that the Ministry of Economics has not fully understood how to deal with this problem. We therefore believe that such a request is justified. Moreover, we believe that this is justified because one of the things we have also asked the Minister for Economic Affairs to explain is linked to the opinion of the European Commission, which has now been given on this generously given aid to certain electricity producers in Latvia. Since this opinion was not available to us at the moment of the request, the discussions were, once again, very theoretical. But now that it is in front of me, I read, and indeed it is clearly written there that this aid was illegal. So here again there is the question for the Minister for Economic Affairs. Because the Minister of Economics, the Ministry of Economics and the Government, has made some decisions on the basis of which there are further legal consequences. And if our country is a state governed by law, I have a question for the Minister for Economics: does he think that Latvia, as a state governed by law, must be held accountable for the consequences that it has caused by its decisions on those who were forced to pay this illegally generous aid? We didn't get a response to this again, we got a swim away again. But, colleagues, this is a real situation that will need to be resolved right away! Because, as we can see, there are already production companies that present it as a real fact that, with this policy pursued by the Ministry of Economic Affairs, they are forced to go bankrupt. They are not able to compete. So these are once again serious consequences. The Minister has no answer to that again. So what can we talk about? And in this situation to think that such a request is not justified - well, apologies, it is very ironic! So I have to ask: what is at all justified in this country? If nothing needs to be answered, if you can do whatever you want and then say: “You know, we got it! We're gonna try to change something. As we will try to change - we are not clear," then, apologies, the position of such a minister is not acceptable to us. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. I.Zarins accidentally overturns the water glass in the triple. Subwords: “Let’s get involved!” ; “Ivar, why didn’t you break?Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, “)
ParlaMint-LV_2016-06-16-PT12-371-U72	The name is Mr. Vilnis Ķirsim.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-06-16-PT12-371-U73	Madam President, very much. Colleagues! Mr. Zarins! First of all, about the procedure. Then I'll touch the essence. As Mr Zarins said on previous occasions, he has a new doctrine: he is asking Members questions to ministers, and if ministers are ignored, these questions are turned into requests. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. I.Zariņš: “On the Nature!” ) Well, here we go! Let's take a look at this. And looking at how Mr. Zarins gets involved in this, one old good anecdote comes to mind. — Dep. A.Kamiņš: “Don’t tell me!” ) ( Mr. Zarins also likes to tell anecdotes). Two older elders, a couple who lived in a happy marriage, raised children (children already large, let go), thought that they lacked any sharpness in their lives. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. A.Kaimiņš: “Mr. Mūrniece, what's going on?Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Mrs. Moore!’ ) So nostalgia they have, and they decide that they will try to somehow return the feelings of youth. And what are they doing? They agree... The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. A.Kaimiņš: “Mr. Mūrniece, what is it about fairytale theatre?Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, ") says you're going to date. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. A.Kamiņš: “Wolf, now it’s not funny!” ) Well, there must be a certain time in a certain place. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. A.Kaimiņš: “Mr. Mūrniece, what is this?Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, “) Grandpa lets her get out of the house, Grandpa goes to the Laima clock at a certain time, buys a cup, waits for 15 minutes, waits for half an hour, waits for an hour, but Grandpa doesn’t come. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. A.Kaimiņš: “Now Zarins will come and tell his anecdotes?” ) Rain rains, cold, old man colds, finally drowns and goes home. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. A.Kamiņš: “Stop this! What's going on here?Oh, no, no, no, no, “ Go home and watch that old man sits as if nothing had happened. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. A.Kaimiņš: “Mr. Mūrniece, do your job! There is no anecdotal tournament!’ ) He is angry at him and demands: “Where have you been?” And the old man, feeling in the face, said to him, "My mother didn't let me go!" Well, see! There was a case three weeks ago: Mr. Zarins wrote to the Minister questions, and as a conscious person, the Minister came to the sitting to answer the Members' questions, waiting to come at 17.00. A. Kalina’s intermediate call sign.) But there is no Mr. Zarins! Mr Zarins, I hope that next time you ask the ministers questions, you will also launch a question-and-answer sitting. That is first. I mean, I mean, I mean, I mean, I mean, I Medicines cause noise.) About... Can I turn off a microphone for a neighbor? It's funny. Depp. A.Kamiņš: “What are you laughing at?Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, You are so kind and go home!” ) Council Regulation (EC) No 1257/96 of 20 June 1996 concerning humanitarian aid (OJ L 163, 2.7.1996, p. 1).
ParlaMint-LV_2016-06-16-PT12-371-U74	Mr. Chersch, be so kind and continue the debate.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-06-16-PT12-371-U75	Okay, thank you. The nature. Mr. Zarins, you already know, as a choir in this field (at least as you think) that it is historically established that this area consists of many regulations, regulations of the Cabinet of Ministers, and the fact that they have not always been thought out can certainly be accepted. But, as you understand, the country, taking on some kind of commitment from one politician... the next one can't just pull the line... And so the Ministry of Economics has promised to deal with this situation in a promising way: initially stop this uncontrolled aid, then reassess these mechanisms... As you remember, there was also a law on subsidised energy tax that prevented a further increase in this compulsory purchasing component (OIC). We are currently working on the so-called resubsidisation mechanism, and this week more or less agreement was reached in the Cabinet Committee. These regulations of the Cabinet of Ministers will be adopted next week or next week. We will then work on the next, as you have said, a sustainable framework for the whole sector. But before doing so, you have to bring the existing farm in order. You can't try to go somewhere else without solving the problem. And finally, if you think the law is better than the Cabinet of Ministers regulations, you have all the possibilities to submit a bill. The only law that I have seen from you in the field of energy is Gazprom's bill (The Group said: "Latvian! What is Gazprom?’ ), with which you wanted to postpone the opening of the gas market. So, Mr. Zarin... ( The medicine came out of it.) I call on my colleagues not to support the request in any way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-06-16-PT12-371-U76	Name to Member Ivars Zarins, for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-06-16-PT12-371-U77	Colleagues! Now you have all seen how justified our request was! The Ministry of Economics has no meaningful answer at all! When it comes to answering Members' questions... You know, Mr Chersch, I had previously informed you that we would not be in response because we were preparing a request. And the fact that the Minister did not know it is already the responsibility of the Parliamentary Secretary. Why have you not informed your Minister about what is happening in the Saeima. So ask your “mum” permission why she doesn’t let you do your job. That's one thing. The second thing is that you have demonstrated now is that you really do not have any sense at all about how a framework for the energy sector should be created, because you are talking about simply having to do with the regulations of the Cabinet of Ministers. That is what I have tried to explain to you on the nst time that it is this approach - to regulate this sector simply by the regulations of the Cabinet of Ministers for all these eight years - that has also led you to have a thorough barrack, and you are great now to continue it. You say you need time to make a law... Excuse me! How many years have you been in government? So you don't have eight years, you still need eight years, so you can design something and understand something. And if we are talking about draft laws, then it was precisely us who helped bring this legislation into line with liberalisation, which, unfortunately, the Ministry of Economics has nd... the electricity market was not able to open up the electricity market, and that is what we helped with our competences. The same is true for the gas market, on which we will have the next demand that we will talk about, and you will be able to tell us about your competences and how competent you are in this area. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-06-16-PT12-371-U78	The name to Member Vilnius Chersim, for the second time. ( Insight: “What else do you know of the anecdotes? ” ) Council Regulation (EC) No 1257/96 of 20 June 1996 concerning humanitarian aid (OJ L 163, 2.7.1996, p. 1).
ParlaMint-LV_2016-06-16-PT12-371-U79	Mr Zarins, I perfectly remember the last Saeima and I remember your understanding of how this energy market should be organised. So that - God, protect' from your vision of how the energy market needs to work in Latvia. On the other hand, it's not coming. Well, quite strange if all the parties involved - both the Head of the sitting and the Minister - come to answer Members' questions, but Mr Zarins does not come. Apparently, to someone he must have said, but to whom? Go get in touch!
ParlaMint-LV_2016-06-16-PT12-371-U80	I closed the debate. Is the rapporteur on behalf of the Commission... Is that so? No, you don't want to say anything. Please call me! We will vote for the Member Ivars Zariņa, Jānis Tutina, Jānis Urbanovičs, Jānis Adamsons, Valija Agešina, Ivana Ribakova, Arthur Rubika, Raimonda Rubika, Sergeja Potapkina and Vital Orlova's request to the Minister of Economics Arvilas Aseradens "On the Inability of the Ministry of Economics to Address Energy Challenges"! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 30, for - 47, for - 2. The request is rejected. On the agenda - Members Ivars Zariņa, Jānis Tutina, Jānis Urbanoviča, Valija Agešina, Jānis Adamsona, Ivana Ribakova, Arthur Rubika, Raimonda Rubika, Sergeja Potapkina and Vital Orlova request to the Minister of Economics Arvilas Asheraden about the failure of the Ministry of Economics to justify its compliance with national interests in relation to possible acquisition of shares in AS Latvijas Gāze. Member of the Commission of the European Union Augusts Brigmanis.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-06-16-PT12-371-U81	So, colleagues, we are looking at the request that our colleagues Ivars Zarins, Jānis Tutins, Jānis Urbanovičs and other applicants have addressed to the Minister of Economics, Arvils Asheraden. Moreover, the essence of this request is that the Ministry of Economics is unable to justify its conduct in the interests of the State in relation to the possible acquisition of shares in the joint stock company Latvijas Gāze. This claim was also rejected. ‘ The vote in favour was -2, 'no' - 7, one - abstained. ( Insight: “Who abstained? ” ) Council Regulation (EC) No 1257/96 of 20 June 1996 concerning humanitarian aid (OJ L 163, 2.7.1996, p. 1).
ParlaMint-LV_2016-06-16-PT12-371-U82	Thank you. Member Ivars Zarins has applied for a debate. Let us start a debate.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-06-16-PT12-371-U83	Colleagues! So far, one less meaningful and constant energy installation for Latvia has been because we have to abandon the use of natural gas as much as possible. And there was not only that setting, but also indeed concrete action was taken to make ourselves less dependent on the use of natural gas. You know the very last story, it was about liberalising the market, which let us hope in some way will help us deal with all this. However, what we wrote about is what we are asking the Minister for. We have successfully completed the legislative issue of liberalisation of the gas market, which means that an existing monopolyist is being put to an end. In parallel with this process of liberalisation, there are a number of conditions which will make this business economically much less advantageous, especially as regards infrastructure. And what caused us justified concerns? After the shareholders of Latvijas Gas came with a public statement that they were going to challenge the legitimacy of this liberalisation model, the Ministry of Economics immediately announced that it was ready to buy this business. And such a sequence of events caused us to have justified concerns that, in fact, the Ministry of Economics comes with such a statement, not in the interests of the state, but in order to save the interests of these shareholders, that is, to redeem their shares before their business begins to collapse. In order to make sure that this is not the case, we asked the Ministry of Economics to give economic justification for their claims that the Latvian State should buy out this shrinking business stock. The Ministry of Economy was unable to provide any economic justification. No one at all! We asked it if it was reasonable for them at all: “If a country is going to buy this business, do you have any idea how profitable this business will be in the future? What could be the threshold for shares that the state would be worth talking about, where it would be worth investing in this business?” We did not receive any answer to any of the questions. The answer we received was: "You know, now we will do it for reasons of energy security and security of supply." Okay. If this is for reasons of energy security and the economic justification is not important to you, well, then tell me what safety risks do you think of neutralising such a transaction? Why do we need to spend a hundred million so that what risks can be solved? And are there any specific risks that cannot be resolved otherwise - simply through organised legislation? By ensuring that the system operator does what he has to do and has a clear regulatory framework, there is a strong regulator who is doing all this. It would cost the country a thousand times cheaper, perhaps even ten thousand times cheaper. This was also not answered by the Minister for Economic Affairs. There was no answer again, and that is why we had justified concerns that the Minister for Economic Affairs, in this area too, as in all other areas, is not in a position to be competent and unable to come up with concrete solutions. We are also talking about the legal side. As we know, there has been a deal with “Latvijas Gas” shares, and Latvian responsible officials very much like to talk about the fact that we had pre-emption rights. I have not heard, and I have not seen, that the Minister for Economics has made a decision that we have abandoned them before we give those shares to someone else. This shows all the more that, not only from the economic point of view, but also from the legal point of view of the Ministry of Economics, there is no sense at all for this important process. And you can come back to the next phase, as we met with Citadele bank at the time. There we were on the side of the successful sellers, now we will be on the side of the successful buyers and make some happiness again. And so it was our question, this request, to which we did not receive any answers. What proves even more the incompetentness of the Ministry of Economics and the inability to deal systematically with the challenges in the energy sector... We asked you, well, if you think there's something... that we need these investments, which will amount to several tens of millions, if not a hundred million, or whether you have assessed alternatives, how, by spending this money, we could ensure that we are not worse, but perhaps even better against these energy security risks, let us say, by investing this money in the use of renewable energy, so that we can make ourselves efficient and so secure. Perhaps it would be much more effective and far-sighted. Nothing of this kind has been done by the Ministry of Economics. And then the question is: what is this Ministry of Economics doing? Do we really need such an economic minister? Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-06-16-PT12-371-U84	The name is Mr. Vilnis Ķirsim.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-06-16-PT12-371-U85	It has to be said that Mr Zarins had an exclusive opportunity to speak to the Panel for half an hour and to ask questions constantly after each other. If you probably did not understand the substance of the matter, you might not understand it. But I'll tell my colleagues where we are and where we are going. This year we passed the law that the market is opened from April next year. There are, of course, a number of details here to work on, how this open market will work in particular. And here the Ministry develops a number of regulations of the Cabinet of Ministers, as well as the regulator develops a series of methodologies - exactly what and how will happen. What we think are the main aspects that affect these decisions, which Mr Zarin said, namely, about buying or not buying. So no decision has been made at the moment - not to buy, not to buy, not to buy in part or otherwise. And in general this division of “Latvijas Gas” will take place until autumn. Before this happens, there is no idea at all about the price. And as we understand, to decide whether or not to buy, price is still a very important indicator. Therefore, the government and the Ministry of Economics have decided to attract the consultant by the deadline for the distribution of “Latvijas Gāze” to weigh possible scenarios. When the approximate price is known, then there will also be a possible scenario of buying or not buying. But so far, no decisions have been made on what Mr Zarin mentions - on the n-ten million - and cannot be made. The key is that we gain a functioning free gas market and we have more gas suppliers, namely that we obtain gas security. And it is not even important whether it will belong to the State, this transmission and storage company, or the private. The key is that it works well and we could all feel energetically safe and even safe. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-06-16-PT12-371-U86	Name to Member Ivars Zarins, for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-06-16-PT12-371-U87	Thank you, Mr. Chersh. As I understand, you acknowledge that the Minister for Economic Affairs was, let us say, wrong with his hasty statements, which did not have any reason at all. You have now understood that such a justification should first be and then come with such loud statements. I am pleased that here we have finally reached some understanding on the part of the Ministry of Economic Affairs. That was exactly what I tried to explain to the Minister for Economics: that there is no difference between this infrastructure, these wires, which are now going on in the country of Latvia, because they will remain there. What matters is the conditions on which they are used and to ensure that these conditions are in the public interest. And so you don't have to spend hundreds of millions or tens of millions. You need a simple brain and a political will to do what I wish you too. Unfortunately, for the time being, I guess, in vain.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-06-16-PT12-371-U88	I closed the debate. Does the rapporteur wish to add something on behalf of the Commission? I don't want to. Please call me! We will vote for the Member Ivars Zariņa, Jānis Tutina, Jānis Urbanoviča, Valeria Agešina, Jānis Adamsona, Ivana Ribakova, Arthur Rubika, Raimonda Rubika, Sergeja Potapkina, Vital Orlova's request to the Minister for Economic Affairs Arvilas Aseradens about the inability of the Ministry of Economics to justify compliance with the state's interests in relation to the possible acquisition of shares in AS Latvijas Gāze! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 31, for - 51, for - 1. The request is rejected. The next item is "Review of draft decisions". On the agenda - draft decision on the approval of the National Defence Concept. On behalf of the Commission for Defence, Home Affairs and Anti-Corruption - Member Kārlis Sergeant.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-06-16-PT12-371-U89	Hello, colleagues! On 8 June this year, we examined and supported this concept of protection within the Commission for Defence, Home Affairs and the Prevention of Corruption. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that four years have passed since the previous concept was adopted and that in these four years there has been a significant change in the world - Crimea, Ukraine, refugees, Daesh - and that is why this new concept of Latvia's defence has also undergone changes, has become more qualitative. On the content of this concept, I would call for the Minister of Defence, Raimond Bergmani, to be mentioned. The Commission is asking for support for this concept.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-06-16-PT12-371-U90	Thank you. Let us start a debate. Name: Minister of Defence Raimonds Bergman.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-06-16-PT12-371-U91	President-in-Office of the Saeima, very much. Dear Members and honourable Members, The concept of State Defence has been submitted for your assessment, which together with the National Armed Forces Development Plan is the basis for the development of a medium-term planning document. As part of this planning process, it is essential to identify critical NMS capabilities for the implementation of the national defence mission. Since the concept of national defence has already been blessed by the responsible committee of the Saeima and has been approved by the government before, I will not delay your attention with its renown, but focus on the main blocks of development of the National Armed Forces and the reasons which at present provide the basis for developing and implementing such a concept. It is based on restraint, which includes both the development of self-defence capacities and the presence of our allies. First of all, the geopolitical situation and the situation at our borders. Modern examples show that, in the current security situation in Europe and in the regions close to Europe, there is no short-term solution; long-term action needs to be taken. It is in Latvia's interest to achieve a long-term solution for the significant military presence of allies in Latvia. If we do not see and appreciate the gross violations of international law that took place in 2014 and are still going on in Ukraine, it would be short-sighted and irresponsible to their country and their country's security. Russian military activities in the Western War Area bordering the Baltic States have increased significantly since the annexation of Crimea in the first half of 2014. Military training has increased and scale, development and development of military infrastructure is under way. In 2015, there has been a significant increase in the number of personnel and fighting equipment in air paratroopers units. The Western War Region is provided with Russia's newest, most modern and most combatable military equipment. With the latest generation helihopters are provided. 15. base of the military aviation team in Ostrov, located only a few dozen kilometres from Latvia's border. In parallel to the increase in staffing and infrastructure development at the borders of the Baltic States, there is also an increase in military training implemented by Russia. Last year alone, more than 4 thousand training sessions took place in Russia; this is at least ten times NATO's number of military exercises. Latvia follows the military activities of Russia in the vicinity of our borders. Unfortunately, there are a number of questions about Russia's plans and the real wishes to build or yet not to establish a constructive relationship with the West. It is no secret that the activity of Russian seas and aircraft at the border of Latvia is often observed, which is often not only protective. Unfortunately, such cases are recorded every week. Questions arise about the validity and security of Russian activities, because no one is protected from mistakes and incidents. What do we do, and how do we plan to do so? National armed forces are being developed in three major blocks - early warning, preparedness and support from the host state. The main capability providers of NBS are NBS units and soldiers, who are well-trained specialists in their field and also perform civilian military functions, providing rescue and search capabilities and performing neutralisation of unexploded ammunition. Much is invested in training our soldiers to prepare high-level specialists, which is the main national defence resource. International training is also organised to ensure interoperability with our allies. At the same time, this State Defence concept emphasises the involvement of civil society and the promotion of patriotism in society, which is also promoted by the visibility and presence of the armed forces in the regions of Latvia. In turn, Landguard and Jaunsardze are the primary instrument of public involvement in national defence. Therefore, significant budget resources for defence are also being allocated to their development at the moment. The NBS is currently also carrying out the modernisation of existing forces, which, in combination with good specialists, provides professional capacity. I am convinced that NBS soldiers are ready to defend Latvia. This issue is beyond doubt because the ability to protect the country is one of the foundations for the existence of the country. The largest capacity development projects of NBS are the mechanization, intelligence, air space surveillance and air defence capacity building, the development of the Earthguard capacity, as well as the provision of enhanced preparedness forces and allies. I would like to emphasise that the National Armed Forces are currently investing a great deal in the development of the host state support capacity, which is one of the most important mechanisms for deterring possible aggression. Our allies have repeatedly demonstrated their commitment to provide support to Latvia during the crisis. The presence of the members of society is a real and credible deterrent. This is clearly demonstrated by our joint exercises, the grinding of cooperation tactics in practical exercises and learning paths, which were also widely known to the public, and for which we can all become witnesses, both in our presence and through the mass media. Honourable Members! We are currently working intensively to improve our air surveillance systems and be able to record all low-flying objects that have crossed the borders of Latvian airspace. It should be remembered that the external borders of Latvia are also external borders of NATO and its unauthorised violation will have consequences for the aggressor. The decisions taken at the NATO Summit must therefore be a signal that we are united and solidarity with the challenges facing the Member States, both in the south and in the east. Clearly, our main goal is the long-term presence of the Alliance in Latvia. It is precisely a long-term military presence that is capable of deterring provocation and military aggression, and it is not a challenge, nor a rumour for an eastern neighbour, as some experts and commentators have said. It is a clear expression of its position, so that no one can even have the idea of going beyond the sovereign border of our country. For those who talk about the escalation of the situation from NATO, I would like to remind you even at the end of 2013 of the Zapad 2013 training, involving more than 100,000 Russian soldiers, playing an unfriendly learning scenario for us. At the meeting in February this year, NATO Defence Ministers agreed on the need to strengthen the presence of allies in the Baltic region. The agreement was also approved at the NATO Defence Ministers meeting held yesterday and yesterday in Brussels, while the Warsaw Summit has to decide on the nuances of this enhanced presence - the size of the units, the conditions of engagement, the chain of command and other related issues. Several countries have said that they could send their troops to the Baltic States, and it is clear that there will be more allies in our region than they are today. At the same time, I would like to remind you of our responsibilities, because the decisions of the NATO Summit will not cancel our commitments and our homework. Although the allies stand for the security of our country in the future, we must continue our work on increasing the defence budget, strengthening the combat capacity of the National Armed Forces, as well as developing the support capacity of the host state, developing infrastructure and therefore military training infrastructure. This cannot be achieved without adequate funding. This year, EUR 68.5 million has been allocated to defence, increasing the defence budget to EUR 365 million. I very much hope that we will continue to follow the stated objective of achieving a defence budget of two per cent of gross domestic product as early as 2018. As I mentioned at the beginning of the speech, the government unanimously supported this concept on 26 May. Thank you to all colleagues in the Cabinet of Ministers for this! This understanding and support demonstrates once again that, today, state defence is not just a responsibility of the Ministry of Defence. This concept speaks a lot about interinstitutional cooperation and responsibility, both to see the threat and to face it. Each sector in the country needs to know its role in national defence and plan the means to carry out its tasks accordingly. Dear colleagues, Not least, our own will to protect our country and our faith in our ability to do so is essential. I'm sure we can do that! We all want to have peace in Latvia, so that the devastating wars of the last century remain forever, so the defence of the country must become an issue that we do not question, regardless of our party membership or our political convictions. Thank you for your attention and involvement in the debate. I invite you to support the National Defence Concept. (Applause)
ParlaMint-LV_2016-06-16-PT12-371-U92	Thank you to the Minister for Defence. Name to Member Edvin Schnorem. Are there any objections to Members if Member Edwin Schnore combined both speaking times and speaking together for seven minutes? There is no objection. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2016-06-16-PT12-371-U93	Dear Chairman of the Saeima. Dear colleagues, I will vote in favour of the concept of national defence, but I will do so with great pressure, because I think the document is half-finished. The representatives of the Ministry of Defence had brought it to the Saeima Defence, Home Affairs and Anti-Corruption Commission last week, and Members of the Defence Commission made their comments and suggestions to improve the document. When I asked whether something from the Members would also be taken into account and something would be changed in the text, I received an answer that - no, nothing changed without any change. It's a pity that, because I don't have the real belief that Latvia will really be able to protect itself if, in accordance with the text of the defence concept, Latvia doesn't give it to God, that situation and necessity will arise. What is it? It is about the fact that the security situation in Europe has changed dramatically, and the main reason for this is Russia's aggression in Ukraine. It is precisely because of what Russia is doing in Ukraine that we are changing our defence concept today. We all know that Russia does not make a conventional war in Ukraine, does not go there with tank armies, does not go with foot divisions. Russia is conducting a hybrid war in Ukraine, the main element of which is the use of the fifth column of Ukraine. Both ideologically it is used as an excuse for the attack and purely practical - thousands of Ukrainian citizens, supported by Russia, in war against their country. It is a new type of war, and it is a new type of threat, which we must also be prepared to defend. Does this appear in the concept of protection? No, no. On the contrary! There is no such threat in Latvia because (I quote this document): “The cohesion of the Latvian people, the will and the common goal of resistance are an integral expression of civil confidence, which forms a unique and strong basis for the protection of the country against any kind of aggressor.” The fact that there are more than 25 thousand retired Russian military figures in Latvia, that there are 50 thousand Russian citizens here, that there are a quarter million Russian-speaking USSR immigrants who, even asking for Latvian citizenship, are obviously waiting for something - all this is not a threat according to the concept of protection! Our Western partners think differently and in all seriousness point to Latvia as the next goal of Russian aggression. And the reason for this is the large number of Russian-speaking people in our country who, in the event of a conflict, can create a strong fifth column. The Western press has been writing about this for a long time, and the BBC even hosts films and retired NATO generals to analyse it in their books. When I brought this to the attention of the committee, the Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Defence stated that talks about the fifth column were in the interests of Moscow and that it was not necessary to listen to retired generals. All right, let it be. Then I draw the attention of the authors of the defence concept to the latest issue of Concordiam, published by the U.S. Ministry of Defence, for security and defence experts. There a whole section is devoted to Latvia and its defence problems, which stem from the large proportion of non-integrated Russians and the factors I mentioned above. The Americans want to help protect Latvia, and to do this, they need to know the true threat analysis, which their analysts are also trying to do. We pretend, in turn, that we have no problem with Russian-speaking people, that there is no fifth column here, and therefore no solutions. Then the Western partners themselves offer solutions. In this magazine, the U.S. military analyst, who was a NATO contingent in Latvia, has seen the situation here, suggests that it may be necessary to carry out a naturalisation of forced non-citizens. Maybe this would reduce the threat. Obviously, there was no one in Latvia who would say that this would hardly reduce the threat. Rather the other way around. And that you must try to eliminate this threat in a different way. No, because there's no threat. Everything's great and it's all fixed. At the Commission meeting, it was also said that all that I am talking about was included in another document, the concept of security. The question is, which one? Because the concept of national security, which was approved by the Saeima in November and which I reread yesterday, does not address this problem. There is one setting: there is Russia, which is trying to destroy Latvia from outside, but the people of Latvia are united in their resistance. I very much hope that the harsh reality and Western partners will force us to finally pull our head out of the sand and properly assess Latvia's security situation. Political correctness must not affect the analysis of security and military threats. It should be remembered that this undermines not only Latvia but all NATO defence capabilities. I hope that this will be taken into account in the next defence concept. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-06-16-PT12-371-U94	The name of the Member, John Adamson.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-06-16-PT12-371-U95	Dear Bureau! Dear colleagues, Maybe I'll start talking about the concept of protection a little bit of another... I'm going to start talking a little bit about another subject. About the avalanche that exists in our country. Unfortunately, the Minister of Defence also allowed this to be mentioned in his speech. We seem to be living in a parliamentary state, and suddenly - and I completely agree with what Mr Schnores said - the government is approving the concept of protection, not the Saeima. Listen to me! This is an absolutely wrong understanding of who confirms and controls. If this is stipulated in the law, then apparently the Saeima confirms the concept. As regards the concept as such, I would like to point out that the basis of any concept is an analysis of what has been done since the previous concept was adopted, an objective analysis of the international situation and internal political situation and the objectives to be achieved. Provision should also be made for any financial means necessary to achieve these objectives. Unfortunately, I have not found anything like that in this concept, and so I will not be able to support it. A positive and almost revolutionary opinion for our officials could be called... quotes: “... are becoming increasingly brighter about the formation of a multipolar world, which may sooner or later lead to changes in the current international order.” At the same time, it is clear from the far-reaching text of the concept that Latvia is likely to support the further development of the monopolar world. And I would also like to quote in this regard what the US President said: "Unlike the opinion that has been spread, multipolarity is now very incomplete, and America will delay its development in all its diplomatic efforts." It's a quote from the Financial Times. Go on. The President of the United States declares that it is necessary for the United States to dictate the rules for the whole world. This, too, comes from our concept. Next, the text of the concept. It is very good that at last we will receive as a gift radar, which obviously we will adopt tomorrow. But I would like to remind you that the concept of air protection was adopted in 1995. And the question is, why have we not purchased anti-sensory missiles within 21 years, no appropriate radar systems and so on? The concept notes that the Earthguard's role in solving various problems is growing; it is positive. It is also positive to note that the number of people entering the Earth is increasing; this is also very good. But let us just forget that we have the number of people who are enough in Earthguard and the number of those who have retired is similar in practice. Not once, in our committee meetings, we have heard from the management of the NBS that the rapid response teams are the basis for us. But there is no further development. We have heard about the need to develop national defence schools. Result: now, on a voluntary basis from 800 schools in 15 schools, we are teaching the basics of national protection. As a great achievement it is said that in 2020 the number of participants in the Youth Guard movement will be 10 percent of school age for young people. Where are the others? What sort of military patriotic education are we talking about? Why “fall out” of this section people from orphanages, boarding schools? There's a lot to talk about. I believe that this document in itself is provocative, even for one reason that the whole concept refers to "Russian aggression" 12 times, but nothing is justified by it. I don't see any meaning or substance. Most important. Once again, I would like to repeat: there is no mention of objectives, nor of targets, nor of the means to achieve these objectives. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-06-16-PT12-371-U96	Name to Member Janis Dombrava.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-06-16-PT12-371-U97	Dear Chairman of the Saeima. Dear Minister for Defence! Colleagues! Many points included in the concept are welcome, such as the establishment of close cooperation between the USA, the Baltic States and Poland, the need to strengthen patriotic education, the need to strengthen the New Guard (this could happen by expanding activities in major cities, especially in Riga, where, unfortunately, activities have not been actively expanded so far). Indeed, I hope that what is written on paper will also be fulfilled in life, because unfortunately, a number of points are not real at the moment. But what we need to achieve is written in point 12 of the concept (I quote): “Since the restoration of independence, Latvia has experienced certain elements of asymmetric warfare that have intensified in recent years. Increasing attempts by Russia to influence Latvia's security by using various levers of influence are identified. Artificially coordinated and managed communication (propaganda), psychological influence, attacks in cyberspace, use of the energy sector to achieve political goals, impact of the economy and business environment through artificial barriers and prohibitions, support of influence agents and promotion of public dissatisfaction, reinforced by military activities at the border of Latvia, are elements of Russia’s asymmetric military activity.” I would also like to quote the 46th paragraph, which states: "It is in Latvia's interest that democratic and freedom norms are not used, knowingly affecting Latvian society, weakening belief in Latvia's statehood and fundamental European values, as well as the desire of citizens to defend Latvia's state. Therefore, Latvia's information space ensures the protection of Latvia's national identity and fundamental values and does not allow incitement to war, hatred, intolerance and denial of the fundamental values of Latvia's state existence.” ( End quoted) Unfortunately, we see another reality. Public events are held in Latvia, which allow to incite war, hatred, intolerance and denial of the fundamental values of the state existence of Latvia. From a year to a year, the responsible authorities pretend not to see it. Instead, the Prosecutor General's Office continues to spend state resources, indicting a person who opposed such public propaganda of war. If we are talking about the impact agents mentioned in the concept, then there are many questions. Why can the Saeima, until now, not accept amendments to the laws supported by security authorities, which aim to ensure transparency of funding for different societies, if we know that foreign societies are used to finance various anti-state groups in Latvia? Why does the mayor of Riga keep a tolerance to state secret, if the Security Police admitted that he by his actions contributed to the fragmentation of society, which corresponds to Russia's geopolitical interests most directly? And about the information space. Let's not talk about private and foreign media. But can the state ensure that the public media that it finances does not work for those who are implementing the denial of war, hatred, intolerance and fundamental values of the state existence of Latvia? Self-protection, collective security, civil protection, security at home and love for Latvia are prerequisites for maintaining our independence. This can be done if all supports are rigid and unshakable. Let us shave the cherries that are ruining the pillars of our country so that we can ensure the existence and development of our country through the centuries! Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-06-16-PT12-371-U98	Name to Member Alexander Kirštein.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-06-16-PT12-371-U99	Dear President, Honourable Members! I would like to draw your attention this time not to Russia, North Korea's missiles or Iran's missiles, but perhaps to a much more serious problem, which may not be international, but is directly relevant to this defence concept. What happens in Latvia in the last month? We know that in the media there is a worrying news about massive sires or “flyings” for the territory of Latvia. tractors have been stolen in Selija Dunava, Bebrenes, Zasas parish. For example, one tractor John Deere directly from the center of the parish... Such agricultural machinery costs between 50 and 200 thousand euros. The feet lead 45 kilometers to the border of Lithuania. Over the last month, there have been several tractor thefts, local car thefts, boat thefts, construction machines (including construction taps!) in Latvia. Theft. Even thefts of satellite navigation equipment! Only one such tractor, equipped with an alarm, was found in Lithuania, the others were removed from the alarm, and this technique disappeared. There is such an impression that we live in the 13th century, when people or the people of Polotsk visited Latvia often. Polotka is not now, but now our friends Lithuanians are continuing these “flights”. Paragraph 39 of the concept states: “Landguardė and Jaunguardė are the primary instruments for public involvement in national defence.” Moreover, paragraph 40 states that the integration of the Land Guard into the structure of the NBS is a key element in the implementation of the NBS development plan. Apparently somewhere we made a mistake, including... and removing the Earthguard from its functions that were for the Defence Organization in Latvia before the war. Dear colleagues, Can we imagine that in the 1930s some Syrian gangs from Poland or Russia or Lithuania and steal, say, agricultural inventory in the value of millions of lats?Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. Today, for some reason, this is a normal phenomenon. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. I.Ryben’s synopsis.) So it was obviously a mistake for us to remove the functions that it had at the beginning of the 1990s, when it was founded, and to incorporate it into the armed forces. In time, the teams of guards were in the centre of each county. We can, of course, say that the guards did not protect the independence of Latvia. But the French army and the Czechoslovak army did not protect the independence of those countries either, but it was the perfect order! ( The Unity of the Group.) I think the concept needs to be supported, but it certainly needs to think about how to remedy this situation. We have 400 landguards in cooperation with the State Police, but this is obviously not enough, and apparently the Law of the Republic of Latvia on the Land Guard and also the Law on the National Armed Forces should appear in an article that allows them to perform its functions directly so that they can actually defend the land or change the name of the Landguard. But I call for support for the concept. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-06-16-PT12-371-U100	Name to Member Valdis Kalnozols.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-06-16-PT12-371-U101	Hello! I also call for support to be given to the concept, but perhaps also for a little bit to think about the situation. If, in fact, we allow a situation where Russia is beginning a war, then we understand very well that there are a couple of thousands of soldiers here in Latvia and that a couple of tanks will not save anything. If Russian troops enter Latvia in the morning, he will leave Latvia in the evening. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. V.Spolitis: “Where are we so safe?” ) Next. I would like to express my reflection. I feel like Latvia is like a buffer zone in this situation... that Latvia is such a buffer zone. If war begins, the whole of Europe will be able to collect and concentrate on further hostilities at this time. For some time now, I have perhaps also stressed in previous publications that there are also countries such as Switzerland and Israel which are dealing sufficiently well with matters relating to the protection of their country. Switzerland has one of the largest armies. Israel, which has always been in war, is very successful in defending its interests. I would also like to remind you of a case such as the Partisan War. For the great America that wanted to conquer Vietnam, however, it failed. The Vietnameses, with their guerrilla war tactics, made it possible for America to resign. The same thing is about what happened during the Second World War in Yugoslavia. The Partisan War is one relatively effective way of defending the state. I would like to emphasise and fully agree that a strengthening of the Earthguard should be carried out, as in Switzerland, so that every citizen of the Republic of Latvia who loves his own country can be a defender of our country. And I think... The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. E.Smilten: “Be on Earth’s Guard?” ) Yes, in my opinion, this is the cheapest way to defend your country. ( Internouncing call.) Yeah. What else do I want to mention? At the moment, the situation with Latvia is as follows: while we are always talking to us: “There will be war? No, there will be no war!” - actually we are stagnating in the real estate market and tourism market. And the sooner we get to grips with this, the faster we get to grips with our economies. To conclude, my deep conviction is that European countries do not need war. And my deep conviction is that only one benefit from the war - those who produce military equipment. No one else's war and this military, so to speak, there is no need for a race. Let us not worry about the military industry, please! Let us take care of the security of our own people!
ParlaMint-LV_2016-06-16-PT12-371-U102	The name of the Member, Martin Bondar.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-06-16-PT12-371-U103	Colleagues! I call for support for the National Defence Concept. Thank you too, of course, to the Minister and the Ministry for the concept that has been developed, at the same time I would like to draw the Minister's attention to the fact that in his political organisation and government there are sufficiently influential people who do not understand the nature of the risks that are for the protection of Latvia and the risks that we have to deal with. I am referring here to the meeting of the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission on Tuesday, in which the Minister for Finance, Dana Reizniece-Ozola, spoke about the fact that defence could be deprived of funding because GDP growth is lower. I must say that Mrs Reizniece-Ozola may not understand one thing, a very important thing, that the concept is being built on risks, and the plans are also being built on risks rather than on GDP growth. Minister, I would ask you, however, to pay attention to the members of your party who do not understand such essential and fundamental things as this may interfere with Latvia's defence. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-06-16-PT12-371-U104	Name to Member Ainars Latkovsky.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-06-16-PT12-371-U105	Colleagues! If you are not present at a sitting, this does not mean that such a sitting has not taken place. This must be understood by all. Not only last week, the Defence, Home Affairs and Anti-Corruption Commission looked at the concept of State Defence, where the Minister and Parliamentary Secretary were present. We saw this concept in the draft version on 3 February this year. Mr. Schnore was just not sitting there. We saw and there were Members who had concrete proposals. I simply remember that, for example, Karl Sergeant talked about the concept of Russia and the analysis of threats, and such a thing that we are looking at now and will confirm has already appeared there. Likewise, the administration of detention places, where armed personnel are present, was not mentioned in this concept of State Defence, and it was also taken into account. Negotiations are held between the Ministry of Defence and the Ministry of Justice. So that was the possibility in the Commission. There were Members who used it. When it comes to internal threats. Indeed, on 26 November last year, we approved the concept of national security here in the Saeima. And if this concept also does not have the terms that my colleague, Mr Schnores, is using, however, this internal threat to the use of Russia's asymmetric war and their experience is evident from Crimea and Ukraine. They should not be exactly the same words. In my view, however, when I get to know this concept of national security, it is clear that such internal risks, which Mr Schnores spoke about quite rightly, are mentioned in it. I call for support for the National Defence Concept.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-06-16-PT12-371-U106	Thank you. I closed the debate. Will the rapporteur add a note on behalf of the Commission? The rapporteur does not want to add anything. Please call me! We will vote for the draft decision on the approval of the National Defence Concept! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 65, for - no, for - 20. The decision has been taken. On the agenda - draft decision “On the participation of Latvian National Armed Forces soldiers in the United Nations Mission in Mali (MINUSMA)”. On behalf of the Commission for Defence, Home Affairs and Prevention of Corruption - Member Jānis Ruks.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-06-16-PT12-371-U107	Dear Chairman of the Saeima. Dear colleagues, Dear colleagues, The Commission for Defence, Home Affairs and the Prevention of Corruption at its meeting on 9 June this year discussed the issue “On the participation of the soldiers of the National Armed Forces of Latvia in the United Nations Mission in Mali (MINUSMA)”. The United Nations-led comprehensive stabilisation mission in Mali (MINUSMA) was launched on the basis of UN Security Council Resolution 2100 of 25 April 2013 to support the political processes in that country and to fulfil the stabilisation and security challenges. Further UN resolutions specified the objectives of the mission as regards the protection of the civilian population, support for the establishment of Malian state security structures, support for the successful implementation of the reconciliation process by the parties to the conflict and monitoring the implementation of the peace settlement. On January 14, 2016, the Saeima decided to send a soldier of the National Armed Forces of Latvia - one officer of the Staff, an information analyst in the unit of the Dutch-led Information Processing Staff in Bamako. The engagement of the mission is expected to continue. The current UN resolution sets the duration of the operation until 30 June this year. On behalf of the Commission for Defence, Home Affairs and the Prevention of Corruption of the Saeima, I visited Mali in April of the official visit of the Minister of National Defence and met with information analysts and heads of the Defence Commission of the Mali National Assembly, as well as with the management of the United Nations-led comprehensive stabilisation mission. I can confirm the laudable words expressed on the attitude of the state of Latvia and the high professional level of the soldiers sent in the performance of the mission. I would like to emphasise that it is an incomparable experience for our National Armed Forces in the future of cooperation and combat capability development. I request the Saeima to extend the participation of Latvian National Armed Forces soldiers in the mission in accordance with the United Nations Security Council Resolution, approving the draft decision prepared by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-06-16-PT12-371-U108	Thank you. Let us start a debate. Name: Minister of Defence Raimonds Bergman.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-06-16-PT12-371-U109	President-in-Office of the Saeima, very much. Honourable Members! I would like to thank you very much for approving the National Defence Concept. I have listened to the debate and, indeed, thank you very much for your initiative. I hope that, as we continue, we will achieve what we have achieved. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. S.Dolgopolov: “To what then?” ) The Ministry of Defence has submitted for approval a draft decision of the Saeima providing for the continuation of the participation of soldiers of the National Armed Forces in the first United Nations-led mission in Mali (MINUSMA). As Mr Ruka also said, the Saeima authorised the decision on 14 January 2016 and we were able to engage in the UN stabilisation mission in Mali (MINUSMA) until 30 June 2016 in accordance with the current mission mandate... the mandate of the UN Security Council Resolution. A new resolution on the extension of the mission mandate is traditionally adopted by the Security Council shortly before the current resolution expires. The primary objective of MINUSMA is to stabilise the situation and ensure security in the territory of Mali, while at the same time focusing on the protection of the civilian population and supporting the development of Malian state security structures, as well as to monitor and support the implementation of the peace agreement. Latvia will not participate in combat operations. Currently, NBS participates in MINUSMA with one staff officer – an information analyst in the information processing staff unit. This involvement is expected to continue. The UN Mission MINUSMA plays a key role in stabilising Mali and the Sahel as a whole. The participation of our NBS in the MINUSMA operation is linked to the plans of the partner countries in Mali, which, by the way, are based on the assumption of continuation of support provided by Latvia after 30 June 2016. We participate in the mission with critical intelligence capability that ensures the effectiveness of the mission. The Ministry of Defence of MINUSMA intends to implement the participation of NBS within the previously planned budget. In the light of these considerations, I ask you, honourable Members, to support the draft decision of the Saeima on the participation of the National Armed Forces in the UN-led mission in Mali (MINUSMA). Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-06-16-PT12-371-U110	Thank you. I closed the debate. Will the rapporteur add something? The rapporteur does not want to add anything. Please call me! We will vote for the draft decision “On the participation of Latvian National Armed Forces soldiers in the United Nations Mission in Mali (MINUSMA)”! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 84, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The decision has been taken. The next item is "Provision of draft legislation". On the agenda - draft law “Amendment to the Law on Advertising”, second reading. The draft law has been declared urgent. On behalf of the National Administration and Municipal Commission - Member Viktors Valainis.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-06-16-PT12-371-U111	Hello, colleagues! We work with amendments to the Advertising Law. One was created in the Commission, a proposal from the committee responsible. The Commission supported this. I call for support.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-06-16-PT12-371-U112	Members support the proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-06-16-PT12-371-U113	We have therefore examined the proposals. I call for support to be given to the draft law at second, final, reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-06-16-PT12-371-U114	Please call me! We will vote in favour of the second, final, reading of the draft law on advertising! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 79, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The law has been passed. On the agenda - draft law “Amendments to the Code of Administrative Violations of Latvia”, second reading. The draft law has been declared urgent. Member of the Legal Commission Gaidis Berzins.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-06-16-PT12-371-U115	Dear Chairman of the Saeima. Dear colleagues, We see the draft law “Amendments to the Latvian Administrative Violations Code”. I would remind you that the draft law has been declared urgent. The Commission received three proposals. 1. - the proposal of the Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Transport, Mr Edgars Tatars, to increase the penalty for road user charges in the event of road traffic offences, and to supplement the range of persons liable to administrative liability by including the carrier accordingly. During the examination of the above proposal, the Legal Commission heard both the State Police representative, who informed about the control of road tolls in Latvia as well as representatives of the Transporters Association. After hearing the report of the State Police Representative, the Commission obtained information that the following facts were discovered in the course of the control. In particular, the number of protocols in cases where the toll has not been paid... In five months of this year Latvian carriers have experienced 520 cases, while aliens have had 115 cases. A similar trend has been observed in 2015. Unfortunately, it can be concluded that the Latvian carrier is about four times more undisciplined. Questions were also asked to the Commission about the reasons why carriers did not pay the levy. The representative of “Latvijas auto“ pointed out that sometimes carriers or drivers forget simply to do so. There may be other considerations. The Commission held a general debate on this. There was no objection to support this proposal, but the question was, for example, from the "Latvian car" side: is the penalty that is being offered proportionate. And as a result of the vote, the Commission did not support the proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-06-16-PT12-371-U116	Let us start a debate. Name Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Transport Edgars Tavars. Are there any objections to Members when the Parliamentary Secretary brings together both speaking time and speaking for seven minutes? There is no objection. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. M.Bondars: “By 12.30!” ) Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2016-06-16-PT12-371-U117	Dear President of the Saeima. Dear Members and honourable Members, These amendments to the Code of Administrative Violations by increasing penalties for road toll offences are necessary to motivate drivers and carriers who do not currently pay the toll to make this toll more active. Taking into account the negotiations held in the Legal Commission this week, I would like to make it clear that this revenue from road user charge is diverted to the roads of Latvia in 100 per cent, and that our priority is not to charge a penalty, but to motivate rogue carriers to make toll payments, and increasing the penalties is an additional incentive to comply with statutory obligations on road use in order to avoid a situation where payment of the penalty is more advantageous than payment of the toll due in accordance with the law. The ideal version of the road user obligations would be full implementation. Therefore, penalties should not be collected at all. We understand the concerns of the Association of Road Carriers “Latvijas auto“ regarding possible accidental error of drivers and carriers and the human forgetting of making payments. However, honourable Members, let us take into account that, at present, the penalty for not paying the toll is EUR 120 for the driver, for not paying the toll in full - only EUR 40. ( The drug is noise. The head of the sitting shall be knocked down by means of a hammer.) For carriers, however, there is no penalty at all. The current annual road toll rate is between EUR 400 and EUR 925 - depending on the total mass of the vehicle, the level of engine emissions and the number of axles. Consequently, the current penalty is not adequately low.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-06-16-PT12-371-U118	One moment, Mr. Tatar! The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. I.Rībena and A.Latkovskis speak aloud.) Colleagues, I appeal: stop the negotiations! The parliamentary sitting will be adjourned soon. Please continue!
ParlaMint-LV_2016-06-16-PT12-371-U119	When compared to the highest annual rate of tolls, this penalty is as much as seven times lower than the rate. Foreign experience shows that, for example, in Lithuania the maximum penalty for non-payment of the toll may be as high as six times that currently in Latvia, while the maximum penalty in Germany is up to 166 times higher than in Latvia. If we compare with the penalties in Latvia, according to Section 159 of the Latvian Administrative Violations Code, the penalty for tax evasion or equivalent payment is from 140 euros to 2100 euros. But the current penalty for not paying a toll is more than 17 times less. For other offences related to road transport, the Latvian Administrative Violations Code provides for considerably higher penalties than currently for non-payment of road user charges. For example, Article 149.38 of the Latvian Administrative Violations Code provides that first of all, the use of a registration card, the so-called tachograph, for more than the prescribed period, if the data recorded in it are not legible, is fined to the driver from 140 euros to 280 euros, and to the carrier from 430 euros to 700 euros. Secondly. On carrying out of road transport by a vehicle which is not equipped with a recording equipment, if its necessity is provided for by laws and regulations or by a speed limitation device, a fine shall be imposed on the driver from 280 euros to 500 euros, and on the carrier from 700 euros to 1400 euros. As we can see, the amount of punishment offered by us in the Latvian Code of Administrative Violations is nothing new, and it is also noted that a significant part of the illustrious drivers have been punished as many as three, four or more times. Given that the penalty is disproportionately low, a significant part of the illustrious road hauliers do not hide that they choose to take risks and that it is more advantageous for them to pay the penalty even seven times than to pay the toll for the whole year. This is also demonstrated by the fact that in 2015 the revenue from the toll was only 70 per cent of the forecast. I informed you that the State Police has also found that in about 17 percent of cases the road use fee has not been paid. On the basis of the above, we are proposing to increase the level of penalties for drivers as well as to impose additional penalties on carriers (like for offences related to the use of tachographs). In the particular case, the amount of the penalty to be imposed will be assessed by the State Police on the basis of whether the infringement is first or repeated, as well as on the basis of the amount of the unpaid fee. Dear Members, With this proposal, we send out a clear signal and we call for compliance with the law also by those who are currently using this gap to avoid payment of the levy, and exploit our national roads and their infrastructure and pollute our nature at the expense of honest taxpayers. Please support this proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-06-16-PT12-371-U120	Thank you. The name is Mr. Wallary Ageshin.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-06-16-PT12-371-U121	Dear colleagues, It is difficult to deny that there is a problem with road user charges offences, but I would like to remind you, however, that this draft law was opened up with a completely different aim: to implement urgently the requirements of the regulation on the speed of traffic or the volume of data breach by providing a public internet access service. Consequently, this draft law was also granted urgency. And now Members of the Saeima have very limited opportunities to work on other proposals put forward for final reading, including this proposal 1. The meeting of the Legal Commission has shown that this proposal is not sufficiently substantiated and, in my view, is not proportionate. I therefore call for the opinion of the Legal Commission to be followed and for this proposal to be rejected. If the authors of the proposal consider that this subject is so topical, then it would be necessary to discuss the issue with the industry, prepare a draft law with an in-depth annotation and move forward rather than submit something for second reading as a matter of urgency. I think that such a procedure is not acceptable to the majority of the Saeima. I call on you to vote against this proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-06-16-PT12-371-U122	Thank you. I closed the debate. Will the rapporteur add a note on behalf of the Commission?
ParlaMint-LV_2016-06-16-PT12-371-U123	Yeah, thank you. Just a little comment. So, with this proposal from the Ministry of Transport, the purpose of the proposal is also defined, namely, an annotation that Mr Agešin spoke of. On behalf of the Commission, I ask Members to express their views by voting.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-06-16-PT12-371-U124	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote in favour of 1. - A proposal from the Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Transport, Edgars Tatars! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 39, against - 28, refrains - 13. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-06-16-PT12-371-U125	Thank you. The next item is the proposal by the Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Transport. In essence, technical, since the Act Amending the Law on Railways and the Act Amending the Law on Public Service Regulators entered into force on 10 March this year, according to which the railway transport sector is no longer a regulated sector from 10 March this year. The Code of Administrative Violations should therefore be amended accordingly. The Commission has supported this proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-06-16-PT12-371-U126	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-06-16-PT12-371-U127	3. There is also a proposal by the Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Transport to clarify the wording of the relevant provision. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-06-16-PT12-371-U128	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-06-16-PT12-371-U129	We have therefore examined all the proposals. On behalf of the Commission, please support the draft law “Amendments to the Latvian Code of Administrative Violations” at second, final reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-06-16-PT12-371-U130	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote in favour of the second, final, reading of the draft law “Amendments to the Latvian Administrative Violations Code”! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 87, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The law has been passed. Dear colleagues, It's time for a break. Please call me! Please check-in mode for Members! I call on all my fellow Members, all my fellow Members, especially John, to the Red Hall - to the John Day. Name Member of the Saeima Gunars Kūtris to read the results of the registration as soon as they are prepared.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-06-16-PT12-371-U131	Dear colleagues, However, I have been forced to read those who have not registered: Jānis Kžads, Ivan Klementjevs, Rihards Kols, Armands Krauze, Anrijs Matīss, Romanas Nadiņš, Arthur Rubiks, Veiko Spolitis, Jūlija Stepanenko, Inguna Silverba, Mārtiņš Šics and Juris Vectirāns.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-06-16-PT12-371-U132	Interruption until 13.30 a.m. ( Interruption)
ParlaMint-LV_2016-06-16-PT12-371-U133	Dear colleagues, I invite you to take your seats in the Chamber! We're going to keep the Saeima sitting. On the agenda - draft law “Amendments to the Law on Maritime Administration and Maritime Safety”, second reading. The draft law has been declared urgent. On behalf of the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy, Member Edward Smilten.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-06-16-PT12-371-U134	Hello, fellow Members, again! We work with amendments to the Law on Maritime Administration and Maritime Safety. Overall, six proposals have been received by the Commission. The proposal is from the Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Transport, Edgars Tatars, and it has received support from the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-06-16-PT12-371-U135	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-06-16-PT12-371-U136	2 is also a proposal from the Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Transport, Mr Tatar, who has received support from the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-06-16-PT12-371-U137	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-06-16-PT12-371-U138	3. There is also the proposal by Edgars Tatars, who has received support from the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-06-16-PT12-371-U139	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-06-16-PT12-371-U140	4. is a proposal from the Legal Office, which is supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-06-16-PT12-371-U141	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-06-16-PT12-371-U142	5. - a proposal from the Legal Bureau, which has received support from the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-06-16-PT12-371-U143	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-06-16-PT12-371-U144	And six. - a proposal from the Legal Bureau, which is supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-06-16-PT12-371-U145	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-06-16-PT12-371-U146	Therefore, colleagues, we have examined all six proposals, and on behalf of the Commission, I call on you to vote in second, final, reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-06-16-PT12-371-U147	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote in favour of the second, final reading of the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Maritime Administration and Maritime Safety”! Please vote mode! Please get the result! There's no one to - 67, against and refrain from - 67. The law has been passed. On the agenda - draft law “Amendments to the Law on Public Equity Shares and Corporate Governance”, second reading. The draft law has been declared urgent. On behalf of the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy, Member Edward Smilten.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-06-16-PT12-371-U148	Colleagues! We work with amendments to the Law on Public Equity Shares and Corporate Governance. Obviously, the Commission has worked very professionally, because no proposals have been received by the Commission. I therefore call on you to vote in favour of this draft law at second, final, reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-06-16-PT12-371-U149	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote in favour of supporting the second, final reading of the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Public Equity Shares and Corporate Governance”! Please vote mode! Please get the result! It's not about - 71, it's against and refrains from - it's not. The law has been passed. On the agenda - draft law “Amendments to the Law on Value Added Tax”, second reading. The draft law has been declared urgent. On behalf of the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission, Member Laimdota Straujuma.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-06-16-PT12-371-U150	Dear Members, We work with amendments to the Value Added Tax Act. No proposals for second reading have been received. I would therefore ask for support for this draft law and would remind you that the draft law is on the introduction of VAT reverse charge arrangements in the cereals and technical cultures sector.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-06-16-PT12-371-U151	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote in favour of the second, final, reading of the draft law on "Amendments to the Law on Value Added Tax". Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 72, against and refrains. The law has been passed. On the agenda - draft law “Amendments to the Law on Higher Education”, third reading. On behalf of the Commission for Education, Culture and Science, Member Ilze Viņķelė.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-06-16-PT12-371-U152	Colleagues! We see amendments to the Law on Higher Education at third reading. I would remind you that with these amendments, we will set out the procedure by which universities will be able to dispose of real estate provided free of charge and to use this money for the purposes set out in the development plan. Five proposals for third reading have been received in the Law on Higher Education. 1. - a proposal from the Legal Office which is of a technical nature. The Commission is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-06-16-PT12-371-U153	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-06-16-PT12-371-U154	2. - a proposal from the Legal Office which is also of a technical nature. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-06-16-PT12-371-U155	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-06-16-PT12-371-U156	3. - a proposal from the Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Finance, Mr Edgars Putra. Hasn't received the commission's support.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-06-16-PT12-371-U157	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-06-16-PT12-371-U158	4. - The legal bureau's proposal clarifies the wording so that it is clear what the Cabinet of Ministers should lay down in the rules governing the development of university development plans. They have received the Commission's support.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-06-16-PT12-371-U159	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-06-16-PT12-371-U160	And 5. - a proposal from the Legal Office which is also of a technical nature. The Commission is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-06-16-PT12-371-U161	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-06-16-PT12-371-U162	Please vote in favour of the draft law as a whole.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-06-16-PT12-371-U163	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote in favour of the third, final, reading of the draft law on amendments to the Law on Higher Education! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For -78, against and refrains. The law has been passed. On the agenda - draft law “Amendments to the Law on the Expropriation of Public Property”, third reading. On behalf of the Commission for Education, Culture and Science, Member Ilze Viņķelė.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-06-16-PT12-371-U164	The draft law is related to the previously examined amendments to the Law on Higher Education. Three proposals for third reading have been received for this draft law. 1. - the proposal from the Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Finance, Mr Putra. Partly supported and included 2. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-06-16-PT12-371-U165	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-06-16-PT12-371-U166	2. - a proposal from the Commission for Education, Culture and Science specifying the procedure by which the funds acquired after the sale on immovable property are allocated to a derived public person or to a university which is a derived public person. This proposal is supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-06-16-PT12-371-U167	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-06-16-PT12-371-U168	And 3. - a proposal from the Legal Office which is of a technical nature. This is also supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-06-16-PT12-371-U169	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-06-16-PT12-371-U170	Please support the draft law as a whole.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-06-16-PT12-371-U171	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote for the support of the draft law “Amendments to the Law on the Expropriation of Public Property” in the third, final, reading! Please vote mode! Please get the result! It's about 80, it's not against and refrains. The law has been passed. On the agenda - draft law “Amendments to the Law on Repatriation”, third reading. On behalf of the Commission for Human Rights and Public Affairs, Member Walter Dambe.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-06-16-PT12-371-U172	Dear Saeima to the Presidium! Colleagues! See the draft law “Amendments to the law on repatriation” at third reading. 15 proposals have been received. 1. - a proposal from the Commission on Human Rights and Public Affairs. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-06-16-PT12-371-U173	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-06-16-PT12-371-U174	2. The committee responsible shall also be responsible for the proposal. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-06-16-PT12-371-U175	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-06-16-PT12-371-U176	3. - Commission proposal. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-06-16-PT12-371-U177	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-06-16-PT12-371-U178	4. - Commission proposal. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-06-16-PT12-371-U179	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-06-16-PT12-371-U180	5. - Commission proposal. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-06-16-PT12-371-U181	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-06-16-PT12-371-U182	6. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-06-16-PT12-371-U183	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-06-16-PT12-371-U184	7. - Commission proposal. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-06-16-PT12-371-U185	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-06-16-PT12-371-U186	8 / 8 - Commission proposal. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-06-16-PT12-371-U187	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-06-16-PT12-371-U188	9. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-06-16-PT12-371-U189	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-06-16-PT12-371-U190	10............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Partly supported, included in proposal 11.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-06-16-PT12-371-U191	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-06-16-PT12-371-U192	11. - a proposal from the committee responsible. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-06-16-PT12-371-U193	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-06-16-PT12-371-U194	12. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Partially supported, included 13. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-06-16-PT12-371-U195	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-06-16-PT12-371-U196	13. - a proposal from the committee responsible. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-06-16-PT12-371-U197	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-06-16-PT12-371-U198	14............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - a proposal from the Commission on Human Rights and Public Affairs. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-06-16-PT12-371-U199	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-06-16-PT12-371-U200	And 15. - a proposal from the committee responsible. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-06-16-PT12-371-U201	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-06-16-PT12-371-U202	Please support the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Repatriation” in the third, final, reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-06-16-PT12-371-U203	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote in favour of supporting the draft law on repatriation in the third, final, reading! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 81, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. The law has been passed. On the agenda - draft law on the official electronic address, third reading. On behalf of the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy, Member Edward Smilten.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-06-16-PT12-371-U204	Colleagues! Today we will conclude work on the Law on the Official Electronic Address, which provides for a new type of communication between the state and society, as well as among members of society. Overall, 20 proposals have been tabled for the third reading. 1. - the proposal by the Minister of the Interior, Rihards Kozlovska, on the definition of the official electronic address account. This is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-06-16-PT12-371-U205	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-06-16-PT12-371-U206	2. - the proposal of Mr Kaspars Gerhard, Minister for Environmental Protection and Regional Development. Partly supported, included in the next proposal - 3.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-06-16-PT12-371-U207	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-06-16-PT12-371-U208	3. - a proposal from the committee responsible which has received support from the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-06-16-PT12-371-U209	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-06-16-PT12-371-U210	4. - Minister Gerhard's proposal. The Commission is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-06-16-PT12-371-U211	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-06-16-PT12-371-U212	5. - Minister Gerhard's proposal. The Commission has received support.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-06-16-PT12-371-U213	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-06-16-PT12-371-U214	6. - the proposal of Minister Kaspars Gerhard. The Commission is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-06-16-PT12-371-U215	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-06-16-PT12-371-U216	7. - the proposal of Minister Kaspars Gerhard. The Commission is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-06-16-PT12-371-U217	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-06-16-PT12-371-U218	8 / 8 - Minister Gerhard's proposal. The Commission is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-06-16-PT12-371-U219	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-06-16-PT12-371-U220	9. - the proposal of Minister Kaspars Gerhard. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-06-16-PT12-371-U221	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-06-16-PT12-371-U222	10............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - the proposal of the Minister of the Interior Rihards Kozlovska. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-06-16-PT12-371-U223	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-06-16-PT12-371-U224	11. - the proposal of the Minister of the Interior Rihards Kozlovska. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-06-16-PT12-371-U225	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-06-16-PT12-371-U226	12. - The proposal from the Legal Bureau of the Saeima. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-06-16-PT12-371-U227	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-06-16-PT12-371-U228	13. - the proposal of the Minister for the Interior, Kozlovsky. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-06-16-PT12-371-U229	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-06-16-PT12-371-U230	14............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - the proposal of the Minister of the Interior Rihards Kozlovska. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-06-16-PT12-371-U231	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-06-16-PT12-371-U232	15............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - the proposal of the Minister for the Interior, Kozlovsky. Has been supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-06-16-PT12-371-U233	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-06-16-PT12-371-U234	16. - the proposal of Minister Kaspars Gerhard. Partly supported and included in the next proposal 17.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-06-16-PT12-371-U235	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-06-16-PT12-371-U236	17. - a proposal from the committee responsible which has received support.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-06-16-PT12-371-U237	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-06-16-PT12-371-U238	18. - the proposal of Minister Kaspars Gerhard. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-06-16-PT12-371-U239	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-06-16-PT12-371-U240	19. - the proposal of Minister Kaspars Gerhard. Partly supported and included in Amendment 17, which we have already examined.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-06-16-PT12-371-U241	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-06-16-PT12-371-U242	And the last one is 20. - the proposal of Minister Kaspars Gerhard, who has received support from the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-06-16-PT12-371-U243	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-06-16-PT12-371-U244	So, colleagues, we have examined all 20 proposals. I call for the third, final, reading draft law to be voted on.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-06-16-PT12-371-U245	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote for the support of the draft law on official electronic address in the third, final, reading! Please vote mode! Please get the result! Not by - 82, not by - and refrains. The law has been passed. On the agenda - draft law “Amendment to the Law “On Personal Income Tax”, third reading. Member of the Commission for Budget and Finance (Tax) Mārtiņš Bondars.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-06-16-PT12-371-U246	Dear Bureau! Dear colleagues, Dear colleagues, The Budget and Finance (Tax) Commission worked with the draft law “Amendment to the Law on Personal Income Tax”. One proposal was tabled to the Commission for the third reading - the Dombrava Member's proposal - which was not supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-06-16-PT12-371-U247	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-06-16-PT12-371-U248	On behalf of the Commission, I ask you to adopt a draft law at third, final, reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-06-16-PT12-371-U249	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote for the support of the draft law “Amendment to the Law on Personal Income Tax” in the third, final, reading! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 81, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. The law has been passed. On the agenda - draft law “Amendments to the Law “On Taxation in Free Ports and Special Economic Zones”, third reading. On behalf of the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission, Member Imants Debtor.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-06-16-PT12-371-U250	Hello, colleagues! We work with Law No 485/Lp12. For the third reading, 11 proposals have been received or developed by the Commission. 1. is the proposal of Mr. Janis Eglitis, Parliamentary Secretary. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-06-16-PT12-371-U251	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-06-16-PT12-371-U252	2. There is also the proposal of the Parliamentary Secretary of the VARM Eglitis. The Commission has partially supported and included 3. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-06-16-PT12-371-U253	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-06-16-PT12-371-U254	3. is a proposal from the committee responsible. Supported by changing the numbering of the following articles accordingly.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-06-16-PT12-371-U255	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-06-16-PT12-371-U256	4. There is a proposal from the Member, Mr Wuzan. The Commission has been supported by a corresponding change in the numbering of the following articles.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-06-16-PT12-371-U257	Let us start a debate. The name of the Member, Martin Bondar.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-06-16-PT12-371-U258	Dear colleagues, I will talk about all the proposals made by Mr Wuzan to this bill. I would like to say that these proposals, including this specific proposal, have a very vague objective. Mr Vucaan has not been able to explain why his proposal is being put forward for further consideration. In the Commission, Mr Wuzan was unable to motivate this proposal, trying to say that it is in the name of the citizens. But in fact, by pressing this bill three times through, we did not get any residents to the commission either. The only thing we have received is the promises that the problems of this type of population are being addressed. Because, you see, there are investors in special economic zones, which are causing various problems. At the same time, these municipalities do not have any influence in terms of being able to take these investors out of order. Mr. Blumberg was asked from Ventspils Municipality: “Where are the problems then, colleagues? Is Ventspils city really not dealing with any investors who have invested in Ventspils Freeport and Ventspils Special Economic Zone?” Mr Blumberg said: "We have a wonderful relationship with all, absolutely all investors in our special economic zone and at a free port. We have no problems. But you know why we need these changes to the law? Perhaps the farm will be useful.’ So this bill is for the purpose - maybe it will be useful on the farm. I would also like to tell you that in Latgale's special economic zone, he said very clearly and directly: "Dear friends, we do not need to accept these amendments to the law for one reason: they send a very bad signal to investors who would like to invest in special economic zones!" And finally. However, I believe that neither the President nor any of the Members should mislead the other colleagues. Mr Vucanas said that he had addressed the Foreign Investors' Council in Latvia with a request to express his views on this draft law. When calling the Foreign Investors' Council in Latvia, I learned that it has not received any request from either Mr. Wuzana or the Commission. Therefore, colleagues, my proposal and the request are as follows: do not support these proposals (Dep. A.Kamiņš: Which concrete? ), because they undermine Latvia's image, undermine Latvia's business environment and only make it more unstable and unclear for foreign investors, as well as unacceptable for local investors. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-06-16-PT12-371-U259	The name is Mr. Vilnis Ķirsim.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-06-16-PT12-371-U260	Colleagues, welcome again! As we say, with good intentions, the road to hell has been paved (Dep. A.Kimiņš: “Good! Very good!” ), and this time we will get the law of Latgale Special Economic Zone (or maybe it would be hard to name). But, of course, it is in our power to change everything. What, then, is this draft law now? The draft law provides that any undertaking which opens its production site in these special economic zones is entitled to a property tax credit and a corporate income tax credit of 80 per cent if the undertaking fulfils the relevant conditions or obligations it has undertaken. What, then, is the proposal proposed by the proposer? He suggests that every municipality in which this economic area is located will be able, on the basis of certain criteria, to sort out the entrepreneurs who will then be granted this large discount, which is less. For example, Company A is subject to local authority and therefore has an 80 per cent discount. Company B is not so obedient, perhaps does not donate for the city festival, so 50 percent. A company may not donate to a particular party, and therefore it is given its own minimum rate, i.e. 10 per cent. It must be said that business organisations are simply shocking about such a proposal. The most important aspect is that the game conditions change during the game. In particular, they have already built their own production facilities, which cannot be changed so easily, but now suddenly we tell them that, it turns out, the rules of the game will change. Second, unpredictable. I mean, maybe things are fine right now, but they don't know when something can change. So this environment is uncertain; it does not encourage such healthy entrepreneurs to think about development rather than about some possible peripetations. Inequality and distortion of competition In particular, it is possible that in this way, some companies will have the same conditions, the other companies; some will be in a better position and will be able to compete better than others. And, of course, unclear application. The fact is that the real estate tax is recalculated every year, but in a way this amendment will have retroactive effect, because the next year when the tax is calculated it will simply be smaller. And, of course, when it comes to the procedure, it must be understood that the third reading - the last reading - is such an important proposal! The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. E.Putra: “To the second reading has already been submitted!” ) Here in the morning, the President of Latvia stood at the tribunal and said... It was clear and clear that we had rejected several draft laws in this part-session, precisely because significant amendments had appeared there at third reading. Well, this is the other one! Go on. Colleagues! There are various indicators for measuring the economic environment - Doing Business Index, as well as global competitiveness index. There is also an index called the World Economic Forum Index on the Legal Environment. We're at 116. We can be proud that we are in the middle, between the countries of Africa, we are not at the very end. But it is hardly an honorable place for a country that has today approved the conditions for joining the OECD group of countries. And all these insolvency cases... This proposal would have a direct impact on where we are... where our business environment is. Finally. On taxes. When we voted in favour of the government, we then also supported the government declaration, which promised that businesses would not increase their taxes. This is the moment when we violate our commitment! We will be voting on changes in the tax system immediately. It's been 100 days, and we've forgotten what we've taken! Also with the budget. In fact, this will also affect the distribution between public and municipal budgets. We all look forward to the autumn when we share money according to the priorities that each party has (for one - demographics, for the other - education, for the other - security, and so on), but in reality we will already distribute money and we can no longer divide it in the autumn. There is such a tactic that children are fed bitter drugs, hiding them in sweet candy. Now it's like we're... We have a delicious sweet sweet candy on the table called “The Latgale Economic Zone”, but...
ParlaMint-LV_2016-06-16-PT12-371-U261	Mr. Chersch, your speaking time is over!
ParlaMint-LV_2016-06-16-PT12-371-U262	The last sentence. Yeah. ... But it depends on you whether we will eat with this sweet together a whole dose of bitter lamb. Please, colleagues... Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. On behalf of the Ministry of Economic Affairs, business organisations and the Group, I call on you not to support all these proposals from Mr Wuzan. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-06-16-PT12-371-U263	The name of Member Lolita Chigan.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-06-16-PT12-371-U264	Dear Chairman of the Saeima. Dear colleagues, A little addition to what has been said here, from this troupe, about the proposals made by Mr Wuzan and also about the intermediate names that came from the drug. Indeed, the situation is that the Council of Foreign Investors in Latvia and entrepreneurs were not invited to get acquainted with this proposal in good time and were not invited to give an opinion. However, the Foreign Investors Council in Latvia has written its opinion and expressed a clear negative attitude towards these amendments. As Mr Ķirša has already pointed out, very recently there was a discussion with our entrepreneurs and investors about insolvency proceedings here in the Red Hall. And foreign investors described the term “insolvencies” as a mafia that sparks them. In this case, these amendments have unfortunately been assessed very similarly by foreign investors. And we cannot ignore that. Here is a letter addressed to both Mr Vucanas and the Speaker of the Saeima. Dear colleagues, Indeed, the President of Latvia here, from this troupe, spoke today about a very bad practice - to move to the third reading completely new, conceptually changing amendments to the law. This has also happened this time, and therefore these proposals, from 4 to 9, are simply not supported in this draft law. I heard from Mr Putra that the following proposal had already been tabled in second reading. Really. And it was not supported because the Ministry of Finance was very strongly opposed. Mr Putra, your Ministry has very strongly opposed this situation, which will create absolute uncertainty for investors and which will act retroactively on the agreements that have already been concluded, and will, in principle, give a completely free hand to the arbitrary nature of local authorities. Of course, there will be governments that will act in good faith. But what if there are ones who will not act?Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Dear colleagues, if you do not listen to the President of Latvia today and support these amendments at third reading, I very much hope that the President will return to us and then - with more or less shame - we will get back to work with them. Please do not support.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-06-16-PT12-371-U265	The name is Mr. Janis Wuzan.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-06-16-PT12-371-U266	Dear colleagues, Dear colleagues, My name has been mentioned several times here in the previous debate. And, to be honest, it was mentioned from the point of view of which I from my colleagues - from you! - I've never heard before in the family that I'm spreading false information that I'm misleading. I will try to disprove these statements. And I will begin by saying what Mrs. Chiganes said about the fact that the Foreign Investors' Council has just wake up in Latvia, he has sent a letter to all parliamentary groups and also to the Speaker of the Saeima with opposition to specific draft laws on taxation in special economic zones... the application of tax reductions to companies. If the Council of Foreign Investors in Latvia, like any other interested institution, had participated in the committee meeting or even even had listened to the audio record of the committee meeting, then it would have found answers to all these questions, because all these questions were discussed at the committee meeting - whether it is viewed in the urgency procedure or whether it appears only to the third reading. These proposals were already set out in the second reading version, both within the Commission and here, from the parliamentary tribunal. What the Ministry of Finance opposed was not what you spoke about, Mrs Chigan. The reason was quite different. The reason for this was that, in the version in which the proposals were put forward for the second reading, they would probably have to be re-coordinated with the European Commission, which was the only objection of the Ministry of Finance. For what Mr Bondara said. He said that I had deceived the Commission by saying that the Foreign Investors' Council in Latvia had been asked for its opinion. At the Commission sitting, I said something else. In reply, I do not remember your question or any other question, I said that the Foreign Investors' Council in Latvia had the opportunity to take part in the work of the committee, like any other institution, and to express its views, as well as to submit its proposals. You can listen to the audio record of the commission sitting, and then you will see how it was there. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. A.Kamiņš: “Jani Vucan, your proposals! On the proposals!’ ) Now on the substance of the matter. Why do you need this... a proposal of this kind? Mr. Kiršas has already told us about the scheme or the system of how these tax concessions are currently applied. And so by default... by default it is due - if the municipality, if the Freeport Council or the Special Economic Zone Council so decides, it is due! - a tax credit of 80 per cent, combined with real estate tax and corporate income tax. The municipalities in whose territory the zones or ports are located have the right to increase this discount by up to 100 per cent by their decision. But municipalities are not entitled, for example, to vary this tax credit downwards as regards the regulation of their business. There are only two options: either a zero percentage discount or an 80 percentage points discount. At the same time... If we look at the law “On Real Estate Tax”, then we see that commercial companies operating in local municipalities have the right to receive a different exemption from the real estate tax. Moreover, the Law on Real Estate Tax sets out four principles on which (i.e. not arbitrarily but only if the conditions of those principles are met!) municipalities have the right to introduce such a graduation. These my proposals are, by their very nature, proposals not in the direction of distorting the tax system, but in the direction of harmonisation, so that what municipalities can apply outside the special economic zones and ports, at least at the level which is not opposed by the European Commission, can also be applied in the areas of the free ports. ( The utterance: “Time! ”) ) Colleagues! I hope I have responded (Interface: “Time!” ) to a large part of the insults and accusations which were addressed to me. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. S. Aboltiņa: “You told others who spoke longer! All must be equal!” ) May I take another half a minute... Is that so?
ParlaMint-LV_2016-06-16-PT12-371-U267	Are Members in favour of extending the time for debate? Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2016-06-16-PT12-371-U268	Half a minute. What is... What are the situations in which such tax incentives could really be applied or, more precisely, to vary? For example, when concluding an investment contract (usually contracts of about twenty years) it was initially about, say, the storage of oil products, the disposal of these products in storage tanks. However, after some time, as the macroeconomic situation changes, the transit of petroleum products through Latvia is changing. And it concerns both the free ports and its areas and their infrastructure around these free ports and special economic zones. And let us assume that these same tanks are used for pouring and storing chemical products; there are quite other environmental requirements and quite other aspects of environmental pollution. And in such a situation, not to punish, but to encourage entrepreneurs to change their business, while also taking care of the environment, such proposals would be very useful. I call for support for this proposal, as well as the proposals supported by the following commission. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-06-16-PT12-371-U269	Thank you. Name to Member Valdis Kalnozols.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-06-16-PT12-371-U270	I'm just that short. As an entrepreneur, I worked in Russia, Germany, Greece and Norway (Dep. A.Kamiņš: “Now you are a Member!” I would like to say, “Let us be masters in our own land! ” Let's stop living and stylizing after another tube! It's funny. Substitution: “Simple text!” ) Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-06-16-PT12-371-U271	Thank you. The name to Member Martin Bondar, for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-06-16-PT12-371-U272	Mr. Wucanas, Mr. Nunozol, I could quote you what it means "theft of a state". Theft of the state is when private interests in the decision-making process of both municipality and state are infiltrated in order to benefit themselves. You know what, I have to say the same way as Mr. Putra said yesterday: "Perhaps it's probably coming here for it!" Maybe that's what it's like here. Mr. Wucaan! If you “draw” back to the sitting in which this famous debate took place, you would remember the moment Alexander Kirštein asked you the question: “What does the Council of Foreign Investors say about this in Latvia?” And your answer was: “We have sent this proposal to the Foreign Investors' Council in Latvia. They haven't answered. So by default they agree.” That's not what you said from this platform. This is not what you have just told your colleagues here. I would recommend you listen to this entry again once more. If this proposal is adopted today, I promise you, there will be a letter to the President of Latvia asking for the law to be re-readed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-06-16-PT12-371-U273	The name to Member Vilnius Chersim, for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-06-16-PT12-371-U274	Colleagues! I had a conversation yesterday with the Head of the Foreign Investment Council in Latvia, Mr Greiškalts. He confirmed that he had not received any suggestions, nor had he received an invitation to attend the commission meeting. Imagine what this shows if in our country the amendments to the law or the rules of the game can be accepted in such a way that, let us say, you have left the country for one week, and all, wake up under completely different conditions. I'm sorry, it's neither serious nor normal. Second round. The environmental criteria mentioned by Mr Wuzan. Sorry, we have whole environmental legislation. We amend the regulations of the Cabinet of Ministers, do not allow other chemicals to be used in one barrel containing oil. And that's the way legislation works. Because the biggest problem in this whole case is the factor of uncertainty and the possibility that there will be some sort of difference of attitude somewhere at some point in time. Colleagues, we all like milking the cow called "the state budget" and sharing their money, the benefits, but there is a time when it has to give it to eat something, otherwise his milk will not be given. And this is the moment we have to give that cow to eat, but here, on that side, people say: “No, let’s not eat! Let’s just milk!” I'm sorry, you can't!
ParlaMint-LV_2016-06-16-PT12-371-U275	I closed the debate. Is there anything to add on behalf of the Commission?
ParlaMint-LV_2016-06-16-PT12-371-U276	Colleagues! On behalf of the Commission, I would like to inform you that the real debate on these proposals was very broad for both the draft law for second reading and, in particular, the draft law for third reading. All interested parties to whom these amendments are related were involved, both from the Ministry and from the Special Economic Zones. And here, for the sake of truth, I will clarify what Mr Bondara said. That is not true. You said that representatives of Latgale Special Economic Zone did not object. The only ones who opposed were really representatives of Rezekne Special Economic Zone, not Latgale. ( Interface: “It’s the same! ” ) Participated... No, that's not the same, Mr. Viļuma. The meeting was attended by representatives of the Freeport of Riga Authority, who did not object. Representatives of Freeport of Ventspils Authority were also supported. Representatives of Liepaja Economic Zone said that these amendments are correct. Also, representatives of the potential special economic zone of Latgale did not object. And the Ministry of Finance, looking at these proposals, in coordination with VARAM, the Legal Bureau, drew up proposals, which were later included in the draft law. So I call for support on behalf of the Commission 4. - Mr. Wucaan's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-06-16-PT12-371-U277	Please call me! Let us vote in favour of 4. - The Commissioner's proposal by John Wuzan! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 40, for - 33, for - 1. The proposal is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-06-16-PT12-371-U278	5. - Mr. Wuzan's proposal. Partly supported and included 6. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-06-16-PT12-371-U279	Members ask for a vote. Please call me! We will vote in favour of 5. - The Commissioner's proposal by John Wuzan! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 26, for - 35, for - 12. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-06-16-PT12-371-U280	Yeah. 6. there is a proposal from the commission responsible, which is supported by the Commission, as it incorporates the substance of the proposal from Mr Wuzan.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-06-16-PT12-371-U281	Members ask for a vote. Please call me! We will vote in favour of 6. - The proposal supported by the Budget and Finance (Tax) Commission! Please vote mode! Please get the result! On - 37, against - 33, refraining from - 2. The proposal is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-06-16-PT12-371-U282	7. - Mr. Wuzan's proposal. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-06-16-PT12-371-U283	Members ask for a vote. Please call me! We will vote in favour of 7. - The Commissioner's proposal by John Wuzan! Please vote mode! Please get the result! On - 36, against - 32, refraining from - 4. It is therefore necessary to vote on this proposal again. Please call me! We will vote in favour of 7. - The Commissioner's proposal by John Wuzan! Please vote mode! Please get the result! On - 38, against - 33, refraining - 3. The proposal is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-06-16-PT12-371-U284	8 / 8 - a proposal from the committee responsible. The Commission shall be supported by a corresponding change in the numbering of the following articles.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-06-16-PT12-371-U285	Members ask for a vote. Please call me! We will vote in favour of 8. - The proposal submitted by the Budget and Finance (Tax) Commission! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 39, for - 30, for - 2. The proposal is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-06-16-PT12-371-U286	9. - Mr. Wuzan's proposal. The Commission has partially supported and included 8. - the Commission's proposal, which has already been supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-06-16-PT12-371-U287	So it is not put to the vote. The proposal is not put to the vote.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-06-16-PT12-371-U288	10............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - Proposal by Mr. Edgars Putra, Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Finance. The Commission has partially supported and included 11. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-06-16-PT12-371-U289	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-06-16-PT12-371-U290	And 11, closing, the committee responsible's proposal. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-06-16-PT12-371-U291	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-06-16-PT12-371-U292	Consequently, all the proposals submitted for the third reading have been examined. On behalf of the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission, I call for support for the draft law at third, final, reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-06-16-PT12-371-U293	Please call me! We will vote for support for the third, final reading of the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Taxation in Free Ports and Special Economic Zones”! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The law has been passed. On the agenda - draft law “Amendments to the Law on Election Aggregation”, third reading. On behalf of the National Administration and Municipal Commission - Member Viktors Valainis.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-06-16-PT12-371-U294	Colleagues! We work with the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Election Aggregation”. For the third reading, the Commission has prepared eight proposals. 1. - a proposal from Member Chigan and Member Chersch. The Commission was not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-06-16-PT12-371-U295	Let us start a debate. The name of Member Lolita Chigan.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-06-16-PT12-371-U296	Dear Chairman of the Saeima. Dear colleagues, Likely, when we work here on James Street, it seems that we are forever and that nothing is changing. But in reality, life is changing, but it is changing rapidly. The situation with this particular proposal is such that this proposal concerns third parties who pre-election an election campaign, exercising their right to freedom of expression in favour of a candidate for the office of Member. When this law was written in 2012, the Law on Election Aggregation, then the minimum wage was 220 euros... No, I'm sorry, $220. This means that in that situation, 15 minimum monthly salaries, whatever the person could make the pre-election campaign in favour of or to the detriment of a candidate who suddenly had a great interest in it, had a proportionate size: they were 3300 lats at that time. After that, we know that life has gone ahead, the minimum wage is now considerably increased - it is now EUR 370 per month, and we know that we have unfortunately had a very large number of rather unpleasant cases where third parties who have praised or played a candidate have not, and have actually, coordinated their campaigns and expenditure with the candidate in question, and have helped the candidate to enter the Saeima in this way, thereby circumventing the essential regulation of this law on pre-election expenditure. Dear colleagues, This proposal relates to the fact that, along with time and knowing that the minimum wage has been significantly increased, that there will be respectively municipal and parliamentary elections in 2017 and 2018 and, hopefully, in the coming and coming years, we will also have the opportunity to increase the minimum wage, we should no longer allow these third parties who engage in the campaign (often, in order to circumvent the ceiling on pre-election expenditure), to spend this EUR 5550, as in the current situation, if they are 15 minimum wages, but this minimum wage would be reduced. This proposal proposes that this number be reduced to eight minimum wages. This means that a citizen who sincerely wants to support or does not support a candidate who he or she likes can do so for an amount not exceeding EUR 3 000. Dear colleagues, You will agree, however, that EUR 3000 is a very large amount of money for many members of Latvian society and sufficient money to enable any person who wants to exercise his right to freedom of expression in the Constitution and support a candidate to realise them fully. So, contrary to the Commission's view, which has rejected this proposal, I call on the Saeima to support it and confirm that we are able to go with it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-06-16-PT12-371-U297	Name to Member Ivars Zarins. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. A.Barča: “Go with me, Zarin!” ) Council Regulation (EC) No 1257/96 of 20 June 1996 concerning humanitarian aid (OJ L 163, 2.7.1996, p. 1).
ParlaMint-LV_2016-06-16-PT12-371-U298	If we want to go with time, we should probably look more broadly at this situation, because at the moment this solution, which is proposed, is very primitive and narrow. One thing is that you're reducing the possible amount of payment that could be paid for this pre-election campaign, but the other thing is how it can be done... how these same payments can achieve a wider amount of pre-election campaign - that is, cut costs. And see how this is done, the parties of power. So, as a person who has been following this event for years, I have noticed that, as soon as the elections are approaching, a year earlier (formerly the same year, now the year before) sudden state-owned companies are beginning to advertise intensively in the media with all possible ads that are now completely past. For example, on electronic bracelets. The public is told how good it will be, that there will now be electronic bracelets: if you commit a crime, you will not need to sit in prison. And it tells the public! Excuse me, what is it about advertising? Is that the idea of advertising that bracelets is a motivation: do crimes safely, you will not need to sit in prison?Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. And then I invite you to take a look at all these state-owned companies, which are now starting to advertise intensively, say “Latvijas Dzelzkels” about the need to listen to the railway, whether we hear it, for example, if... The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. A.Kimiņš: “It’s a matter? Is that about the matter?” ) Or suddenly Latvenergo starts to say that electricity needs to be handled with care. I call for you to look further if you really want to make a fair pre-election campaign, where there will be no cross-financing, funding through any third party (in this case through legal entities), and to analyse how this money goes. And it will probably turn out that those advertising agencies that are now making their own ads will also make ads to the same political forces, under whose control these state-owned companies are located. So, my fellow Members, this proposal completely does not solve, it does not achieve the objectives that are being discussed, because it is, in principle, fighting with trifles, but does not go deep in principle in that most important way - in what way we can ensure a fair campaign of pre-election.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-06-16-PT12-371-U299	I closed the debate. Does the rapporteur not want to add anything on behalf of the Commission? Please call me! We will vote in favour of 1. - the proposal tabled by Members Chigan and Chersch! Please vote mode! Please get the result! On - 34, against - 46, refraining from - 1. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-06-16-PT12-371-U300	2. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. The Commission was supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-06-16-PT12-371-U301	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-06-16-PT12-371-U302	3. - a proposal from the committee responsible. The Commission was supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-06-16-PT12-371-U303	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-06-16-PT12-371-U304	4. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. The Commission was supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-06-16-PT12-371-U305	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-06-16-PT12-371-U306	5. - a proposal from the Members Rittvars Jansons and Janina Kursīte-Pakules. The Commission was not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-06-16-PT12-371-U307	Let us start a debate. Name to Member Ritvar Janson.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-06-16-PT12-371-U308	Dear colleagues, Amendments to the Law on Election Aggregation, their history. These amendments have emerged in order to reduce the impact of money and create equal opportunities for political forces in the campaign. My proposal and Janīna Kursīte-Pakules are in line with this spirit of the law and state that it is prohibited to create advantages or restrictions for an aggregator in prioritizing campaign materials in public places. On the other hand, the advertising service provider is obliged to grant such rights on the same terms and conditions to other advertising operators who wish to do so. In the new version of Section 22 of this Law, which was supported at the second reading of the Saeima, it is stated that the provider of advertising services, who offers to place pre-election campaign materials in public outdoors, shall, at least 150 days before the election day, send prices for pre-election campaign materials to the Bureau of Prevention and Combating Corruption (KNAB) for the entire period of pre-election campaigning. The Corruption Prevention and Combating Bureau immediately publishes this information on its website on the Internet. So the advertiser clearly explains the possibilities of advertising, while the advertiser knows where the advertisement is made, and he has the opportunity to apply to place his pre-election campaign materials. My proposal and that of Mrs Kursīte-Pakules makes it possible to obtain the right of pre-election on equal terms, adding logically to this procedure. The argument is that our proposal is not feasible, because contracts have already been concluded with advertisers for the placement of campaign materials in the forthcoming municipal elections. In that case, Article 22 already adopted is merely a fiction with a declaratory function. Supporting our proposal to prohibit the creation of advantages or restrictions on the placement of pre-election campaign materials by a campaigner, it would exclude any risk that advertisers with whom the municipality has concluded contracts without a tender or who have granted a fee discount, as in Riga, for example, would be in favour of a specific political power of the municipality. Was that why our proposal was unacceptable? It should not be a case of hacking, and as a counter argument to mention that on the same room or wall, all political forces will want to put their ads and the advertiser will end up at the end. The advertiser shall have the possibility to place the advertisement on the basis of which he has applied for a specific advertising area within the first 150 days before the elections. It would respect the same rules. If there were indeed a unique situation where campaigners would apply at the same time for a single location, then the advertiser could offer an equivalent alternative or provide advertising rotation on the advertising site. The amendments to the law adopted today are not designed to respect the interests of advertisers, but to ensure equal pre-election campaigning. I call for support for Amendment 5.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-06-16-PT12-371-U309	The name to Member Roman Mežecki.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-06-16-PT12-371-U310	Hello, dear colleagues! However, I want to say a few words about why the Commission rejected this proposal. The idea is not bad, and it sounds beautiful. However, it should be said that the discussion of this issue in the Commission led to even a laughing storm for one moment and, in the end, the Commission voted against this proposal. Think of yourself! So how can a level playing field be ensured? If the first one applies... they are not equal. But in principle, if we adopt this proposal, it will not be possible to ensure it. And if, however, it takes critically and literally the meaning of the proposal, then... Now imagine the situation: a small municipality (Dep. A.Kamiņš: “Jūrmala, let’s take it!” ), in which territory... Jurmala is a large municipality. ( Interface: “Do not talk to the grass! ” ) Let's not talk, yes!... There is a small municipality with four stands and seven parties. So what will be these equal rules? Unfortunately, there are no such rotating stands in Latvia. Most of them are in Riga and still there. That means... Latvia will be the only country in the world. How will it look? So there is a stand divided into two parts (from a fraction TOWARD: “Seven!” Let us say, on one side - Mr. Amber, on the other side - Mr. Urbanovich. If several parties have applied, this stand may be divided into four parts. ( FROM a political group SATISFY: “Seven! ” ) Of course, it will be very beautiful and interesting, and Latvia will be the first to do so. This good idea cannot be realized in life. That is why I am calling for the 'no' vote!
ParlaMint-LV_2016-06-16-PT12-371-U311	Name to Member Sergey Dolgopolov.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-06-16-PT12-371-U312	Dear colleagues, And yet, if we speak seriously, no municipality does not engage in advertising as such. The municipality, like the state, determines the rules of the game, which are fulfilled by two parties. One is the advertiser, the other is the advertiser. And in this case, the activities of municipalities can and can and must be regulated. But we are trying to interfere with this proposal in the contractual activities governed by civil law and not by the electoral campaign law. It can't be that, let's say, the list of numbers is being played and every list can get the first number, because there's a game, its own rules here, and so there's no reason to doubt that, let's say, one list has got 10 or 13 places and has not got the first place; it doesn't mean that it's inequality. It seems to me that if we approach the election campaign in full seriousness and in the spirit of time, we should think that the state should take care of the funding of the election campaign, and then the state can lay down any rules of the game. I call for this proposal not to be supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-06-16-PT12-371-U313	I closed the debate. Will the rapporteur add a note on behalf of the Commission? The rapporteur does not want to add anything. Please call me! We will vote in favour of 5. - the proposal tabled by Members Janson and Kursīte-Pakules! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-06-16-PT12-371-U314	6. - a proposal from the Members Rittvars Jansons and Janina Kursīte-Pakules. The Commission was not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-06-16-PT12-371-U315	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-06-16-PT12-371-U316	7. - A proposal from the Commission of Public Administration and Local Government. The Commission was supported. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. A. Kaimiņš is late in applying for the debate. Depp. A.Kamiņš: “I am sorry! E, E, E! What's that?Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Mrs. Moore!’ ) Council Regulation (EC) No 1257/96 of 20 June 1996 concerning humanitarian aid (OJ L 163, 2.7.1996, p. 1).
ParlaMint-LV_2016-06-16-PT12-371-U317	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-06-16-PT12-371-U318	As well as 8. - the proposal of the commission responsible, which is the date of entry into force of the law. The Commission was supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-06-16-PT12-371-U319	Members want to debate proposal 8 or do not want to? Do you want to debate Proposal No 8? The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. A.Kamiņš: “On the eighth you can speak, I on the seventh!” ) Thus, Members in the debate on proposal 8 have not applied and Members support.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-06-16-PT12-371-U320	Thank you. On behalf of the Commission, I call for support for the draft law at third, final, reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-06-16-PT12-371-U321	Please call me! We will vote for the support of the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Election Aggregation” in the third, final, reading! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 81, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. The law has been passed. On the agenda - draft law “Amendments to the law on social protection of the victims of the accident at Chernobyl Nuclear Power Plant and the social protection of the victims of the accident at Chernobyl Nuclear Power Plant”, third reading. On behalf of the Commission for Social and Labour Affairs - Member Andrejs Klementjevs.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-06-16-PT12-371-U322	High honourable Members! The Commission for Social and Labour Affairs prepared a draft law for third reading. I would like to remind you that it is a draft law prepared by the Commission in cooperation with the Ministry of Welfare. This is the first draft law prepared by Parliamentary Secretary Karina Korna - thank her for having heard our requests! - and it is so perfect that we had three readings, but there was no proposal. That is why it is a hint for those parliamentary secretaries who speak a lot from the troupe, but can hardly be shown in their works. Thank you. No proposals have been submitted. Please support the draft law at third reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-06-16-PT12-371-U323	Please call me! We will vote in favour of supporting the third, final reading of the draft law on social protection for the victims of the accident at the Chernobyl nuclear power plant and at the social protection of the persons affected by the accident at the Chernobyl nuclear power plant. Please vote mode! Please get the result! It's not about - 80, it's against and refrains from - it's not. The law has been passed. On the agenda - draft law “Amendments to the Law “On International Treaties of the Republic of Latvia”, third reading. Member Ojārs Ēriks Kalniņš on behalf of the Commission on Foreign Affairs.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-06-16-PT12-371-U324	Hello! We work with document 2322. We received seven proposals for this draft law. We discussed the first proposal that we received from the Ministry of Defence, because the aim was to facilitate the movement of NATO troops in Latvia, but after the negotiations we agreed that it would be better not to delete this article, but to clarify and supplement it. Consequently, the Foreign Affairs Commission rejected this, but with the approval of the Ministry of Defence.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-06-16-PT12-371-U325	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-06-16-PT12-371-U326	The proposal is a proposal from the Foreign Affairs Commission, which includes this agreement with the Ministry of Defence, and was supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-06-16-PT12-371-U327	Let us start a debate. The name of the Member, John Adamson.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-06-16-PT12-371-U328	Dear colleagues, First of all, I want to clarify. Obviously it is the Foreign Commission, not the Ministry of Foreign Affairs (at least it sounded to me!) Proposal for a Regulation of the Colleagues! The current Article 9 states: “... contracts for the residence of military formations of foreign armed forces (not related to training and manoeuvring) in Latvia, if the total number of personnel during one event exceeds 100 persons and the duration of stay is more than six months;...”. The proposed version provides for: ‘... contracts for the residence of military formations of foreign forces (not related to training and manoeuvring) in Latvia, if the total number of personnel during one event exceeds 100 persons and the duration of stay exceeds six months, except within the framework of the North Atlantic Treaty Organisation, including agreements with certain of its Member States on the residence of military formations of the armed forces in Latvia;...’. What is the meaning of these amendments? They determine, very simply, that Parliament will in no way exercise any control over how many military persons will be present in one case or another in the territory of Latvia. We are giving up parliamentary control, no more, no less! And then the question is whether we live in a parliamentary state or not. I call for this proposal not to be supported and for the previous version to remain in force.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-06-16-PT12-371-U329	I closed the debate. On behalf of the commission, is there something to add?
ParlaMint-LV_2016-06-16-PT12-371-U330	It could only be added here that this applies only to NATO troops, and the Foreign Affairs Commission supported it. I call for this proposal to be supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-06-16-PT12-371-U331	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote in favour of 2. - The Foreign Affairs Commission's proposal! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 59, for - 1, for - 13. The proposal is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-06-16-PT12-371-U332	Proposal No 3 - from the Cabinet of Ministers. Partly supported and included in proposal 4.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-06-16-PT12-371-U333	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-06-16-PT12-371-U334	Proposal No 4 - from the Commission on Foreign Affairs. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-06-16-PT12-371-U335	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-06-16-PT12-371-U336	Proposal 5 - from the Cabinet of Ministers. Partly supported and included in proposal 6.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-06-16-PT12-371-U337	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-06-16-PT12-371-U338	Proposal No 6 - from the Commission on Foreign Affairs. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-06-16-PT12-371-U339	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-06-16-PT12-371-U340	And the 7th proposal - from the Foreign Affairs Commission. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-06-16-PT12-371-U341	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-06-16-PT12-371-U342	I therefore call for support for this draft law at second, final, final reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-06-16-PT12-371-U343	Third, final...
ParlaMint-LV_2016-06-16-PT12-371-U344	Third.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-06-16-PT12-371-U345	Please call me! We will vote for the support of the draft law “Amendments to the Law “On International Treaties of the Republic of Latvia”” in the third, final reading! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. The law has been passed.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-06-16-PT12-371-U346	Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-06-16-PT12-371-U347	On the agenda - draft law on "Amendments to the Law on Social Services and Social Assistance", second reading. On behalf of the Commission for Social and Labour Affairs - Member Aija Barča.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-06-16-PT12-371-U348	Highly respected members of the Bureau! Dear colleagues and honourable colleagues. The Commission for Social and Labour Affairs has worked on amendments to the Social Services and Social Assistance Act for a long time. The law was divided into two parts. Thank you for your trust. The previous amendments have already entered into force. The Commission assessed 80 proposals. 1. - a proposal from the committee responsible. The meeting of the Commission was approved.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-06-16-PT12-371-U349	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-06-16-PT12-371-U350	2. - a proposal from the committee responsible. The meeting of the Commission was approved.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-06-16-PT12-371-U351	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-06-16-PT12-371-U352	3. - the proposal from Members Barch and Andres Berzins. The meeting of the Commission was approved.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-06-16-PT12-371-U353	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-06-16-PT12-371-U354	4. - the proposal of welfare minister Ulda Augulis. Partly supported, incorporated 5. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-06-16-PT12-371-U355	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-06-16-PT12-371-U356	5. - a proposal from the committee responsible. The meeting of the Commission was approved.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-06-16-PT12-371-U357	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-06-16-PT12-371-U358	6. - The proposal of the Commission on Social and Labour Affairs. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-06-16-PT12-371-U359	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-06-16-PT12-371-U360	7. - The proposal of the Commission on Social and Labour Affairs. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-06-16-PT12-371-U361	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-06-16-PT12-371-U362	8 / 8 - a proposal from the committee responsible. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-06-16-PT12-371-U363	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-06-16-PT12-371-U364	9. - The proposal from the Legal Bureau of the Saeima. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-06-16-PT12-371-U365	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-06-16-PT12-371-U366	10............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - The proposal of the Commission on Social and Labour Affairs. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-06-16-PT12-371-U367	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-06-16-PT12-371-U368	11. - the proposal of welfare minister Ulda Augulis. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-06-16-PT12-371-U369	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-06-16-PT12-371-U370	12. - a proposal from the committee responsible. The meeting of the Commission was approved.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-06-16-PT12-371-U371	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-06-16-PT12-371-U372	13. - a proposal from the committee responsible. The sitting is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-06-16-PT12-371-U373	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-06-16-PT12-371-U374	14............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - a proposal from the committee responsible. The sitting is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-06-16-PT12-371-U375	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-06-16-PT12-371-U376	15............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - the proposal from Members Barch and Andres Berzins. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-06-16-PT12-371-U377	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-06-16-PT12-371-U378	16. - The proposal of the Commission on Social and Labour Affairs. The sitting is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-06-16-PT12-371-U379	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-06-16-PT12-371-U380	17. - the proposal from Members Barch and Andres Berzins. Partially supported, included 20. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-06-16-PT12-371-U381	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-06-16-PT12-371-U382	18. - The proposal from the Legal Bureau of the Saeima. Partially supported, included 20. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-06-16-PT12-371-U383	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-06-16-PT12-371-U384	19. - the proposal from Members Barch and Andres Berzins. Partially supported, included 20. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-06-16-PT12-371-U385	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-06-16-PT12-371-U386	20............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - The proposal of the Commission on Social and Labour Affairs. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-06-16-PT12-371-U387	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-06-16-PT12-371-U388	21............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - the proposal from Members Barch and Andres Berzins. Partially supported, included 20. - the Commission's proposal, which we have just supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-06-16-PT12-371-U389	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-06-16-PT12-371-U390	22. - the proposal from Members Barch and Andres Berzins. Partially supported, included 20. - a commission proposal that the Saeima supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-06-16-PT12-371-U391	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-06-16-PT12-371-U392	23............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - the proposal from Members Barch and Andres Berzins. Partially supported, included 20. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-06-16-PT12-371-U393	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-06-16-PT12-371-U394	24. - a proposal from Members Barch and Berzin. Partly supported, included in proposal 20.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-06-16-PT12-371-U395	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-06-16-PT12-371-U396	25. - the proposal from Members Barch and Andres Berzins. Partly supported and included 20. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-06-16-PT12-371-U397	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-06-16-PT12-371-U398	26. - The proposal from the Legal Bureau of the Saeima. Partially supported, included 20. - a commission proposal that the Saeima supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-06-16-PT12-371-U399	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-06-16-PT12-371-U400	27. - The proposal of the Commission on Social and Labour Affairs. The meeting of the Commission was approved.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-06-16-PT12-371-U401	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-06-16-PT12-371-U402	28. - a proposal from the committee responsible. The meeting of the Commission was approved.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-06-16-PT12-371-U403	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-06-16-PT12-371-U404	29. - a proposal drawn up by the commission responsible. The meeting of the Commission was approved.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-06-16-PT12-371-U405	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-06-16-PT12-371-U406	30. - a proposal drawn up by the Commission for Social and Labour Affairs. The meeting of the Commission was approved.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-06-16-PT12-371-U407	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-06-16-PT12-371-U408	31. - the proposal from Members Barch and Andres Berzins. Partially supported, included 33. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-06-16-PT12-371-U409	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-06-16-PT12-371-U410	32. - The proposal from the Legal Bureau of the Saeima. Partially supported, included 33. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-06-16-PT12-371-U411	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-06-16-PT12-371-U412	33. - a proposal from the committee responsible. The meeting of the Commission was approved.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-06-16-PT12-371-U413	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-06-16-PT12-371-U414	34. - the proposal from Members Barch and Andres Berzins. The meeting of the Commission was approved.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-06-16-PT12-371-U415	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-06-16-PT12-371-U416	35. - the proposal from Members Barch and Andres Berzins. The meeting of the Commission was approved.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-06-16-PT12-371-U417	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-06-16-PT12-371-U418	36. - the proposal of welfare minister Ulda Augulis. Not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-06-16-PT12-371-U419	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-06-16-PT12-371-U420	37. - a proposal from the committee responsible. The meeting of the Commission was approved.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-06-16-PT12-371-U421	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-06-16-PT12-371-U422	38. - the proposal from Members Barch and Andres Berzins. The Commission meeting endorsed the proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-06-16-PT12-371-U423	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-06-16-PT12-371-U424	39. - the proposal of welfare minister Ulda Augulis. The Commission meeting is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-06-16-PT12-371-U425	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-06-16-PT12-371-U426	40. - a proposal from the committee responsible. The meeting of the Commission was approved.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-06-16-PT12-371-U427	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-06-16-PT12-371-U428	41. - the proposal of welfare minister Ulda Augulis. The Commission meeting is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-06-16-PT12-371-U429	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-06-16-PT12-371-U430	42. - a proposal drawn up by the Commission for Social and Labour Affairs. The meeting of the Commission was approved.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-06-16-PT12-371-U431	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-06-16-PT12-371-U432	43. - a proposal from the committee responsible. The meeting of the Commission was approved.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-06-16-PT12-371-U433	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-06-16-PT12-371-U434	44. - the proposal of Ombudsman Jur Janson. Supported and included 45. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-06-16-PT12-371-U435	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-06-16-PT12-371-U436	45. - a proposal from the committee responsible. The meeting of the Commission was approved.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-06-16-PT12-371-U437	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-06-16-PT12-371-U438	46. - The proposal of the Commission on Social and Labour Affairs. The meeting of the Commission was approved.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-06-16-PT12-371-U439	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-06-16-PT12-371-U440	47. - The proposal of the Commission on Social and Labour Affairs. The meeting of the Commission was approved.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-06-16-PT12-371-U441	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-06-16-PT12-371-U442	48. - the proposal of welfare minister Ulda Augulis. The meeting of the Commission was approved.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-06-16-PT12-371-U443	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-06-16-PT12-371-U444	49. - the proposal from Members Barch and Andres Berzins. The Commission meeting endorsed the proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-06-16-PT12-371-U445	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-06-16-PT12-371-U446	50. - the proposal of welfare minister Ulda Augulis. The Commission meeting endorsed the proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-06-16-PT12-371-U447	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-06-16-PT12-371-U448	51. - the proposal of welfare minister Ulda Augulis. Partly supported and included 52. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-06-16-PT12-371-U449	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-06-16-PT12-371-U450	52. - a proposal drawn up by the Commission for Social and Labour Affairs. The meeting of the Commission was approved.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-06-16-PT12-371-U451	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-06-16-PT12-371-U452	53. - a proposal from Members Barch and Berzin. The meeting of the Commission was approved.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-06-16-PT12-371-U453	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-06-16-PT12-371-U454	54. - the proposal of welfare minister Ulda Augulis. The meeting of the Commission was approved.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-06-16-PT12-371-U455	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-06-16-PT12-371-U456	55. - a proposal from the committee responsible. The meeting of the Commission was approved.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-06-16-PT12-371-U457	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-06-16-PT12-371-U458	56. - The proposal from the Legal Bureau of the Saeima. Supported and included 57. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-06-16-PT12-371-U459	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-06-16-PT12-371-U460	57. - a proposal drawn up by the commission responsible. The meeting of the Commission was approved.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-06-16-PT12-371-U461	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-06-16-PT12-371-U462	58. - a proposal drawn up by the commission responsible. The meeting of the Commission was approved.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-06-16-PT12-371-U463	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-06-16-PT12-371-U464	59. - a proposal drawn up by the Commission for Social and Labour Affairs. The meeting of the Commission was approved.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-06-16-PT12-371-U465	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-06-16-PT12-371-U466	60. - a proposal drawn up by the commission responsible. The meeting of the Commission was approved.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-06-16-PT12-371-U467	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-06-16-PT12-371-U468	61. - a proposal drawn up by the commission responsible. The meeting of the Commission was approved.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-06-16-PT12-371-U469	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-06-16-PT12-371-U470	62. - The proposal of the Commission on Social and Labour Affairs. The meeting of the Commission was approved.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-06-16-PT12-371-U471	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-06-16-PT12-371-U472	63. - The proposal of the Commission on Social and Labour Affairs. The meeting of the Commission was approved.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-06-16-PT12-371-U473	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-06-16-PT12-371-U474	64. - The proposal of the Commission on Social and Labour Affairs. The meeting of the Commission was approved.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-06-16-PT12-371-U475	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-06-16-PT12-371-U476	65. - the proposal of welfare minister Ulda Augulis. Partially supported, included 66. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-06-16-PT12-371-U477	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-06-16-PT12-371-U478	66. - a proposal drawn up by the Commission for Social and Labour Affairs. The meeting of the Commission was approved.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-06-16-PT12-371-U479	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-06-16-PT12-371-U480	67. - the proposal from Members Barch and Andres Berzins. The Commission meeting endorsed the proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-06-16-PT12-371-U481	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-06-16-PT12-371-U482	68. - the proposal of Ombudsman Jur Janson. Supported and included 69. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-06-16-PT12-371-U483	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-06-16-PT12-371-U484	69. - The proposal of the Commission on Social and Labour Affairs. The meeting of the Commission was approved.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-06-16-PT12-371-U485	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-06-16-PT12-371-U486	70. - the proposal of Ombudsman Jur Janson. Supported and included 71. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-06-16-PT12-371-U487	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-06-16-PT12-371-U488	71. - The proposal of the Commission on Social and Labour Affairs. The meeting of the Commission was approved.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-06-16-PT12-371-U489	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-06-16-PT12-371-U490	72. - the proposal of Ombudsman Jur Janson. The meeting of the Commission was approved.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-06-16-PT12-371-U491	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-06-16-PT12-371-U492	73. - the proposal from Members Barch and Andres Berzins. The meeting of the Commission was approved.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-06-16-PT12-371-U493	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-06-16-PT12-371-U494	74. - a proposal drawn up by the Commission for Social and Labour Affairs. The meeting of the Commission was approved.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-06-16-PT12-371-U495	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-06-16-PT12-371-U496	75. - a proposal from the committee responsible. The meeting of the Commission was approved.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-06-16-PT12-371-U497	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-06-16-PT12-371-U498	76. - a proposal from the committee responsible. The meeting of the Commission was approved.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-06-16-PT12-371-U499	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-06-16-PT12-371-U500	77. - the proposal of welfare minister Ulda Augulis. The meeting of the Commission was approved.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-06-16-PT12-371-U501	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-06-16-PT12-371-U502	78. - the proposal of welfare minister Ulda Augulis. Partly supported and included 80. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-06-16-PT12-371-U503	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-06-16-PT12-371-U504	79. - the proposal of welfare minister Ulda Augulis. Unfortunately, it has not been supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-06-16-PT12-371-U505	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-06-16-PT12-371-U506	80. - a proposal drawn up by the Commission for Social and Labour Affairs. The meeting of the Commission was approved.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-06-16-PT12-371-U507	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-06-16-PT12-371-U508	Thank you, colleagues, for expressing your support for all 80 proposals. On behalf of the Commission, I call for support for second reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-06-16-PT12-371-U509	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote in favour of the second reading of the draft law on "Amendments to the Law on Social Services and Social Assistance". Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 68, against and refrains - not. The draft law at second reading has been supported. Please set a deadline for the third reading of the proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-06-16-PT12-371-U510	On behalf of the Commission for Social and Labour Affairs, colleagues, I call for a deadline to be set for the submission of proposals on 16 September.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-06-16-PT12-371-U511	Thank you. Proposals are due by 16 September this year. On the agenda - draft law “Amendments to the Law on Service of Military Persons’ Pensions”, first reading. On behalf of the Commission for Social and Labour Affairs - Member Aleksandrs Jakimovs.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-06-16-PT12-371-U512	Hello, dear colleagues! The Social and Labour Commission of the Saeima worked with amendments to the Law on Service Pensions of Military Persons, drafted by the Ministry of Defence. The purpose of amendments to the law is to motivate soldiers to serve for as long as possible, return to the service also after the leave, linking social guarantees of persons in service with the period of service of the professional service. The draft law provides for the calculation of a higher retirement pension for all soldiers who have served not less than 25 years in professional military service and are retired at the end of the contract period. Their retirement pension will be calculated on the basis of 55 per cent instead of the previous 40 per cent. Currently, the law provides that service pension is to be calculated on the basis of 40 per cent, while the 55 per cent base is to be calculated on the basis of retirement pensions of military persons who have ceased to work because of their maximum age or illness or because of the liquidation or reorganisation of the entity. The amendments will also apply to spare soldiers who have returned to professional service - for each newly calculated year of service period, the retirement pension will be increased, plus two per cent of the average service salary for each year of service. The amendments will help to prevent situations of social inequality that may arise under the existing law. In particular, as the Ministry of Defence explains: a soldier has a different age in each grade, and often officers who have reached the highest level cannot go down to the maximum age, because the number of positions in the armed forces is limited. As a result, they are not able to receive a retirement pension of 55 per cent of the average salary of the service for the last five years. The Social and Labour Commission has examined this draft law and is asking for its support at first reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-06-16-PT12-371-U513	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote in favour of the first reading of the draft law on amendments to the Law on Service Pensions for Military Persons! Please vote mode! Please get the result! It's not about - 70, it's against and abstains. The draft law at first reading has been supported. Please set a deadline for the submission of the proposals for second reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-06-16-PT12-371-U514	The deadline for the submission of proposals for second reading is 23 September.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-06-16-PT12-371-U515	Thank you. Proposals are due by 23 September this year. On the agenda - draft law “Amendment to the Law “On Taxes and Fees”, second reading. On behalf of the Commission for Budget and Finance (Tax) - Member Ivan Ribakov.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-06-16-PT12-371-U516	Dear Saeima! We work with the draft law “Amendment to the Law on Taxes and Fees” (No.147/Lp12). I informed you that the committee had not received the proposals for second reading. Therefore, please support the draft law at second reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-06-16-PT12-371-U517	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote in favour of the second reading of the draft law “Amendment to the Law on Taxes and Fees”! Please vote mode! Please get the result! On - 74, against and refrains - not. The draft law at second reading has been supported. Please set a deadline for the third reading of the proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-06-16-PT12-371-U518	The deadline for submitting proposals is 16 September this year.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-06-16-PT12-371-U519	Thank you. Proposals are due by 16 September this year. On the agenda - draft law “Amendments to the Law “On State Revenue Service”, second reading. On behalf of the Commission for Budget and Finance (Tax) - Member Ivan Ribakov.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-06-16-PT12-371-U520	I'm lucky. Also, the draft law “Amendments to the Law “On State Revenue Service”” (No 543/Lp12) has been prepared qualitatively and there are no proposals. Please support at second reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-06-16-PT12-371-U521	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote in favour of the second reading of the draft law “Amendments to the Law “On State Revenue Service”! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 76, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The draft law at second reading has been supported. Please set a deadline for the third reading of the proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-06-16-PT12-371-U522	On behalf of the Commission, on 9 September this year.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-06-16-PT12-371-U523	Thank you. Proposals are due by 9 September this year. On the agenda - Draft Law on the Market in Financial Instruments Act, first reading. Member of the Commission for Budget and Finance (Tax) Mārtiņš Bondars.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-06-16-PT12-371-U524	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, Dear colleagues, The budget and financial (tax) commission received a draft law prepared by the Ministry of Finance, ‘Amendments to the Law on the Markets in Financial Instruments’. The aim of the draft law is to take over the requirements of the Directives of the European Parliament and of the Council relating to public-interest entities whose transferable securities are admitted to trading on a regulated market in the Member States; to take over the amendments made to the Directive by the so-called non-financial Directive; to take over the provisions of the Recommendation which provides for the clarification of the provisions of the law relating to the corporate governance statement; to mitigate the risks identified in the report of the Secretariat of the OECD Corporate Governance Committee and Recommendation 4 (this Recommendation indicates that certain requirements currently in force in the Law on the markets in financial instruments with regard to the composition of the audit committee, the procedure for the election and its responsibilities do not comply with the OECD corporate governance principles). On behalf of the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission, please adopt the first-reading bill on Amendments to the Law on the Markets in Financial Instruments.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-06-16-PT12-371-U525	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote in favour of the first reading of the draft law "Amendments to the Law on the Markets in Financial Instruments"! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 68, against and refrains - not. The draft law at first reading has been supported. Please set a deadline for the submission of the proposals for second reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-06-16-PT12-371-U526	The deadline for submitting proposals is 9 September this year.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-06-16-PT12-371-U527	Thank you. Proposals are due by 9 September this year. On the agenda - draft law “Amendments to Law “On Sworn Auditors”, first reading. On behalf of the Commission for Budget and Finance (Tax) - Member Edgars Putra.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-06-16-PT12-371-U528	Colleagues! This draft law is closely linked to the previous draft law. The draft law “Amendments to the Law on Sworn Auditors” actually takes over the changes made in the so-called audit regulation and the non-financial directive, as well as introduces recommendations from the OECD Corporate Management Committee and the Investment Committee and makes various other clarifications and additions in line with the current situation in the field of audit services. The Commission has examined this draft law at first reading and has supported it. I call on you to support this too.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-06-16-PT12-371-U529	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote for the support of the draft law “Amendments to the Law “On Sworn Auditors”” at first reading! Please vote mode! Please get the result! It's not about - 71, it's against and refrains from - it's not. The draft law at first reading has been supported. Please set a deadline for the submission of the proposals for second reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-06-16-PT12-371-U530	The deadline for submitting proposals is 9 September this year.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-06-16-PT12-371-U531	Thank you. Proposals are due by 9 September this year. On the agenda - draft law “Amendments to the Law “On Accounting”, second reading. On behalf of the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission, Mr Aleksandr Kirštein.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-06-16-PT12-371-U532	Dear colleagues, The draft law “Amendments to the Law on Accounting” submitted eight proposals, all better than each other, and all supported. That is why I think you will also be in favour. The proposal was tabled by Finance Minister Dana Reizniece-Ozola. The Commission supported it.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-06-16-PT12-371-U533	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-06-16-PT12-371-U534	The proposal was tabled by the Minister for Finance. This is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-06-16-PT12-371-U535	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-06-16-PT12-371-U536	3. is a proposal from the Legal Office. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-06-16-PT12-371-U537	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-06-16-PT12-371-U538	4. is supported by proposal 5.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-06-16-PT12-371-U539	4. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Supported by proposal 5. Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-06-16-PT12-371-U540	5. - the proposal of Minister for Finance Reizniece-Ozola. This is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-06-16-PT12-371-U541	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-06-16-PT12-371-U542	6. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-06-16-PT12-371-U543	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-06-16-PT12-371-U544	7. - the debtor... No, I'm sorry... Legal Office's proposal on the debtor's balance sheet. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-06-16-PT12-371-U545	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-06-16-PT12-371-U546	8 / 8 - Member Silver's proposal. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-06-16-PT12-371-U547	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-06-16-PT12-371-U548	Please support in general.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-06-16-PT12-371-U549	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote in favour of the second reading of the draft law “Amendments to the Law “On Accounting”! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 73, against and refrains. The draft law at second reading has been supported. Please set a deadline for the third reading of the proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-06-16-PT12-371-U550	For the third reading, please submit proposals by 30 June. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-06-16-PT12-371-U551	Thank you. Proposals shall be submitted by 30 June of this year. Dear colleagues, Members Smilten, Āboltiņa, Brigmanis, Agešins and Gaidis Berzins are asking to continue the sitting of the Saeima without interruption until all items on the agenda are examined. Do Members have objections? Members' objections... ( Internouncing call.) Members have reservations? There is no objection by Members. The sitting of the Saeima will be held without interruption. On the agenda - draft law “Amendments to the Law “On State Social Insurance”, second reading. On behalf of the Commission for Social and Labour Affairs - Member Einārs Cilinskis.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-06-16-PT12-371-U552	Madam President of the Saeima. Honourable Members! The draft law contains seven proposals that emerged from the working group on the basis of those submitted by the Ministry of Welfare and which have been improved. So now they are all like the proposals of the Social and Labour Commission. 1. - a proposal from the committee responsible. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-06-16-PT12-371-U553	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-06-16-PT12-371-U554	2. - a proposal from the committee responsible. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-06-16-PT12-371-U555	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-06-16-PT12-371-U556	3. - a proposal from the committee responsible. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-06-16-PT12-371-U557	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-06-16-PT12-371-U558	4. - a proposal from the committee responsible. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-06-16-PT12-371-U559	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-06-16-PT12-371-U560	5. - a proposal from the committee responsible. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-06-16-PT12-371-U561	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-06-16-PT12-371-U562	6. - a proposal from the committee responsible. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-06-16-PT12-371-U563	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-06-16-PT12-371-U564	7. - a proposal from the committee responsible. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-06-16-PT12-371-U565	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-06-16-PT12-371-U566	All the proposals have therefore been examined. On behalf of the committee responsible, I call for support for the draft law at second reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-06-16-PT12-371-U567	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote in favour of the second reading of the draft law “Amendments to the Law “On State Social Insurance”! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 73, against and refrains. The draft law at second reading has been supported. Please set a deadline for the third reading of the proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-06-16-PT12-371-U568	Deadline for submission of proposals - 19 August.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-06-16-PT12-371-U569	Thank you. Proposals are due by 19 August this year. On the agenda - draft law “On the Convention of 14 December 1960 on the Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development and the Treaty concerning the Accession of the Republic of Latvia to the Convention on the Conditions of Economic Cooperation and Development”, second reading. The draft law has been declared urgent. Member Ojārs Ēriks Kalniņš on behalf of the Commission on Foreign Affairs.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-06-16-PT12-371-U570	We are returning to the ratification of the OECD Treaty and the Convention. The Foreign Affairs Commission examined the draft law before the second reading. We received one technical clarification from and supported by the Legal Bureau of the Saeima.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-06-16-PT12-371-U571	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-06-16-PT12-371-U572	I therefore call on the Foreign Affairs Commission to support the draft law on the second, final, reading of the OECD.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-06-16-PT12-371-U573	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote for the support of the draft law on the Convention on the Organisation of Economic Cooperation and Development of 14 December 1960 and the Treaty on the Accession of the Republic of Latvia to the Convention on the Conditions of Economic Cooperation and Development at second, final reading! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 68, against and refrains - not. The law has been passed.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-06-16-PT12-371-U574	Thank you, and congratulations.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-06-16-PT12-371-U575	To motivate the vote, the name of Member Gunaras Kūtris.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-06-16-PT12-371-U576	Dear colleagues, The “From the heart to Latvia” group supported accession to the Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development, but believes that Latvian society is not sufficiently informed about the benefits and losses of joining the OECD. While the official views expressed by the government are mostly informed about the benefits, the public would be entitled to know the real fees for participating in the organisation as well as the promises made by the government. We appreciate that Latvia will have the opportunity to use professional advice and extensive expertise in various areas. We appreciate that the fight against corruption and improvement of supervision of capital companies will be promoted, including the establishment of professional councils in state capital companies, which will be appointed by transparent selection procedure. Only recently the Ministry of Foreign Affairs informed that the total costs incurred by Latvia to date have reached the OECD EUR 8.17 million. It is worth noting that currently, the Latvian Government can only designate a possible annual fee for participation in the OECD, which could amount to 2.78 million euro per year. The Latvian government promises to provide information on other expenses, including the opening of a new agency and other possible expenses, after signing the agreement. Thus, taxpayers cannot even understand the direct costs of participating in the OECD. We are concerned about the fact that the agreement signed by the Latvian Government provides for “widening the liberalisation of the movement of capital”. What does that mean for Latvia? The commitment to abolish from 31 December 2019 any restrictions on the acquisition of agricultural and forestry land, land in the Baltic Sea and Riga Gulf Coast Guard Zone and mineral deposits of state importance. Both we members of the opposition and the public were not informed of such - we believe very high - fees for membership of the OECD. To be in the club of these rich countries, we put not only taxpayers' money, but also Latvia's land on the altar. If the previously approved amendments to the law introduced restrictions so that Latvia's land is not bought by non-residents and foundations, then with this agreement we will allow the land to be bought by a much wider and more solvent group of potential buyers. We invite the government to inform the public that the price of this agreement is an opportunity for foreigners to buy Latvian fields and forests, as well as the Baltic Sea and Riga Gulf Coast dunes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-06-16-PT12-371-U577	Thank you. On the agenda - draft law “Amendments to the Arbitration Law”, first reading. Member of the Legal Commission Gaidis Berzins.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-06-16-PT12-371-U578	Dear Chairman of the Saeima. Dear colleagues, On 23 February this year, the Subcommittee on Judicial Policy, carrying out an ex post evaluation of the Arbitration Courts Law and listening to the Ministry of Justice, found that separate amendments were necessary in order to contribute to the achievement of the objective set by the Arbitration Courts Law. I'll remind you that some time ago, the Saeima passed the Arbitration Law... The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. I.Rībanna and dep. A.Latkovsky speaks aloud.)
ParlaMint-LV_2016-06-16-PT12-371-U579	I'm sorry. Dear colleagues, if you have something so urgent to discuss and to discuss so loudly, please go out of the Chamber. ( Interface: “National Association! ”) ; dep. A.Kamiņš: “Show me a mandate!” ) Keep going, please.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-06-16-PT12-371-U580	The purpose of the Arbitration Act was to regulate the arbitral tribunals by preventing the activities of arbitral tribunals, which were in fact referred to as ‘curry arbitral tribunals’, i.e. those operating without any control mechanism. It has to be said that the result of this reform of arbitration courts is that 75 permanent arbitration courts are currently registered in Latvia out of about 200 arbitration courts. The Subcommittee on Judicial Policy and later also the Legal Commission considered these amendments to the Law on Arbitration Courts prepared by the Ministry of Justice. The amendments were also discussed with the representatives of the arbitration tribunals. These amendments aim at strengthening the obligation for permanent arbitration to be reachable at its location. The amendments also provide that the documents to be submitted to the Register of Enterprises should indicate the identity code of arbitrators in order to be able to control that arbitrators hold the position of arbitrator in not more than three arbitration courts, as provided for by law. In the Commission's view, these amendments will increase the efficiency of arbitration proceedings and achieve their objective as set out in the Arbitration Law. So the Commission examined this draft law and decided to lead it as its own draft law. On behalf of the Commission, please support the draft law at first reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-06-16-PT12-371-U581	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote in favour of the first reading of the draft law on amendments to the Arbitration Law! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 69, against and refrains. The draft law at first reading has been supported. Please set a deadline for the submission of the proposals for second reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-06-16-PT12-371-U582	The deadline for submitting proposals is 1 August this year.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-06-16-PT12-371-U583	Thank you. Proposals are due by 1 August this year. On the agenda - draft law “On the status of the Second World War”, first reading. On behalf of the Commission for Human Rights and Public Affairs - Member Inese Laizāne.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-06-16-PT12-371-U584	Dear colleagues, The Commission for Human Rights and Public Affairs proposes the draft law “On the status of a member of the Second World War”. The aim of the draft law is to establish the status of a member of the Second World War as Latvian citizens who, during the Second World War, participated in the armed fight against the military formations of the Communist or Nazi totalitarian regime. At the same time, the aim is to promote a common understanding of the Second World War and equal treatment of its members. It is envisaged that soldiers who have fought on both sides of the front should be entitled to this status. The Constitutional Court of the Republic of Latvia has decided that the Republic of Latvia is not legally responsible for acts of occupation powers in the territory of the Republic of Latvia during the occupation. Given that, as a result of the Soviet and then Nazi occupation, the State of Latvia was unable to ensure the protection of the rights of its citizens, these persons are considered victims of war crimes and deserve support and protection from the state of Latvia as well as society. Colleagues, the bill should be adopted as soon as possible, given that most of the Veterans of the Second World War are over 90 years old and that more and more people are going to the world without a fair state attitude. Please support at first reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-06-16-PT12-371-U585	Thank you. Let us start a debate. Name to Member Igor Pimenov.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-06-16-PT12-371-U586	Thank you, Presidium. Honourable Members! It is clear from the title of the bill that the main purpose of the document is to establish the status of a member of the Second World War - a person has been recognised as a member of the war or has not been recognised. Consequently, sorting and selection of members of the war inevitably becomes an intrigue of the draft law, to which the draft law is subject, but the consequences of granting the status remain neglected. For no benefit to the participants of the war the draft law does not determine, but only leaves the possibility to define social guarantees and reliefs for local governments to decide. Another aim of the draft law is to promote a common understanding of the Second World War and equal treatment of its participants. Does the draft law ensure that this objective is achieved? Each subsequent article limits the number of members of the war to whom it would apply. Already in Article 1, the bill states that only Latvian citizens can obtain the status of a member of the Second World War. Non-citizens of the Republic of Latvia cannot be recognised as members of the war. Thus, the status of the non-citizen as a Latvian person is challengingly weakened, and the bill prevents the possibility of obtaining the status of a Second World War participant of 90 percent of the Veterans of the Red Army. In article 2, the bill recognises as participants of the Second World War only those citizens who were Latvian citizens on 17 June 1940. So the bill divides the citizens, the participants in the Second World War, the two groups - those that the bill recognises as members of the Second World War and those that are not recognised as such. As a result, citizens who become natural are placed in a second-class group of citizens. It is a clear and challenging contradiction with the content and spirit of uniform citizenship included in Latvian legislation. Go on. The draft law provides for the recognition of those who have participated in the armed struggle as part of the regular military units and the exclusion of the partisans and subprimemen of war from the war. It follows from the draft law that those who were called during the war under foreign rule were recognised as members of the Second World War. Thus, the Latvian strife division soldiers of the Red Army will be artificially placed in front of the choice, i.e. whether they consider themselves mobilized by the forces of foreign power or not. According to the draft law, also those who joined the troops voluntarily cannot be recognised as war veterans because, however, Hitler's army attack on the Soviet Union was also an attack on their homeland. I drew Members' attention to what was stated in the bill's annotation that, at the request of the Veterans associations that fought in the German troops, it was developed and, therefore, agreed with them. The draft law was not agreed with the 130 Latvian String String Corps and Latvian Partisan Group Veterans Society. It only proves that equal treatment of the participants of the Second World War is not really the aim of the draft law, but that the aim is to establish a profile of the status of a member of the Second World War, which would prevent the state and the nation from treating, with respect, those who do not want the authors of the draft law in any way. Therefore, an advisory board, or selection panel, will be set up, as I see it, which will follow the compliance of the applicants with the status of World War II and give its opinion. And who will this board be? It's the societies that represent the legion's veterans. And there is no mention of a veteran who served in the Red Army during World War II. What do we want, however, to provide to any soldier, regardless of where he was fighting? I will repeat once again because one time I have already spoken to you, the honourable Saeima - peace, prosperity and dignity. In my opinion, it is necessary to leave the ideological disputes outside the draft law, not to prevent all veterans from remaining loyal to their flags and their celebrations. I therefore conclude that by declaring equal treatment for war veterans, the draft law nevertheless treats them in an unequal and challenging wrongful way one group of members of the war. The objective of the law, namely support for the members of the war, is not fully resolved. But the new laws divide them even more than in the islands, and they add to the bitterness of society. And the last one. I would remind you once again that this draft law was only aligned with the list of societies that were deliberately deleted, and not with all those who should have been there, because the veterans of the Red Army were not addressed at all. I therefore conclude that this draft law is one-sided, unfortunately poorly prepared, even though it has been discussed for a very long time in the relevant commission, and that therefore the draft law cannot be supported. Thank you for your attention, gentlemen.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-06-16-PT12-371-U587	Name to Member Alexander Kirštein.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-06-16-PT12-371-U588	Dear President, Honourable Members! Mr. Pimenov apparently has a severe memory impairment, because those non-citizens who were not Latvian citizens on 17 June 1940 were aggressors. The Soviet Union had concluded a cooperation agreement with chitleric Germany and accompanied by attacks on several countries, Mr. Pimenova. Can we then include in this law those who were involved in the attack on other countries at that time? The Red Army attacked Finland, Poland and the Baltic States. That is why we cannot in any way include these. Have you forgotten that from September 1, 1939 to June 22, 1941, the Red Army... Stalin and Hitler were allies? The purpose of the law is... On the contrary... It is written there: those who have fought against these two powers. So you yourself, if you know history, you rule out the essence of this law. That's the point number one. Second. You talk a lot, and your group, too, is usually talking about public reconciliation. You will have a great opportunity! On 9 May you go and mark this day, in the sense of Russia and in the sense of the Soviet Union, how... actually, as you call, the day of the end of the Great Ethic War, because you do not recognize the Second World War as such, because aggression of the Soviet Union should also be recognised. In this respect, in order to demonstrate the reconciliation of society, you will have every opportunity to place flowers on July 1 at the Freedom Monument, because on July 1 the German troops freed Riga from Bolshevism, as you understand. Prior to that, thousands of people had already been murdered in the country. I would remind you - in Latvia, which did not even have the death penalty! So these Allies of Hitler, Stalin, started killing Latvian citizens, sent 14 thousand. The next 200,000 were ready for arrest and extermination, and they were thus rescued by this German army. Since you mark 9 May, regardless of what happened afterwards, you can also place flowers on July 1 - mark the release of Riga from Bolshevism. And remember, when the red army slipped, a jar of people's nails was found in Novik's office. And remember all the murders that these Hitler's allies, which you released in your speech, which were not citizens on June 17, 1940, ended up doing here in Latvia! I call for support for this draft law. And everyone, including your group, has the opportunity to table proposals for second reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-06-16-PT12-371-U589	Name to Member Igor Pimenov, for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-06-16-PT12-371-U590	There are also views that Mr Kirštein has just expressed. And I, for example, respect such views because they reflect the position of the Latvian public against the events of the Second World War. On the one hand, it is clear that we can continue to debate who was right and wrong; who was aggressor and who was not an aggressor. It is a very serious conversation, a serious discourse, and I would be happy to be there. But I simply read literally, Mr Kirštein and Mr Kirštein's supporters, the text that was given us by the commission responsible for viewing. In particular, the purpose of the draft law is to promote equal treatment among the members of the Second World War. How can we ensure equal treatment for men who are now, as well as concluding from your draft law, are now over 90 years old? You want us to just involve them in the double cup here at the trampoline or in other Latvian audiences. I think it would be inhuman. Our goal is to provide them with a life of peace, prosperity, and respect, nothing else. Let us leave the contradictions of our views between the other negotiations and the other debates. I call for this draft law not to be supported, which does not solve this task. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-06-16-PT12-371-U591	I closed the debate. Will the rapporteur add a note on behalf of the Commission?
ParlaMint-LV_2016-06-16-PT12-371-U592	On behalf of the Commission, I ask you to support the draft law.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-06-16-PT12-371-U593	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote in favour of the first reading of the draft law on the status of the Second World War! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 57, for - no, for - 19. The draft law at first reading has been supported. Please set a deadline for the submission of the proposals for second reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-06-16-PT12-371-U594	The deadline for submitting proposals is 2 September this year.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-06-16-PT12-371-U595	Thank you. Proposals shall be submitted by 2 September of this year. On the agenda - draft law “Law on the Maintenance Guarantee Fund”, first reading. On behalf of the Commission for Human Rights and Public Affairs, Member Artus Kaimiņš.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-06-16-PT12-371-U596	Dear colleagues, See the draft law “Law on the Maintenance Guarantee Fund”. The draft law provides for the extension of the range of beneficiaries of maintenance and simplification and acceleration of the procedure for claiming maintenance in cases where there is no dispute between parents about maintenance or childcare. The new procedure will provide an opportunity for the child to start the payment of state-guaranteed maintenance three times more quickly, addressing directly in the administration of the Maintenance Guarantee Fund, reducing court workload, as well as facilitating the discharge of the obligations of debtors. The Commission has examined and supported this draft law. On behalf of the Commission, please support the draft law on the first reading on the Maintenance Guarantee Fund Act. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. J.Adamson: “Very good!” ) Council Regulation (EC) No 1257/96 of 20 June 1996 concerning humanitarian aid (OJ L 163, 2.7.1996, p. 1).
ParlaMint-LV_2016-06-16-PT12-371-U597	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote for support for the first reading of the draft law “Law on the Maintenance Guarantee Fund”! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 76, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Please set a deadline for the submission of the proposals for second reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-06-16-PT12-371-U598	The deadline for the submission of proposals for second reading shall be 1 September of this year.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-06-16-PT12-371-U599	Thank you. Proposals shall be submitted by 1 September of this year. The next item is "Review of draft decisions". On the agenda - draft decision “On the consent of the Saeima to reallocation of appropriations established in the Law “On the State Budget for 2016”. On behalf of the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission, Member Imants Debtor.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-06-16-PT12-371-U600	Dear colleagues, In its meeting, the Budget and Finance (Tax) Commission reviewed the Cabinet of Ministers order “On the reallocation of appropriations” and the letter signed by the Minister of Finance Dana Reizniece-Ozola (instead of the Prime Minister) and the Minister of Justice Dzintars Rasnačs, and in accordance with this order and letter, it prepared a draft decision in which the Saeima decided to agree to the reallocation of appropriations established in the Law “On the State Budget for 2016” in the amount of EUR 56 924 from the budget programme of the Ministry of Finance “Prosecution of State Revenue and Customs Policy” to the sub-programme of the budget of the Ministry of Justice “Incarnations”, in order to ensure the transfer of five officials from the State Revenue Service to the Administration of Prisons. On behalf of the Commission, I call on the Saeima to support this appropriation.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-06-16-PT12-371-U601	Let us start a debate. The name of the Member, Martin Bondar.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-06-16-PT12-371-U602	Colleagues! On several occasions, Minister of Finance Dana Reizniece-Ozola visited the Budget and Finance (tax) Commission of the Saeima and told us about fantastic, simply unimaginable results during her ministerial work. She has been able to find whole 60 million - 60 million euros! - wasted money, which, let's say, we could spend more efficiently. But now I am reading a letter addressed to the Budget and Finance (Tax) Commission of the Saeima, where, in general, we would like to re-allocate the appropriations... Ministers want to re-allocate more than EUR 4 million. As a result, the deficit is rising from 1.1% of gross domestic product (according to the government budget) to 1.21%. Colleagues, the finance minister's story that 60 million have been found, that he can now spend them and that everything will be more useful now is a public relations campaign. A major public relations campaign. I regret to say that all these appropriations are, in fact, fiscal irresponsible, precisely on the part of the Minister for Finance. Colleagues, how long will we allow such fiscal irresponsibleness? Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-06-16-PT12-371-U603	I closed the debate. Does the rapporteur wish to add something on behalf of the Commission?
ParlaMint-LV_2016-06-16-PT12-371-U604	Yeah, I want to. Mr Bondara, you did not talk about this appropriation. We talked and decided on several in the Commission, but here in the Saeima, we are only deciding on one appropriation, which is EUR 56 924. It is therefore not really right to point out those on which we have decided in the Commission. On behalf of the Commission, I still call for this appropriation to be approved.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-06-16-PT12-371-U605	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote for the draft decision “On the consent of the Saeima to reallocation of the appropriations established in the Law “On the State Budget for 2016””! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The decision has been taken. On the agenda - draft decision "On the extension of the deadline for the submission of proposals for the third reading of the draft law "Amendments to the Law on Sexual and Reproductive Health" (25/Lp12) by 30 June’. Please call me! To be put to the vote on the draft decision on the extension of the deadline for the submission of proposals for the third reading of the draft law on sexual and reproductive health (25/Lp12) by the following year. 30 June’. Please vote mode! Please get the result! It's not 65, it's two, it's not. The decision has been taken. The next item is "Harmonisation of own proposals". On the agenda - draft decision “On the way forward of the collective application of 10 496 Latvian citizens “On the abolition of real estate tax for the sole property””. Member Vitaly Orlov on behalf of the Commission for Mandates, Ethics and Applications.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-06-16-PT12-371-U606	Thank you, Presidium. Honourable Members! On 13 April 2016, the Saeima received a collective application of 10 496 Latvian citizens “On the abolition of real estate tax on the only property”, in which the Saeima made the following proposal: to find a solution to the situation by making amendments to the law that would allow real estate tax on the only property to be applied or apply it at a rate of 0.1 percent of the value of real estate. According to Section 131.4 first paragraph of the Saeima Rules of Procedure, on 26 April 2016 the application was submitted to the Commission for initial evaluation of mandates, ethics and application. On 11 May 2016, the panel met for the first initial evaluation meeting, to which authorised representatives of the application were invited. The applicants justified the idea of the application to abolish the real estate tax on the sole dwelling serving as the owner's residence. They reported that denationalised household expenditure has increased over the years - from 2008 to 2016 there has been a great increase in taxes. An investigation of the law “On Real Estate Tax” shows that the allowed rate is 1.5 per cent for the properties managed, while over 1.5 per cent for the properties that are not arranged. The municipalities were informed of this inconsistency. But they took the view that everything was in line with the law and that it was within the law. The applicants then started to seek information on the situation in the other Member States of the European Union. When communicating with Latvian residents abroad, it became clear that in most Member States the only property is not subject to real estate tax. Compared to other countries, Latvia has a 0 percent rate for agricultural production, 90 per cent discount on property used in economic activities is 0.1 per cent, rental houses and other residential property are subject to a 1,8 per cent rate. The European Union is quite the opposite. In the European model, applying a 0 percentage rate, all citizens are protected from the possibility of confiscating their property in the country. However, in the Latvian model it appears that the state can confiscate property if citizens are reduced their income and property taxes are applied. Between 2014 and 2016, more than 100,000 properties have been disposed of in administrative proceedings. The applicants stressed that the benefits of abolishing the real estate tax on the sole property are several: for example, it will not happen to violations of the current law, it will prevent the possibility to violate the Constitution, which guarantees everyone the right to property. It is also an investment in the future and a provision for people in old age. Furthermore, the withdrawal of property contributes to an increase in the number of poor people. The signatures were collected within 29 days. The Commission continued its assessment of the application on 25 May. Representatives of the Ministry of Finance, the Ministry of Justice, the Employers' Confederation of Latvia, the Local Government of Latvia and the Free Trade Union of Latvia took part and expressed their views during the meeting of the Commission. Representatives of the Ministry of Finance informed that the Ministry was familiar with the planned significant changes in cadastral value that would lead to a significant increase in real estate tax. The Cabinet has commissioned the Ministry of Finance together with non-governmental sector and municipalities to provide new solutions for real estate tax policy. The Ministry of Finance will draw up a proposal for municipalities and analyse more than five proposals, which will also include a proposal from applicants. The proposal of the State Land Service to set a uniform tax rate for buildings and land will be evaluated, the model of the Ministry of Finance will be to reduce the tax rate for residential property up to a certain value, as well as to change the conditions under which progressive tax rates will be applied. There are several options that the Ministry of Finance will discuss with social partners and local government representatives during the summer and will try to find the best solution by setting a real estate tax that is manageable and payable, which will not lead to a reduction in income of this tax throughout Latvia. The Latvian Municipal Union believes that this issue is not only a real estate tax, but also a cadastral value. Consequently, tax administration policy must have a long-term solution, but in previous cases the amendments to the law were urgent and not assessed. It must be possible to protect, in the long term, taxpayers, ordinary citizens who do not care what they value. If developers enter the territory and market transactions start, but citizens do not want to sell their property, we do not have to force them to do so. The exclusive villas or private houses in the Old Town do not have the target audience that we need to protect. The Employers' Confederation of Latvia reported that the cadastral value of land in Latvia, even within one use, is too different to apply a uniform rate to all cadastral value zones. The cadastral value in certain settlements in Latvia is growing much faster than the income of local households. It increases in absolute most cases regardless of the behaviour of the owners. Having assessed the requirements of Latvian citizens and all the information received, the Commission concluded that an in-depth study on this issue was necessary. Thus, on 8 June 2016, the Commission unanimously supported the draft decision on the collective application of 10 496 Latvian citizens to the Saeima “On the Elimination of Real Estate Tax for the Only Property”, which commissioned the Cabinet of Ministers to prepare and submit to the Saeima by 1 October 2016 an information report on the possibilities to amend the regulatory enactments in order to implement the principles that would allow the application of real estate tax to the only property or to apply the uniform reduced interest rate on the value of real estate. Please support the prepared draft decision.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-06-16-PT12-371-U607	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote for the draft decision “On the way forward of the collective application “On the abolition of real estate tax for the sole property” of 10 496 Latvian citizens”! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. The decision has been taken. On the agenda - draft decision “On tasks to be carried out to ensure sustainable, efficient and rational management of Latvian natural resources and public assets”. On behalf of the Commission for Sustainable Development, Member Laimdota Straujuma.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-06-16-PT12-371-U608	Dear colleagues, One of the challenges for our economy is to increase productivity by creating the highest possible added value for each unit of resources. According to Eurostat data, Latvia was able to produce a value of 0.57 euros from one kilogram of resources in 2014. It is almost four times less than the European Union average of EUR 2.10 per kilogram, ahead of Bulgaria, Romania and, as interesting as it may be, Estonia. Colleagues! It is not a secret that Latvia's main natural resource is land and its opportunities. Despite the dynamic development of sectors, unfortunately large areas of forests and agricultural land are not being managed productively at present. According to the data of the Latvian University of Agriculture, the raw material is about one million hectares. This includes both agricultural land and potential young people. The Commission for Sustainable Development met with representatives of the sectors – environmental organisations, science, responsible ministries, representatives of the Latvian Municipal Union. As a result, a draft decision of the Saeima has been prepared, and five tasks are to be carried out by the Cabinet. First of all, the task is to develop a land policy that would be a common policy for the sustainable management of natural resources in Latvia and the creation of maximum added value. Looking ahead to the long term, it is necessary to strike a balance between the interests of the Latvian environment and the economy, without reducing the availability of land resources important for economic activity, while ensuring the preservation of Latvia's image as a green state. It is not a simple, but crucial task; it is a requirement for all sectors - farmers, the forest sector and environmental organisations - to do so. Secondly. The set of ten tasks is intended for sustainable and productive management of Latvian forests. Go on. The third task force is linked to the sustainable development of the agricultural and food sectors by increasing production with higher added value and market-oriented production. The fourth task group is about rational management of state assets and increasing local government interests and responsibility for business development. Part of the tasks here are related to the strategy for the use of subsoils. The fifth set of tasks covers targeted participation of education and science, based on the principles of the bioeconomy, in increasing the competitiveness and added value of the natural resource-intensive industries. The decision of the Saeima is to instruct the Cabinet of Ministers to inform the Saeima about the progress of implementation of tasks by 15 December of this year and to inform the Saeima and the public about the performance and results of the tasks by 15 June 2017 at the latest. I would like to inform you that the members of the Commission unanimously supported the package of tasks and the draft decision of the Saeima. I ask you to support the draft decision of the Saeima.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-06-16-PT12-371-U609	Thank you. Let us start a debate. The name of the Member, Einer Cylinskis.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-06-16-PT12-371-U610	Madam President of the Saeima. Honourable Members! There are a great many important tasks for public administration here and they can only be successfully implemented through close cooperation with scientists, sectoral associations, professional organisations and the non-governmental sector, including environmental organisations. In fact, I have little doubt about the capacity of public authorities to successfully implement these proposals. And are the mentioned ministries the only ones that can do this? I therefore think that the coordinating role of the State Chancellery, the Prime Minister's Office and the PKC is very important. ( The drug has increased noise. The head of the sitting shall be knocked down by means of a hammer.) The image of a green country is mentioned here. And in reality, the image of a green country is not just to give the green organisations a fee. This is very practical. For example, investors of the Riga Milk Kombēta also build two factories in China, where Latvian products are traded. And in order for this product to be better sold, it is really very important for Latvia to have the image of a “green” state. At present, there is no Latvian country's image, as these investors say, but that image, if it were to be created in this way, would actually, in practice, promote exports and sales of our products. ‘ Green organisations have argued that the draft decision does not refer to ecosystem services. This is, in my opinion, a valid objection, but obviously this term has not yet been explained to us enough so that the majority of Members would sign up to it. However, the fact that such a decision could lead to, say, the felling of protected areas or valuable forests in order to achieve the other objectives mentioned here - I think this cannot be accepted. And, of course, the Members have not thought that in this way either. That, I hope no one will deny this pub. And so, with all due respect for the green organisations and with regard to their reservations in further work, I think, however, that this draft decision needs to be adopted, because a number of tasks are urgent. If we are talking about the challenges that have been given here both in terms of resource use and in terms of sustainable development, including in the area of climate, there are still a number of other conditions that are binding on the country, both in terms of energy efficiency and the circular economy. And if all these conditions of the European Union are only regarded as requirements that all involve non-productive investments, then it is not really possible to comply with them. Consequently, these questions will have to be looked at the contrary: how can we build an innovative and resource-intensive economy, how we can develop new jobs and thus implement our social programmes. And only if complexes are seen can the objectives set out in this draft decision also be achieved. But in order to achieve all this (to be taken into account that most of these targets are 2030 targets), we should actually start thinking in good time now, either on a new National Development Plan or on a strategy for the period up to 2030. I have to think about how to balance these sustainable development objectives with social objectives and, of course, with economic development objectives. But I call once again for support for this draft decision.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-06-16-PT12-371-U611	We are continuing the debate. Name to Member Ingmars Lydak.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-06-16-PT12-371-U612	Dear colleagues, Unfortunately, I will have to get your attention for a short while, because, look, in my view, some of these tasks that have been given... In particular, when it comes to the second task, namely sustainable and productive management of Latvia's forests, it seems to me that the writers of this document have not really thought about what they have written on paper. At least very, I very much hope that this is the case. I will begin with one task: ‘... to assess and determine the proportion of protected areas of species, forests and habitats associated with forests,...’. I read this sentence and understand that it will be determined how much of Latvian forests and land can be burdened with some protection status. This would be completely impossible, because, as you understand, the existence of a protected area determines the existence of specific natural objects - animals or habitats. If that black stork is in that forest, then he's just no matter what we're gonna decide here. And if he's there, then this micro-ban must also be created there in accordance with the plan for the protection of species. And we cannot set any specific percentage - how much of the land or how many of the forests can be designated as protected areas. And I very much hope that the authors of this document did not think so. Second. If the task is written here - 'to assess the justification for the restrictions imposed on forest management' - then I do not really want to believe that the authors of the document have thought that all existing nature protection plans for protected areas will now be re-evaluated and that all existing conservation plans for the species concerned will be re-evaluated. I think that would be an absolute madness. We need to work on the pending new nature protection plans for areas that do not have such plans, because only the existence of a nature protection plan lays down clear rules for the game, what can and cannot be done in this area. I repeat: what you can do and what you can't. The same applies to certain species for which no nature conservation plans have been developed. They must be designed in order to have clear rules of play on how these protected areas, specifically micro-bans, are to be built, so clear conditions - what a particular species in an area can and cannot do. Consequently, I would not very much like the performers of these tasks to misunderstood paragraph 2.5. Thus, the Ministry of Environmental Protection and Regional Development “to establish new restrictions on forestry and agricultural activities, assessing the views of the forest and the land owner or the legal owner [...]”. Undoubtedly, the view of the forest owner needs to be assessed. But God does not give it if the performer realizes that it is mandatory. If, for example, the nest of the eagle is located in a forest whose owner would like to cut off, then it is simply impossible to take the view of this forest owner into account. Otherwise, of course, its eagle nests will not be there. It is necessary to respect, listen to and find compromises. Of course, with the condition that these compensations should be paid for restrictions in protected areas, but I am very afraid that some good performers could very literally understand what has been written here. Thank you. Of course, it's a nice holiday for you!
ParlaMint-LV_2016-06-16-PT12-371-U613	Thank you. I closed the debate. Does the rapporteur want to add something on behalf of the Commission?
ParlaMint-LV_2016-06-16-PT12-371-U614	Very briefly, in response to Mr Līdaka's last objection or comment. We voted in favour of the word "assessment". Let it be a review, not a mandatory requirement, as we do here... Above all, we were about a flexible approach - as you understood. And on the proposals that Mr Līdaka mentioned about point 2.3. They have in fact already been approved by the Cabinet. Guidelines for forests and related sectors, which are unfortunately not met. The forestry sector is very much in favour of these guidelines and asked us to take them forward. Thank you. And I ask you to support it once again.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-06-16-PT12-371-U615	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote for the draft decision “On the tasks to be carried out to ensure sustainable, efficient and rational management of Latvia’s natural resources and public assets”! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 73, against and refrains. The decision has been taken. The next item on the agenda - Election, approval, appointment, dismissal or dismissal of officials, expression of trust or distrust. On the agenda - draft decision “On the withdrawal of the 12th Saeima Member Valdis Kalnozols from the Commission for Education, Culture and Science of the Republic of Latvia”. Please call me! We will vote on the draft decision on the withdrawal of the 12th Saeima Member Valdis Kalnozols from the Commission for Education, Culture and Science of the Republic of Latvia! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The decision has been taken. On the agenda - draft decision on the election of the Saeima Member Valdis Kalnozols to the Foreign Affairs Commission. Please call me! We will vote on the draft decision on the election of the Saeima Member Valdis Kalnozols to the Foreign Affairs Commission! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 69, against and refrains. The decision has been taken. On the agenda - draft decision on the election of Parliamentary Member Askolds Kļavins to the European Affairs Commission. Please call me! To be put to the vote on the draft decision on the election of Askolds Klaviņš, Member of the Saeima, to the European Commission for European Affairs! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 73, against and refrains. The decision has been taken. On the agenda - draft decision “On election of the Saeima Member Askolds Kļaviņš in the Commission for Education, Culture and Science”. Please call me! We will vote on the draft decision on the election of the Saeima Member Askolds Kļavins to the Commission for Education, Culture and Science! Please vote mode! Please get the result! It's not about - 70, it's against and abstains. The decision has been taken. Colleagues! The agenda for the sitting of the Saeima has been examined. I would like to inform you about the replies to Members' questions given today at 17.00. The question of Members Silver, May, Platoper, Baloža and Šymfas to Prime Minister Maris Kučinskis “On the information report on the evaluation of the proposals contained in the final report of the parliamentary committee of inquiry of the Saeima”. The written replies received shall not be satisfied. The Prime Minister informs that he has instructed the Minister of Justice, Dzintars Rasnačs, and the Member of the Prime Minister, Minister of Economics, Arvilas Asheradens, to give oral answers. The Minister for Economic Affairs and the Minister for Justice shall inform you that an oral answer may be given. The reply to Members' questions will therefore take place today at 5 p.m. New questions have also been received from Members. Members Zarins, Pimenovs, Agešins, Tutins and Ribakovs have submitted the question “On the construction project of Stradiņš Hospital”, which we submit to the Minister of Health Anda Chakša for reply. Motivation name for Member Ivars Zarins. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. S. Āboltiņa: “Come to the end of the session at least!” ) Council Regulation (EC) No 1257/96 of 20 June 1996 concerning humanitarian aid (OJ L 163, 2.7.1996, p. 1).
ParlaMint-LV_2016-06-16-PT12-371-U616	It's very short. Colleagues! It has become public that the construction of Stradins hospital has been designed at very high costs which will significantly exceed what is needed on average. It cannot be said simply that this project is specific. The design costs themselves also exceed several times the normal cost of this project and are several million. ( Milestones.) That is why we call on the Health Ministers to assess (Inter-Charter) Whether the attitude of the Ministry of Health is justified - at this particular moment, to implement construction of Stradiņš hospital in the framework of the previous competition at any cost. We invite you to consider how justified it is, and we ask for that justification from her. “ What can we ask of her?Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, “ And let us also draw her’s attention to the fact that there may be work for law enforcement agencies. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-06-16-PT12-371-U617	Members Zarins, Agešins, Tutins, Orlovs and Pimenovs have submitted the question “On the construction project of Stradiņš Hospital”, which we submit to Finance Minister Dana Reizniece-Ozola for reply. Dear colleagues, So we're gonna be like a hired man for our Saeima's pre-gential sitting. Please call me! Please check-in mode for Members! Please get the result! Name Member of the Saeima, Gunars Kūtris, to read the results of the registration.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-06-16-PT12-371-U618	Dear colleagues, Currently not registered: Lolita Čigāne, Andrejs Elksniņš, Jānis Kžads, Ivans Klementjevs, Rihards Kols, Aleksejs Loskutovs, Anrijs Matīss, Aivars Meija, Romanas Naudiņš, Romualds Ražuks, Arturs Rubiks, Jūlija Stepanenko, Inguna Silver, Mārtiņš Šics, Zenta Tretjaka, Jānis Urbanovičs, Juris Vectirāns and Jānis Vucāns. Thank you. Merry Ligo Festival!
ParlaMint-LV_2016-06-16-PT12-371-U619	Thank you. I'm closing the meeting.
