ParlaMint-LV_2016-04-21-PT12-359-U1	Good morning, honourable Members! I invite you to take seats in Saeima's meeting room. Let's start the sitting of the Saeima on 21 April. Before examining the agenda adopted by the Bureau, the amendments tabled should be considered. The Commission on Defence, Home Affairs and Prevention of Corruption is asking to amend the agenda of the meeting and to include in it the draft law “Amendments to the Code on the Enforcement of Penalties of Latvia”. Are Members opposed to this amendment of the agenda? There is no objection by Members. The agenda has been amended. The Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy is asking for an amendment to the agenda of the meeting and to exclude from it the draft ‘Amendments to the Maritime Code’. Are Members opposed to this amendment of the agenda? There is no objection by Members. The draft law is excluded from the agenda of the sitting. Members Valainis, Zaķis, Lejiņš, Judins, Spolitis and others are asking to amend the agenda of the sitting and to include the draft decision “On the withdrawal of the Member from the State Administration and the Municipal Commission” in the draft decision. Are Members opposed to this amendment of the agenda? There is no objection by Members. The agenda has been amended. Members Valainis, Zaķis, Lejiņš, Spolitis, Viņķele and others are asking to amend the agenda of the sitting and to include in it the draft decision on the withdrawal of Member Viktoras Valaiņš from the Budget and Finance (Tax) Commission. Are Members opposed to this amendment of the agenda? There is no objection by Members. The agenda has been amended. Members Valainis, Zaķis, Lejiņš, Judins, Spolitis and others are asking to amend the agenda of the sitting and to include in it the draft decision on the election of the Member of the Committee on Budget and Financial Affairs (tax) of Vilnius Chers. Are Members opposed to this amendment of the agenda? There is no objection by Members. The agenda has been amended. Members Valainis, Zaķis, Lejiņš, Judins, Spolitis and others are asking to amend the agenda of the sitting and to include in it the draft decision on the election of Member Viktoras Valaiņš to the Commission of Public Administration and Local Government. Are Members opposed to this amendment of the agenda? There is no objection by Members. The agenda has been amended. We begin to examine the agenda of the amended sitting. The next item is entitled ‘On draft laws tabled’. The Saeima Bureau proposes to refer the draft law submitted by the Commission for Social and Labour Affairs “Amendments to the Law on Social Protection of the Victims of the Accidents of the Chernobyl Nuclear Power Plant and of the Victims of the Chernobyl Nuclear Power Plant” to the Social and Labour Commission, stating that it is the committee responsible. ‘ For” applied to speak Member Andrejs Klementjevs.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-04-21-PT12-359-U2	Good morning, honourable Members! In five minutes, I will try to convince you to support this draft law. The Commission of Social and Labour Affairs has hung over the Cabinet of Ministers and is asking to support this draft law because we are facing problems such as emergency liquidators who are trying to prove that they are entitled to compensation. Today we have a situation where we have 1900 liquidators in Latvia (The Hall of Noise. The head of the sitting shall be knocked down by means of a hammer.) , who receive compensation for their damage to their pension, and 1100 persons who have retired after 2000 and who do not have such compensation. It is clear that the Commission believes that this is not fair and that we should be able to eliminate the differences between them by means of legislation. We know that 28 actions have been brought before the court and 20 of them have already been heard, and decisions are positive for those applicants, the liquidators of the consequences of the accident, who are currently adjudicating with the state. This measure is not cheap: it will take 2.2 million from the special social budget. But since in the coming days we will mention the people who saved Europe, they also saved us, I think it is not right to talk about money today. This disaster took place on 26 April 1986, and very many people who took part in the elimination of its effects now feel very bad after its exposure, and all the compensation that we may be trying to pay them will go to medicine and rehabilitation. I understand that the agency is another criticism to us that we are very active, through the Commission, in driving attempts to increase pensions and benefits, but... Today, in 30 years' time, families with liquidators of the consequences of this accident feel very embarrassed by the state. The issue of awards with medals or medals has not been resolved. The draft that we sent to the President has not been examined and the Order's captain has not dealt with our request. The question of how we will honor these people has not yet been resolved. He is getting us less and less every year, and I think that if we address the issue of compensation for this damage today, it will be a very good signal and a step that will show that we understand and respect these people, who, at the risk of their health, protected Europe from its disasters. And the consequences that their children also feel are felt and noticeable today. I think, in general, that we should invest much more money in these rehabilitation measures, because today it is obvious that this radiation has had an impact not only on the liquidators but also on their children. Please support! And I will ask the Commission to examine this draft law today at first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-04-21-PT12-359-U3	Thank you. Do Members object to a draft law being passed on to the Commission? There is no objection by Members. The draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Parliamentary Bureau proposes that the draft law “Amendments to the Law “On Real Estate Tax” presented by Member Liepiņa, Šics, Viļuma, Kleinberga and Ruka be submitted to the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission, stating that it is the committee responsible. ‘ About” Ms Inga Bite, Member, has applied to speak.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-04-21-PT12-359-U4	Good morning, dear colleagues! Mr Putra, you have embarrassed me with your application to speak 'no' because I am currently on the table to say thank you. Thank you, my colleague, for the fact that, since last week, when we presented this bill for the first time and you rejected it, the government has taken a decision, ministers have said, everyone has promised that real estate tax on the single house will indeed be reduced - a specific reduced amount will be determined. I was therefore absolutely convinced that the draft law would be supported today. Because one thing is, of course, to speak and accept in the government, and another thing is a real bill and a real proposal that would now be transferable to the commissions, and if any corrections were needed, then in three readings it would be done with proposals. But Mr Putra will obviously come and say that real estate tax on the only housing is not to be reduced, it is to be set ten times higher than it was ten years ago, and it is still to be changed every year only up, with changes in cadastral values, and that it will continue to be home where people live... their owners will be punished because a castle sold for a million has been built next to this house, and therefore the cadastral value has risen. Colleagues! Obviously, however, I have to talk specifically about this draft law so that you know what its content is. The Latvian Association of Regions has carefully examined the real estate tax system and it has to be said that many radical reforms are needed. However, knowing that there is a record in the coalition Treaty that no opposition proposal can be supported, we have not come with a proposal for radical reforms. Today we are proposing to set only a reduced real estate tax rate of 0.1 per cent of the cadastral value of a man's only dwelling, or declared property, which could be either an apartment or a house and its adjacent land up to one hectare. We offer to give the municipality the right to reduce the real estate tax to such extent also to other properties, and the municipality could do so when considering both the needs of its citizens and the possibilities of its budget. It must be said that the current and existing system of real estate taxation is unfair and unfair for citizens who have long lived in a real estate. Because one thing is, if a person can afford to buy or build expensive real estate - and we think: yes, maybe he can also afford a tax on the state for it! - and quite another thing, if a person has lived in an inherited property for years and the cadastral value changes, not because he would invest or change something or improve the value of his property, but only because someone in that area has sold something, bought, built, thus changing the value of his real estate. Colleagues! In words, we're worried about those who leave. If the property tax on the inheritance is EUR 1 000 a year, we're going out of his house. The home of the family is what is reflected in Latvian literature and cultural heritage as very expensive and important for the Latvian. And leaving these houses has always been emotionally very difficult and difficult. That is what we are forcing our people to do when they realise that they are unable to pay the property tax of EUR 1000. Well, if they move to another place of residence somewhere in Latvia, unfortunately, this happens very often outside Latvia. Colleagues! I call for the creation of a real estate tax policy that would allow citizens to take root, get involved and stay in Latvia, rather than go away from it. I ask for this bill to be passed on to the commissions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-04-21-PT12-359-U5	Thank you. ‘ Against’ applied to speak to Member Edgars Putra.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-04-21-PT12-359-U6	Good morning, colleagues! I must have been a relatively young Member for Mrs Betes, and her woman's intuition has unfortunately only been partial, because that decision, of course, was taken this week... A specific decision was made in the Cabinet to move to the Saeima bill, which will provide for the freezing of these cadastral values next year. And the freezing of cadastral value is not the only step. It is also planned to develop concrete actions by 30.03.2017 as we will. Very widely discussed aspects, I would say, proposals that have now been made by the State Land Service, such as the introduction of a uniform tax rate on housing - common to both land and buildings. The Latvian Municipal Union has proposed to determine the area free of charge for the dwelling on the number of declared persons in the building, setting specific square metres. As you know, the ManaBalss.lv portal has proposed not to apply the only housing. However, in this case, there is only a debate now, and the first step that we have already taken is that the government intends to freeze this cadastral value in 2017. We will, of course, take the next step - on 30 March next year the model will be agreed with the Latvian Municipal Union and other non-governmental organisations, as well as with the Ministry of Justice and the Ministry of Finance. And finally, we'll end up getting this draft law that you've tabled... At present, it does not balance municipal budgets with the solvency of the population. In other words, it is only in one direction. Our aim, however, is that such a balance should be. And I hope that when we get this bill in 2017, we will come to the conclusion that this wave of immigration, which is essentially not due to real estate tax... it is rapidly braked and it will decrease even further. Thank you. I call for this proposal not to be supported. The FAO Group will abstain from voting on this proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-04-21-PT12-359-U7	Thank you. One Member has spoken for, one against. We have to vote. Please call me! We will vote in favour of transferring the draft law “Amendments to the Law “On Real Estate Tax”” to the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission, according to which it is the committee responsible! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 30, for - 6, for - 51. The draft law has not been passed on to the commission. The next item is entitled ‘On the granting of leave’. For the grant of unpaid leave to a Member, Imants Indebtor, from 27 April to 3 May this year. The Saeima Bureau has received an application from the Member Imants Debtor requesting him to be granted unpaid leave from 27 April to 3 May of this year. And we have to vote in favour of granting leave. Please call me! We will be voting to give the Member Immant Debtor unpaid leave from 27 April to 3 May this year! Please vote mode! Please get the result! Not by - 82, not by - and refrains. The decision has been taken. The leave has been granted. For granting unpaid leave to Member Juris Schulz on 4 and 5 May this year. The Saeima Bureau has received an application from Member Juris Schulz requesting him to be granted unpaid leave on 4 and 5 May of this year. The granting of leave shall be subject to a vote. Please call me! We will be voting for the granting of unpaid leave to Member Juris Schulz on 4 and 5 May this year! Please vote mode! Please get the result! It's not about - 85, it's against and abstains. The decision has been taken. Unpaid leave shall be granted to a Member. The next item on the agenda - Election, approval, appointment, dismissal or dismissal of officials, expression of trust or distrust. On the agenda - draft decision “On the evaluation of the personal responsibility of the Parliamentary Investigation Commission on the impact of corruption, lobbying, organised crime and smuggling on tax collection and investigation of economic and financial crimes, as well as the election of members of officials of the Interior, the Ministry of Justice, the Ministry of Finance and other state institutions in respect of the principles of public interest and good governance”. No one has applied for a debate. Please call me! We will vote on the draft decision “On the impact of the Parliamentary Investigation Commission on the collection of taxes and the investigation of economic and financial crimes, as well as on the assessment of the personal liability of officials of the Interior, the Ministry of Justice, the Ministry of Finance and other state institutions in respect of the principles of public interest and good governance”! Please vote mode! Please get the result! It's not about - 85, it's against and abstains. The decision has been taken. On the agenda - draft decision “On withdrawal of a Member from the State Administration and the Municipal Commission of Vilnius Ķirsis”. Please call me! We will be voting on the draft decision “On withdrawal of the Member from the State Administration and the Municipal Commission of Vilnius Ķirs”! Please vote mode! Please get the result! It's not about - 85, it's against and abstains. The decision has been taken. On the agenda - draft decision on the withdrawal of Member Viktoras Valaiņš from the Budget and Finance (Tax) Commission. Please call me! We will vote on the draft decision on the withdrawal of Member Viktoras Valaiņš from the Budget and Finance (Tax) Commission! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 84, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The decision has been taken. On the agenda - draft decision on the election of a member of the Committee on Budget and Financial Affairs (tax) of Vilnius Chers. Please call me! We will vote on the draft decision on the election of a member of the Committee on Budget and Finance (Tax) of Vilnius Chers! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 87, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The decision has been taken. On the agenda - draft decision “On election of Member Viktoras Valaiņš to the Commission of Public Administration and Local Government”. Please call me! We will vote on the draft decision on the election of Member Viktoras Valaiņš to the Commission of Public Administration and Local Government! Please vote mode! Please get the result! It's not about - 85, it's against and abstains. The decision has been taken. The next item is "Provision of draft legislation". On the agenda: Draft law on Amendments to the Criminal Law, second reading. The draft law has been declared urgent. On behalf of the Legal Commission - Member Solvita Āboltiņa.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-04-21-PT12-359-U8	Good morning, honourable colleagues! So on 3 March we examined the draft law on criminal law amendments in this Chamber and made it urgent for this draft law. And already in this Chamber, by informing you of the draft law, I said that this draft law is very important for strengthening the security of our country, because the rules governing crime against the state are 17 years old and no longer morally capable of ensuring that the law enforcement authorities are able to use legal instruments and address those that threaten our national security in any way. Back then, when I informed from the Tribunal, I pointed out the potential problems of this draft law, which had been pointed out by experts before the first reading at the joint meeting of the National Security Commission and the Legal Commission on 25 February. And, above all, I stressed that it is very important in this situation that these rules strike a balance between the criminal law framework and respect for human rights and democratic freedoms, and I also pointed out specific problems, specific articles, which should most probably be clarified for second reading. Even in the evening of the same day, suddenly, one part of the media shook up a very large campaign against it. I will name these media so that you can draw your own conclusions. These are Vesti Segodņa, BaltNews.lv, Sputniknews.lv, RuBaltic. r, Regnum, svpressa. ru, IMHOclub.lv These were the media, where campaigns against the adoption of these amendments are still ongoing. As you have noticed, today there is a picket near the Saeima, where people with red flags remind us of rights, freedoms and democracy. It is just a question of whether they remind us of the freedoms of European democratic countries and of each country's right to protect their democratic rights and freedoms and human rights, or whether they remind us of a country where, however, the red flags are flattened. During the period between readings, the President of Latvia also indicated... In writing to the Legal Commission, she welcomed the fact that such a draft law in the Saeima has been created and will be directed and looked at, while pointing to these potential concerns that the balance between human rights and criminal justice instruments is very important, and it is very important that people are not held accountable for what... for activities guaranteed by the Constitution. Consequently, the Legal Commission decided to convene these sittings to the extent necessary for any expert or invited or Member's concerns to be rebutted, debated and, indeed, for us to produce a version that would allow as little interpretation as possible and would prevent any abuse of the law. Consequently, five sittings - 29 March, 5 April, 12 April, 19 and 20 April - were held within the Legal Commission, where proposals for second reading of the draft law were examined. In total, 34 proposals have been received, but today's table is 26 (I will tell you a little later on why 26 are now). Each of these meetings, which took place in the Red Chamber, was publicly available. Under the parliamentary order, all the arguments and arguments expressed are recorded on the verbatim reports. Therefore, anyone who wishes to challenge the legality of these norms has an opportunity to get to know these norms in detail. In each of these meetings, representatives of the Security Police, representatives of the Military Intelligence and Security Service and representatives of the SAB were represented, thus three institutions jointly preparing the draft law and submitting it. Representatives of the Ministry of Justice were also present. The Ministry of Justice has a working group on criminal law, so each of these reservations has been reviewed again by the working group at the level of all experts. Representatives of the Ministry of the Interior took part. Representatives of the Public Prosecutor's Office took part. Lawyers took part (in particular, thank you very much to Professor Krastiņš!) . Representatives of judges - both Mr Dzalbe from the Supreme Court and expert Mr Baumanis from the regional court - were present; Mr Stukan was also a very frequent member of these sittings. Representatives of the Presidential Chancellery took part in order for the President to have confidence that the concerns he expressed in his letter to the Legal Commission of the Saeima will be taken into account. Lawyers took part. The representative of the Latvian Lawyers' Society, Borovkov, was also present. And, above all! - the Ombudsman Jansons (in addition – in all sittings) and the Cabinet of Ministers representative at the European Court of Human Rights, Kristīne Līce (or her representatives). So they all took part in order to comprehensively assess and hear the views of all experts in every rule of law, every proposal that was made in relation to a possible version of the Criminal Law. And it is very important that each of these proposals (Halling Noise. The head of the sitting shall be knocked down by means of a hammer.) would be examined mainly from the point of view of whether such a wording of the law could not create problems for Latvia in the European Court of Human Rights, that is to say, problems relating to human rights violations. So, as I said, these amendments are very important. And former member of the Commission on Constitutional Rights Lauris Liepa in public debate on Latvian Television pointed out that this is one of the recommendations of the Commission on Constitutional Rights to strengthen Latvia's norms that protect our sovereignty. We are currently looking at 26 proposals from Members in the table. Before we start to examine each proposal, however, I will read experts' opinions and opinions on this basic debate - can a person be punished for irregularities... for operations provided for in the Constitution, or not. The Ministry of the Interior has also provided an in-depth response to these proposals. Since not everyone is using the opportunity to read the verbs, I will read it to you now. So: The essence of the proposal included in the draft law on clarification of the positions of Section 80, Section 80.1 and Section 81 of the Criminal Law is to emphasize and determine that a person is to be held liable for actions performed in a manner not provided for in the Constitution of the Republic of Latvia. It would therefore prevent the possibility of interpretation of these rules by criminalising a person in cases where he or she exercises his or her rights under the Constitution. The law provides for the determination of responsibility for actions against the state independence, sovereignty, territorial unity, state power or state equipment of the Republic of Latvia in a manner not provided for in the Constitution, namely for anti-constitutional actions not provided for in the Constitution. Once again, I will refer to the Commission for Constitutional Rights, which has concluded that the inviolable core of the Constitution allows the Latvian people to repeal the existing Constitution and to establish a new constitutional framework. This is the debate on whether we can... whether the people can ask in a referendum that they want, let us accept, a presidential republic - whether this is acceptable and whether a large proportion of society could be punished. No, no! This is acceptable, but it does not allow the elimination of the state of Latvia and its democratic system. The inviolable core of the Constitution prevents the constitutional legislator from amending the constitutional identity of the state of Latvia if the result could be the elimination of the democratic system of the state or even the state itself. So we can decide what kind of facility we live in, but we cannot decide that we are eliminating the democratic system of the state or are destroying our own country. Thus, the duty of the Latvian people to protect their sovereignty, the independence of the state of Latvia, its territory and its unity and democratic state facilities is imposed on every citizen of the Republic of Latvia, and the people of Latvia cannot, by exercising sovereign authority, carry out actions against sovereignty, the independence of the state of Latvia, territorial unity of the state of Latvia and democratic state facilities. It can therefore be concluded that the Treaty does not provide for the constitutional elimination of the state independence, sovereignty of the Republic of Latvia or the undermining of the territorial unity of the Republic of Latvia. At the same time, it is clear from the duty of the Latvian people, as laid down in the introduction to the Satversme, that the words “in the Constitution of the Republic of Latvia” apply not only to the procedure, but also mainly to the content of the activity. Annotation of the draft law already states: “The way in which the Constitution of the Republic of Latvia can be changed is determined in the Constitution itself, while also providing for an inviolable core of the Constitution, which includes the existence of the state of Latvia. Thus, in each case it is necessary to assess not only formal compliance of the activities with the procedure laid down in the Constitution, but also whether the activities are aimed at the inviolable core of the Constitution.” It follows from the above that actions that comply with the Satversme are lawful both in form and by content and cannot be considered a criminal act. Only anti-constitutional action is punishable, that is, action aimed at amending the constitutional bases by circumventing the procedure laid down in the Constitution or even using the procedure laid down in the Constitution to carry out actions aimed at countering those laid down in the Constitution. It is an explanation which was the most widely discussed on the question of whether anyone could be punished for the actions envisaged by the Constitution. In my opinion, this clarification is sufficiently complete and precise, with references to legislation. It has been drawn up by experts and read at the sittings of the Legal Commission. This proves that the draft law and the provisions referred to therein have a legitimate aim and responsibility, which is intended to cover anti-constitutional actions, are proportionate. It was therefore a fundamental objection, which concerns a number of articles. We are now looking at each individual proposal. Article 1 is an article on activities aimed at the exercise of public authority and several proposals have been received on that article. 1. there was a proposal from Member Andrejs Judine, which was not supported by the commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-04-21-PT12-359-U9	Members don't mind... Let us start a debate. So Member Artus Kaimiņš applied for the first motion to debate.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-04-21-PT12-359-U10	I believe that urgency undermines the meaning of these amendments. And I want to tell Latvian society what it means to be urgent here in the Saeima - this draft law is adopted in two readings...
ParlaMint-LV_2016-04-21-PT12-359-U11	Mr. Neighbours, that's... You have applied for a debate on proposal 1, which does not involve urgency.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-04-21-PT12-359-U12	Yeah, yeah! You can keep going, you can... Yeah, it's...
ParlaMint-LV_2016-04-21-PT12-359-U13	And the Saeima has already decided on the urgency of this draft law. There is scope for debate on 1. - the proposal tabled by Member Andreja Judina.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-04-21-PT12-359-U14	Yeah. And Andrejs Judin's proposal is, let Andrejs Judin also come and speak. ( Merry laughter.) I applied to talk about the previous one here... I applied to speak... I don't know why you've created this kind of manipulation right now... But I'm interested in... You can laugh here, but please explain why this draft law has such urgency?Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. A. Lokutov: “We did this last time!” ) That is all I am asking right now. Because if there is urgency, the President cannot give the Saeima back to re-examination. Please, Āboltiņa, Members, come and explain the urgency.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-04-21-PT12-359-U15	We are continuing the debate. The name of the Member, Andrejs Judin. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. J.Urbanovics: “Why are you urgent, tell me!” ) Council Regulation (EC) No 1257/96 of 20 June 1996 concerning humanitarian aid (OJ L 163, 2.7.1996, p. 1).
ParlaMint-LV_2016-04-21-PT12-359-U16	Dear colleagues, Before I start to explain the substance of the proposal, I will try to describe the situation in a few words. This will also help you to understand better the substance of my proposal. I want to emphasise that this draft law is really very important. I'm giving lectures. I remember - even six months ago, I told our fellow judges, prosecutors, that the articles of our law, which are in that chapter, are not applied in practice. We need to amend the relevant rules and it is a pleasure that the working group has drawn up the relevant proposals that will allow the problem to be addressed. But if a bill has important goals, it does not mean that the content can be forgotten. We need to talk about important objectives that we want to achieve, but we also need to think about the quality of the legislation. It is no secret that the project supported at first reading was not ideal and we had to work to improve it in order to ensure quality. I can really say thank you to all those involved (many were named, listed, and there were other people who thought how to solve the problems), and after every meeting, when we heard from those involved that everything was all right... After each meeting there were already working group meetings where experts discussed the aim of solving problems, and for this time the main problems have been resolved, but I think the law can still be improved. There may also be better solutions, which means that we may have to go back to the bill after a while. But it's a pleasure that... I can repeat once again that today, with the vote on the whole draft law, we will be able to do so safely, because the draft law no longer endangers the interests we are talking about. However, when it comes to Article 80, it should be said that our Criminal Law currently provides for responsibility for the loss of territorial unity of activities aimed at the destruction of state power. That is the norm. The first reading was accompanied by a proposal to modify the provision and to create one from three articles, with responsibility for the actions in question. However, the problem was identified: if we foresee responsibility for actions against state facilities, it actually happens that people who believe, for example, that a presidential republic is better than a parliamentary one or who, let us say, propose that Latvia should build a federation rather than preserve a unitary state. That is the problem. And that's the problem. And when I think about how this can be dealt with, I put forward a proposal. The nature of my proposal is very simple: if a person takes action against Latvia's independence, sovereignty and territorial unity, he must be responsible for this. In my opinion, the law must be clear. This proposal was not supported. Another proposal was supported, on which Mrs Āboltiņa was in fact a little bit talking about. This proposal, which we will certainly be voting on, is not worse by its nature and idea, but I am, however, confused with the wording of Amendment 4: Action against Latvia's independence in the Constitution in an unforeseen way... Yes, indeed, when we began to criticise this rule, the letter that explained... It's not just a way. It also means content. To explain this, we will really solve the problem, but would it not be better and clearer: to write in law that independence is protected and anyone who does something against independence is criminalised? In fact, we are now armed with this letter, which was read to us. There are experts' opinions, and I have no doubt that, while discussing the case law, the problem will be solved, including by accepting proposal 4. But, in my opinion, my proposal is simpler and more understandable. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-04-21-PT12-359-U17	Do you support the request for a vote on the proposal?
ParlaMint-LV_2016-04-21-PT12-359-U18	Why don't you vote? Of course!
ParlaMint-LV_2016-04-21-PT12-359-U19	Thank you. I closed the debate. Please call me! We will vote in favour of 1. - Member Judea's proposal! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 4, for - 67, for - 9. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-04-21-PT12-359-U20	The proposal is the proposal of Member Julia Stepanenko, who has also not received support from the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-04-21-PT12-359-U21	Members ask for a vote. Please call me! We will vote in favour of 2. - Mr Stepanenko's proposal! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For -2, for -56, for -24. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-04-21-PT12-359-U22	3. - the proposal from Member Charles Sergeant, which is not supported either.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-04-21-PT12-359-U23	Let us start a debate. Name to Member Carl Sergeant.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-04-21-PT12-359-U24	Yes, good morning, colleagues! I'm very brief. The two previous speakers have already explained that, in the original form of this bill, there was a possibility that people who tried to change something in the way of a referendum in this country could be treated, and this possibility seemed unacceptable to me. However, given that, in the course of the preparation of this draft law, the proposals made by the Minister of the Interior, Rihards Kozlovsky, who removed this contradiction, I am calling for the vote on these proposals - on the fourth and seventh proposals - but I withdrew my proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-04-21-PT12-359-U25	Thank you. The proposal has therefore been withdrawn.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-04-21-PT12-359-U26	The proposal has been submitted by the Minister of the Interior Rihards Kozlovskis and has been discussed in the working group of the Ministry of Justice with all experts and has been taken as a basis for discussing this article. So I have already mentioned the above in connection with the kind not provided for in the Constitution of the Republic of Latvia... This makes it more precise what Mr Sergeant has said in his proposal on illegal form, stating precisely that the form set out in the Constitution may lead to some change. Following a long discussion, the Legal Commission supported this proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-04-21-PT12-359-U27	Members ask for a vote. Please call me! Let us vote in favour of 4. - the proposal submitted by the Minister for the Interior, Kozlovska! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 61, for - 18, for - 5. The proposal is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-04-21-PT12-359-U28	The proposal has been tabled by the Group and has not been endorsed by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-04-21-PT12-359-U29	Let us start a debate. The name is Mr. Wallary Ageshin.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-04-21-PT12-359-U30	Good morning, dear colleagues! It is difficult to deny that the original version of the draft law has been improved to some extent. However, I would like to say that, at the moment, the regulation provided for in Chapter 10 of the Criminal Law sets out precisely the characteristics of the constituent of the criminal offence, that is to say, what specific actions a person can be called to criminalise. However, the regulation of the norm contained in this draft law is very generalized and uncertain, and the person himself has a wide range of possibilities to interpret it. I will explain the substance of our proposal. You see, the explanation contained in the annex to the project, as well as the lengthy discussion in the Saeima Legal Commission, mainly on the proposals of the working group and not on the proposals of the Members - all this does not provide certainty that the disposition of the relevant article will be understood by the person from whom action is requested to refrain from activities prohibited by law. It must be acknowledged that the current articles of the specific part of the Criminal Law contain much more precise rules on criminal offences contained in the disposition of the norm, and I believe that it is now clear which actions can be criminalised. In the first paragraph of Article 80, any act, and this allows for a broad interpretation, should be recognised as a criminal offence. And in order to clarify that particular provision and to rule out the unjustified application of the rule, it is necessary to provide that criminal liability arises only in respect of intentional acts. On deliberate action! So we feel it is important that the article refers to purpose and purpose. Please vote in favour of Amendment 5. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-04-21-PT12-359-U31	The name of the Member, Andrejs Judin.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-04-21-PT12-359-U32	It should be recognised that supporting the proposal in question would in no way undermine the specific provision, but nevertheless, from a criminal law point of view... If we write "action-oriented", we already assume that its action is intentional. This cannot be done by chance, but is aimed at achieving any objective. We have a number of articles where we use such a construction, and we do not use the word "intentionally", but it is about the crime itself. Clearly, this can only be done with intent. Consequently, this proposal cannot be supported in law. You don't have to write this word in the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-04-21-PT12-359-U33	Thank you. I closed the debate. Please call me! We will vote in favour of 5. - the Group's proposal! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 19, for - 59, for - 6. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-04-21-PT12-359-U34	6. - the proposal tabled by Ms Inga Betes. This has also not been supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-04-21-PT12-359-U35	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-04-21-PT12-359-U36	7. - the proposal of the Minister for the Interior, Mr Rihards Kozlovska, which clarifies the second paragraph of this article. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-04-21-PT12-359-U37	Members ask for a vote. Please call me! We will vote in favour of 7. - the proposal submitted by the Minister for the Interior, Kozlovska! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For -56, for -1, for -22. The proposal is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-04-21-PT12-359-U38	The following proposals - from the 8th to the 11th proposals - will apply to Article 80.1: merger organization with the aim of demolishing the power of the Republic of Latvia... The first to this article is 8. - Mr Judina's proposal, which has not been supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-04-21-PT12-359-U39	Let us start a debate. The name of the Member, Andrejs Judin.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-04-21-PT12-359-U40	Colleagues! With my proposal, I did not propose a complete opt-out. I thought that the relevant provision could be included in the previous article - 80. Given the support of Minister Kozlovsky's proposal, which however does not include the regulation in question, I withdrew my proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-04-21-PT12-359-U41	Thank you. The proposal has therefore been withdrawn.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-04-21-PT12-359-U42	9. there is a proposal from Member Julia Stepanenko, which has not been endorsed by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-04-21-PT12-359-U43	Members ask for a vote. Please call me! We will vote in favour of 9. - Mr Stepanenko's proposal! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 1, for - 60, for - 23. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-04-21-PT12-359-U44	10. is a proposal of the Minister of the Interior Rihards Kozlovskis, which states that this article can only be applied if this activity is carried out in an unforeseen manner in the Constitution of the Republic of Latvia. The Commission supported this proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-04-21-PT12-359-U45	Members ask for a vote. Please call me! Let us vote in favour of 10. - the proposal submitted by the Minister for the Interior, Kozlovska! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 59, for - 19, for - 5. The proposal is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-04-21-PT12-359-U46	11. is the proposal of Member Inga Betes, which has not been endorsed by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-04-21-PT12-359-U47	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-04-21-PT12-359-U48	The following proposals are about Article 81 “Invitation to violently decimate the state power of the Republic of Latvia and to violently modify the state system”. To this article, the first proposal under number 12 is that of Mr Andrejs Judine, who has not been endorsed by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-04-21-PT12-359-U49	Let us start a debate. The name of the Member, Andrejs Judin.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-04-21-PT12-359-U50	Colleagues! In this case, the question is the same as in Article 80: do we believe that we should be held responsible for a public call, if it is directed against the independence of Latvia, or only if it has been done in an unforeseen way in the Constitution. I told my colleagues, informed them, I sent my letters to my colleagues and also explained at the meeting of the Legal Commission that there was room for discussion on this issue. And that is, people who will perform the relevant actions will not tell about the articles previously mentioned by Mrs. Āboltiņa, but they will talk about Chapter 8 of the Satversme and tell that when they disseminate the relevant information, they exercise their freedom of expression, exercise their right to participate in demonstrations, rites and so on. In this respect, it is very important to follow the opinion that has been read - that the future way will also include content. And if we believe that, even when a person uses freedom of expression, there will be reasons to say that freedom of expression is not absolute and thus responsibility is possible. So, in principle, where is the difference between my approach and the approach that you will see in the next proposals? My offer was simple: if there is an action, then there is a responsibility. I see, however, that the majority is in favour of a somewhat more complex approach, indicating that the Treaty will have responsibility for unforeseen cases. Consequently, prior to each application, it will be necessary to discuss whether or not the person who has carried out the activities in question has acted in the manner provided for in the Constitution, or whether or not his or her rights are broad or, nevertheless, not so widely interpreted. I am not calling for a 'yes' vote, but given that we have already supported Amendment 4, I have informed you of a possible problem. However, I very much hope that the practitioners will manage and that the relevant provision will be effective. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-04-21-PT12-359-U51	Thank you. I closed the debate. Consequently, Member Judin does not hold the vote on this proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-04-21-PT12-359-U52	13. There is a proposal from Member Julia Stepanenko, which has not been endorsed by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-04-21-PT12-359-U53	Let us start a debate. The name of Member Julia Stepanenko.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-04-21-PT12-359-U54	President-in-Office of the Saeima. Dear colleagues, To state the reasons why I have tabled proposals for this bill, I will ask me to extend the time by putting together two speeches.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-04-21-PT12-359-U55	Are there any objections to extending the debate to seven minutes? There is no objection. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2016-04-21-PT12-359-U56	Thank you. First of all, I would like to express my misunderstanding about the extensive criticism that is now being made of the existing rules. My logic is by no means anti-state or... And it is pointless to try me, like the opponent of any of these amendments, to blame the evil intentions of the country, because I know not only to fear but also to read. It is very sad that recently it has become a popular practice to stigmatise Members following their vote. Why do we no longer trust what was created to strengthen the newly reborn, legitimate state power? Because this law, which we are talking about, was born after the barricades - Latvia at the most turbulent time. You will not read anywhere in the annotation the real situation that the new articles are supposed to address. Likewise, you will not see grounds of urgency. If we allow every law to bring benefits to society, then I think this will be an exception. I do not think that, by strengthening your power in the country, you, my fellow Members, will have taken care of the people. The new wording of Article 81 of the Law will establish that a prison sentence of up to five years is in danger of calling against the Republic of Latvia (e.g. against the state power of the Republic of Latvia) in the Constitution. In a few days, the law will come into force, and people, when talking about the state, about what is going on in Latvia's policy, will have to think with them, because the range of people who will be able to determine who is suspected (and I do not have such great confidence), will be much wider than what was planned until now. There are enough criminals on crimes against the state that have already been initiated to drag a thick line over the lives of any person. I do not know whether what is happening in our country at the moment with financial structures and the speed with which these urgent amendments are literally driven is linked to the influence of a group in politics, but one thing is clear: there is a great desire to strengthen its power and to ensure that it is in no way called into question. In terms of security, I took part very recently in a discussion to which the President of Latvia was invited. During the discussion there were many remarkable statements, such as the fact that Latvian society is afraid even of an earthquake that is rare in Latvia. Fear is part of our daily life. But the sense of security, which is opposed to fear, gives us a sense of union and trust in a higher power. The power will make sure that society feels safe in the territory of the country, so that there are no different elements that destabilise the situation in the country. In the old version of chapter 10, the general message is: “Everyone who tries to destroy peace in your life and confidence over tomorrow, so that you, the citizen, can carry on unhindered with what you planned in your life, let us call it responsibility.” Now, with the new amendments, there is a completely different message: “Be afraid, because your actions can also turn out to be criminal.” The discussion that took place with the President of Latvia included another valuable opinion: there is a lack of communication between the state and people. It is too little for the country to approach its citizens. In my opinion, the most important dialogue for the country with the individual takes place precisely in the legislation. When this law is passed, we will be able to say with confidence that the state has shown aggression against people. Such a law is rather a threat, as it can affect almost every one of us. And the last lesson from this discussion is this: security is not just an armor, a law or a closure of the mouth. Security is health, peace and prosperity. We cannot increase state security by one repressive law if we destabilise public security in other areas with other laws, because at the time when the state will have to be protected by weapons in the hands of which we are recently carefully prepared, there will be no one to do so, because part will already sit in prison, part of a bank or country will have abandoned property and will live under a bridge, but part will stand in line with the doctor. So, colleagues, please stop speculating on security, which is not just an empty sound for our citizens. On the amendments again. In the Commission, I propose that we go back to the old version with little clarification, maintaining the condition of violence, precisely in order to protect those whose activities have not been criminalised so far, but whose intention is not to combat public security. Why is that? One reason: the drafters seem to find this situation more dangerous than terrorism. Because if a person distributes an appeal to release the Saeima on the Internet rather than start collecting signatures as provided for in the law, the Security Police will meet him in the stairwell space, but if a person calls for terrorist attacks on the Internet, then, in accordance with the current regulation, before calling the person to account, the Security Police will have to check whether they are only empty speeches or if a person has such opportunities. In this situation obviously, the Security Police will not wait at the door, but will examine everything at first. I invite you to support my proposed version.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-04-21-PT12-359-U57	Thank you. I closed the debate. Does the rapporteur wish to explain the opinion of the committee before the vote?
ParlaMint-LV_2016-04-21-PT12-359-U58	Yeah. Thank you, on behalf of the Commission, of course. It's very imaginative. Not only on this paragraph, I will also answer perhaps Mr. Neighbours, who did not expect an answer to the question why this draft law is urgent. Has it been adopted hasty and untimely? This bill was needed last night! And I have been asked by several journalists: why did you work for so long? That is why the safety authorities have been working for so long with experts to prevent it from being misused. And the urgency was tried to talk to each of these sittings. The Commission has twice been asked to vote in an attempt to remove the urgency of this draft law, and every time this vote has been rejected. So I think this bill is... As I said, there were five sittings where we analysed each of these proposals. But I'll still read to you exactly what security is, from the relevant laws, from the letters of experts, so that it's not just here... Yeah, I was in this study, too, where people are afraid of an earthquake... They are also afraid of a neighbouring country. Mrs Stepanenko, they are most afraid that they will not be able to pay for their treatment. But it is not the subject of this law that we are talking about at the moment. In this draft law and in this section, we are currently looking at how to give law enforcement authorities a real tool in the event of a crime against the state. So the question of security. Safety is a sign of a certain condition. The first paragraph of Article 1 of the Law on National Security states: “National security is the result of uniform, targeted measures implemented by the State and society, which ensures the independence of the State, its constitutional structure and territorial integrity, the perspective of free development of society, prosperity and stability.” If public security is a state in which the normal functioning of society is guaranteed, then state security is defined as a state in which the existence and normal functioning of the State are guaranteed. Thus, addressing national security involves not only addressing certain fundamental values, i.e. sovereignty, independence, territorial unity, rule of law, state facilities, but also addressing those whose responsibilities include maintaining this state, as well as reducing the capacity of the people and the state to protect certain fundamental values. I can give an example of a situation where action is being taken to influence the capabilities of the armed forces to protect the country through provocation or ideological influence campaigns. It can also take the form of recruiting individuals so that, at a certain point, they do not fulfil their civil duty - to protect the security of the country, but, on the contrary, to do other things for the enemy. The concept of national security is referred to in several laws and regulations, such as the National Security Law. It should be stressed that the concept of state security is also included in the Law on State Security Institutions, which explicitly covers two areas: internal and external security of the country. State security authorities are the only institutions in Latvia that are entitled to carry out intelligence and counter-intelligence activities. The second paragraph of Section 3 of the Law on State Security Institutions describes intelligence as activities of specially authorized state institutions, which are intended to obtain information about the intentions and activities of foreign governments, their institutions, organisations or individual persons, which are directed or may be directed against the Republic of Latvia and its vital institutions. On the other hand, according to the third paragraph of Article 3 of the said Law, counter-intelligence has been described as the activities of specially authorised state institutions aimed at ensuring the protection of the state's constitutional system, state independence, economic, scientific, technical and military potential, state secrets and vital interests and security against spying, diversification, damage, acts of terrorism and other threats, as well as taking special measures to prevent, eliminate or eliminate the consequences of these threats. That definition of exclusive functions specific to national security authorities complements the concept of national security. Safety is also mentioned in a number of policy planning documents, but I think that what I have quoted is absolutely enough to understand what national security is, why these articles of the law are needed and their scope in the particular draft law. So on behalf of the commission... We also analysed Julia Stepanenko's proposal, but considered that it did not meet today's requirements and supported the proposal drawn up by the working group of the Ministry of Justice. Consequently, the Commission did not support this proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-04-21-PT12-359-U59	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote in favour of 13. - Mr Stepanenko's proposal! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 18, for - 56, for - 7. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-04-21-PT12-359-U60	14 is a proposal tabled by the Minister of the Interior, Rihards Kozlovska, who was supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-04-21-PT12-359-U61	Let us start a debate. Name to Member Gunaras Kūtris.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-04-21-PT12-359-U62	Hello, dear colleagues! I understand that the Saeima must adopt quality laws. And if, at last reading, even coalition Members admit that this is not of quality, then the question arises: what is the purpose of the law? I will now talk about the 14th proposal, which has been supported by the Commission, but, in essence, this proposal incorporates the same rules as in the previous articles, which you have already supported in general. In my opinion, the understanding and application of these rules in practice can be very different. If you carefully read this article, which provides for responsibility for addressing certain values of the Republic of Latvia in the procedure not provided for in the Constitution of the Republic of Latvia, then pay attention to a particular case! The person declares that he wants to organise, for example, at the monument of Rainis, where he will speak, discuss further development of the country of Latvia, prosperity and development of democracy. So there will be an event organised in a way provided for in the Constitution, where people, in keeping with the Treaty's right to express their views freely and with a view to the world, will speak. Let's imagine: if one day a person talks about the fact that the country of Latvia continues to operate in such a state and doesn't want to join Sweden or Russia, choose which name you want... The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. R.Ražuks: “Estonia!” )... Is Estonia, do we think it is a state crime or not? I think not, because in the way provided for in the Constitution, a person has been called upon to speak. If you say that, in such a situation, it should not be spoken, then criminal proceedings must be initiated, and the Security Police, applying the specific article that calls on the Internet to join something, sees that there is a crime there. Let us now imagine that the next day, a similar sitting is taking place, where people say in the debate: "You know, we are about a unitary European Union as a united state... maybe a federal but a united state, giving up the sovereignty of Latvia, because a federal state... the sovereign state shall lose.’; Tell me, please - should there also be criminal proceedings in this, second case? ( The box “Yes! ”) ) Does this mean that security services will start the process on a subjective or political basis? Dear colleagues, If the norm is so inaccurate, maybe the Legal Commission should have listened to my letter and asked the experts of the Venice Commission for an assessment of whether such inaccurate articles may be contained in the Criminal Law. It is therefore very difficult to vote in favour of articles. But, thank God, in the Criminal Law, the articles on state crime are still there; they have not been deleted. And if you work and you catch spies, you can catch them right now. But if there are such vague versions, then I think we should refrain rather than support. Let us call on those experts who will still appreciate the last article, and then perhaps the rest can be overestimated. Why should a poor law be adopted and then re-evaluated? Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-04-21-PT12-359-U63	I closed the debate. Will the rapporteur add on behalf of the commission?
ParlaMint-LV_2016-04-21-PT12-359-U64	Yeah. This argument was heard by the Legal Commission again and again: “Where are we urgent and why do we need it, and why can’t the old norms work?” And then, in discussions not on this article, but on one another, much more contested articles, to which we will come, one of the present, the head of the Latvian Lawyers' Society, Aivars Borovkovs, said: “Stop pretending! Those norms and versions are clear to everyone; they are confirmed by the Security Police, the Public Prosecutor's Office and judges; it is absolutely clear to them how to apply these rules. What are you afraid of? You express your distrust with the law enforcement authorities." And for me too, enough people have come here and talked about their negative experiences with the law enforcement authorities. What Mr Kūtra is calling for and what we have discussed at the many sittings of the Legal Commission is whether it is possible to create an ideal version in which an indecent member of the security authorities or an indecent judge will not find an interpretation of how to abuse it. Probably not. Most likely, we are unable to create the ideal standards. But what we are able to do right now is give a modern tool for those who have to care for our safety. And for every particular case of the violation of human rights, which questions the right of a person to exercise the rights or rights guaranteed to him by the Council of Europe's Convention for the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms, there is a possibility of specifically challenging such mechanisms and such cases. I will read to you then a specific case concerning the so-called article of journalists on how such a case is decided and on what analysis has been. But for 14. - the proposal of the Minister for the Interior... The Commission supported this proposal and, on behalf of the Commission, I ask Members to support it.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-04-21-PT12-359-U65	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote in favour of 14. - the proposal submitted by the Minister for the Interior, Kozlovska! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 58, for - 20, for - 5. The proposal is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-04-21-PT12-359-U66	15. is the proposal tabled by Member Inga Betes, which has not been supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-04-21-PT12-359-U67	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-04-21-PT12-359-U68	The next proposals - from 16 to 18. - is concerned with Article 81.1 ‘Helping a foreign country in an action against the security interests of the Republic of Latvia’. The first proposal to this Article is therefore 16. - the proposal tabled by the Group, which has not been endorsed by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-04-21-PT12-359-U69	Let us start a debate. The name is Mr. Wallary Ageshin.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-04-21-PT12-359-U70	Dear colleagues, We believe that the proposed wording of Article 81.1 is in fact not up-to-date, because it contains very wide-ranging standards. Article 81.1 provides for responsibility for providing assistance to a foreign person, perhaps not even knowing that foreign or foreign organizations are carrying out any harmful activity that is simply presumed to be against the security interests of the Republic of Latvia. We have the impression that it is not even necessary, in the opinion of the authors, to identify the subjective side of the crime - it is enough to establish the fact of action. It should be noted that the very term ‘provision of assistance’, if not provided in terms of its content, is very widely interpreted and can lead to a subjective result of application. I therefore call for a vote in favour of the Group's proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-04-21-PT12-359-U71	Thank you. I closed the debate. Will the rapporteur add on behalf of the Commission?
ParlaMint-LV_2016-04-21-PT12-359-U72	Yeah, I'll add. IT IS not right for a representative, because when the Commission also discusses... It may not have been stated in the original version, and although it is clear from the design and all the nature of the article that this crime cannot be committed by chance, the specified version proposed by the working group of the Ministry of Justice in the Legal Commission specifies the purpose and is now sound as follows: “For the purpose of action to help a foreign or foreign organisation to address the state independence, sovereignty, territorial unity, state power, state desire or state security of the Republic of Latvia.” Consequently, the article now contains both the purpose and the details of the way in which this assistance could be targeted and against. There is therefore no reason to support 16. - the Group's proposal to exclude this article from its entirety. The Commission did not support this proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-04-21-PT12-359-U73	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote in favour of 16. - the Group's proposal! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 19, for - 57, for - 6. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-04-21-PT12-359-U74	17. There is a proposal from Member Julia Stepanenko, which is not supported by the Commission either.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-04-21-PT12-359-U75	Let us start a debate. The name of Member Julia Stepanenko.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-04-21-PT12-359-U76	Dear colleagues, This time very briefly. I called on the Commission, in my opinion, to come to the main aim of the amendments - the protection of the inviolable core of the Constitution - instead of an invalid article. Unfortunately, my proposal was not supported. But by commenting on the discussions that were held at the Legal Commission and today from the Tribunal... We hear oral assurances that this law, this broad scope, will not be abused. I do not really know if we can count on the oral guarantees that have been given from the authors, authors and Mrs Āboltiņa's mouth in three days' time when the President will be forced to declare this law. It is like in a bank taking credit: we will probably not have to submit any certificates and conclude any contracts next time; we will just promise that we will ever give them back and we will believe in the word. Likewise, we will have to believe in the name of all those who are promising us today that there will be no repression. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-04-21-PT12-359-U77	I closed the debate. Will the rapporteur explain the opinion of the panel?
ParlaMint-LV_2016-04-21-PT12-359-U78	I did not say anything about my proposal, Mrs Stepanenko. However, I would like to remind you that I have not provided any guarantees. We are looking at a specific draft law, which has specific applicants. I report on behalf of the Commission and try as precisely as possible to set out the arguments that have been raised in many meetings of the Commission, some of which I even quote precisely. In my opinion, I also said in my previous address that this, however, is a question of each... both the good faith of the person who is turning to the state and the good faith of the people who will apply these rules. The letters of guarantee or an oral promise to give - this is not the case. But in any case, the Commission did not support the proposal of Member Julia Stepanenko.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-04-21-PT12-359-U79	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote in favour of 17. - the proposal tabled by Member Julia Stepanenko! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 1, for - 76, for - 5. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-04-21-PT12-359-U80	18. - the proposal of the Legal Commission, drawn up by the Working Party of the Ministry of Justice, which avoids the possible accusations mentioned by Mr Agešin from the tribunal. The Commission supported this proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-04-21-PT12-359-U81	Let us start a debate. The name of the Member, Andrejs Judin.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-04-21-PT12-359-U82	Yes, it was not easy for us to work with this verse.... You see here in the table a proposal from the Legal Commission. ( Prior to that, there was also a proposal from the Minister for the Interior, which has been withdrawn.) We discussed a great deal of quality, and that was one of the articles on which I also had an opportunity and, I believe, also an obligation to ask some unpleasant questions to which I think it was not easy for the people of the Security Police to answer. But, as I said at the very beginning of the legislative work, we need to think about quality. I see that this article is also an example of the fact that our reservations, both from the position and from the opposition, have been taken into account. And it is not the first option that we will now vote on, nor the second; it is the third or the fourth. On the original version. You can see - at first reading there were big risks. Really! At first reading, it was intended to lay down the responsibilities for ‘assistance to a foreign organisation or to a foreign organisation in a harmful action’... And I remember my question. I asked experts directly whether it would really be so if someone, for example, talked to foreign journalists who, for example, represent television that regularly carries out some anti-Latvian activities, then we will call on the person who will talk to them and who will therefore actually help them to carry out harmful activities now, because they will be able to respond to what he said. Will we call him responsible? I remember, the initial reaction was, 'Well, no, let's not be held accountable!' Yes, of course, that was not the intention, but there was a possibility. Our objections have been taken into account and we are now seeing a different version of the working group. And it is important that here it is stated: “On activities aimed at helping a foreign or foreign organisation to address the state independence, sovereignty, territorial unity, state power, state facilities or state security of the Republic of Latvia... “ In order to bring someone to justice, it has to be established that the action was carried out for the purpose and that the person is aware that the action taken by another person is directed against the Republic of Latvia. Consequently, there is a different basic problem with this article at the moment, and I was also forced to speak about it in the Legal Commission. The problem is one: will the security services be able to prove all this? Will this not be the case, but it will be very difficult to prove it? But there is no reason to worry that human rights are at stake in this case. Please vote in favour of this proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-04-21-PT12-359-U83	Thank you. Name to Member Carl Sergeant.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-04-21-PT12-359-U84	Good morning, again! When I join Mr Judin, however, I believe that, on a case-by-case basis, the texts that a particular person is saying must be very small and scrupulous, because perhaps it is also a text that is supposedly about some internal problems of the country, but at the same time this text is aimed at making it possible for any foreign country to address Latvia in this regard in some other way. I'm just gonna get a little extract of... In the light of my bitter experience, I would not call the author, but I would point out the text on which a criminal case was even being initiated at the time, but the person was at all justified and continues to speak. ‘ You understand that the state of Latvia is the same absolute evil as the state of the Nazis, but fortunately, much weaker and more cowardly. The fact that our generation has allowed it to emerge is an unforgivable mistake. The Transnistrians did not make such a mistake, and Russian schools are not threatened. This country should be eliminated. That is why our task is simple enough. Tactfully - to achieve maximum concessions by using enemy weakness and cowardice, but not forgetting that it is an enemy. Strategicly, to convey their views to the next generation. Not always does it deliberately, but successfully enough, because no one knows when freedom will come.” Well, there's enough text for this man, and I think these amendments to the law will finally make it possible to ask him: "Closing your mouth!" Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-04-21-PT12-359-U85	Thank you. Therefore, proposal 18 is supported by the two speakers. I closed the debate. Does the rapporteur also want something... Is that so? So the rapporteur does not want to add anything.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-04-21-PT12-359-U86	On behalf of the Commission, I call for support.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-04-21-PT12-359-U87	Members ask for a vote. Please call me! We will vote in favour of 18. - The legal commission's proposal! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For -62, for -18, for -5. The proposal is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-04-21-PT12-359-U88	The next proposals - from 19 to 23. - relating to an article which has been the subject of a very wide-ranging debate, to an article on spying. And, as I am going to have a debate here, I would like to inform you of the reasons why changes to the spying regulation were necessary and of some aspects that have been proposed in the new version. So spying is done both through intelligence services and through the direct involvement of other state institutions or organisations. The intelligence service is thus just one of the tools that foreign countries can use to obtain useful information. In the case of declassification of public secret or sensitive information, there is no relevant meaning in which such information comes to the attention of a foreign institution or organisation. It is precisely the fact that information in foreign actions is illegal, i.e. failing to comply with the established procedures, that is to say, information is illegal. When classifying information as a state secret or as undisclosed information, one of the objectives is to prevent such information from being unlawfully made available abroad. At the same time, it should not be forgotten that spying is also carried out by intelligence services. State security authorities have identified the interest of systematic, permanent foreign intelligence services in obtaining various information in Latvia, including involving Latvian citizens in obtaining such information, and this poses a threat to national security. The tasks assigned to foreign intelligence services include the collection of information useful to a foreign intelligence service, which can assist in the pursuit of foreign interests through the use of individuals' specific knowledge. The information that is requested to be collected or transferred by a foreign intelligence service may be about events, processes, possibilities to influence decision-making in a favourable direction. Foreign intelligence services use such information in future for planning hateful activities in Latvia, for example, in order to achieve a favourable decision-making process. For example, foreign intelligence services order the collection of compromising information that is not appropriately classified as sensitive information or a state secret on persons who may influence the decision-making process of significant importance to the State or who have access to information protected by law. The purpose of such information collection is to create favourable conditions for future spying activities or other harmful activities that may adversely affect the security of Latvia. Therefore, this was the reason why such an article was necessary. And now I will also inform you about some of the terms mentioned in this verse and how they can be translated, or understood, in the sense of this bill. Impressible news. Criminal liability for the transmission of sensitive information is already provided for in Section 85 of the Criminal Law in force. Undisclosed information is not generally available; regulatory acts provide for specific procedures for the use of such information and explicitly prohibit the dissemination of such information. As has been understood so far, given the existence of the article under the heading ‘Crime Against the State’, the subject of the spy crime is undisclosed information relating to national security. These are such information, the disclosure of which is regarded by Latvia as harmful to national security interests. However, in general, responsibility for disclosure of undisclosed information is provided for in Section 200 of the Criminal Law (if disclosure of undisclosed information has taken place in the private sector) and Section 329 of the Criminal Law (if a criminal offence has been committed in the service of state institutions). Criminal offences are distinguished by the fact that, in the event of spying, it is mandatory for a person to establish the intention to transmit sensitive information directly to a foreign or foreign organisation and by the fact that sensitive information has been transmitted to a foreign organisation or its organisation. Moreover, in the case of spying, the interests of national security must be at stake. What is the improved version of the Criminal Law by the Working Party? The working group has supplemented the position of the norm with the words “in order to transfer” proposed by the Ombudsman, thus clearly and unequivocally stating that according to Article 85 of the Criminal Law criminal responsibility for the illegal collection of undisclosed information would exist only in cases when the person’s intention to transfer this information to a foreign or foreign organisation is demonstrated. Moreover, that clarification makes it clear that there is no intention to commit an act of negligence. Criminal responsibility is intended only for illegal activities - collection or transfer. The exchange of information with foreign or foreign organisations subject to restrictions on use shall be regulated by laws and regulations and international agreements binding on Latvia. In the absence of, or the existence of, a prohibition on the exchange of relevant information, but in accordance with the procedures laid down, the activities of the person will be lawful. On the other hand, with regard to other information that is not disclosed, a person will be liable only in cases where it will close or hand over such information after having previously received a specific task from a foreign intelligence service. So the improved version makes it clear that a person needs to be fully aware that the task comes from a foreign intelligence service and that the person collects and transfers this information, not on his own initiative, but in the performance of foreign intelligence tasks. Thus, collecting and transferring information to a foreign intelligence service, acting on its behalf, is in itself a harmful and unacceptable activity because the person supports foreign intelligence activities. The right to carry out intelligence and counter-intelligence activities in Latvia is limited to the state security authorities of Latvia, who have the right to exchange information in regulatory enactments and international treaties binding on Latvia. It is therefore a justification why such an article was created and a justification for what was then supported in the version jointly supported by the Legal Commission. The first proposal to this "spring clause" is 19. - the proposal by Member Julia Stepanenko, which has not been endorsed by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-04-21-PT12-359-U89	Let us start a debate. Will it be enough for you to have a three-minute debate?... Colleagues have received an application from Members Smilten, Brigmanis, Gaida Berzina, Neighmina and Abu Meri requesting that the sitting on 21 April be continued without interruption until the examination of the draft law on “Amendments to the Criminal Law”. Do Members have objections? There is no objection by Members. So we are continuing the debate. The name of Member Julia Stepanenko.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-04-21-PT12-359-U90	Dear colleagues, We have come to the essence of the amendments and also to the most dangerous article. It's quite strange to be aware... I will repeat about terrorism once again: when Europe is hit by one act of terrorism after another (the grass has increased noise. The head of the sitting shall be knocked down by means of a hammer.) Our agenda is not the fight against terrorism, but the capture of spies. Obviously, according to the assessment of the security authorities, the greatest threat to citizens can be caused not by a terrorist suicide victim, but rather by a spy, once the amendments are brought forward as a matter of urgency. Annotation of the draft law has much to say about Ukraine's scenario. And now, by adopting this law, the authors are pleased - will be pleased! - He protected us from the Crimean scenario. But has anyone thought that the Crimean scenario is not at all possible with us, because we are a NATO member, unlike Ukraine? Do we really have to hold on to this fear? Do we not trust our allies? Of course, there is still confusion as to whether the imperfections of the law, as the authors of the draft law have repeatedly said, really are already preventing spies from being caught? By amending the law, you are now influencing most of Latvia's population, with the exception of perhaps children and elderly people, criminalising the collection of any news - no matter how it will be used. You give enormous powers to security authorities to initiate criminal proceedings against practically anyone who, for example, collects evidence in court to protect their property. Colleagues! Many letters have been written and sent to you by members of the “Open Management Partnership in Latvia”, which sees great danger in this section of the spying. And their concerns are as follows: faced with security threats to the country, a dangerous regime will be introduced that will deter citizens from defending their rights. As I did not find the letters sent by this association among the letters annexed to the draft law, I would like to quote from the verbatim report some of the comments that the company mentions in its letter: “The proposed changes to the Criminal Law open the way for abuse of power. “Censorship of witch hunting, censorship, as well as removal of the properties of different drivers of self-governing for the indigenous people of Latvia.” For example, as I have already mentioned, collecting information from credit institutions on the truthfulness of transactions, defending Latvian citizens in civil court against the claims of unscrupulous borrowers. In future, it will be punished as spying. In February of this year, the Saeima received a letter from five associations on large tax evasion schemes, estimated at about 650 million euros, and a request from the associations to open the names of the real beneficiaries. It may be that the following articles or other new articles will also be used against such alarmers. With amendments to the Criminal Law unlimited and uncontrolled power is transferred to Latvia in the hands of a narrow group of persons. If we accept these amendments to the law, we will shame and ruin Latvia over decades of unfriendly foreign media trolling. The fight against television and singers is nothing compared with the fight against the population of their country. I invite you to support my proposed version, which provides for responsibility only for the communication of information (not for collection) for a specific purpose - to address the Latvian state. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-04-21-PT12-359-U91	The name of the Member is Waiting for Burns.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-04-21-PT12-359-U92	Dear Chairman of the Saeima. Dear colleagues, I would like to give a brief opinion on Mrs Stepanenko's observations, referring here to possible specific examples of the collection of information or the collection of evidence by the court. I do not really understand the link between the gathering of evidence by a court and the illegal collection of sensitive information for the purpose of handing it over to a foreign intelligence service. I did not really understand the example of Mrs Stepanenko - in what respect was it said? Regarding this issue, or the reference to the so-called "Open Government Partnership in Latvia" letter sent to many Members, Mrs Stepanenko forgot to say one important thing. In particular, in each of these letters this association stressed that the draft law had not been discussed with representatives of the President of Latvia, with the Ombudsman, with our representatives at the European Court of Human Rights. As we know, this is not true! On behalf of the Legal Commission, Mrs Āboltiņa also pointed out that at each meeting the relevant officials or authorised persons who expressed an opinion and who also supported the specific proposals submitted by the Legal Commission and the Ministry of the Interior were present. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-04-21-PT12-359-U93	Thank you. I closed the debate. Will the rapporteur add on behalf of the commission? Mr Kūtra, the debate is already closed.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-04-21-PT12-359-U94	I have set out the Commission's justification in detail before we start to look at this article, and Mr Berzins's clarification reaffirms this. The only thing that can be added: in this sitting, it was indeed very important that every possible amendment should have an opinion from our representative at the European Court of Human Rights and also from the Ombudsman. But there were, of course, not only such letters of objection that were directed against this verse... It was very interesting that the sittings were open and lawyers also attended these sittings, as I mentioned at the beginning. And there was... There was a lawyer who... Well, let's assume I might have a conflict of interest with her, because she was a lawyer against me in the case Linderman vs. Aboltina. And to the question whether she really represents the opinion of the Council of Sworn Advocates of Latvia, she said several times: “Yes.” Although, I have to say, I have not received written confirmation... After that, at the next meeting, there were representatives of the Council of Sworn Advocates of Latvia, who claimed that she was unlikely to have such a mandate. And, of course, she also opposed these laws. So I would like to emphasise once again that the Legal Commission has listened to all the views. And it was very important that those experts who could be responsible in the situation if these norms were to conform to the Constitution or to European human rights confirm that these norms could not cause any other damage to Latvia. Since this proposal was not supported by the Commission and I ask that it not be supported on behalf of the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-04-21-PT12-359-U95	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 19. - Mr Stepanenko's proposal! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 2, for - 59, for - 23. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-04-21-PT12-359-U96	20............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - the Group's proposal. There is no support in the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-04-21-PT12-359-U97	Let us start a debate. The name is Mr. Wallary Ageshin.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-04-21-PT12-359-U98	Dear colleagues, The original wording of Article 85 has been narrowed and, therefore, undoubtedly improved. Furthermore, I believe that our group's proposal has been partly supported. However, the proposed wording of Article 85 refers to a general wording on sensitive information, which also includes any limited information, including, for example, information on the privacy and health of a person. It is therefore permissible for a person to be criminalised for the disclosure of such information, for example, to an organisation or company in Lithuania or Estonia. Only such extravagant examples could make you think about the content of the norm. Therefore, our proposal clarifies the rule by stating that only the collection of sensitive information relating to the interests of national security is the responsibility to pass it on to a foreign organisation or a foreign organisation. I believe that the norm of the Criminal Law must be very precise and clear. I call for support for Amendment 20.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-04-21-PT12-359-U99	I closed the debate. Will the rapporteur add something?
ParlaMint-LV_2016-04-21-PT12-359-U100	Yeah. I'll repeat one more time... non-disclosure of information. Are they related to national security interests or not? Section 200 of the Criminal Law lays down responsibility for the disclosure of undisclosed information regarding the private sector, and Section 329 of the Criminal Law - if a criminal offence is committed in the service of state institutions. So these are articles that have no connection to spying and the rest. Consequently, this addition, proposed by the EESC, is not legally justified in this draft law. Therefore, the Commission did not support this proposal. There was also a discussion as to whether it could be regarded as partially supported, to which the Legal Office strongly pointed out that it did not constitute part of the proposal in this situation. The Commission did not support this proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-04-21-PT12-359-U101	Please call me! Let us vote in favour of 20. - the Group's proposal! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 19, for - 62, for - 5. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-04-21-PT12-359-U102	21............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - the Group's proposal, too. There is no support in the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-04-21-PT12-359-U103	Members ask for a vote. Please call me! We will vote in favour of 21. - the Group's proposal! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 19, for - 63, for - 5. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-04-21-PT12-359-U104	22. - is a proposal from the Legal Commission. Thus, as I mentioned, it has been developed in the working group of the Ministry of Justice, clarified and discussed in several sittings of the Legal Commission. The Legal Commission has supported its proposed version.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-04-21-PT12-359-U105	Members ask for a vote. Please call me! We will vote in favour of 22. - The legal commission's proposal! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For -62, for -1, for -22. The proposal is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-04-21-PT12-359-U106	23. There is a proposal from the Minister of the Interior, Rihards Kozlovska, who has also been supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-04-21-PT12-359-U107	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-04-21-PT12-359-U108	We have now reached the most contentious section of the draft law and the article on the unlawful acquisition of state secrets. Many different words are added to the draft law, including mine (I would be very proud if I had the merits that I actually do not have there), and this article is referred to as a journalist's article, but in fact it is an article on the illegal acquisition of state secrets. I will try to justify why this article has been created, to dispel a few myths, and to leave some dialogues from this sitting. I'm sorry if it might be long. But as a result, the commission has decided to postpone the reading of this article. When looking at this draft law as a whole, I consider it my duty to inform you why such an article in this draft law has been, what have been the objectives, what are the risks that have been mentioned so far and what the experts' reservations to those risks have so far been. Therefore, why such an article is. State secrecy is information the protection of which the State must ensure at the highest level and the State has exclusive property rights to state secrecy. Consequently, national secrecy must be adequately protected and the State must be able to protect national secrecy. The purpose of such a provision is to harmonise liability for unlawful conduct with national secrecy by highlighting national secrecy as a special object of danger. The current legal framework for commercial secrecy provides much more effective criminal law protection than national secrecy. This is also, by its very nature, the case of potatoes in public. Currently, the recipe for fried potatoes is more protected than information which is a state secret. What is a state secret? State secret shall mean information of a military, political, economic, scientific, technical or other nature included in the list approved by the Cabinet of Ministers, the loss or unlawful disclosure of which may harm the security, economic or political interests of the State. The Law on National Secrets provides that, when applying the status of national secrecy to an object, consideration must always be given to the consequences of disclosure or non-disclosure of the information in question. It is regulated by the law “On State Secrets”... Contrary to what so many are concerned about, that anyone who wants to include something there... If you just don’t want to talk about something, then include the status of “confidential”, “limited availability” or so... or even “public secret”, so simply not talking about it or saying it. Thus, the Law on State secrecy clearly determines what information may be recognised as a state secret. In order to denigrate myths, I will also name you what information is prohibited as a state secret. It is about natural disasters, natural or other disasters, the environment, health, education, cultural status, demographic situation. It is about violations of human rights, the level of crime, its statistics, cases of corruption, illegal actions by officials. I stress once again what is mentioned... What journalists are saying is that now, by this law, we will protect ourselves as a national secret so that journalists cannot write about possible, or potential, unlawful acts by us or officials. The Law on State Secret provides specifically and precisely that information on unlawful conduct of officials cannot in any way be recognised as a state secret. Information on the economic situation in the country, on the implementation of the budget, on the standard of living of the population, as well as on wage rates, privileges, incentives and guarantees for officials and employees of state and municipal institutions, on the health of the Head of State - all this information that I have named - I emphasise again! - cannot be recognised as a state secret, nor can politicians say that it is a state secret which journalists should not write about and which they would not have the right to use in their various ways possible and to inform the public about these things that I have named. Thus, any unlawful conduct prejudicial to the interests of the State or information on unlawful transactions detrimental to the State cannot, by definition, be classified as a public secret. In view of the fact that responsibility is provided for threatening specially protected objects, responsibility is imposed only on the unlawful acquisition of information which, by its content, is considered to be an object of national secrecy. On the other hand, the unlawful acquisition of information for which the law provides for state secrecy cannot be justified under any circumstances. I would also stress once again that information relating to NATO, the European Union, other foreign... information classified by other international organisations and that the purpose of the status of state secrecy is to protect national security and defence as well as information of importance to public security. However, information which is relevant for the development of civil society and which has an obligation to inform international organisations and the public is not subject to the status of national secrecy. I will not further analyse the wording proposed by the Working Party on Criminal Law (probably we will return to this draft law), but I will nevertheless inform you once again of the two concerns expressed in this sitting... on arguments... about how they were tried at least to dispel... But it seemed that the journalists' concerns that their freedom of expression and their right to inform the public about current events could be restricted in some way were not completely addressed. The views of our representative in the European Court of Human Rights and those of the Ombudsman were also very important in this debate on this article. The Ombudsman has sent a very wide-ranging analysis to the Legal Commission on this, and several times it emphasises the importance of ensuring freedom of expression for journalists in a democratic country. But... Despite its special role in a democratic society, freedom of expression and the press is not absolute and can be restricted. Journalists are also subject to these restrictions. In accordance with the third paragraph of Article 19 of the International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights, freedom of expression may be restricted in order to protect the rights or reputation of others, national security and public order and public health and morality. Article 10 of the Convention for the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms also lays down, as legitimate objectives, the interests of national security, territorial unity or public security in order to prevent disorder or crime, to protect health or morals, to protect the dignity or rights of others, to prevent disclosure of confidential information or to ensure the rule of law and impartiality. And in all such judgments, the European Court of Human Rights points out that all persons, including journalists, exercising their right to freedom of expression and expression, assume their responsibilities and responsibilities to the extent that they depend on the situation. Here is an example: once again, the example mentioned by the Ombudsman at the Commission's sitting. This is the case of Stoll v Switzerland. A journalist was sentenced to a fine for disclosure of confidential information in accordance with Article 293 of the Swiss Criminal Code. Yes, Mr. Elksniņš rightly pointed out at the sitting: this is about the disclosure of information. So that is even a lot, I would like to say, narrower, this scope, because the fact that a journalist is doing his job and discovers some information, he is being punished under the Swiss Criminal Code. We now have responsibility for misappropriation of state secrets in this project. However, this information contained fragments from a letter (Strategic Document) sent by the Swiss Ambassador to the Head of the Working Group, where he spoke about Jewish organizations in Switzerland. It was about compensating the Jews for their losses during the Second World War. The ambassador’s statements regarding the Jewish organizations were glamorous, and the publication of the letter in the newspapers caused a scandal. In order to determine whether a measure - a fine imposed - was necessary in a particular case, the European Court of Human Rights assessed various aspects of the case: the interests involved, the examination and evaluation of the case in national courts, the behaviour of applicants and the proportionality of the fine imposed. The European Court of Human Rights concluded that the subject could clearly have raised public interest. However, the tripetic way in which the journalist did so was rather an impression of his desire to show himself unfavorably. The article had a paralyzing effect on Swiss foreign policy and the career of a particular diplomat. The journalist did not allow the readers to draw their own conclusions, but focused only on the ambassador’s personality. The tendent language gave an impression of the ambassador’s antisemitic statements. The European Court of Human Rights shared the view of the Swiss Government that the purpose of the article was not to inform readers, but to create an unnecessary scandal. In conclusion, the European Court of Human Rights concluded that Article 10 of the European Convention for the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms had not been violated. At the same time, the European Court of Human Rights, in its judgment ‘Stoll v Switzerland’, stated that the conviction of a journalist for the disclosure of confidential information could detract the media from publishing information of public interest interest, thus preventing the press from playing its role as guardian. And that is highlighted several times. It is important that journalists act in good faith on the basis of the facts and provide reliable and accurate information in accordance with the principles of journalism ethics. It's a question once again about it... if journalists feel threatened by this article, it shall be possible to assess each of these cases. ( Interface: “Let’s continue tomorrow! ” ) And yet - I am really sorry. - Just a few minutes. For the reply by Ulda Krastiņš to Mr Leitāns, who had the opportunity to represent the opinion of the Latvian Journalists Association at the sitting of the Legal Commission, namely, to oppose and express his concerns. And the expert - in my opinion, the largest criminal law expert in Latvia today - Professor Uldis Krastiņš answered him. With regard to the eloquence that was expressed - perhaps because there are representatives of the press who walk around us with all kinds of instruments - about objects of national mystery - that is a very simple thing. There is the law “On State Secret”. This law sets out why state secrecy should be protected. This Law instructs the Cabinet of Ministers to draw up a list of objects of state secrecy. The Cabinet has done so, and it is the basis of the law from which it is to be guided. In any event, if any doubts arise during the investigation, they must be clarified. The regulatory system is sufficiently well arranged. If someone does not like an object that is included in the list of objects of national secrecy, it is necessary to amend this list on the basis of the current regulatory framework, which is permanent. We have made this rule. There is such naivety on the part of journalists, pretending that we don't understand anything about the objects of the state's mystery, the order of their storage, the fact that there is a certain order, a strict regime, a signature and various other formalities. And there is a strict definition of what can and cannot be done with a state secret. If you were sitting there and being a security officer, you would have signed that you should not disclose the information that you are entrusted with. And if ye show them contrary to the law, then you shall answer. And if you have a divorced colleague behind you, a look at what is really a state secret, or somehow a record of what is a direct acquisition of that secret, then this will also be the case under the law. Unfortunately, you have not understood what is really a state secret and how it is protected. If these rules are infringed, they must be held liable, in which case the one who is to be protected and the one who has used the care of the guardian and directly obtained the information. Go on. It has been said here quite a few times: if it has gone out of the world and continues to be distributed, then it is not criminalised. That is clear. And its situations can be different. This is a story, and I am sorry once again that it is so long, but since this bill really has a very high level of public attention and journalists are very active in reporting on it, I wanted to inform you about the rules of this bill and about the versions that have been. My personal conviction was that there were sufficient reasons to discuss this standard. We have discussed this, and we have also supported it. However, given that probably only members of the Legal Commission have detailed information on these arguments "on" and "no" and that journalists may very much need further discussion, and that such discussion may also be necessary for a part of society, the Legal Commission decided that this draft law article is not currently supported. However, the Commission unanimously supported the fact that on behalf of the Legal Commission we are addressing the working group of the Ministry of Justice. We also ask our representative at the European Court of Human Rights and the Ombudsman to try to explain to interested groups the importance of this rule of law in the protection of national security interests. And so we are waiting for a different version in two weeks. I would like to emphasise once again: it is legally impossible to remove this provision from the draft law at the moment... The parliamentary roll does not foresee that we could withdraw this rule by a separate decision. So the only way we could have postponed this rule right now is by voting that this norm is not being supported for the time being. But I stress again: it is necessary in this draft law! And, most likely, within two weeks, Parliament will return to this norm and see it later as a separate draft law. So two identical proposals have been tabled on this provision: one from the Member, Andreja Judine, and the other from the Legal Commission. Both proposals are in favour of eliminating this provision and have now been supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-04-21-PT12-359-U109	So we are starting a debate on proposal 24. The name of the Member, Andrejs Judin.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-04-21-PT12-359-U110	Colleagues, I will be honest: at the time when the proposal was to be tabled, I saw that there was a problem with the article, but I did not find a solution that could be valid. However, when we were working on this article, we actually received a proposal from the working group on how to solve the problem. And there are other proposals. Consequently, I think we will definitely continue to work. And my proposal, too, should not be perceived as if I were absolutely against it. Because there are cases where there is a need for a standard, but it is too wide in scope. However, there will be a solution and, as I understand, in two weeks' time, we are planning to continue our work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-04-21-PT12-359-U111	Thank you. The name of Member Julia Stepanenko.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-04-21-PT12-359-U112	Dear colleagues, I had tabled my proposals for this article too, but indeed Mr Judine's proposal was the best one, and I join in calling for this article to be excluded. But in response to Mrs Āboltiņa's comments on the previous proposal, I cannot, however, ignore what came out of this troupe. So an attempt to question an opinion that may not like that has turned into an attempt to question the powers of the voicer. Therefore, I would like to read to you a letter from the Council of Sworn Advocates of Latvia received at the Legal Commission on 13 April, which clearly and clearly states that the lawyer mentioned by Mrs Āboltiņa was entitled to both participate in the hearing and express her views on behalf of the Council of Sworn Advocates of Latvia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-04-21-PT12-359-U113	Name to Member Edward Smilten.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-04-21-PT12-359-U114	Yes, colleagues, good afternoon! I would like to call for support for this proposal. I would like to add that I took a look at the vote - as we voted on 3 March when we looked at this draft law at first reading. And here I read clearly and lightly: Mr. Neighbours, Mr. Curry... We all voted in favour of the urgency! And this is about consistency of opinion, colleagues... on it ( Dep. G. Kūrris: 'The proposal speaks!' ), in which way we are currently fighting for urgency.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-04-21-PT12-359-U115	I closed the debate. Will the rapporteur add on behalf of the commission?
ParlaMint-LV_2016-04-21-PT12-359-U116	On behalf of the Commission, I have discussed this proposal in detail. As I mentioned at the outset, 34 proposals were submitted to the draft law in general. Currently the table is 26. Thus, the Members who had tabled their proposals to this draft law withdrew them. They will still have the opportunity to submit them. But now the Commission has distinguished itself as the only legal solution to postpone the reading of this article - to support Member Judine's proposal and also the Legal Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-04-21-PT12-359-U117	Members are in favour. And I also support Amendment 25.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-04-21-PT12-359-U118	24 and 25, which are identical.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-04-21-PT12-359-U119	Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-04-21-PT12-359-U120	26. is the proposal by the Minister of the Interior, Rihards Kozlovska, on the transitional arrangements, which has been supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-04-21-PT12-359-U121	Let us start a debate. The name is Mr. Wallary Ageshin.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-04-21-PT12-359-U122	Dear colleagues, It makes sense to support this proposal, but the wording should be clarified because it is difficult to integrate such an article into criminal law. Moreover, it should be borne in mind that this proposal is closely linked to the whole of the bill, so on behalf of the Group I will talk about 26. - the proposal of the Minister for the Interior - in the context of the amendments to the Criminal Law and the conditions. We agree that the geopolitical situation in the world is constantly changing and Latvia, like other countries, has to face new challenges. We respect the activities of the competent authorities in protecting national security and state secrecy, but we believe that the fast-track draft law poses a number of risks to the application and interpretation of the rules. Even after an attempt to clarify the norms included in the draft law are not certain about the content and meaning of these norms according to the principles of freedom of expression and human rights, as well as about reasonable application and uniform interpretation of these norms. In making its proposals, the Group advocates the certainty of the rules - the text of the rules must follow the mandatory reference to purpose, as well as the precise nature of the prohibited activity. In view of the fact that our proposals in the course of the legislative consultation were not properly assessed, because the proposals of the working group were evaluated at the sittings mainly and therefore our proposals were rejected, as well as the fact that the wording of the second reading still raises concerns about the correct application of the rules, we support this particular proposal, but we cannot support the adoption of the draft law. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-04-21-PT12-359-U123	Thank you. I closed the debate. Will the rapporteur add on behalf of the commission?
ParlaMint-LV_2016-04-21-PT12-359-U124	Commission 26. - the proposal of the Minister for the Interior - supported, considered necessary. I also ask Members to support it.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-04-21-PT12-359-U125	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-04-21-PT12-359-U126	Consequently, all the proposals for the second, final, reading of the draft law have been examined and we must vote in favour of supporting this draft law at second, final, reading. I would, of course, like to take the opportunity to thank all those experts who spent countless hours trying to clarify these rules as much as possible, to strike a balance between criminal law and respect for human rights and democracy in our country, and also to thank the Members who actively debated and supported this draft law, because today, however, we are living in very fragile conditions, we have the neighbours we have (Dep. A.Kamiņš: “What about neighbors?” ) and we must take care of our own safety. And one of the ways to take care of your own security is to arm the law enforcement authorities with modern and effective instruments, namely with specific amendments to the law that meet today's requirements. That, I hope, is what we have done in this draft law. So thank you to all those who support. I call on Members to support the draft law at second, final, reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-04-21-PT12-359-U127	Please call me! Let us vote in favour of the second, final, reading of the draft law on criminal law. Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 65, for - 19, for - 5. The law has been passed. It's time for a break. Please call me! Please check-in mode for Members! Please the result!... The results of the registration are collected... Name of the Secretary of the Saeima to Gunārs Kūtris to read them.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-04-21-PT12-359-U128	Dear colleagues, Currently not registered: Jānis Adamsons, Ringolds Balodis... And, Guntis Belevičs... There is, Boriss Cilevičs, Nelli Kleinbergs, Ivans Klementjevs, Inese Laizāne, Inese Lībiņa-Egnere, Romanas Mežeckis, Igors Pimenovs, Jānis Ruks and Ivars Zariņš.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-04-21-PT12-359-U129	Interruption until 11.30 a.m. ( Interruption)
ParlaMint-LV_2016-04-21-PT12-359-U130	Honourable Members! I invite you to take seats in Saeima's meeting room! We're going to keep the Saeima sitting. The Commission of Social and Labour Affairs asks to amend the agenda of the sitting and draft law “Amendments to the Law on Social Protection of Victims of the Chernobyl Nuclear Power Plant’s Emergency Response Participants and the Chernobyl Nuclear Power Plant’” to be reviewed at first reading without re-examination by the responsible commission. Are Members opposed to this amendment of the agenda? There is no objection. The agenda has been amended. On the agenda - Draft Law Amending the Law on Budget and Financial Management, second reading. The draft law has been declared urgent. On behalf of the Commission for Budget and Finance (Tax) - Member Inguna Silverba.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-04-21-PT12-359-U131	Hello, dear colleagues! I will remind you of what this bill is about. The draft law shall be for the purpose of determining the national competent authority which, in accordance with the requirements of Article 311 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, after the Council of Europe has approved the provisions relating to the European system of own resources, shall adopt this decision in a Member State in accordance with the constitutional requirements of each of the Member States concerned. With regard to the amendment to the Law on Budget and Financial Management, one proposal has been received: that of Ms Inguna Silver. The Commission has supported this proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-04-21-PT12-359-U132	Let us start a debate. The name is Mr. Janis Wuzan.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-04-21-PT12-359-U133	Hello, very honourable Speaker of the Saeima! Dear colleagues, Dear colleagues, At the meeting of the Budget and Finance (Tax) Commission on this proposal, the only proposal, was a sufficiently significant debate, with the participation of a representative of the Legal Bureau of the Saeima, and in this debate, the opinions of the members of the Commission were divided into two different groups. The first view was that the system of own resources of the European Union should be approved by the Saeima. And the second view, which was different from the first one, was that the Saeima had already given its approval to this situation, which is referred to in Section 15.1 (1) of this Law, and it is sufficient that at this stage the Cabinet of Ministers is examining whether there is a difference from the previously agreed national position of the Saeima. In the event of conformity, the Cabinet of Ministers shall confirm this itself. If differences are found to exist from the previously approved Latvian national position, this approval should be carried out again by the Saeima - in a full cycle through the European Commission of Affairs. The debate was essentially on two points. The first question: how does this situation look when it comes to the question of the involvement of the Saeima or the participation in the decision on the system of own resources of the European Union? In accordance with Article 185.1 of the Parliament's Rules of Procedure, the Saeima shall exercise its participation in matters of the European Union through the European Affairs Commission, unless the Saeima decides otherwise. The principle that the European Courts Commission, when deciding on the official position of the Republic of Latvia prepared by the Cabinet of Ministers, expresses not only its own opinion, namely, the opinion of the committee, but through this decision the Saeima's participation in the issues of the European Union is implemented. It should be noted that the European Commission for European Affairs represents all the political groups in the Saeima according to their proportions. The European Courts Commission has already decided in a particular case, namely with regard to the official position of Latvia on the system of own resources of the European Union, namely, it has decided on the official position of the Republic of Latvia in a given case prepared by the Cabinet of Ministers. As a result, the Saeima has already implemented its participation in this decision. The explanatory memorandum of the draft law specifically indicates that the Cabinet of Ministers, when exercising the rights delegated to it by this Law, will assess whether it corresponds to the previously drafted national position of the Republic of Latvia, which has been approved in the Cabinet of Ministers and agreed with the Saeima. This means that the Cabinet of Ministers will have the right to support only a decision on the system of the European Union's own resources which corresponds to the position of the Saeima in a particular case expressed by the Commission of European Affairs when deciding on the approval of a particular national position. This principle has been incorporated into the wording of the first reading, and with the wording of the second reading we changed that principle. At the parliamentary committee's meeting, the second issue of discussion concerned the issue of the parliamentary decision-making procedure provided for in the proposal, because it is not as simple as what we have developed and applied before. In accordance with the rule of the Saeima, such a decision, if it is given to the Saeima, should be taken and dealt with by the Saeima as an own-initiative proposal. This, in turn, means that, from a procedural point of view, it may also be amended in this decision, and it is theoretically possible that these amendments may also be different or even contrary to the decision taken by the Parliamentary Committee on European Affairs when examining the relevant national position expressed by the institutions of the European Union. In such circumstances, the examination of the own-initiative proposal in question may lead to a situation of legal uncertainty. In particular, by reiterating the position of the Saeima, it may differ from what the Cabinet of Ministers, following the decisions of the Parliamentary Commission for European Affairs, has expressed in advance to the European Union institutions, or even to be contrary to it. In view of these two fundamental circumstances, however, I call for us to remain in the first reading and not to support this proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-04-21-PT12-359-U134	Thank you. We are continuing the debate. The name of Member Lolita Chigan.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-04-21-PT12-359-U135	Madam President, Dear colleagues, Mr Vucanas has already told us very well how work on European Union matters is organised in the Saeima. This work is organised in such a way that Members of the European Commission dealing with these national positions are good, approve or reject them and, as in this case, carry out parliamentary scrutiny of them on behalf of the Saeima. In this case, Mrs Silver's proposal would change this order and, as Mr Wuzan has already pointed out very precisely, could create a number of different difficulties, and in the end we could find ourselves in a situation where the specific decision of the Saeima could, by its very nature, differ from the position initially adopted and discussed within the European Commission. Therefore, colleagues, like Mr Vucana, call for this proposal to be rejected, because indeed the way in which Member States deal with their own resources in the Treaty establishing the European Union is not in line with this proposal by Mrs Silver, and therefore this proposal should not be supported. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-04-21-PT12-359-U136	Name of Member Inguna Silver.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-04-21-PT12-359-U137	Dear colleagues, I will explain the substance of my proposal. In no way, of course, I am not referring to the system that the positions in the Republic of Latvia are approved by passing the chain “The Cabinet of Ministers – the Saeima Commission of European Affairs”. But, honourable colleagues, who, in your opinion, in the Republic of Latvia make decisions about what taxes will be paid, what is the taxable object, how these taxes will be divided between budgets (which is the tax subject to the state budget, but which is the tax subject to the municipal budget), in what proportion will these taxes be divided? It's the Saeima. And if we are talking about the system of own resources, nothing is different. That is exactly the same thing. What taxes will be attributed as own resources, what part of these taxes... Is that so? What payments will be introduced? To what extent? What will be the taxable object? That is the essence of that question. And that is why I think the decision on the substance, on what are the resources that we, as the state of Latvia, agree to delegate and delegate as common resources to the European Union budget, and on what proportion - that decision falls within the competence of the Saeima. Because one thing is procedurally to harmonise the position as such, but quite another to make a decision essentially on what constitutes the own resources system. Therefore, I believe that, following the constitutional order approved in Latvia, it is the responsibility of the Saeima to adopt such a decision. In my opinion, there is no difficulty in supporting this proposal, as the Saeima has decided. The Saeima makes a great deal of decisions; procedures have been developed here to do so again. If the European Affairs Commission approves the negotiating position, it is not, by its very nature, a decision by the Saeima on what, for example, the system of own resources will be. When assessing the legislative procedure of the Republic of Latvia, only the Saeima itself can take such a decision - what taxes and their parts will be payable. I am surprised by those fears if it turns out that the European Courts Commission has decided something and the Saeima will then decide otherwise. Then I have the question: how democratically and comprehensively the decisions taken by the European Affairs Commission have been discussed if then there is a fear that these decisions can be completely different or diametrically opposite when they come to the vote of the Saeima. Therefore, my request is to support this proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-04-21-PT12-359-U138	Thank you. I closed the debate. Do you want to explain the Commission's position as rapporteur?
ParlaMint-LV_2016-04-21-PT12-359-U139	No, thank you. The reasoning put forward here was also at the commission meeting. Yes, this vote was not unanimous; there were different positions with the same reasoning. I considered it essential to express the view that, in my view, it is important that it should be the Saeima and not the executive power that makes decisions on such an important issue as the system of own resources. I am asking for a vote in favour of this proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-04-21-PT12-359-U140	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 1. - Member Silver's proposal! Please vote mode! Please get the result! On - 26, against - 39, refraining from - 11. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-04-21-PT12-359-U141	Since this draft law is urgent and is to be examined in two readings, please vote on behalf of the Commission for the adoption of this draft law at second reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-04-21-PT12-359-U142	Please call me! We will vote in favour of the second, final, reading of the draft law on budgetary and financial management! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The law has been passed. On the agenda: draft law on amendments to the Immigration Law, third reading. On behalf of the Commission for Defence, Home Affairs and Anti-Corruption - Member Ainars Latkovskis.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-04-21-PT12-359-U143	Colleagues! 49 proposals 1. is a proposal from the Commission on Defence, Home Affairs and the Prevention of Corruption. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-04-21-PT12-359-U144	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-04-21-PT12-359-U145	2. is a proposal from the Legal Office. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-04-21-PT12-359-U146	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-04-21-PT12-359-U147	3. is the proposal from the Saeima Member Ilmar Latkovsky. Partially supported, included 5. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-04-21-PT12-359-U148	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-04-21-PT12-359-U149	4. is a proposal from the Legal Office, which is also partly supported and included in 5. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-04-21-PT12-359-U150	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-04-21-PT12-359-U151	5. - Commission proposal. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-04-21-PT12-359-U152	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-04-21-PT12-359-U153	6. - The motion of the Saeima Member Putra. There is no support in the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-04-21-PT12-359-U154	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-04-21-PT12-359-U155	7. - A proposal from the Saeima Member's Debtor. There is no support in the Commission. ( Interface from the Hall: “Vote! ” ) Council Regulation (EC) No 1257/96 of 20 June 1996 concerning humanitarian aid (OJ L 163, 2.7.1996, p. 1).
ParlaMint-LV_2016-04-21-PT12-359-U156	Members ask for a vote. Please call me! We will vote in favour of 7. - a proposal made by the debtor Member! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 29, for - 47, for - 1. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-04-21-PT12-359-U157	8 / 8 - The proposal from the Saeima's Colla and Leiens. The Commission was not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-04-21-PT12-359-U158	Let us start a debate. Name to Member Rihard Cole.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-04-21-PT12-359-U159	Good afternoon, Madam President of the Saeima. Dear and honourable Members, Against the common background of the world, Latvia is a small country, which is inhabited by a relatively small ethnic base - the Latvians - whose long-term existence of the official state language - the Latvian language - is threatened due to its limited number of speakers and globalisation processes. Knowing our language as an essential and inalienable aspect of national identity, we have strengthened Latvian language rights in the basic state law. The need to strengthen the national language has also been defined for a long time as a fundamental challenge. You, our coalition partners and some members of the opposition, have also stood firm and fought for strengthening the state language. As far as you are concerned, this is still happening. That is why your opposition to excluding Russian from the list of languages permitted to submit documents for temporary residence is incomprehensible and confusing. In the Commission, you are voting on the abstaining position. I would remind you that documents are accepted from persons in a foreign language if they are accompanied by a notarised translation in accordance with the procedure laid down by the Cabinet of Ministers. There are, of course, exceptions. These rules do not, of course, apply, for example, to institutions providing emergency services, such as police, medical services, rescue services, etc. The granting of residence permits is not one of these services of fundamental importance. One of the guarantees of the existence of the language has always been and will be the use of the language. With a proposal to remove from the Immigration Law a provision on the possibility to submit documents for the granting of a residence permit in Russian we urge to communicate in the state language and strengthen the role of the Latvian language in state institutions. The requirement to use the language of a particular country in communication with public authorities is not unique, it is nothing special. Such a provision is included in the legislation of each respectable state. These are not details or minor details! Strengthening the status quo of such ‘fines’ creates a precedent and an opportunity to try to apply the same ideas on a wider scale. Applications for temporary residence permits are a privilege, not a fundamental right of an individual. Compliance with the principles of good governance on these issues is understandable, but in no case should it be left in law as a norm. Among other things, the use of the national language would be a proof of basic respect for the country in which residence is sought. I also invite you to show respect for yourself. I call for support.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-04-21-PT12-359-U160	The name to the Member Atm Lejny.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-04-21-PT12-359-U161	Dear Bureau! Colleagues! As early as the 19th century Faust discovered that the devil was hiding in detail. And I will mention some details that relate indirectly and directly to my proposal and that of Mr Kohl. I went out here to shop in Mego last night, and one boy, a student, talked to me in Russian, but I didn't really understand what he wanted. Even if I had understood it, I would have answered in Latvian. And I told him in Latvian: “Well, boy, what do you really want?” And he immediately moved to good Latvian and said he wanted seven Sundays, because he couldn't afford a arrow. I said, “OK! I buy a arrow, let's go to the treasury!" And I paid him seven and... You see, he thinks that in Latvia you can address an adult in Russian, and apparently everyone responds to him in Russian because this is a routine. And when there is one Latvian who responds to him in Latvian, then everything happens as necessary. No problem! Okay. Let's go to the Kalnciema market! I've often been in circulation there, and I've been very interesting there... ( M. Bondar’s intermediate call.) ... A very interesting adventure. I spoke to one seller, and there was a buyer proud that he did not need Latvian in Latvia, because it was Russian. He wrote his application for a residence permit in Russian, and in the future all institutions have spoken with him in Russian, all Latvians have spoken with him in Russian, and neighbors have spoken with him in Russian. He says, “For what do I need Latvian?” The seller told him, “If you come to me next time and don’t learn to speak Latvian elementaryly, I won’t sell anything to you!” It's a surprise! There is also a second example right there in Kalnciema - one person who has arrived from Ukraine. Well, well, he filled out their application to get a residence permit in Russian, but he's already right away... On the first day, in his greetings to his neighbors, he was told: “We’re not saying here “Dobrijs dien”, we’re saying here “Hello”!” And, you know, in a week's time, he already started to speak Latvian (though still very bad), but his children - in two weeks' time (they got longer because they went to Russian school). The kids told me... not for me, but for others said out: “Hello! Hello!” And now the neighbor (Depp. A.Kimiņš: “What is the neighbor doing?” ) learns the Latvian language. Very cheaply, you don't have to ask for money from local governments at all. It is a very cheap way to learn Latvian. How are these details affected by public policy? I think if the state says that the application for a residence permit must be in Latvian or German or French or English, then the person who comes from the east will know - he will know! - that here is Latvia, and it will be... on that road will continue. Therefore I call you: indeed receive. There's nothing to fear! They are rich enough to pay lawyers. Here, on Smilšu Street, there is a cantor that translates from Russian to Latvian. This will help us not only to strengthen our state consciousness spiritually, but also to help Latvia in a purely economic way. Please support me! Be courageous!
ParlaMint-LV_2016-04-21-PT12-359-U162	Thank you. I closed the debate. The rapporteur does not want to add anything on behalf of the Commission. Please call me! We will vote in favour of 8. - the proposal put forward by Members Cole and Leienny! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 29, for - 29, for - 29, for - 18. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-04-21-PT12-359-U163	9 is the proposal from the Saeima Member Ilmar Latkovsky. Partially supported, included 10. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-04-21-PT12-359-U164	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-04-21-PT12-359-U165	10............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - a proposal from the Commission on Defence, Home Affairs and Anti-Corruption. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-04-21-PT12-359-U166	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-04-21-PT12-359-U167	Proposal of 11 and Snores, Member of the Saeima. Not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-04-21-PT12-359-U168	Members... So we are starting a debate. Name to Member Edvin Schnorem.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-04-21-PT12-359-U169	Dear colleagues, Both this and the rest of my proposals to the Immigration Law are in essence one, namely, to increase the amount of money that foreigners leave here in Latvia in exchange for temporary residence permits - i.e. taxes, taxes, contributions, company capital and real estate. Latvia is one of the few countries in the world that have chosen to make money in this way. In our view, this is not the right way to earn money. It would be like earning money like selling kidney. Few do something like that! Also here - only the rare country carries out such a business. But if you do it, I think it would only be logical to place this amount or price on an adequate basis for your product. Consequently, I call on both this and the others to support my proposals which are, by their very nature, similar. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-04-21-PT12-359-U170	Thank you. I closed the debate. The rapporteur does not want to add anything on behalf of the Commission. Please call me! We will vote in favour of 11. - Member Schnores's proposal! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 19, for - 42, for - 18. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-04-21-PT12-359-U171	12. There is also a proposal from the Seimas Member Schnore. There is no support in the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-04-21-PT12-359-U172	Members ask for a vote. Please call me! We will vote in favour of 12. - Member Schnores's proposal! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For -17, for -43, for -21. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-04-21-PT12-359-U173	13. - a proposal from the Group of the National Alliance. Not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-04-21-PT12-359-U174	Members ask for a vote. Please call me! We will vote in favour of 13. - the proposal put forward by the Group of the National Alliance! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 18, for - 42, for - 19. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-04-21-PT12-359-U175	14. is the proposal of Siliņa, Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of the Interior. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-04-21-PT12-359-U176	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-04-21-PT12-359-U177	15 and the motion from the Saeima Member Schnore. Not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-04-21-PT12-359-U178	Members ask for a vote. Please call me! We will vote in favour of 15. - Member Schnores's proposal! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 18, for - 43, for - 18, for - 43, for - 18. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-04-21-PT12-359-U179	17. - National associations...
ParlaMint-LV_2016-04-21-PT12-359-U180	16. ...
ParlaMint-LV_2016-04-21-PT12-359-U181	I'm sorry! 16. - Schnore's proposal. Not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-04-21-PT12-359-U182	Members ask for a vote. Please call me! We will vote in favour of 16. - Member Schnores's proposal! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 17, for - 43, for - 20. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-04-21-PT12-359-U183	17. - The proposal of the National Alliance. Not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-04-21-PT12-359-U184	Members ask for a vote. Please call me! We will vote in favour of 17. - the proposal put forward by the Group of the National Alliance! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 17, for - 42, for - 22. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-04-21-PT12-359-U185	18. - Schnore's proposal. Not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-04-21-PT12-359-U186	Members want to vote. Please call me! We will vote in favour of 18. - Member Schnores's proposal! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 18, for - 35, for - 30. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-04-21-PT12-359-U187	19. - Schnore's proposal. Not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-04-21-PT12-359-U188	Members ask for a vote. Please call me! We will vote in favour of 19. - Member Schnores's proposal! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 16, for - 35, for - 29. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-04-21-PT12-359-U189	20............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - Schnore's proposal. Not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-04-21-PT12-359-U190	Members want to vote. Please call me! Let us vote in favour of 20. - Member Schnores's proposal! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 17, for - 36, for - 31. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-04-21-PT12-359-U191	21............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - Proposal by Silina, Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of the Interior. Partly supported by proposal 22.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-04-21-PT12-359-U192	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-04-21-PT12-359-U193	22. - The proposal from the Legal Bureau of the Saeima. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-04-21-PT12-359-U194	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-04-21-PT12-359-U195	23............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - Schnore's proposal. Not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-04-21-PT12-359-U196	Members ask for a vote. Please call me! We will vote in favour 23. - Member Schnores's proposal! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 18, for - 37, for - 29. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-04-21-PT12-359-U197	24. - Proposal by Silina, Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of the Interior. Partially supported, included 26. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-04-21-PT12-359-U198	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-04-21-PT12-359-U199	25. - The proposal from the Legal Bureau of the Saeima. Not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-04-21-PT12-359-U200	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-04-21-PT12-359-U201	26. - a proposal from the Commission on Defence, Home Affairs and Anti-Corruption. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-04-21-PT12-359-U202	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-04-21-PT12-359-U203	27. - Member Rasmann's proposal. Not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-04-21-PT12-359-U204	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-04-21-PT12-359-U205	28. - Schnore's proposal. Not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-04-21-PT12-359-U206	Members ask for a vote. Please call me! We will vote in favour of 28. - Member Schnores's proposal! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 17, for - 34, for - 29. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-04-21-PT12-359-U207	29. - Member Putra's proposal. Not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-04-21-PT12-359-U208	Let us start a debate. Name to Member Edgars Putras.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-04-21-PT12-359-U209	Dear colleagues! I want to tell you the purpose of this proposal. After the first five years of renewal of these residence permits, this permit shall be renewed automatically, without any additional charge, unless the person concerned wishes to do so. However, both the Office of Citizenship and Migration Affairs and the Security Police have their own procedures and have some costs for those procedures. That is why I tabled this proposal, which provides that we should ask for EUR 5 000 for an extension of the retention permit. If these five thousand euros were to be paid for the extension, then about 60 percent of the beneficiaries of these permits would have an additional budget of about three to five million euros per year. This is not insignificant at this point, because this program also finances the first housing program, which, as you know, is currently lacking money... immediately, in the near future, there will be a lack of funding, and this could be one of the sources that we could use to finance this programme, because now there is only two more months of funding, but no future funding source has been found. This proposal is similar to that of the Imants Debtor. Imants predicts a less radical amount - that's 10,000. In my case, it is a little more friendly and it is five thousand, given that, with this authorisation, people pay EUR 25 thousand for the first five years. Thank you. I call for this proposal to be supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-04-21-PT12-359-U210	Thank you. I closed the debate. On behalf of the Commission, the rapporteur wishes to add something?
ParlaMint-LV_2016-04-21-PT12-359-U211	For the Commission 29. - Edgars Putra's proposal - we assessed the package with the 6th proposal, which was also tabled by Member Putra and which provided that no need to go to PMLP once a year to register... It was not supported. And when the Commission decided, without supporting this one, it was guided by the fact that this one goes together... Mr Putra has now told us that this, of course, can be voted on separately - as a separate proposal, but that is already the determination of Members.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-04-21-PT12-359-U212	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote in favour of 29. - Member Putra's proposal! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 44, for - 20, for - 16. The proposal is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-04-21-PT12-359-U213	30 and a proposal by the debtor of the Member of the Saeima. There is no support in the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-04-21-PT12-359-U214	Let us start a debate. The name of the Member Immant Debtor.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-04-21-PT12-359-U215	Thank you, colleagues. The amazing result for the previous proposal is that of my colleague Putra. Perhaps there are indeed at least five thousand better than these 10 thousand, although I will, of course, call for a vote in favour of my proposal. If this proposal is supported, which, as Mr Putra has already said, is more radical if it can be said, it will require more money from the prolongers of temporary residence permits... I really call on my fellow Members to support this proposal as well. Let me just comment on what Mr Latkovsky said earlier on behalf of the Commission: we have never, Mr Putra or I, linked our proposals: Mr Putra with Amendment 6 with Proposal 29 or I with Amendment 30. These are completely separate provisions which are not in any way related and cannot serve as a basis for rejecting any proposal. I thank my colleagues for their support, and I also call for this proposal to be supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-04-21-PT12-359-U216	Thank you. This proposal cannot be voted on as it is mutually exclusive with the already supported proposal 29. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. A.Kiršteins: “This will turn off the previous one!” Depp. G.Daugze: “No!” Depp. I. Pastor: “In that case, I withdrew it!” ) The proposal is therefore withdrawn.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-04-21-PT12-359-U217	31. - The Saeima's Ruck's proposal. The Commission was not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-04-21-PT12-359-U218	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-04-21-PT12-359-U219	32. - a proposal from the Commission on Defence, Home Affairs and Anti-Corruption. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-04-21-PT12-359-U220	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-04-21-PT12-359-U221	33. - The motion of the Saeima Member Putra. Not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-04-21-PT12-359-U222	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-04-21-PT12-359-U223	34. - The motion of the Saeima Member Putra. Not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-04-21-PT12-359-U224	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-04-21-PT12-359-U225	35. - a proposal from the Commission on Defence, Home Affairs and Anti-Corruption. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-04-21-PT12-359-U226	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-04-21-PT12-359-U227	36. - The motion by the Saeima Member Cole. Not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-04-21-PT12-359-U228	Let us start a debate. Name to Member Rihard Cole.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-04-21-PT12-359-U229	Dear President of the Saeima. Dear and honourable Members, The nature of the proposal There is an unusual consensus on the practice of marketing residence permits in the world's most prominent researchers and organisations. The residence permits to be purchased include very serious security risks for the economy and society of the country that sells them. In Latvia, the regulation of temporary residence permits, in particular when compared to the practice of other European countries, requires very little from a foreigner. In fact, he must only be able to acquire property above a certain value threshold. Please specify: A foreigner in Latvia can acquire a property and, consequently, a temporary residence permit on a credit. No one has to present information on the financial origin of the party - neither the origin of the financial resources of the creditor, nor the conditions of the credit obligation, nothing. The existing regulation of temporary residence permits for doors increases the vulnerability of Latvia, threatens economic stability and internal security. Almost all the Supreme Security Courts of Latvia have drawn attention to the irregularities that can be implemented through the system of temporary residence permits. The regulation of temporary residence permits allows this system to be used for money laundering. In Latvia, foreign capital of unknown origin can very easily flow through temporary residence permits, the owners and interests of which are not available to us. The existing rules on temporary residence permits will create very favourable and convenient conditions for foreigners to obtain such permits. The State's benefits from this system are disproportionately lower (even without taking into account the risks posed by this system in terms of state security, economic stability and also reputation). We are now in a position to make a choice. We can either strengthen control over the funds involved in obtaining residence permits or do nothing. However, the existing regulation of temporary residence permits will serve as a destabilisation tool for the long term. I propose that we strive towards security and stability and that we set up a framework for temporary residence permits which would make sure that the hordes of government are in the hands of the state. The first task is very important – to regain the opportunity to monitor and verify who owns the money and what interests motivated it is to influx in Latvia. We will only be able to do this by imposing restrictions on the use of loans for temporary residence... acquisition of property, i.e. by prohibiting the use, in these transactions, of funds obtained from credit institutions established outside the European Union and the European Economic Area. Focusing on the granting of temporary residence permits and the operation of borrowers, within the framework of the European Banking Union, we will regain the opportunity to ascertain the true origin of the funds. A residence permit is an extra, it is a privilege given by a country to a foreigner. It is time to regain self-esteem and set out serious criteria and conditions for obtaining this privilege and to prevent our own system from becoming our greatest threat! I call for support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-04-21-PT12-359-U230	Thank you. I closed the debate. Will the rapporteur add a note on behalf of the Commission? No, no. Please call me! We will vote in favour of 36. - Member Cola's proposal! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 19, for - 32, for - 28. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-04-21-PT12-359-U231	37. - Member Ruck's proposal. Not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-04-21-PT12-359-U232	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-04-21-PT12-359-U233	38. - Proposal by Silina, Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of the Interior. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-04-21-PT12-359-U234	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-04-21-PT12-359-U235	39. - Member Putra's proposal. Not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-04-21-PT12-359-U236	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-04-21-PT12-359-U237	40. - Member Putra's proposal. Not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-04-21-PT12-359-U238	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-04-21-PT12-359-U239	41. - draft law on “Amendment to the Law on Immigration” (No 520/Lp12). Supported by 42. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-04-21-PT12-359-U240	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-04-21-PT12-359-U241	42. - a proposal from the Commission on Defence, Home Affairs and Anti-Corruption. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-04-21-PT12-359-U242	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-04-21-PT12-359-U243	43. - a proposal from the Commission on Defence, Home Affairs and Anti-Corruption. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-04-21-PT12-359-U244	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-04-21-PT12-359-U245	44. - Proposal by Silina, Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of the Interior. Not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-04-21-PT12-359-U246	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-04-21-PT12-359-U247	45. - a proposal from the Commission on Defence, Home Affairs and Anti-Corruption. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-04-21-PT12-359-U248	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-04-21-PT12-359-U249	46. - Proposal by Silina, Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of the Interior. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-04-21-PT12-359-U250	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-04-21-PT12-359-U251	47. - Proposal by Silina, Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of the Interior. Not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-04-21-PT12-359-U252	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-04-21-PT12-359-U253	48. - a proposal from the Commission on Defence, Home Affairs and Anti-Corruption. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-04-21-PT12-359-U254	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-04-21-PT12-359-U255	49. - a proposal from the Commission on Defence, Home Affairs and Anti-Corruption. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-04-21-PT12-359-U256	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-04-21-PT12-359-U257	On behalf of the Commission, I call for support for the draft law at third, final, reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-04-21-PT12-359-U258	Please call me! Let us vote in favour of the third final reading of the draft law on "Amendments to the Law on Immigration". Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 78, against - no, abstain - 2. The law has been passed. On the agenda - draft law “Amendment to the Law “On Taxes and Fees”, third reading. On behalf of the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission, Member Imants Debtor.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-04-21-PT12-359-U259	Colleagues! The Commission responsible for the third reading of Draft Law No 447/Lp12 has not received any proposal. I therefore call on the Commission to support the draft law at third, final, reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-04-21-PT12-359-U260	Please call me! We will vote for the support of the draft law “Amendment to the Law on Taxes and Fees” in the third, final, reading! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 75, for - 1, for - 1. The law has been passed. On the agenda - draft law “Amendments to the Code of Administrative Violations of Latvia”, third reading. Member Guntis Kalniņš on behalf of the Legal Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-04-21-PT12-359-U261	Hello, Speaker of the Saeima! Colleagues! The Legal Commission reviewed the draft law “Amendments to the Latvian Administrative Violations Code” (No 397/Lp12), which includes draft law No 341/Lp12. Six proposals have been received for the third reading. Proposal 1 is a proposal from the Legal Commission which provides for the addition of an eighth paragraph to Article 155. In particular, penalties are imposed for the sale of energy drinks to minors. The proposal is supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-04-21-PT12-359-U262	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-04-21-PT12-359-U263	2. is a proposal of a editorial nature of the Legal Commission. The Commission is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-04-21-PT12-359-U264	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-04-21-PT12-359-U265	3. is the proposal of the Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Justice. This is partly supported and included in proposal 4.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-04-21-PT12-359-U266	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-04-21-PT12-359-U267	4. is a proposal from the Legal Commission. This is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-04-21-PT12-359-U268	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-04-21-PT12-359-U269	5. is the proposal of the Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Justice. This is partly supported and included in proposal 6.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-04-21-PT12-359-U270	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-04-21-PT12-359-U271	6. is the proposal of the Legal Commission, which provides that the law shall enter into force on 1 June 2016. The Commission is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-04-21-PT12-359-U272	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-04-21-PT12-359-U273	I ask Members to support the draft law at third reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-04-21-PT12-359-U274	Please call me! We will vote for the support of the draft law “Amendments to the Latvian Administrative Violations Code” in the third, final, reading! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 71, for - no, for - 3. The law has been passed.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-04-21-PT12-359-U275	Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-04-21-PT12-359-U276	On the agenda - draft law on tobacco products, herbal smoking products, electronic smoking devices and their liquids, third reading. On behalf of the Commission for Social and Labour Affairs - Member Einārs Cilinskis.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-04-21-PT12-359-U277	Madam President of the Saeima. Honourable Members! 38 proposals have been received for the third reading of the draft law. A number of working groups and sub-committee meetings have been held to discuss these proposals. I would also remind you that the adoption of the draft law is quite urgent, because the law must come into force as of 20 May, in accordance with the regulation of the European Union. Therefore, a number of provisions which, according to the Ministry of Economic Affairs, should be recognised as technical regulations and compatible with the European Commission prior to adoption, were removed from the draft law and the commission will continue to decide as soon as this harmonisation is obtained. But I'll talk about it separately. 1. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-04-21-PT12-359-U278	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-04-21-PT12-359-U279	2. - The proposal of the Commission on Social and Labour Affairs. is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-04-21-PT12-359-U280	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-04-21-PT12-359-U281	3. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. It has been supported and included 5. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-04-21-PT12-359-U282	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-04-21-PT12-359-U283	4. - the proposal of the Minister for Health, Belevič. It has been supported and included 5. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-04-21-PT12-359-U284	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-04-21-PT12-359-U285	5. - The proposal of the Commission on Social and Labour Affairs. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-04-21-PT12-359-U286	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-04-21-PT12-359-U287	6. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-04-21-PT12-359-U288	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-04-21-PT12-359-U289	7. - The proposal of the Commission on Social and Labour Affairs. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-04-21-PT12-359-U290	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-04-21-PT12-359-U291	8 / 8 - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-04-21-PT12-359-U292	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-04-21-PT12-359-U293	9. - The proposal of the Commission on Social and Labour Affairs. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-04-21-PT12-359-U294	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-04-21-PT12-359-U295	10............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - The proposal of the Commission for Social and Labour Affairs to exclude the former first paragraph of Article 6. It's supported. In this case, the first paragraph is to be considered as a technical regulation. As a result, the Commission will continue to work on them to prepare amendments in the future and to bring this norm back to the law. But the proposal has now been supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-04-21-PT12-359-U296	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-04-21-PT12-359-U297	11. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-04-21-PT12-359-U298	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-04-21-PT12-359-U299	12. - The proposal of the Commission on Social and Labour Affairs. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-04-21-PT12-359-U300	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-04-21-PT12-359-U301	13. - the proposal of the Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Finance, Mr Putra, to limit the sale of tobacco products on a single basis, namely marketing only in sealed packaging units. The proposal 5 that we have already voted on has been partly supported and is in substance incorporated.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-04-21-PT12-359-U302	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-04-21-PT12-359-U303	14............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-04-21-PT12-359-U304	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-04-21-PT12-359-U305	15............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-04-21-PT12-359-U306	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-04-21-PT12-359-U307	16. - the proposal by the Members Putra and Adamson, as well as by the Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Finance, Putra and the Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Economics, Valaiņš, which provides for the exclusion of the fifth paragraph of the article approved at previous reading on tobacco and other... Consequently, the prohibition on placing them in retail outlets. The Commission also decided to support this proposal, as it nevertheless constitutes a technical regulation in line with the direction of the Ministry of Economics. The Commission has voted that it will continue to work on improving this proposal in order to move it forward as an amendment to this law. At the moment, however, the proposal is to exclude this part, and the Commission has supported it.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-04-21-PT12-359-U308	Members ask for a vote. Please call me! We will vote in favour of 16. - the proposal submitted by Members Putra and Adamson and Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Finance Putra and Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Economics Valaiņa! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 58, for - 4, for - 3. The proposal is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-04-21-PT12-359-U309	17. - a proposal from the Member's Debtor prohibiting smoking in the presence of a child and a pregnant woman and prohibiting smoking in pregnant women. Both the Public Health Sub-Commission and the Responsible Commission held a wide-ranging debate on this proposal, from a human rights point of view (also the Ombudsman's opinion), and ultimately the Commission was inclined to support this proposal in part by providing for a ban on smoking in the presence of a child and a pregnant woman in Amendment 18. However, the 17th proposal would therefore be inconsistent with human rights and individual freedom and therefore only partially supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-04-21-PT12-359-U310	Let us start a debate. The name of the Member Immant Debtor.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-04-21-PT12-359-U311	Good afternoon, colleagues. I will speak directly from the point of view of law. I think that it is well known and indisputable that every person has a certain amount of rights. And, of course, these rights also include the right to have a child in the world or not. At a time when people have made a decision to release their children, they also have some responsibility for them. To compare, maybe then to justify... I will just quote specialists - about the consequences for a child of a smoking mother at the moment she decides to put that baby in the world. I will quote Professor Daces Rezeberga, a member of the Board of the Latvian Association of Gynecologists and Infantry Specialists: “Smokering significantly impairs the supply of fruit with oxygen and nutrients. There is a tendency for young pregnant women to grow worse, and research shows that this is all about sudden death syndrome." In this regard, I will quote the informative material published by the Riga Birth House and where information on the harm caused by smoking is listed in detail. I will quote only one that is mentioned there: “When smoking, the future mother makes the baby breathe like through a compressed straw.” Colleagues, I allow one of you to see the media very recently... There was a video on the Internet, where a family (at least by sight) were quite disrespectful and inhumanely surrounded by a dog that had a scotched mouth, tied their legs, and that was rightly aroused by the whole society. Then tell me, how would you appreciate the situation if a video was made from a very decent family, well-dressed people, put a bag on your child's head and a scooped note so that he couldn't breathe, and put only a tube through which he can breathe a little bit. And then, in this video, they would still crush that straw. Please tell me, would it not seem to the whole of society at that time that this is unimaginable? It's crazy! How can humans do so? So at that point it will seem like that, but in a situation where exactly the same is done with a baby in the mother’s womb, everyone says: “Well no, it’s not illegal. It may not be morally, ethically, but it is not really illegal.” Well, I think it's a duality, it's an inconsistent attitude to things. If we say that nicotine is harmful to children, and we say it is illegal, then, dear people, say it, being consistent, is it just as illegal not to make the child breathe through the nabassite this nicotine? And there's more than nicotine. It also contains cyanide and carbon monoxide. I call for consistency and clarity also for those people who do not yet understand it: it is not a matter of morality. It's illegal. And in this respect, I will remind you that the Latvian Code of Administrative Violations contains a norm that sets out... Article 172.2 – Physical and emotional violence against the child. Thus, the example I mentioned would definitely be treated in accordance with this article of the Latvian Administrative Violations Code, which states: “On physical or emotional violence against a child - warns or imposes a fine of up to 70 euros.” This is even possible under criminal law. Once again, my fellow Members, I call for a consistent approach to things, both in one case and in another. I therefore call for my proposal to be supported. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-04-21-PT12-359-U312	Thank you. We are continuing the debate. The name to Member Romuald Harvest.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-04-21-PT12-359-U313	Very honourable Speaker of the Saeima! Colleagues! I will continue the debate on what duality is. In the sub-committee on public health and also in the Commission on Social and Labour Affairs, we had a wide-ranging discussion involving all stakeholders - representatives of law enforcement authorities, as well as representatives of medical practitioners, public organisations. And one very dangerous trend was marked - with the slogan “We will ban smoking in Latvia at all!” To vote for any norms that are anti-smoking, without thinking how they can be implemented in life and as law enforcement institutions (in this particular case, the local police) will be able to follow them and punish them so that the norms of the law are respected. I didn't smoke myself, and no one smokes in my family either. One of the reasons is what Mr. Debtor put it in an image here: this effect, this effect, which nicotine and other such substances leave on the body. That's why... But we cannot with this slogan “Let’s ban smoking in Latvia!” put in a completely pointless position law enforcement and other people who are obliged to comply with the law by prohibiting pregnant women from smoking. Question: then from what month, and when, and how... Is that so? In the Sub-Commission and the Social and Labour Commission, we decided to modify the existing provision - 'no smoking in the presence of a child' - by adding 'and in the presence of a pregnant woman'. So if the pregnancy is visually visible, then smoking in the presence of a pregnant woman must be stopped without waiting for reproof. Both within the Commission on Social and Labour Affairs and within the Sub-Commission on Public Health, we have talked about further measures to curb smoking, but we are against legal nihilism, namely against the deliberate creation of laws that cannot be enforced and cannot be controlled.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-04-21-PT12-359-U314	I'm closing the debate... She had applied? You applied very quickly for a debate. The name of Member Julia Stepanenko.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-04-21-PT12-359-U315	Colleagues! It's very short. It may be that this rule is not really successful, it may be that it will really be difficult to control it, but conceptually I support the fact that pregnant women are not recommended to smoke. Now, however, what is offered - that pregnant women must not smoke, but pregnant women themselves will be allowed - creates a really rather strange situation. That is why I will support Mr Debtor's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-04-21-PT12-359-U316	Thank you. I closed the debate. Will the rapporteur add something on behalf of the Commission?
ParlaMint-LV_2016-04-21-PT12-359-U317	Yeah. There were a number of different views expressed in the Commission, which came from the troop as well. The majority of the Commission shared the view explained in detail here by Mr Razuka.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-04-21-PT12-359-U318	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote in favour of 17. - a proposal made by the debtor Member! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 18, for - 9, for - 40. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-04-21-PT12-359-U319	18. - The proposal of the Commission on Social and Labour Affairs. This, in turn, is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-04-21-PT12-359-U320	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-04-21-PT12-359-U321	Go on. The next proposals - from proposal 19 to proposal 25 - are all related to the previous reading rule - paragraph 10, which provides for the ban on smoking in vehicle cabins and cabins, while long-distance trains and ships may contain separate wagons and cabins intended for smokers. Various proposals were received, including extremely radical proposals (e.g. from the Member's Neighbourhood and Member's Adamson) that would actually allow smoking in all types of vehicles, as well as a number of other proposals that would still restrict smoking in public vehicles, as well as in public and municipal owned or owned vehicles. And, having heard the views of both the Ombudsman and other lawyers and discussed these issues in detail, the Commission finally came to the wording of Amendments 24 and 25 - that the ban applies to public vehicles and therefore to passenger carriers, as well as to vehicles owned or owned by public authorities and local authorities. In addition, the commission discussed whether smoking was permitted when driving a vehicle. And although the majority of the commission seemed to believe that this was not allowed, it should be assessed in the context of another law. Thus, the Commission has asked the Ministry of the Interior and the Ministry of Transport to further evaluate these norms - whether such a restriction should not be set in another law, namely, in relation to other activities that are not permitted while driving the vehicle. These were general considerations of the Commission. Let us take note of the proposals. 19. - the proposal by the Member's neighbour, which proposes that this smoking ban be ruled out at all. Not supported. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. A. Kaimiņš: “I will ask for a vote!” ) Council Regulation (EC) No 1257/96 of 20 June 1996 concerning humanitarian aid (OJ L 163, 2.7.1996, p. 1).
ParlaMint-LV_2016-04-21-PT12-359-U322	The Member is therefore asking for a vote. Please call me! We will vote in favour of 19. - A proposal from the Member, Neighbouring! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 1, for - 53, for - 6. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-04-21-PT12-359-U323	20............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - Member Adamson's proposal. Not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-04-21-PT12-359-U324	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-04-21-PT12-359-U325	21............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - the Ombudsman Janson's proposal. In essence, partial support and inclusion of 24. - a commission proposal agreed by the Ombudsman.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-04-21-PT12-359-U326	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-04-21-PT12-359-U327	22. - the proposal from Members Līdaka, Putra and Berzins. Partly supported and included in 24 and 25. - in the proposals of the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-04-21-PT12-359-U328	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-04-21-PT12-359-U329	23............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Partly supported and included 24. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-04-21-PT12-359-U330	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-04-21-PT12-359-U331	24. - The proposal of the Commission on Social and Labour Affairs. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-04-21-PT12-359-U332	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-04-21-PT12-359-U333	25. - The proposal of the Commission on Social and Labour Affairs. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-04-21-PT12-359-U334	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-04-21-PT12-359-U335	26. - the proposal of the Social and Labour Commission, which provides for the addition of a new paragraph, namely that an area specially designed for smoking may be provided outside the safety control points of the departure of an international airport. Taking into account the views of the Ministry of Transport and the airport management and taking care of the competitiveness of the international airport, the Social and Labour Affairs Commission drafted and supported this proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-04-21-PT12-359-U336	Let us start a debate. Name to Member Alexander Kirštein.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-04-21-PT12-359-U337	Dear President, Honourable Members! I have to apologize: I pressed the button to apply for a talk on Amendment 25, but somehow then the device turned off by chance, and I didn't get... By agreeing in principle on airports and everything else, I just wanted to point out one contradiction in all these cases, which concerns the state and municipality, say, premises and ships, trains... because they are public limited liability companies. If we, for example, authorise in Amendment 24 - very rightly, as it has been said... in fact it will also appear, for example, in the case of small municipal airports... We allow special rooms to be set up, and we take into account that these are often various trips of entertainment and tourism... permit not only on board ships and on board trains, as provided for in Articles 24 and 25, but also on flights. And then suddenly we say in Amendment 25, "If you get into the ownership of local governments, you will not be allowed to smoke any more." And understand, for example, the big public company ferry Silja Line or municipal airports, or something like that... That could be 10 percent... The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. A.Barch's intermediate call.) Yes, I did not get to say the 25th, Mrs. Barch! So 10 percent is bought by the state suddenly, and 90 is for a private company - some cruise ship or some pleasure ship - and we ban it right away. I think this is the same way in North Korea. That's a big contradiction. I think the 25th proposal was completely redundant. But now I have to apologise for being late to say it in the debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-04-21-PT12-359-U338	Does the Member support the proposal 26? Mr. Kirstein! Are you in favour? Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-04-21-PT12-359-U339	So no one has made the 26th motion. The Commission has supported this.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-04-21-PT12-359-U340	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-04-21-PT12-359-U341	27. - the proposal of the Minister for Health, Belevič. 7 has been partially supported and substantially incorporated. - the Commission's proposal, on which we have already voted.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-04-21-PT12-359-U342	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-04-21-PT12-359-U343	28. - The proposal of the Commission on Social and Labour Affairs. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-04-21-PT12-359-U344	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-04-21-PT12-359-U345	29. - The proposal of the Commission on Social and Labour Affairs. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-04-21-PT12-359-U346	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-04-21-PT12-359-U347	30. - The proposal of the Commission on Social and Labour Affairs. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-04-21-PT12-359-U348	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-04-21-PT12-359-U349	31. - The proposal of the Commission on Social and Labour Affairs. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-04-21-PT12-359-U350	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-04-21-PT12-359-U351	32. - The proposal of the Commission on Social and Labour Affairs. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-04-21-PT12-359-U352	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-04-21-PT12-359-U353	33. - The proposal of the Commission on Social and Labour Affairs. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-04-21-PT12-359-U354	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-04-21-PT12-359-U355	As well as 34. - The proposal of the Commission on Social and Labour Affairs. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-04-21-PT12-359-U356	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-04-21-PT12-359-U357	35. - The proposal of the Commission on Social and Labour Affairs. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-04-21-PT12-359-U358	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-04-21-PT12-359-U359	36. - a proposal from Member Putra and Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Economic Affairs, Valaiņš. This provides for the deletion of point 7 of the transitional provisions, which we have already excluded, and that is why it is also supported. I call on you to support this too.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-04-21-PT12-359-U360	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-04-21-PT12-359-U361	37. - The proposal of the Commission on Social and Labour Affairs. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-04-21-PT12-359-U362	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-04-21-PT12-359-U363	38. - the proposal of the Minister for Health, Belevič. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-04-21-PT12-359-U364	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-04-21-PT12-359-U365	All the proposals have therefore been examined. On behalf of the Commission, I call for support for the draft law at third, final, reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-04-21-PT12-359-U366	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote in favour of supporting the third, final reading of the draft law on Tobacco Products, Plant Smoking Products, Electronic Smoking Devices and their Liquids! Please vote mode! Please get the result! On - 78, against - 1, refraining from - 1. The law has been passed. On the agenda - draft law on consumer protection law, first reading. On behalf of the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy, Member Edward Smilten.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-04-21-PT12-359-U367	Colleagues! Draft law “Amendments to the Law on Consumer Protection” is related to the next draft law – “Amendment to the Law on Procedure of the entry into force of the Commercial Law”. This draft law is designed to implement in Latvian legislation the Directive of the European Parliament and the Council, to comply with the Cabinet of Ministers' Protocol of 11 June 2013 on the assessment of shortcomings of the legal framework for mortgage lending and proposals for its improvement and to eliminate regulatory shortcomings related to the European Parliament and Council Directives. What will Latvia and society and the banking system benefit from? The draft law is expected to have a positive financial impact on consumers as it will improve both the crediting environment and the quality of commitments. On behalf of the Commission, I call on you to support this draft law at first reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-04-21-PT12-359-U368	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote in favour of the first reading of the draft law "Amendments to the Law on Consumer Protection". Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 78, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The draft law at first reading has been supported. Please set a deadline for the submission of the proposals for second reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-04-21-PT12-359-U369	Colleagues, we will be happy to consider in the Commission those proposals that will be submitted by 5 May.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-04-21-PT12-359-U370	Thank you. Proposals should be submitted by 5 May of this year. On the agenda - draft law “Amendment to the Law on Procedure for the entry into force of the Commercial Law”, first reading. On behalf of the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy, Member Edward Smilten.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-04-21-PT12-359-U371	Colleagues! As I said, the draft law on the amendment to the law on the procedure for entry into force of the Commercial Law is related to the previous draft law which has now been examined. This draft law, in turn, provides for the exclusion of the third part of Section 21 of the Procedure for the entry into force of the Commercial Law, which currently lays down the minimum amount of share capital to be paid up by the capital companies providing consumer credit services. And according to Para 11 of the Transitional Provisions of the Law, the Cabinet of Ministers was given the task to prepare and submit to the Saeima a draft law on consumer crediting, which will determine the minimum amount of share capital to be paid by the capital companies that provide consumer crediting services. And there are currently amendments to the Consumer Rights Protection Law, which we have already examined by transferring this requirement regarding the amount of share capital to Section 8.1 of this Law. In the Commission, we have discussed this draft law and I call for it to be supported here at the Saeima sitting as well.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-04-21-PT12-359-U372	Please call me! We will vote in favour of the first reading of the draft law on the amendment to the law on the procedure for entry into force of the Commercial Law! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 79, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The draft law at first reading has been supported. Please set a deadline for the submission of the proposals for second reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-04-21-PT12-359-U373	Yeah, colleagues. Just like the previous draft law, we call for proposals to be submitted by May 5.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-04-21-PT12-359-U374	Thank you. Proposals should be submitted by 5 May of this year. On the agenda - draft law “Amendment to the Invalidity Act”, second reading. On behalf of the Commission for Social and Labour Affairs - Hosams Abu Meri.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-04-21-PT12-359-U375	Hello, colleagues! The draft law ‘Amendment to the Invalidity Act’ was not adopted by the Commission. On behalf of the Commission, I call on you to support the draft law at second reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-04-21-PT12-359-U376	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote in favour of the second reading of the draft law on disability law! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 81, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. The draft law at second reading has been supported. Please set a deadline for the third reading of the proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-04-21-PT12-359-U377	April 29th.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-04-21-PT12-359-U378	Thank you. Proposals are due by 29 April this year. On the agenda - draft law “Amendments to the Law on the Prevention of Money Laundering and Financing of Terrorism”, second reading. On behalf of the Commission for Defence, Home Affairs and Anti-Corruption - Member Edwin Šnore.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-04-21-PT12-359-U379	Dear colleagues, For the second reading of the draft law, the Commission from the Ministry of Finance has received one proposal which the Commission has examined and supported. On behalf of the Commission, you too are calling for this support.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-04-21-PT12-359-U380	Thus the proposal is supported by Members.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-04-21-PT12-359-U381	That was also the only proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-04-21-PT12-359-U382	Members support this, and obviously the Commission calls for support for the draft law at second reading. Please call me! We will vote in favour of the second reading of the draft law “Amendments to the Law on the Prevention of Money Laundering and Financing of Terrorism”! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 81, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. The draft law at second reading has been supported. Please set a deadline for the third reading of the proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-04-21-PT12-359-U383	May 6th.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-04-21-PT12-359-U384	Thank you. Proposals should be submitted by 6 May this year. On the agenda - draft law “Amendments to the Law on the Movement of Arms and Special Resources”, second reading. On behalf of the Commission for Defence, Home Affairs and Anti-Corruption - Member Kārlis Krēsliņš.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-04-21-PT12-359-U385	Dear colleagues, See ‘Amendments to the Law on the Movement of Arms and Special Resources’ in the draft law. 1. - The motion by the Saeima Member Dombravas. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-04-21-PT12-359-U386	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-04-21-PT12-359-U387	The proposal is a Commission proposal. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-04-21-PT12-359-U388	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-04-21-PT12-359-U389	The proposal is a Commission proposal. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-04-21-PT12-359-U390	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-04-21-PT12-359-U391	Proposal No 4 is a proposal from the Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Defence, Andrejs Panteļējeva. The proposal has been supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-04-21-PT12-359-U392	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-04-21-PT12-359-U393	Proposal 5 is a Commission proposal. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-04-21-PT12-359-U394	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-04-21-PT12-359-U395	Proposal No 6 is a proposal from the Commission on Defence, Home Affairs and the Prevention of Corruption. This is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-04-21-PT12-359-U396	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-04-21-PT12-359-U397	7. - a proposal from the Commission on Defence, Home Affairs and Anti-Corruption. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-04-21-PT12-359-U398	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-04-21-PT12-359-U399	8 / 8 - The proposal of the Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Defence, Andrejs Pontejeva. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-04-21-PT12-359-U400	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-04-21-PT12-359-U401	9. - a proposal from the Commission on Defence, Home Affairs and Anti-Corruption. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-04-21-PT12-359-U402	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-04-21-PT12-359-U403	Request to support the draft law at second reading
ParlaMint-LV_2016-04-21-PT12-359-U404	Please call me! We will vote in favour of the second reading of the draft law "Amendments to the Law on the Movement of Arms and Special Resources"! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. The draft law at second reading has been supported. Please set a deadline for the third reading of the proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-04-21-PT12-359-U405	May 5th.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-04-21-PT12-359-U406	Thank you. Proposals should be submitted by 5 May of this year. On the agenda - Draft Law on the Market in Financial Instruments Act, second reading. Member of the Commission for Budget and Finance (Tax) Mārtiņš Bondars.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-04-21-PT12-359-U407	Dear Bureau! Dear colleagues and respected colleagues! The budget and financial (tax) commission of the Saeima is working on the draft law “Amendments to the Law on the Markets in Financial Instruments”. A total of 137 proposals were tabled for the second reading. ( Insight: “How much?Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, “ Most of them have been submitted by the Ministry of Finance and the Legal Bureau of the Saeima. This means that this bill has been sent to the Saeima in poor quality. Unfortunately, this is far from the only poor quality bill that the Saeima received from the Ministry of Finance. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. I.Viņķelis intersacion.) I would like to draw your attention to the fact that the work of the State Secretary of the Ministry of Finance on 2015 was considered excellent, and the reward for the excellent work was 110 thousand euros per year. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. I. Pastor: “Mr Bondara, you have been lost!” ) I believe that, in connection with the current poor quality of the draft law, I am obliged, as a Member, also to point out the shortcomings (Interface: on behalf of the Commission!) ), let us not forget that the Saeima's duty...
ParlaMint-LV_2016-04-21-PT12-359-U408	Mr. Bondar! ( The head of the sitting was knocked down with a hammer.)
ParlaMint-LV_2016-04-21-PT12-359-U409	... there is a monitoring of the work of the executive power.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-04-21-PT12-359-U410	Mr. Bondar! You are currently representing the Commission's opinion and I call for the Commission to be informed, on behalf of the Commission, by expressing the Commission's common opinion. Individually, you can apply for a debate on draft laws, proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-04-21-PT12-359-U411	Thank you, Madam President of the Saeima. I hope that one law - one truth in this country and that today all speakers have done exactly that... I mean, I mean, I mean, I mean, I mean, I Depp. I. Pastor: “That’s it! Please apply, Mr Bondara, for a debate and then you can express your personal views." ) Mr. Debtor, I am very sorry. ( The utterances: “Freedom! ”) ; “The Met Shoes!” ; ‘Do not speak on behalf of the Commission!’ ) And now - 137... (The Hall of Noise.)
ParlaMint-LV_2016-04-21-PT12-359-U412	Colleagues! I call on you to focus on the proposals. I mean, I mean, I mean, I mean, I mean, I Medicines cause noise.) Proposal presented by Member Silver.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-04-21-PT12-359-U413	And now - 137 proposals. Proposal No 1 - Inguna Silver, Member. Not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-04-21-PT12-359-U414	Let us start a debate. Name of Member Inguna Silver.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-04-21-PT12-359-U415	Dear colleagues, The substance of the proposal is as follows: In fact, this definition describes which company provides control. The view that only one person alone can ensure control if it owns the majority of shares does not correspond to the reality in which companies operate in Latvia. This, of course, is about all the companies... and only those who are also active on the stock exchange and have thus been listed on the stock exchange. And why is it important to define precisely in the definition the scope of these controls and that they exist not only for one individual, but also for a group of persons acting in a coordinated manner? I will explain the substance of the matter. If a person holds 51 or more shares, such public limited liability company shall comply with the provisions of the Law on Concerts. This means that there is a particularly regulated relationship between the majority shareholders and the minority shareholders. In such a situation, even minority shareholders with one share have the opportunity to deal with any decision or influence decision making. However, if, in a public limited liability company, a group of persons controls the activities of that public limited liability company in the absence of the majority of shares in fact legally in the absence of a single person, minority shareholders need at least five per cent of the shares so that they can have some influence on the company’s activities at all. And what is paradoxical is that further proposals... My proposals for concerted action - on concerted action by individuals within a company - are supported by the logical fact that both of these cases should also be recorded in the definition - that in a company control can be ensured both by one person and by a coherent group of persons. And more. Making sure that part of the stock listed on a stock exchange is actually operating and what their concerted practices mean... Everything would be normal if a stock company listed on a stock exchange worked in good faith, thinking about how to raise the value of shares, and realising that all shareholders benefit from it - including those operating in a harmonised group. Unfortunately, in part of the public limited liability companies, these people operating in a harmonised group form joint stock companies, transfer their income to these companies, transfer assets to these companies and, in fact, make the listed public limited liability company a shell. I therefore call for my proposal to be supported, because the essence of this proposal is to ensure that the supervisory body - the Financial and Capital Market Commission - is also able to record these real cases where a coordinated group ensures company control. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-04-21-PT12-359-U416	Thank you. I closed the debate. Does the rapporteur, on behalf of the Commission, wish to add something to this proposal in his opinion?
ParlaMint-LV_2016-04-21-PT12-359-U417	Madam President, No, I do not want to express anything on behalf of the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-04-21-PT12-359-U418	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote in favour of 1. - Member Silver's proposal! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For -11, for -43, for -21. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-04-21-PT12-359-U419	2. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-04-21-PT12-359-U420	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-04-21-PT12-359-U421	3. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-04-21-PT12-359-U422	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-04-21-PT12-359-U423	4. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Supported by proposal 5.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-04-21-PT12-359-U424	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-04-21-PT12-359-U425	5. - the proposal of Minister for Finance Reizniece-Ozola. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-04-21-PT12-359-U426	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-04-21-PT12-359-U427	6. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Supported by proposal 7.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-04-21-PT12-359-U428	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-04-21-PT12-359-U429	7. - a proposal from the Minister for Finance. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-04-21-PT12-359-U430	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-04-21-PT12-359-U431	8 / 8 - a proposal from the Minister for Finance. Supported, included 9. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-04-21-PT12-359-U432	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-04-21-PT12-359-U433	9. - a proposal from the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission. This is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-04-21-PT12-359-U434	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-04-21-PT12-359-U435	10............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - a proposal from the Minister for Finance. Partly supported by proposal 11.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-04-21-PT12-359-U436	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-04-21-PT12-359-U437	11. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-04-21-PT12-359-U438	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-04-21-PT12-359-U439	12. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-04-21-PT12-359-U440	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-04-21-PT12-359-U441	13. - a proposal from the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-04-21-PT12-359-U442	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-04-21-PT12-359-U443	14............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - a proposal from the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-04-21-PT12-359-U444	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-04-21-PT12-359-U445	15............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-04-21-PT12-359-U446	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-04-21-PT12-359-U447	16. - a proposal from the Minister for Finance. Supported by changing the numbering of subsequent parts accordingly.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-04-21-PT12-359-U448	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-04-21-PT12-359-U449	17. - a proposal from the Minister for Finance. Partially supported, included 18. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-04-21-PT12-359-U450	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-04-21-PT12-359-U451	18. - a proposal from the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-04-21-PT12-359-U452	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-04-21-PT12-359-U453	19. - a proposal from the Minister for Finance. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-04-21-PT12-359-U454	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-04-21-PT12-359-U455	20............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - a proposal from the Minister for Finance. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-04-21-PT12-359-U456	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-04-21-PT12-359-U457	21............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - a proposal from the Minister for Finance. Supported by proposal 22.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-04-21-PT12-359-U458	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-04-21-PT12-359-U459	22. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-04-21-PT12-359-U460	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-04-21-PT12-359-U461	23............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - a proposal from the Minister for Finance. Partially supported, included 24. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-04-21-PT12-359-U462	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-04-21-PT12-359-U463	24. - a proposal from the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-04-21-PT12-359-U464	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-04-21-PT12-359-U465	25. - a proposal from the Minister for Finance. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-04-21-PT12-359-U466	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-04-21-PT12-359-U467	26. - a proposal from the Minister for Finance. Partially supported, included 29. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-04-21-PT12-359-U468	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-04-21-PT12-359-U469	27. - a proposal from the Minister for Finance. Partially supported, included 29. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-04-21-PT12-359-U470	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-04-21-PT12-359-U471	28. - a proposal from the Minister for Finance. Partially supported, included 29. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-04-21-PT12-359-U472	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-04-21-PT12-359-U473	29. - a proposal from the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-04-21-PT12-359-U474	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-04-21-PT12-359-U475	30. - a proposal from the Minister for Finance. Supported by 39. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-04-21-PT12-359-U476	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-04-21-PT12-359-U477	31. - a proposal from the Minister for Finance. Partially supported, included 39. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-04-21-PT12-359-U478	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-04-21-PT12-359-U479	32. - a proposal from the Minister for Finance. Partially supported, included 39. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-04-21-PT12-359-U480	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-04-21-PT12-359-U481	33. - a proposal from the Minister for Finance. Partially supported, included 39. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-04-21-PT12-359-U482	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-04-21-PT12-359-U483	34. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Partially supported, included 39. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-04-21-PT12-359-U484	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-04-21-PT12-359-U485	35. - a proposal from the Minister for Finance. Partially supported, included 39. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-04-21-PT12-359-U486	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-04-21-PT12-359-U487	36. - a proposal from the Minister for Finance. Partially supported, included 39. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-04-21-PT12-359-U488	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-04-21-PT12-359-U489	37. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Partially supported, included 39. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-04-21-PT12-359-U490	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-04-21-PT12-359-U491	38. - a proposal from the Minister for Finance. Partially supported, included 39. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-04-21-PT12-359-U492	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-04-21-PT12-359-U493	And finally 39. - a proposal from the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission. Supported by changing the numbering of the following articles accordingly.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-04-21-PT12-359-U494	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-04-21-PT12-359-U495	40. - a proposal from the Minister for Finance. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-04-21-PT12-359-U496	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-04-21-PT12-359-U497	41. - a proposal from the Minister for Finance. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-04-21-PT12-359-U498	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-04-21-PT12-359-U499	42. - a proposal from the Minister for Finance. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-04-21-PT12-359-U500	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-04-21-PT12-359-U501	43. - a proposal from the Minister for Finance. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-04-21-PT12-359-U502	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-04-21-PT12-359-U503	44. - a proposal from the Minister for Finance. Supported by proposal 45.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-04-21-PT12-359-U504	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-04-21-PT12-359-U505	45. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-04-21-PT12-359-U506	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-04-21-PT12-359-U507	46. - a proposal from the Minister for Finance. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-04-21-PT12-359-U508	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-04-21-PT12-359-U509	47. - a proposal from the Minister for Finance. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-04-21-PT12-359-U510	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-04-21-PT12-359-U511	48. - a proposal from the Minister for Finance. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-04-21-PT12-359-U512	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-04-21-PT12-359-U513	49. - a proposal from the Minister for Finance. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-04-21-PT12-359-U514	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-04-21-PT12-359-U515	50. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-04-21-PT12-359-U516	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-04-21-PT12-359-U517	51. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Partly supported, included in Commission proposal 67.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-04-21-PT12-359-U518	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-04-21-PT12-359-U519	52. - a proposal from the Minister for Finance. Partially supported, included 67. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-04-21-PT12-359-U520	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-04-21-PT12-359-U521	53. - a proposal from the Minister for Finance. Partially supported, included 67. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-04-21-PT12-359-U522	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-04-21-PT12-359-U523	54. - a proposal from the Minister for Finance. Partially supported, included 67. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-04-21-PT12-359-U524	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-04-21-PT12-359-U525	55. - a proposal from the Minister for Finance. Partially supported, included 67. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-04-21-PT12-359-U526	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-04-21-PT12-359-U527	56. - Member Silver's proposal. Not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-04-21-PT12-359-U528	Let us start a debate. Name of Member Inguna Silver. But first... Dear colleagues, I would like to inform you that Members of Mr Smilten, Mr Brigmanis, Mr Produks, Mr Dalder and Mr Viņķele are asking to continue the sitting without interruption until all the items on the agenda are examined. ( Independence: ‘ Again?Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, What time to relax?” ) Do Members have objections? There is no objection by Members. We're continuing the Saeima sitting. Name of Member Inguna Silver.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-04-21-PT12-359-U529	Yes, colleagues! As with all the proposals, this is also linked to the opportunity to defend minority shareholders in stock companies listed on the stock exchange. The current text voted at first reading foresees that these public limited liability companies will no longer publish the unaudited twelve-monthly accounts, as such disclosure to the stock exchange is considered to represent an additional administrative burden. I want to dispel these prayers. In any case, any entity shall prepare an annual report before further reporting to the auditor. This is not an additional administrative burden, but it is also an opportunity for the shareholders of the company to get acquainted with the situation of the company... within two months, that is, by the end of February, when the report is published. Because then... The audited accounts of large public limited liability companies, as you know, may only be presented at the end of July. And what is still very important is that the unaudited accounts show very well, compared to the audited accounts, the work carried out by the auditor in each share company. The explanation is then given by the company’s management about the changes that may have been made to the company’s accounts; it also describes those activities that may not have been fully and truly reflected in this annual report. So I ask once again to support this proposal, because it does not create absolutely no... neither the additional administrative burden nor the additional costs for public limited liability companies; it is simply a normal, transparent business, the disclosure of information, and I find it strange to give up the possibility to show transparent companies on our stock exchange as well. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-04-21-PT12-359-U530	Thank you. I closed the debate. Does the rapporteur wish to add something on behalf of the Commission?
ParlaMint-LV_2016-04-21-PT12-359-U531	For the Commission, not a word!
ParlaMint-LV_2016-04-21-PT12-359-U532	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote in favour of 56. - the proposal tabled by Member Inguna Silverba! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For -16, for -37, for -18. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-04-21-PT12-359-U533	57. - Member Silver's proposal. Partially supported, included 67. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-04-21-PT12-359-U534	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-04-21-PT12-359-U535	58. - a proposal from the Minister for Finance. Partially supported, included 67. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-04-21-PT12-359-U536	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-04-21-PT12-359-U537	59. - a proposal from the Minister for Finance. Partly supported, included in proposal 67.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-04-21-PT12-359-U538	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-04-21-PT12-359-U539	60. - a proposal from the Minister for Finance. Partially supported, included 67. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-04-21-PT12-359-U540	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-04-21-PT12-359-U541	61. - a proposal from the Minister for Finance. Partially supported, included 67. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-04-21-PT12-359-U542	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-04-21-PT12-359-U543	62. - a proposal from the Minister for Finance. Partially supported, included 67. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-04-21-PT12-359-U544	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-04-21-PT12-359-U545	63. - a proposal from the Minister for Finance. Partially supported, included 67. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-04-21-PT12-359-U546	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-04-21-PT12-359-U547	64. - a proposal from the Minister for Finance. Partially supported, included 67. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-04-21-PT12-359-U548	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-04-21-PT12-359-U549	65. - a proposal from the Minister for Finance. Partially supported, included 67. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-04-21-PT12-359-U550	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-04-21-PT12-359-U551	66. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Partially supported, included 67. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-04-21-PT12-359-U552	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-04-21-PT12-359-U553	67. - a proposal from the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission. Supported by changing the numbering of the following articles accordingly.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-04-21-PT12-359-U554	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-04-21-PT12-359-U555	68. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-04-21-PT12-359-U556	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-04-21-PT12-359-U557	69. - a proposal from the Minister for Finance. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-04-21-PT12-359-U558	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-04-21-PT12-359-U559	70. - a proposal from the Minister for Finance. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-04-21-PT12-359-U560	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-04-21-PT12-359-U561	71. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Partly supported by proposal 72.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-04-21-PT12-359-U562	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-04-21-PT12-359-U563	72. - a proposal from the Minister for Finance. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-04-21-PT12-359-U564	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-04-21-PT12-359-U565	73. - a proposal from the Minister for Finance. Supported by changing the numbering of the following articles accordingly.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-04-21-PT12-359-U566	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-04-21-PT12-359-U567	74. - a proposal from the Minister for Finance. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-04-21-PT12-359-U568	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-04-21-PT12-359-U569	75. - a proposal from the Minister for Finance. Partially supported, included 76. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-04-21-PT12-359-U570	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-04-21-PT12-359-U571	76. - a proposal from the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-04-21-PT12-359-U572	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-04-21-PT12-359-U573	77. - a proposal from the Minister for Finance. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-04-21-PT12-359-U574	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-04-21-PT12-359-U575	78. - a proposal from the Minister for Finance. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-04-21-PT12-359-U576	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-04-21-PT12-359-U577	79. - a proposal from the Minister for Finance. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-04-21-PT12-359-U578	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-04-21-PT12-359-U579	80. - a proposal from the Minister for Finance. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-04-21-PT12-359-U580	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-04-21-PT12-359-U581	81. - a proposal from the Minister for Finance. Partly supported, included 82. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-04-21-PT12-359-U582	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-04-21-PT12-359-U583	82. - a proposal from the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-04-21-PT12-359-U584	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-04-21-PT12-359-U585	83. - a proposal from the Minister for Finance. Partly supported, included 84. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-04-21-PT12-359-U586	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-04-21-PT12-359-U587	84. - a proposal from the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-04-21-PT12-359-U588	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-04-21-PT12-359-U589	85. - a proposal from the Minister for Finance. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-04-21-PT12-359-U590	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-04-21-PT12-359-U591	86. - a proposal from the Minister for Finance. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-04-21-PT12-359-U592	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-04-21-PT12-359-U593	87. - a proposal from the Minister for Finance. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-04-21-PT12-359-U594	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-04-21-PT12-359-U595	88. - a proposal from the Minister for Finance. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-04-21-PT12-359-U596	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-04-21-PT12-359-U597	89. - the proposal by Member Inguna Silverba. Partly supported, included 91. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-04-21-PT12-359-U598	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-04-21-PT12-359-U599	90. - the proposal by Member Inguna Silverba. Partly supported, included 91. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-04-21-PT12-359-U600	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-04-21-PT12-359-U601	91. - a proposal from the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission. Supported by changing the numbering of the following articles accordingly.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-04-21-PT12-359-U602	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-04-21-PT12-359-U603	92. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-04-21-PT12-359-U604	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-04-21-PT12-359-U605	93. - a proposal from the Minister for Finance. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-04-21-PT12-359-U606	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-04-21-PT12-359-U607	94. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-04-21-PT12-359-U608	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-04-21-PT12-359-U609	95. - a proposal from the Minister for Finance. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-04-21-PT12-359-U610	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-04-21-PT12-359-U611	96. - a proposal from the Minister for Finance. Partly supported, included in proposal 97.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-04-21-PT12-359-U612	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-04-21-PT12-359-U613	97. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-04-21-PT12-359-U614	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-04-21-PT12-359-U615	98. - a proposal from the Minister for Finance. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-04-21-PT12-359-U616	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-04-21-PT12-359-U617	99. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-04-21-PT12-359-U618	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-04-21-PT12-359-U619	100. - a proposal from the Minister for Finance. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-04-21-PT12-359-U620	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-04-21-PT12-359-U621	101. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Partly supported by proposal 102.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-04-21-PT12-359-U622	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-04-21-PT12-359-U623	102. - a proposal from the Minister for Finance. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-04-21-PT12-359-U624	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-04-21-PT12-359-U625	103. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-04-21-PT12-359-U626	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-04-21-PT12-359-U627	104. - a proposal from the Minister for Finance. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-04-21-PT12-359-U628	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-04-21-PT12-359-U629	105. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-04-21-PT12-359-U630	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-04-21-PT12-359-U631	106. - a proposal from the Minister for Finance. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-04-21-PT12-359-U632	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-04-21-PT12-359-U633	107. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-04-21-PT12-359-U634	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-04-21-PT12-359-U635	108. - a proposal from the Minister for Finance. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-04-21-PT12-359-U636	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-04-21-PT12-359-U637	109. - a proposal from the Minister for Finance. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-04-21-PT12-359-U638	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-04-21-PT12-359-U639	110. - a proposal from the Minister for Finance. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-04-21-PT12-359-U640	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-04-21-PT12-359-U641	111. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Supported by changing the numbering of the following articles accordingly.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-04-21-PT12-359-U642	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-04-21-PT12-359-U643	112. - a proposal from the Minister for Finance. Supported by changing the numbering of the following articles accordingly.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-04-21-PT12-359-U644	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-04-21-PT12-359-U645	113. - a proposal from the Minister for Finance. Partially supported, included 114. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-04-21-PT12-359-U646	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-04-21-PT12-359-U647	114. - a proposal from the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-04-21-PT12-359-U648	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-04-21-PT12-359-U649	115. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-04-21-PT12-359-U650	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-04-21-PT12-359-U651	116. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-04-21-PT12-359-U652	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-04-21-PT12-359-U653	117. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-04-21-PT12-359-U654	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-04-21-PT12-359-U655	118. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-04-21-PT12-359-U656	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-04-21-PT12-359-U657	119. - a proposal from the Minister for Finance. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-04-21-PT12-359-U658	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-04-21-PT12-359-U659	120. - a proposal from the Minister for Finance. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-04-21-PT12-359-U660	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-04-21-PT12-359-U661	121. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-04-21-PT12-359-U662	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-04-21-PT12-359-U663	122. - a proposal from the Minister for Finance. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-04-21-PT12-359-U664	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-04-21-PT12-359-U665	123. - a proposal from the Minister for Finance. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-04-21-PT12-359-U666	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-04-21-PT12-359-U667	124. - a proposal from the Minister for Finance. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-04-21-PT12-359-U668	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-04-21-PT12-359-U669	125. - a proposal from the Minister for Finance. Supported by editorial clarification.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-04-21-PT12-359-U670	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-04-21-PT12-359-U671	126. - a proposal from the Minister for Finance. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-04-21-PT12-359-U672	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-04-21-PT12-359-U673	127. - a proposal from the Minister for Finance. Partly supported, included 128. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-04-21-PT12-359-U674	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-04-21-PT12-359-U675	128. - a proposal from the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-04-21-PT12-359-U676	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-04-21-PT12-359-U677	129. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-04-21-PT12-359-U678	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-04-21-PT12-359-U679	130. - a proposal from the Minister for Finance. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-04-21-PT12-359-U680	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-04-21-PT12-359-U681	131. - the proposal by Member Inguna Silverba. Partly supported, included 132. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-04-21-PT12-359-U682	Let us start a debate. Name of Member Inguna Silver.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-04-21-PT12-359-U683	Colleagues with whom are proposals 131 and 132 different? This bill, of course, has seen one very positive turnaround: the threshold at which a shareholder, a larger shareholder, must express the mandatory buy-back offer - now it will be 30 per cent. However, my proposal is that the mandatory offer for the repurchase of shares must be made within two years of the entry into force of this law. This does not apply to those companies where the mandatory share buy-back offer has already been made. Why is this important? This process would not be initiated as part of the next proposed version - proposal 132... It would therefore apply only to companies that will ever arise, where such a situation will ever arise, because the so-called Second List of companies listed on the stock exchange is problematic; most of the companies there are in fact controlled by individual groups of persons, where the real value of the shares has long been below the book value of the company in question. And again... This is typical of Latvia. It's normal in the world that stock listed stock companies... For most of them, the value of the shares is at least three to four times the value of the company's balance sheet, but in the case of Latvia everything is the other way round in this same group of companies. And, in my opinion, legalising the situation that has developed in these companies would only be normal that this controlling group would also legally take over the management of the company. And practice also shows one another company on the stock exchange, where the mandatory offer of shares has already been made... And one such businessman in the shadow has become the official owner of the company... Such a company is also starting to work as it is in the interests of all shareholders, because it is no longer interesting to steal from itself. There was concern that this situation meant that entrepreneurs currently do not have the means to buy back their shares. The reality also shows that this does not mean that all will offer their shares for redemption in the form of a mandatory share offer. It's not close. This does not mean that these companies are leaving the stock exchange, nor is it close. There are very few companies that have been fully redeemed and have left the stock exchange. And I think there's a problem with existing shareholders... Today in the so-called Second List, because definitely a large proportion of those shareholders who had acquired a small number of shares for certificates in the early 1990s have perhaps long forgotten about it or their heirs are not in the course and are not interested in what is happening in these companies. And maybe also those people whose shares have been acquired for years in these companies, but the activities of these companies have been such that for years no dividends have been paid and the company has been gradually going on... Well, you couldn't call it robbery because it's legal... transfer of the value and assets of the company to related companies. Perhaps, through this compulsory buy-back of shares, at least part of the investments that have been made or income that has not been made for years will be recovered. I therefore call for my proposal to be supported in order to regularise the situation in Latvia's companies in a legal and transparent way, especially those who need to gain public trust. These are those who are listed on the stock exchange.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-04-21-PT12-359-U684	Thank you. The name is Mr. Janis Wuzan.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-04-21-PT12-359-U685	Dear colleagues, Dear colleagues, Yes, about this aspect, about Latvia... The Second List of the Stock Exchange, which is in essence mentioned in this point of the draft law, held a sufficiently wide-ranging discussion at the committee meeting, in which representatives of the Stock Exchange also took part. What was identified is essentially related to the trading process on the stock exchange, to the fact that there is indeed a so-called Official List and Second List on our stock exchange. For those people who trade on stock exchanges, there is enough clarity about companies on the Second List: which companies are liquid, in which companies regularly change their ownership contingent and which are companies that do not really change their ownership in recent years. Looking at stock trading history - or more precisely stock trading history - this is very clear, because these so-called illiquid companies, illiquid shares... they are not systematically traded, perhaps one or two transactions on a quarterly basis. In essence, this does not pose a major threat to those who want to participate in stock exchange processes, because this liquidity or illiquidity is traceable. Consequently, the commission decided only to partially support Inguna Silvera's proposal and to extend the provision on compulsory redemption to newly created public limited liability companies, but not to extend it to those companies that have been operating in Latvia for a long time, because we considered that this is indeed a real threat to the existence of these companies as stock exchange companies. Then they should decide: either they should leave the stock exchange (but we already have a small list of companies on that stock exchange), or they should find the resources that are needed if mandatory stock buy-back offers are to be made, because there is a need for a clear... real money to settle with minority shareholders. The Commission therefore decided not to support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-04-21-PT12-359-U686	Thank you. I closed the debate. Will the rapporteur add a note on behalf of the Commission?
ParlaMint-LV_2016-04-21-PT12-359-U687	On behalf of the Commission, I can say that Mrs Silver and Mr Wucaan have very accurately reflected the progress of the debate in the Commission, and you now have the opportunity to make an informed decision on the basis of this reflection.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-04-21-PT12-359-U688	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote in favour of 131. - Member Silver's proposal! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 9, for - 48, for - 23. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-04-21-PT12-359-U689	132. - a proposal from the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-04-21-PT12-359-U690	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-04-21-PT12-359-U691	133. - a proposal from the Minister for Finance. Partly supported by proposal 134.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-04-21-PT12-359-U692	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-04-21-PT12-359-U693	134. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-04-21-PT12-359-U694	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-04-21-PT12-359-U695	135. - a proposal from the Minister for Finance. Not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-04-21-PT12-359-U696	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-04-21-PT12-359-U697	136 - a proposal from the Minister for Finance. Partly supported, included 137. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-04-21-PT12-359-U698	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-04-21-PT12-359-U699	137. - a proposal from the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-04-21-PT12-359-U700	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-04-21-PT12-359-U701	Thank you. We have examined all 137 proposals. ( Insight: “ Bravo! Bravo!’ ) Therefore, on behalf of the Committee on Budgets and Finance (tax) please support the draft law on Amendments to the Law on the Markets in Financial Instruments at second reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-04-21-PT12-359-U702	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote in favour of the second reading of the draft law "Amendments to the Law on the Markets in Financial Instruments"! Please vote mode! Please get the result! Not by - 82, not by - and refrains. The draft law at second reading has been supported. Please set a deadline for the third reading of the proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-04-21-PT12-359-U703	Deadline for the third reading of the proposals - 5 May 2016.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-04-21-PT12-359-U704	Thank you. Proposals should be submitted by 5 May of this year. On the agenda - draft law “Amendments to the Code of Conduct for Penalties of Latvia”, first reading. On behalf of the Commission for Defence, Home Affairs and Anti-Corruption - Member Kārlis Sergeant.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-04-21-PT12-359-U705	Hello last time today! Draft law “Amendments to Latvian Penalty Code”. It is clear that it is almost impossible to prevent the causes of criminal offences if there is no work to prevent addiction during the execution of penalties. Currently available resocialisation programmes are aimed at different groups of prisoners, but there is no single resocialisation programmes to reduce dependence. It is also essential to ensure the isolation of such prisoners and the preconditions for resocialisation work. The draft law is related to the creation of a new unit in the Prison Administration to implement the possibility for prisoners to be released from dependence. It is planned to start the centre soon in Olaines prison, where 200 prisoners will be present. In view of the above, it is necessary to develop amendments to the code of execution of sentences of Latvia and the regulations of the Cabinet of Ministers which would provide for internal procedures in the prison unit in which the addiction reduction programme is implemented, procedures for the selection, admission, transfer and exclusion of sentenced persons from the programme and criteria for the adoption of relevant decisions, as well as different rights for convicted persons, based on the fact that participation in the addiction reduction programme will be voluntary. Similar programmes are currently operating successfully in Poland, Norway and other European countries. I therefore call on the Commission to support the draft law at first reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-04-21-PT12-359-U706	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote in favour of the first reading of the draft law “Amendments to the Code of Conduct for Penalties of Latvia”! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 82, for - no, for - 1. The draft law at first reading has been supported. Please set a deadline for the submission of the proposals for second reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-04-21-PT12-359-U707	Let us wait until 26 April.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-04-21-PT12-359-U708	Thank you. Proposals are due by 26 April this year. On the agenda - draft law “Amendments to the law on social protection of the victims of the accident at Chernobyl Nuclear Power Plant and the social protection of the victims of the accident at Chernobyl Nuclear Power Plant”, first reading. On behalf of the Commission for Social and Labour Affairs - Member Andrejs Klementjevs.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-04-21-PT12-359-U709	Thank you, honourable Members. We shall continue to examine the draft law prepared by the Commission on Social Affairs and Labour. The Commission for Social and Labour Affairs received an opinion from the Ministry of Finance and prepared to examine this draft law also at second reading. I ask Members to support this draft law at first reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-04-21-PT12-359-U710	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote for support for the first reading of the draft law on social protection of the victims of the accident at Chernobyl nuclear power plant and the social protection of the victims of the accident at Chernobyl nuclear power plant. Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 82, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The draft law at first reading has been supported. Please set a deadline for the submission of the proposals for second reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-04-21-PT12-359-U711	Thank you. I would like to warn you that the Ministry of Finance warns us that it takes nine months to amend the law and introduce changes to laws and databases so that the State Social Insurance Agency can work successfully. Therefore, please submit proposals by 6 May, because we want to examine this draft law very quickly so that the law enters into force at this part-session. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-04-21-PT12-359-U712	Thank you. Proposals should be submitted by 6 May this year. The agenda of the sitting has been examined. I would like to inform you about the answers to Members' questions scheduled today. The question by Member Liepiņa, Ruka, Šica, Bondara, Bits and Shimfas to Prime Minister Maris Kučinskis “On Compliance of Cabinet Regulations with the State Language Law”. The question is referred to the Minister of Justice Dzintars Rasnačs and the Minister of Education and Science Kārlis Šadurskis. The written replies received shall not be satisfied. The Minister of Justice informs that an oral answer can be given. The question of Members Dolgopolova, Adamson, Urbanovich, Tretyaka and Zemlinskis to Prime Minister Maris Kučinskis “On the future accommodation centre “Mucenieki” of foreign residents detained.” The question is addressed to the Minister of the Interior, Rihard Kozlovski. The written replies received shall not be satisfied. The Minister informs us that no oral answer can be given today. Regarding the question by Member Zarina, Agešina, Artūra Rubika, Ribakova and Pimenova, Minister of Economics Arvilas Aseradens about the possible compatibility of the acquisition of shares of joint stock company Latvijas Gāze with the public interest, the written reply received does not satisfy the applicants. The Minister informs that no oral answer can be given. So today's answers to Members' questions will take place at 17.00 - the Minister of Justice Dzintars Rasnačs will arrive. The question asked Members Inguna Silver, Aivara May, Arvīds Platopera, Ringolds Baloža and Silvija Šymfas “On the information report on the evaluation of the proposals contained in the final report of the parliamentary committee of inquiry of the Saeima”, which is referred to Prime Minister Maris Kučinskis, has been received. Please call me! Please check-in mode for Members! While the results of the registration are being prepared, the name of the notice to Member Silvia Šymfas.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-04-21-PT12-359-U713	Hello, colleagues! The Communication concerns members of the Social and Labour Commission. The meeting will take place at 13.30 p.m. at the Commission premises. Please do not be late and come! Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-04-21-PT12-359-U714	Thank you. Name for the statement to Member Lolita Chigan.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-04-21-PT12-359-U715	Dear Members of the Commission on European Affairs. The meeting of the Committee on European Affairs will begin immediately in the Red Chamber!
ParlaMint-LV_2016-04-21-PT12-359-U716	Name for the statement to the Member Andrejs Klementyev.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-04-21-PT12-359-U717	Yeah. Today, we approved the composition of the committee of inquiry. I ask the Members, who were approved by the Saeima, to come to the Legal Commission immediately. We will resolve the question of who will lead this commission. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-04-21-PT12-359-U718	Thank you. Name Member of the Saeima Gunars Kūtris to read the results of the registration as soon as they are prepared.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-04-21-PT12-359-U719	Dear colleagues, Currently not registered: Jānis Ādamsons, Guntis Belēvičs, Gaidis Berzins, Boriss Cilevičs, Nellija Kleinberga, Ivans Klementjevs, Inese Laizāne, Inese Lībiņa-Egnere, Romanas Mežeckis, Igors Pimenovs, Jānis Ruks, Ivars Zariņš, Mihails Zemļinskis.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-04-21-PT12-359-U720	Thank you. I'm closing the sitting.
