ParlaMint-LV_2016-10-06-PT12-378-U1	Good morning, honourable Members! I invite you to take seats in Saeima's meeting room. Let's start the 6th October session of the Saeima. Before examining the agenda adopted by the Bureau, the amendments tabled should be considered. The Legal Commission asks for the draft decision “On approval of Ieva Višķerse as regional court judge” to be included on the agenda of the sitting. Are Members opposed to this amendment of the agenda? There is no objection. The agenda has been amended. The budget and financial (tax) commission is asking to include in the agenda of the sitting the draft decision “On the consent of the Saeima to the reallocation of appropriations laid down in the Law “On the State Budget for 2016”. Are Members opposed to this amendment of the agenda? There is no objection. The agenda has been amended. The Budget and Finance (tax) Commission is asking to include in the agenda the draft decision “On the consent of the Saeima to the reallocation of appropriations established in the Law “On the State Budget for 2016”” (No 411/Lm12). Are Members opposed to this amendment of the agenda? There is no objection by Members. The agenda has been amended. The Budget and Finance (tax) Commission is asking to include in the agenda the draft decision “On the consent of the Saeima to reallocation of appropriations established in the Law “On the State Budget for 2016”” (No 412/Lm12). Are Members opposed to this amendment of the agenda? There is no objection by Members. The agenda has been amended. The next item is the Bureau's reports on draft laws submitted. The Saeima Presidium proposes that the draft law presented by the Cabinet of Ministers “Amendments to the Criminal Procedure Law” be referred to the Legal Commission, stating that it is the committee responsible. Do Members have objections? There is no objection by Members. The draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The next item is entitled ‘On the granting of leave’. For unpaid leave granted to Mr Raivis Dzintars from 4 October to 6 October of this year. The Saeima Bureau has received an application from Member Raivis Dzintars requesting unpaid leave from 4 October to 6 October of this year. The Saeima Bureau has granted leave and shall inform the Saeima thereof. The next item on the agenda is ‘Conclusion of the election, approval, appointment, dismissal or dismissal of officials, of trust or distrust’. On the agenda – draft decision “On approval of Ieva Višķerė as a regional court judge”. On behalf of the Legal Commission, Member Valery Agešin.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-10-06-PT12-378-U2	Good morning, dear colleagues! At the sitting of the Legal Commission of the Saeima on 4 October of this year, the draft decision “On approval of Ieva Višķere as a judge of the regional court” was reviewed. The members of the Commission have unanimously supported the draft decision. On behalf of the Saeima Legal Commission, I am calling to confirm Ieva Viķeri as a judge of the regional court, while at the same time releasing him from office of a district (city) court judge.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-10-06-PT12-378-U3	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote for the draft decision “On approval of Ieva Višķerė as regional court judge”! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 76, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Decision adopted. The next item is "Provision of draft legislation". Dear colleagues, Before we start to consider the next draft law, I would like to inform you that we have been joined this morning by the Montenegrin Parliamentary Chairman, Dark Pajovič, to observe our sitting and the vote on the Montenegro accession protocol to NATO. We're saying hello to him. (Applause) Thank you. On the agenda: Draft law on Montenegro's accession to the North Atlantic Treaty, second reading. On behalf of the Commission on Foreign Affairs, Member Richard Coll.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-10-06-PT12-378-U4	Dear President of the Saeima. Your Excellency! Honourable Members! In its meeting, the Foreign Affairs Commission examined and supported the second, final, reading draft law on the Protocol on Montenegro's accession to the North Atlantic Treaty. No proposals were received by the Commission. I therefore ask Members to support the draft law at second, final, reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-10-06-PT12-378-U5	Thank you. Please call me! Let us vote in favour of the second final reading of the draft law on the Protocol on the accession of Montenegro to the North Atlantic Treaty! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 79, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The law is passed. (Applause) On the agenda - draft law “Amendments to the Law on Credits”, third reading. Member Guntis Kalniņš on behalf of the Legal Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-10-06-PT12-378-U6	Hello, colleagues! Hello, Speaker of the Saeima! The Legal Commission watched amendments to the Law on the Interior. Amendments to Section 3 of this Law “Condition of Cases to War Courts” and Section 9 “Appointment of Advocates to Work in War Courts” are foreseen. No proposals were received for the third reading. The amendments were supported by the Legal Commission. I ask you, honourable Members, to support this draft law.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-10-06-PT12-378-U7	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote for the support of the draft law on “Amendments to the Law on Credits” in the third, final, reading! Please vote mode! Please get the result! It's not about - 80, it's against and refrains from - it's not. The law is passed. On the agenda - draft law “Amendments to the Arbitration Law”, third reading. Member of the Legal Commission Gaidis Berzins.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-10-06-PT12-378-U8	Dear Chairman of the Saeima. Dear colleagues, The Legal Commission has received four proposals for the third reading of the draft law. 1. is a proposal of the Ombudsman’s seat, which was not supported by the Commission. It should be noted that the experts invited at the meeting of the Commission pointed out that the suspension of the arbitration proceedings and subsequent renewal of the arbitration proceedings are interrelated issues and the arbitration proceedings are concluded with the adoption of a decision. Consequently, in cases where there are new circumstances, we cannot refer to the suspension or resumption of arbitration proceedings. In addition, the question of the way judgments are enforced in arbitration cases, which would also be investigated and debated separately, remains open. The Commission therefore called for this initiative to be further discussed separately and possibly to return to this initiative in the future. The Commission did not support the proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-10-06-PT12-378-U9	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-10-06-PT12-378-U10	The next item is the proposal from the Legal Bureau. It was supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-10-06-PT12-378-U11	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-10-06-PT12-378-U12	The third is also the proposal from the Legal Office. It was supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-10-06-PT12-378-U13	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-10-06-PT12-378-U14	And 4 is also a proposal from the Legal Office. It was supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-10-06-PT12-378-U15	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-10-06-PT12-378-U16	We have therefore examined all the proposals. On behalf of the Legal Commission, please support the draft law ‘Amendments to the Arbitration Law’ at third, final reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-10-06-PT12-378-U17	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote in favour of the third, final, reading of the draft law "Amendments to the Arbitration Law". Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 79, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The law is passed. On the agenda - draft law “Amendments to the Code of Conduct for Penalties of Latvia”, first reading. On behalf of the Commission for Defence, Home Affairs and Anti-Corruption - Member Kārlis Sergeant.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-10-06-PT12-378-U18	Good morning, colleagues! Amendments to the Code on the Enforcement of Penalties of Latvia. This draft law is part of a legislative package (the head of the sitting is knocked down with a hammer.) on the regulation of criminally acquired property. The law amending the Criminal Law, which entered into force on 1 April 2013, provides that confiscation of property can only be applied as an additional penalty. In view of the above, the draft law provides for the exclusion of the provisions of the Latvian Code on the Enforcement of Penaltys, which provides that bailiffs ensure the execution of confiscation of property if it has been sentenced as a basic penalty. In future, in order to ensure execution of the additional penalty of confiscation of property, civil procedure regulation of confiscation of property will be used. The related draft law – “Amendments to the Criminal Procedure Law” – which is directed at the same time as this draft law, clearly states that confiscation of property as an additional penalty is carried out in accordance with the procedure laid down in the Civil Procedure Law. And these amendments to the package at first reading have already been adopted on 22 September. On behalf of the Commission, I call for support for the draft law at first reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-10-06-PT12-378-U19	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote in favour of the first reading of the draft law “Amendments to the Code of Conduct for Penalties of Latvia”! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 66, for - no, for - 18. The draft law at first reading has been supported. Please set a deadline for the submission of the proposals for second reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-10-06-PT12-378-U20	October 17th.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-10-06-PT12-378-U21	Thank you. Proposals are due by 17 October this year. On the agenda - draft law “Amendments to the Law on the Prevention of Money Laundering and Financing of Terrorism”, first reading. On behalf of the Commission for Defence, Home Affairs and Anti-Corruption - Member Kārlis Sergeant.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-10-06-PT12-378-U22	This draft law also forms part of a legislative package on the regulation of criminally acquired property. Since further definitions of the proceeds of crime and legal basis for confiscation of the proceeds of crime will be laid down in the Criminal Law, it is also necessary to clarify the references in Section 4 of the Law on the Prevention of Money Laundering and Financing of Terrorism to the Criminal Procedure Law, replacing them with references to the Criminal Law. On behalf of the Commission, I also call for support for this draft law at first reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-10-06-PT12-378-U23	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote for support for the first reading of the draft law “Amendments to the Law on the Prevention of Money Laundering and Financing of Terrorism”! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 64, for - no, for - 19. The draft law at first reading has been supported. Please set a deadline for the submission of the proposals for second reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-10-06-PT12-378-U24	Here, too, the deadline for submitting proposals is 17 October this year.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-10-06-PT12-378-U25	Thank you. Proposals are due by 17 October this year. On the agenda - draft law “Law on the execution of confiscation of criminal assets”, first reading. On behalf of the Commission for Defence, Home Affairs and Anti-Corruption - Member Kārlis Sergeant.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-10-06-PT12-378-U26	The draft laws have been endorsed by the Commission at its meeting on 27 September. As I have already mentioned, amendments to the Criminal Law related to the new law, which includes the criminal legal basis for confiscation of criminally acquired property, and amendments to the Criminal Procedure Law, which include procedural norms regarding confiscation of criminally acquired property, were adopted at first reading on 22 September this year. The purpose of the draft law is to ensure effective execution of confiscation of the proceeds of crime by satisfying reasonable claims of the victims. The draft law includes the basic principle that the financial resources resulting from the execution of confiscation should be allocated mainly to the state budget. These funds are intended to cover only compensation for the victim and enforcement costs, while persons whose rights will be violated by confiscation of property will be able to apply to the court for compensation, but will not be able to claim for property or money obtained by confiscation. The draft law establishes the procedure for the confiscation of financial assets and movable property as well as immovable property. On behalf of the Commission, I call for support for the draft law at first reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-10-06-PT12-378-U27	Please call me! We will vote for support for the first reading of the draft law on the execution of confiscation of criminal assets! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For -63, for -no, for -19. The draft law at first reading has been supported. Please set a deadline for the submission of the proposals for second reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-10-06-PT12-378-U28	Yes, since among the entities of this law there was a debate, here the deadline for submitting proposals is longer - November 6.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-10-06-PT12-378-U29	Thank you. Proposals are due by 6 November this year. On the agenda - draft law “Amendments to the Law on Security Activities”, first reading. On behalf of the Commission for Defence, Home Affairs and Anti-Corruption - Member Kārlis Krēsliņš.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-10-06-PT12-378-U30	Dear colleagues, Draft law “Amendments to the Law on Security Activities”, first reading. The current Regulations of the Law on Security Activities provide that a special permit (licence) shall not be allowed to be issued to an individual economic operator or an official of the administration of a commercial company for which the competent authorities have reason to believe that it poses a threat to national or public security, however the restrictions shall not apply to members of a commercial company holding shares in an undertaking which enables them to influence the activities of the enterprise, as well as to use the company or its resources (e.g. specially trained and armed security staff) for organising and carrying out different types of activities. It is also in the interest of public and public security to carry out an examination of such persons from the point of view of the threat to national security and to extend the restrictions to members of a commercial company, so that the competent national authorities can ensure full control and supervision of the area of provision of security services and as soon as possible respond to possible risks in the event that the activities of a potential member of a commercial company are directed against the legitimate interests of the State or the company. As a second change, there is an innovation regarding the content of the education required for obtaining a security certificate. Currently, the law stipulates that a natural person must acquire an education programme in accordance with the standard of profession, however, to date non-governmental organizations in security sectors have not been able to agree on standard harmonisation of the security officer profession and it is not possible to prepare an education programme in accordance with the standard of profession. Thus, the draft provides that the security certificate shall be issued to a natural person after the completion of the certification tests of a specified education or education programme and a security officer, without defining a particular type of education and education programme. The education required for obtaining the security certificate is provided for in the Cabinet of Ministers Regulations. In turn, a person who does not have the relevant education will need to acquire a certain education program, such as a professional development education program, and pass tests in the State Police. Currently, educational institutions implement a 160-hour education programme in accordance with the model professional development programme “Safety Work” approved by the Minister of the Interior, which was approved by the Ministry of Education and Science on 14 April 2014. On behalf of the Commission, I call for support for the draft law at first reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-10-06-PT12-378-U31	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote in favour of the first reading of the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Security Activities”! Please vote mode! Please get the result! It's not about - 80, it's against and refrains from - it's not. The draft law at first reading has been supported. Please set a deadline for the submission of the proposals for second reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-10-06-PT12-378-U32	Request for proposals by 16 October of this year.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-10-06-PT12-378-U33	Thank you. Proposals are due by 16 October this year. On the agenda - Draft Law Amending the Law on Road Transport, first reading. On behalf of the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy, Member Edward Smilten.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-10-06-PT12-378-U34	Good morning, colleagues! We work with amendments to the Road Transport Act. The European Commission has recently produced a report on a relatively new case in Europe, which has long been widely known as the sharing economy in the world. The report points out that this is a paradigm change in how economic relations develop. This is a new opportunity for the Member States of the European Union, where these services are now widespread, to obtain an additional EUR 165 to 570 billion in their economies. These are approximate estimates. What we are debating at the moment - whether we need it or not - is that other countries no longer filthy. Their main themes are how to get part of this market and how to develop these services. The European Commission therefore calls on the Member States to develop their respective regulations, aligning them with tax policies, so that each individual country can benefit from it also through tax revenues. What is it? The European Commission calls it ridesharing if we translate it into Latvian. This initiative is already in place in virtually all Member States of the European Union. In Estonia, for example, a pilot project is currently under way and it is a bill at last reading. If I understand, a bill has already been adopted in Lithuania and works with full energy. We have reached the first reading: five Members, in cooperation with the Ministry of Economic Affairs, have drafted this bill and signed up to the Saeima. What does the draft law provide? This involves redefinition of the tax sector, which currently has a very large proportion of the shadow economy, as we know. The draft law provides for the actual release of hands to people – the possibility to earn in the transport services sector too, using mobile technologies, Internet technologies, which would be the platform in which you can apply and operate, in which all payments are absolutely non-cash, electronically, linked to a bank card. This means that, in contrast to the current situation in the taxi sector, where approximately 20 per cent is estimated to be a relatively legal area and the share of the shadow economy could be 80 per cent, in this case there will be technical possibilities to control cash flow by one hundred per cent and to trace how much of it is due to taxes on the Latvian state. Yesterday there was a discussion in the “Kustpunkt” programme, and Estonia’s example shows that already in the pilot project, involving 70 drivers to work in such regulation, they show their income of 1000 euros per month, as opposed to the Latvian taxi industry, where, on the basis of the number of taxi drivers, the income is about 300 euros. I think it is obvious to everyone that this amount is not adequately low in relation to the amount of services we see... provided by these providers on a daily basis. The draft law provides for minimum requirements... intends to subdelegate it to the Cabinet of Ministers - to determine what security requirements are... also for drivers who could participate in this system... in the case of cars... There is a whole chapter relating to the payment of taxes. In particular, everyone should register as a taxpayer. And in addition to that, I would also like to see that the Cabinet of Ministers, in cooperation with the State Revenue Service and the Ministry of Finance, develops a detailed system of how to keep track of these services online and to see cash flows so that tax can also be traced. The draft law also provides for a number of other things (e.g. defining what sharing is) and various other nuances. In the Commission, we have examined this draft law. The Commission is taking this forward for discussion at first reading and calls for its support, but setting a deadline of one and a half months for the submission of proposals, given that the current concern in the transport sectors, such as, for example, public transport, inter-urban transport and the taxi industry is very worrying... This concern is great, but I do not think there is a real reason for it. Consequently, in order to be able to explain, discuss and prepare very intelligent, pragmatic proposals, the deadline for submitting proposals will be one and a half months. On behalf of the Commission, please support.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-10-06-PT12-378-U35	Thank you. Let us start a debate. The name is Mr. Wallary Ageshin.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-10-06-PT12-378-U36	Dear colleagues, Society expects quality legislative work and thought-out laws from the Saeima. Economic growth requires a stable and predictable legal environment. This also applies in full to the draft law ‘Amendments to the Road Transport Act’. Undoubtedly, the benefits of scientific progress and the progress of new technologies are gaining momentum. The problems in the taxi sector have also been topical for decades. It is therefore difficult to deny that the draft law has strong sides - consumer interests, lower prices, additional opportunities for citizens to earn, dynamic market development and increased competition. However, there are also weaknesses. The amendments which the authors want to introduce co-modality services raise a number of uncertainties and unanswered questions, especially as regards how this innovation will affect the situation of road transport and the transport sector as a whole. For example, it has not been assessed how this could affect public budgets, the level of grants for public transport service providers, the level of employment in the sector, possible changes in the remuneration of employees. It is clear that sharing service providers can become competitors in the taxi industry, but with advantages. No restrictions on admission or release of passengers are imposed on providers of public transport services, no identification marks are required to be able to understand whether a particular vehicle provides a public transport service. This will therefore make it more difficult to check whether a shared service is actually provided, or whether the individual earns every day by providing a taxi service. It is also unclear whether the licence will need to be withdrawn. This means that these providers will not be able to withdraw the licence for infringements. We are solidaritying with the Latvian Public Service and Transport Workers' Union, as well as with other people working in the sector, and Members of the Group SASKĀJA cannot support this draft law due to the pending regulatory framework. I predicted that proposals that would go beyond the aim and scope of the draft law under discussion would be put forward in the course of progress of the draft law. I therefore call on the working group to have a serious debate and to resolve all the contentious issues correctly. It is important that the law adopted by the Saeima is understandable to the public and that the actions of the legislator are explained fairly and openly. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-10-06-PT12-378-U37	Name to Member Rihard Cole.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-10-06-PT12-378-U38	Highly honored Presidium! Dear and honourable colleagues! I would like to talk about this draft law in a slightly broader context. Many Latvian citizens are already actively using the opportunity to earn additional income by using their apartment, offering services to Airbnb, selling their design products on portals such as Etsy, participating in crowdfunding formats in our home-made companies, such as Mintos (whose services, by the way, have not yet created a clear regulatory framework at national level), or even making a profit by offering other shared services. It is a shared economy that is currently experiencing a huge breakthrough in the world and Europe. In the US, around 10 percent of the population is already present in the sharing economy, in Europe, five percent, but almost one third of all Europeans are expected to take advantage of the opportunities offered by the sharing economy in the near future. Today it has already been used by at least one third of the European Union's population between 25 and 39 years of age. The speed of sharing the economy in Europe is doubling every year. And why not? It has the potential to make efficient use of its own or other free resources, either by generating income or by allowing consumers to choose from a wider and generally more diverse range of services. At the same time, this sharing economy is a crucial, exciting and flexible home for opportunities, offers and innovations, and raises important issues of discipline in relation to tax issues, consumers and workers, and their rights and protection. Currently, at national level, no sharing of economic activities, whatever its expression, is fully covered by the existing framework. It can be said that the growth of the sharing economy even challenges the existing status quo in the regulation of economic activity. In this context, the country's task is to ensure the necessary protection and security of the rights of consumers and workers, as well as to introduce rational and fair rules of play for all players in both the division and the traditional economy. We could observe a similar situation when a new credit service - short-term credits or SMS credits - entered the Latvian market. Then, too, there was a vacuum of regulatory framework in this area, as well as loud objections from the traditional credit sector - banks - in this area. With the amendments to the Road Transport Act, we can take a step forward with the division of the economic segment and stop pulling back on innovations and the most modern economic manifestations, which, in fact, have been unregulated for several years. Unfortunately, we are behind our neighbours - Estonia and Lithuania - in terms of innovation support and development, according to Eurostat. And to a large extent this is linked to an unfriendly regulation for innovation. It is time to change it, starting with amendments to the Road Transport Law, to inform the public and entrepreneurs about the state's wish and readiness to develop the most popular and innovative services in Latvia. Shared services are already used by many Latvians and foreign guests. Our task is to put in place a legal framework to regulate and protect the activities of both consumers and these service providers in this area. Objections raised by both the taxi service industry and other activists, such as the suitability of the term ‘sharing’ for a given service, are known and can be discussed. It is precisely the discussion, the discussion on the best, most friendly and equal regulation for all the sectors affected by the amendments that we need today to get to a framework that supports innovative services. I call for support to be given to this draft law at first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-10-06-PT12-378-U39	The name is Mr. Vilnis Ķirsim.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-10-06-PT12-378-U40	President-in-Office. Colleagues! In fact, this shared platform is a evening and taxi carriage is a evening. What's happening today... Today, a set is available on the market in a virtually unverified version that can be bought, assembled for your car, and it drives without a driver. And what we are discussing here is basically: should we move from yesterday to yesterday? But maybe in this... in this Saeima not yet, but the next one will probably have an offer to include in this same Road Transport Act a rule that these transportations can be performed, for example, without a driver, a machine... or something like that. And the question arises: What will we do then? It is not so important that these services can be carried out through these platforms or cannot be carried out. What this fundamental question shows is whether we are prepared to change our thinking, whether we are prepared to go with time, whether we are prepared to be open, whether our economy is ready to be open to various innovative solutions. And this is just one of them. It's gonna be... will certainly follow another row after each other. You know, investors, or those who want to invest in a country, used to have an indicator: whether there are, for example, McDonald's in the country where they come. If McDonald’s is not there, then it is actually the banana republic. I am sure that soon this shared platform Uber will be exactly the same indicator - whether we are on the map or not. The second important point is this. By reducing the barriers for people to enter into business, we actually promote business-oriented thinking, because one of the great problems of Latvia and Latvia is that we really lack the so-called business gene. The opposite is true, let us say, to the Germans. They already have family businesses, perhaps for more than a hundred years, where children work with their parents in their free time... They have been working since childhood, already learn how value creation takes place and how entrepreneurship takes place. We regrettably have all this missing. And if, in this way, we are able to reduce barriers so that almost everyone can get involved and understand how money is made, it will certainly only contribute to our economic development. It's a pity that Mr. Tatar didn't make any trip today. What he very much mentions in every conversation about this factor - safety: taxis currently have a whole range of requirements, so the roadworthiness test twice a year. And the drivers also have the appropriate requirements. And that's why the taxi is safe, but it won't be safe. Let's see from that point of view. The technical condition of the machine depends on how much it drives. Well, usually people with their private car drive in Latvia about 20, well, a maximum of 30 thousand a year, and the technical inspection of this car takes place once a year. Taxis are fully demolished in two to three years. So, in fact, the race is, 120, 150... up to 200 thousand a year, because it drives in two three shifts, i.e., in mode 24/7. And to that extent even these two times a year... It is at least twice as unsafe as driving a normal queue machine, which drives only 30,000. Certainly also the roadworthiness test is only a photo, however... a momentary moment at that moment. Well, probably... At least my neighbor, when he goes to the roadworthiness test, puts his car on the right tires, but after it goes out the look, puts it back the old one, the bare one... The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. J.Adamson: “Where is the application from the police?” ) So imagine that the technical inspection is a panacey and that then there will be safe driving – it's lightness! For the drivers. After all, we do not offer these services without a driver's license. And if we have already assumed in the country that a person who has received a driving licence can drive a car, then why would one be significantly better than the other. Of course, we can put some stunt on... some kind of standing conditions - five years, for example, or like... But one thing is certain: when we move together, we must definitely not pull just a coarse strip across the taxi industry. We need to find a solution that does not discriminate, which does not, let us say, bring significant advantages. Of course, given that there are differences between the taxi and this service provider. One can use the public transport band, the other can't. One can stop anyone on the street, the other can't. One can stand at special taxi stops, the other can't. This should be taken into account in determining a proportionate tax treatment. Colleagues, I call on you and all of us to move from yesterday to yesterday, if not today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-10-06-PT12-378-U41	Name to Member Valdis Kalnozols.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-10-06-PT12-378-U42	Hello! Just say that everything genius is simple. If we look at some complicated things, we always start some schemes... Today morning, without real understanding of this bill, I called the President of my party, who is the Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Transport, and I asked him: what is that? And he said, now very strange and incomprehensible things. My view is that we may be spending our time, our energy and our mind first, putting things in order for all taxes to be collected, and then introducing something new. ( Insight: “What’s new?Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, It's old!” ) For if we visit something new at this moment and do not arrange all the taxi things... Well, the barrack will continue. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-10-06-PT12-378-U43	Name to Member Juris Villums.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-10-06-PT12-378-U44	Very honourable Speaker of the Saeima! Ladies and gentlemen! First of all, I would like to draw attention to the fact that the draft law refers to a ‘operator’, a farm and a farm for fishermen’. I think this should be considered in the second reading, whether it is really for the farms of fishermen to provide this service. I would also like to mention that nothing in this draft law - at least I did not find - is mentioned in relation to inter-urban transport. Mr Agešina said in his speech that, if this service is provided on inter-urban routes, there is a question of compensation for regular road hauliers, namely, whether they are not, to say, unfair competition and whether it is a little chaos. I would also like to agree that we should incorporate into this law the fact that labelling should be something. I understand that at the moment, these some operators, who are using the possibility of a shared platform, are already placing labelling. I think that they will have no major objection to continue to use it and those who want to provide such a service will accordingly apply this label. Mr. Tatar's name was mentioned. I understand that he has collected and provided information on countries where this service is already prohibited. I think he himself could better tell the Commission why it is forbidden, in which countries and whether it has really been done, to show the sources from which he has taken this information accordingly. I think we also need to assess ourselves so that we do not make mistakes and we do not have to correct this bill after a month or two, and we need to change or prohibit something ourselves. On what Mr Chersch said, this platform is already yesterday and the taxis are yesterday. I'd like to talk about tomorrow. If we look, for example, at a micro-enterprise tax, which is used both in taxi transport and in other areas. There, we often have greater demands. And now its demands are growing. In other words, we will demand that the roadworthiness test be twice a year. As Mr. Chersh said... We do not allow people in other areas to work according to the practices that exist in the world, and we do not allow micro-enterprises to be taxed as easily as possible and really to work for people, especially in regions; there we still grow their bureaucracy. Here again we are moving in the opposite direction. I would simply like the coalition Members to try to look at these areas at least in the same way. I would like to say that the Group of the Association of the Regions of Latvia will support these draft laws at first reading, although we are cautious... conservatively optimistic. Finally, to colleagues who are very afraid of this draft law, I would like to say that it is just a shared platform, not a cohabitation platform. Good luck!
ParlaMint-LV_2016-10-06-PT12-378-U45	The name of Member Julia Stepanenko.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-10-06-PT12-378-U46	Dear colleagues, Honourable draft law-makers! You represent the latest, most innovative and progressive part of the Saeima. You represent the ruling coalition. To be honest, I am a bit ashamed to hear all of this debate that those Members who have great resources have enormous power to change their lives to the best of their lives in this country are doing things like this... Well, such pretty funny stuff. Mr Asheraden, very proud of this new innovation, told the Members of the Committee on European Affairs for a very long time about how modern we will be and how well we will develop our 'business gene', but Mr Asheraden did not know how and with what figures this proposal will impact on our economy, what possible losses we will have. Similarly, the Ministry of Economics cannot stand out with some specific innovations and ideas that could improve the Latvian economy. Therefore, honourable colleagues, I believe that we are all right with genes, we have just problems with that "genetically modified", their grey house - the State Revenue Service house, which is a long time to arrange. And that is why I am calling for this draft law not to be supported. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-10-06-PT12-378-U47	The name of the Member is Going to Spolitis.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-10-06-PT12-378-U48	I didn't mean to talk, but my colleague Stepanenko encouraged me because it reminded me of the Giuseppe Tomazi di Lampedusa novel Gepard, which after his death was published in 1958. It describes the Sicilian family, who sits and discusses the past good times and how to maintain their very good standard of living, until the head of the family tells a very sacral phrase: if we want everything to remain conservative, as it is, then we all need to change. As both Mr Chersch and Mr Kohl made it very clear here: if we want to move forward, this situation must change. If you think everything is right and everything is safe, and if people think they live well, then let them stay as it is! Thank you. And I call for the vote in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-10-06-PT12-378-U49	Name to Member Edward Smilten.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-10-06-PT12-378-U50	It seems very nice to me that I have the following arguments that the biggest concern... Mr Agešina said that he would not support it because it opens the way for proposals outside the scope of the draft law. In particular, fear is not that it could guide the particular draft law and try to improve it, modify it and run it in some way (it is the last of the Baltic States!) , but for the fact that could submit something that might be related to other issues that are important... like, for example, perhaps road transport... But maybe - the Riga Taxi project, about which around the rumor... Maybe there's some way of mixing the plans... I would like to say that if we are implementing this case and are talking now, in the context of the budget, about sorting the taxi industry and so on... In the context of the budget we introduce a patent fee, but patent fee is nothing more than an attempt to say a taxi to drivers: “Dear friends, pay at least something! Some minimum!’ ( Interface: ‘ That’s it! ’) ) not: “Please participate fully in taxing, as other entrepreneurs working in the white economy do.” This model, through the introduction of totally non-cash payments and the possibility of monitoring cash flow, gives a real opportunity to track the country's entitlement to each individual transaction. My dream would be to extend it to the whole field of road transport... As if the cost-effective routes cover them in a cost-effective way, they are also 30 million of the budget that we are currently paying. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. V.Agesins: “You can change everything now!” ) Yes, of course! Similarly, in this case, if we could apply the tax regime, which we are trying to introduce now in the context of co-modality, to the entire tax sector as a whole, it seems to me that there would be enough money for some of the six first housing programmes, for which we are breaking the chips and looking for a couple more million. Mr Nunozole mentioned that Mr Tazar had described this bill as follows: very incomprehensible things. I wonder about Mr. Tatar. Yesterday we were sitting in the Latvian Radio programme “Kustpunkt” and he was quite competent to talk about these issues and pointed to things that should be improved. It's the guy who's the most from today's politicians... who is actively working, knows the meaning and content of this bill and hopefully will work on it in the coming months. But I call on Mr Kalnozol to take a mobile phone, download the application and get to know these services, use it, understand how it works and then draw conclusions, not listen to third parties. Of course, there are concerns. The road hauliers, I heard the taxi industry think it doesn't happen so much that it's really a evening, it's a new service, and the taxi industry doesn't give God! - collapses and disappears. I would like to mention here the analogy with the broom. When a vacuum cleaner was invented, slot manufacturers may have been afraid that they would disappear and that there would be no business anymore. But, as we see today, both homes are and exist. And that's exactly the same with taxis. That is, of course, yesterday, compared with technology. The examples of other countries - the same Estonia, which is the closest - show that the big taxi parks, which work with ambition and which work in the legal economy and really seriously, are currently buying new cars and expanding their car fleet. Of course, those who do not provide the quality of service that these new ones will offer will be able to eat. If you are afraid of this, then you can not support the bill. And the last one. Of course, we can talk and find reasons to say that there will be proposals that are not on the table and there will not be enough quality - even though you can make the proposals you want to improve this quality. However, one thing needs to be understood. We look at the Estonians with envy: Why are they lazy? Why, for example, did the cohabiting company Uber, which originated in the United States, and Taxify, which originated in Estonia, not come from Latvia? Perhaps it is because, according to Juris Rubiņš, who also expressed his opinion in the program “One Against One”, we live in these old clichés, apply the same solutions to problems, do not try to look outside the box, do not try to become modern and run along with innovations – to be a step ahead. Maybe that's why things don't come to us, but they come to the Estonians, because they make their economy much more open to such modern things. Consequently, I call for this draft law to be supported and for a period of one and a half months to put forward competent, constructive proposals to put it in order. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-10-06-PT12-378-U51	Name to Member Viktor Valain.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-10-06-PT12-378-U52	Highly honored Speaker of the Saeima! Colleagues! I think that this draft law will really need proposals, and I call on the Commission to look more widely at the draft law. At the moment, the situation is that, looking at the statistics, six Valmiera taxis pay 10 percent of all taxes in the taxi sector. Six pieces! So the sharing that we want to introduce here is now de facto already in place. It exists in very large amounts (Dep. V.Spolitis: “That’s it! Let's do it!' ), and we can also see how much we pay for inter-urban transport grants to compensate for losses. And in that context, we also need to look at this issue. Maybe with this mechanism we can at least count, in some way legalise those who are already doing it. If we look at people from cities coming to Riga... This is a day-to-day event. Every day there's some machines that actually use this model offered without any platforms on the phone or anything else... It's from far away and closer... So that perhaps with this mechanism we can at least count them, offer them to register somewhere, and maybe it would also make some contribution and reduce the grants that we are already paying for inter-urban transport by compensating for losses. A number of laws have already been passed, both at the beginning of this Saeima and in the previous Saeima, to combat these so-called illegal carriers. But we can see that maybe we've taken them out of the middle of such legal, registered carriers, but they've been... What are their names?... Well, those who no longer register anywhere and for whom we only have a sense of how much we pay for losses and how much revenue there is in this sector of taxis. So I wish the Commission a really broader look at this issue. And the authorities in charge need to submit proposals not only for Uber, but a little more. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-10-06-PT12-378-U53	Thank you. Name to Member Edgars Putras.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-10-06-PT12-378-U54	Good morning, colleagues! It would in some ways be a dead policy - to reject this draft law at the moment, because in fact we do not allow the area that is already actually available to people on a daily basis. I think that people who use this area are satisfied. There are, of course, also concerns, but they, I think, can be avoided for the second reading (the deadline for the submission of proposals is quite long). Its concern is that... At the moment, we are trying to sort out the taxi industry, and the first step is this patent payment, and its concern is that, of course, we, as a nation, have that mentality: if we can not pay taxes, then we do not pay. We can't - we can't! - allow us to close one door as if we were one, to open a new door, let us say, in a different regulation. And so let us support and work for the second reading so that this option does not exist!
ParlaMint-LV_2016-10-06-PT12-378-U55	The name to Member Vilnius Chersim, for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-10-06-PT12-378-U56	I would like to respond to Mrs Stepanenko, who said that the Ministry of Economics does not deal with product development and business, and so on. You know, I have to answer... The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. M.Bondars: “You need to drive together!” ) I have to answer you as a member of your party, Mr Usakov, usually answer. When he is told that there will be no business in Riga, he says: “The municipality is not engaged in business, but only creates the environment.” Similarly, the Ministry of Economics does not deal with the development of new products or business. The Ministry of Economy creates the environment. And this, I'm sorry, is one of the factors in this environment. And if you do not support it or reject it, then you do not have the right to ask for something, a result.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-10-06-PT12-378-U57	The name of Member Lolita Chigan.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-10-06-PT12-378-U58	Dear Chairman of the Saeima. Dear colleagues, Indeed, it is as my colleague, Stepanenko, said. We also discussed this issue in the Committee on European Affairs, because, as Mr Smilten pointed out, the European Union is currently thinking about how to shape its own policy on this issue. Mr Asheraden said that an in-depth analysis of how this area will affect our economy is not possible at the moment, because this is a very small issue. That is the reality of life. This sharing of services and resources is taking place, and we simply have to go a halfway to that reality of life. That is all we are asked to do. Let us regulate this area and start thinking about the big issues at last. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-10-06-PT12-378-U59	Name to Member Ingmars Lydak.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-10-06-PT12-378-U60	Hello, dear colleagues! First of all, thank you to Mrs Stepanenko for adding me to the new politicians. Thank her for that! That's what I feel. I would like to recall the way in which and the results of the meeting of the Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy Commission of the Saeima took place on this issue. It resulted in a vote, namely the Commission's support for the progress of the draft law at first reading. At present, I see that there will probably be no support from the Saeima as a whole. But this task force... The Commission decided to set up a working group which, first of all, if the draft law is adopted at first reading, is working on a set of qualitative proposals to address problems that the draft law contains. The second task of this working group. If the draft law at first reading does not obtain the support of the Saeima, this working group shall continue to work towards a framework for the road transport sector. So basically, if we now reject it at first reading, we will still have to talk about it in two months' time, and this will probably be the version of the parliamentary commission for economic, agricultural, environmental and regional policy. I believe that no one can deny that this type of passenger transport already exists. The worst thing is if some kind of business exists, but it is not formulated, it is not defined - what it is, and so there is no regulation - which may, which may not, which may not be paid, which is not paid, how this service can be provided and how it cannot be provided. If there is no regulation, we cannot ban anything in this area. Consequently, we cannot levy any taxes either. So, actually... As the co-legislator, I, of course, call for support for the draft law at first reading so that everything can move forward more quickly. But I would remind you once again, if this draft law does not get any support, we will not "tie" this topic and we will not end it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-10-06-PT12-378-U61	Name to Member Ivars Zarins.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-10-06-PT12-378-U62	Hello, colleagues! I like this business idea, and I would like this idea to be realised in our country. But I am very concerned about how you are trying to implement it now. Here is a saying that with good intentions the road is paved to hell. That is what we are currently seeing. I have unfortunately seen this from your discussion. I did not intend to come and discuss this issue, but now that I listen, I see how narrow and wrong your perceptions of how to implement it are. Indeed, the question arises here: why this strange way of realizing this idea in life has been chosen. Why? If this idea is so good, and you believe it, why did you, as members of the coalition of government, not turn to ministries that have the right competences and could prepare a really well-ordered, thought-out bill so that we can live up to it, rather than sink into long discussions. Because we're already here, in first reading... You see what the debate is going on here. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. V.Spolitis: “The parliamentarians also have the brain!” ) What will happen when we go to second reading and when the Saeima, which does not have the appropriate competence, will have to try to decide and sort out this sector? You're doing something like Van Gogh, when he cut his ear off and gave it to a beloved woman because she liked this ear. It's the same thing... the nature of your proposal. You pull out one beautiful nuance and lose context. I will tell you where there are risks, why I am personally concerned about the progress of such a draft law and why I am not prepared to support it. One thing: you're talking here about taxis. Taxi is the slightest sorrow, and it still shows how you are dealing with this sector. You cannot sort it out - this bardaque in the road transport sector - and now you hope that something will be done here, instead of taking care of this bardaque with regard to taxis. But I'm worried about another area of public transport. How will this service be used? As soon as you find it, what happens next? I think the first to start using it will be illegal (Dep. I. Viņķelis: “Immigrants! Illegal immigrants!” ) route carriers that simply provide business in this way and will be able to say, “Look! It’s all right!” What happens next? It will happen that licensed carriers, who have to cover their routes throughout the country, will simply not be able to exist normally. Think of what you're doing in this situation! So you're talking, you're dreaming here and talking about this service, you're talking about a situation where this service will be required, that is, in these profitable sectors... ( Accidentally overturns the water glass. (See the box below.) on cost-effective routes. But what will happen next? What will happen on any rural route where no one wants to provide this service? If this industry is not organised (Dep. V.Spolitis: “See the bill! It deals specifically with it!” ), also on these licensed routes, which are cost-effective and will not be able to participate in these other service providers, because they will simply not be able to compete... they will not continue with unlicensed ones either. Here you create a huge bardac. If we want to provide this service, however, this will mean a serious burden on the budget. Here, everything must be correctly put in order to run this idea correctly. I am in favour of this idea, but in the way you realize it here, you really approach it childish and very narrowly. Mr. Chersch, this is one of the reasons why our Latvian business gene has been destroyed, as you mentioned. It is precisely because of these initiatives that you are taking - you are coming in unwisely with some legislative initiatives, often without being able to understand what you are doing. And the result is that a person sits and thinks, “It’s better for me not to take anything.” That is unfortunately the reality. I call on you, however, to approach more responsibly what you are doing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-10-06-PT12-378-U63	The name to Member Richard Cole, for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-10-06-PT12-378-U64	Dear and honourable colleagues! After the reasoning and criticism mentioned by a previous colleague, it is true that the expression “earth, open!” should be mentioned. A couple of facts that may give light to why we need such an amendment to the law. Latvia has only recently joined the group of rich countries in the OECD (Interface: “ Ooo! It became immediately rich!” ), yes, at least at least the most economically developed countries, and in total only two out of 35 countries do not have such a service. One of these is Iceland. It is likely that this is quite objective for reasons because there is only one road around the whole island. And the other country is Luxembourg. Luxembourg is, in a way, a small country; there are larger countries - the Netherlands and Belgium - where these services are already in operation or operate; and these service providers are probably also providing this service in Luxembourg. I would like to draw attention to the fact that these draft amendments are not simply drawn from blue air, they are the basis for an Estonian pilot project that has been in operation for a year and has been working well, with all economic indicators, tax policy processes, and also recently Lithuania, our neighbours, adopted an equivalent draft at second reading as a matter of urgency. Therefore, dealing with demagogy in a way would be out of place here and should nevertheless support this draft law at first reading. As I said, one and a half months is enough to develop additional requirements and criteria with experts from the industry, including ministries, so that the draft law can be of high quality. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-10-06-PT12-378-U65	The name to Member Edward Smilten, for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-10-06-PT12-378-U66	I listened to Mr. Zarins and it sounds devastating! ( Interface: “Earth, open! ”) ) Earth, open! - Cole's words. First, the illegals will come in, then different others, and immediately there will be an explosion in the shadow economy. And the feeling that we have now come up with a new bike in Latvia would not see anything in the whole world. Today we are trying to introduce it all in a way and we are trying to put it into practice, and we are trying to try it out, but there is only one difference - we also have on mobile phones the available news and television is a tool for obtaining information that is happening outside the borders of Latvia, but we are talking about this draft law, the philosopher - it is necessary or not - while it has long been introduced in other Member States of the European Union. They are already going on what Mr. Chersh spoke about. And it seems that Mr Zarins, although he sits at the table himself, absolutely does not listen to what we are talking about in committee sittings about the fact that all the routes given to passengers will be destroyed now and so on, but I clearly and lightly told those on the other side of the table that the further task of the Cabinet of Ministers is to limit the extent to which these people are allowed to work, to limit the areas in which they are allowed to work, to say, to limit their turnover. For example, in Croatia, where I was last time... Even in Croatia, the new Member State that joined the European Union in 2013, it has been working for a long time. But for them, it is limited to the regions of Zagreb, the capital. This is how they deal with these transport issues. That is, if there is an incentive to bring this area right, then we must not reject it, we must make proposals. Of course, Mr Līdaka's presumption that there would obviously not be enough votes here was also surprising. And this is where elementary mathematics begins. I understand that the National Union is quite positive, they have signed this bill themselves. A Unity representing the Ministry of Economics is also positive. It follows that the Union of Greens/Farmers has decided not to support this draft law together? I understand the argument that there is a working group. But it sounds like we don’t have enough votes, we put this issue in the long one, we put it in the working group and then we want it. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. A.Clementjevs: “As usual Unity!” ) If we continue in this way, in my opinion, some modern development of the country, there is nothing to dream of about faster growth. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. G.Kurris: How many working groups are working together? ) So, my fellow Members, I am calling for things to be "norcted", but for them to be understood, for proposals to be made, for them to be submitted and for them to be put to the end. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-10-06-PT12-378-U67	The name of Member Ilze Viņķelis.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-10-06-PT12-378-U68	Good morning, colleagues! After Mr Zarina's speech, I felt that Uber had come up with at least Soros or a globalist to destroy the independent state of Latvia. I think we can stand up against this threat, realizing that it is not an ideological category, it is an economic issue. Today's debate reminded us of the facts of history. Indeed, people have fought against high-speed trains like Satan's invention or the magicians - against a more modern printing technique. So we're not original. But I would like to call on all the forces that we have been spending quite a long time on the debate from this troupe to give one another a question. That is, the cooperation economy will be - whether we want or do not want it. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. V.Spolitis: “That’s it!” ) Also in a specific place like Latvia this economy, this kind of business will be. And it is not our duty to stand by with all four and try to change their world order, but to think about what new social protection mechanisms we could offer to those people who obviously will no longer have traditional employment relations and their pensions will be a question after years. So maybe let us think about a new, innovative social security and protection package that we can offer them, rather than trying to stop things that are unstoppable. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-10-06-PT12-378-U69	The name to Member Edgars Putra, for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-10-06-PT12-378-U70	I think Mr. Smilten did not listen to my words:'support and work'. That's why the blasphemy about being able to "drink" something in a working group... I will regret it, however, because the role of the FAO as the ruling party is not to say anything in the working group. So let's hand it over and work! ( Milestones.)
ParlaMint-LV_2016-10-06-PT12-378-U71	Name to Member Hosam Abu Meri.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-10-06-PT12-378-U72	Good morning, colleagues! Most likely, there is no room for people in the Saeima, there is no mind and no head, because we must not, it turns out, the members of the Saeima must submit draft laws, we must ask the ministries... But genius and intelligent people sit in Riga City Council. We should learn from Riga City Council to think about how to make a bill and how to submit it. Therefore, I call on colleagues who do not want to vote in favour of this draft law to simply take a horse and donkey and walk on Krišjānis Baronas Street, because the Riga City Council is ideal – intelligent Members, better than Saeima Members. How can it be said that Members sitting here in the Chamber must not... Five Members, as Mr Zarins said, cannot put forward a simple proposal in the Saeima?Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. Are we stupid here? I don't understand! Mr. Zarin, I... ( Milestones.) Mr. Zarins, I think it was a humiliation to all Members of the Saeima. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. V.Spolitis: “Rightly right!” ) If you can’t, you’re ashamed at all! If Members of the Saeima think they can't think or submit, then let's better go home and don't sit here! (Applause)
ParlaMint-LV_2016-10-06-PT12-378-U73	Name to Member Ivars Zarins, for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-10-06-PT12-378-U74	I listened to this debate and understood that I was absolutely right. ( The utterances are: “Ooo! ” ) I will repeat. In particular, I tried to explain so very simplified, figuratively, that it would be understandable to Members that this action is analogous to what Van Gogh did with his ear: he cut it off and gave it to his beloved woman because she liked that ear. That's what you're doing now! You have seen one pretty detail in the whole common context, and you draw it out of this context, and you think that if you implement it in this way, everything will be fine. What I have tried to tell you: colleagues, if you want to sort out this sector, then it must be put together as a whole. If you now do just a rabbit, as you are doing - you simply take from Estonians and write off these initiatives, and think that if you put them into the Latvian environment, you will do them the same way - then it will be naive and unthinkable. That's what I'm trying to explain to you! Very good. I am in favour of this initiative and want it to be implemented, and that is why I stand here and try to explain to you how you can do it and not throw it down. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. E.Smilten: “You will have the opportunity to submit proposals!” ) So - skip it through these competent authorities. Mr Abu Meri, unfortunately, it is also true that in many areas we are not as competent as officials dealing with these issues. ( Intercretion: ‘ Talk about yourself, not to others! ’) ) Can, for example, you or any other Member say... Please tell me how much money is going on public transport subsidies! How does this all disintegrate? And like...
ParlaMint-LV_2016-10-06-PT12-378-U75	Mr. Zarins, please don't talk to the hall! The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. A.Kamiņš: “This is a call!” ) Continue the debate.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-10-06-PT12-378-U76	If we want to adopt quality laws, however, we must rely on the existence of experts who can help us. It is right to prepare these draft laws and come with thoughtful, well-ordered draft laws so that we can accept them here and people can count on our actions. Then it wouldn't be the way it happens now: everyone here is doing something... I don't know what. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. S. Āboltiņa: “How many qualitative draft laws have you submitted?” ) You pull out the context of individual details and try to present them now and chipped them and try to show them how good they are. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. S. Āboltiņa: “A draft law on the arrangement of K. Baronas Street, please!” ) I call on you to work carefully and thoroughly. That's all. And I hope that you will bring this bill to the end. I hope you understand what you're doing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-10-06-PT12-378-U77	The name of the Member, Andrejs Elksniņš.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-10-06-PT12-378-U78	Dear colleagues, Dear Chairman of the Saeima. I was very much encouraged to debate this issue with regard to the stupidity of their Members, Mr Abu Meri. Well, it really seems at times that the Members are stupid. ( Insight: ‘ Are you talking about yourself? ’) ) Indeed! Really, really stupid in cases when... One Member of the Unity is coming up in the tributary and begins to talk about Estonia's experience in the implementation of this type of project, the project of co-location, but why not talk about Estonia's experience, for example, in the procurement of armaments transporters. (Laughter) Thank you very much. Why isn't he talking?Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Why don't you talk? Why? Because of oats. Why not talk about tax collection rates? Because of oats. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. A.Loskutov: “On the topic!” ) You know very well. Everyone here knows, especially to a large extent those who work in a coalition. As you make decisions, they are also moving. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. E.Smilten: “What has to do with the Road Carriers’ Law?” (See the box below.) No, no... Well, maybe you can finish on the two, somewhere you can go, in the hall you can just talk to each other... Dear colleagues, It is also a classic indicator of the fact that there is absolutely no interest in opinion positions, no calculation or anything. We will decide today, for example, on the reallocation of budget resources. Which one of you knows at all in absolute numbers... Well, as an exception in reality, it is probably one person in the Saeima - Mr Agešin. There you go! Who really knows what decision was made? Nobody. Nobody! No one! Well, don't read you! And the fact that today you come up with one untapped bill on one subject - it's really nonsense! Well, how do you appreciate... All right, there's OECD, there's countries... Latvia is there... There's no... and so on... But why didn't you consider safety considerations regarding the features of the application program? Why are you not talking about the fact that, in a number of Member States of the European Union, this application programme is prohibited? Why no words? Why? ( Interface from the drug: “What? ” ) in France, Belgium. Why? Why are you not talking about subsidies to road hauliers? Why aren't you talking about this? Mr. Abu Meri! You called all the Members here really smart. So tell me how many car subsidies are there? The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. E.Smilten: “30 million!” ) What will be the damage? What will be the additional loss for road transport operators as a result of the implementation of this programme? You know? ( Insight: “Nothing! ”) ) Don’t know. Because you just don't count it. Mr Smilten, you should also think about it, because it is really very suspicious, why are you driving it all this way? Maybe you should look at what lies below it.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-10-06-PT12-378-U79	I closed the debate. Will the rapporteur add a note on behalf of the Commission?
ParlaMint-LV_2016-10-06-PT12-378-U80	There was, of course, a lot of discussion in the Commission, and road hauliers expressed concerns about how this would affect the sector, and the taxi industry was also very worried. On the other hand, there were those on the other side of the table who already provide this service in other countries, in the same Estonia, and who clearly and lightly argued against the fact that it frees people's hands, gives them the opportunity to earn additional work, demonopolizes now a certain sector, in this case taxi services or transport services, and in this way provides people with real additional opportunities to earn income. And that's just one of the arguments. I think colleagues, if we work on this draft law, we will have a long deadline for tabling proposals, one and a half months. We can eliminate all concerns, provide for regulation. There is no need to think of anything new, because in other countries all this is working. Regulation can be envisaged, experience gained in dealing with road transport, taxis and other concerns, such as the safety of applications and the rest, and finally what is already in use across Europe. I therefore call on behalf of the Commission to vote in favour of this draft law at first reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-10-06-PT12-378-U81	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote in favour of the first reading of the draft law "Amendments to the Law on Road Transport". Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 57, for - 2 and for - 22. The draft law at first reading has been supported. Please set a deadline for the submission of the proposals for second reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-10-06-PT12-378-U82	Mr Līdaka's concerns have not been met. August 21 is the date on which construction is expected... ( Intersenses from the drug: “A August?Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, “ I’m sorry, November. November 21st. A month and a half from this date, constructive proposals will be expected in the context of this draft law. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. I.Zariņš: “Let’s hold on to the word!” ) Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-10-06-PT12-378-U83	Thank you. Proposals are due by 21 November of this year. On the agenda - draft law “Amendment to the Code of Administrative Violations of Latvia”, second reading. Member Guntis Kalniņš on behalf of the Legal Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-10-06-PT12-378-U84	Honourable Members! President of the Saeima! The Legal Commission has examined amendments to the Latvian Administrative Violations Code. These amendments provide for the addition of Article 297.2 of Chapter 5 to Article 24, which specifies how the person who overpaid or wrongly paid the fine should be treated and how it will be possible to recover the fine thus paid. During long discussions in the Legal Commission together with the Ministry of Finance, we tried to understand why this is happening. There are many historical aspects of why this is happening, because in fact, we have a lot of accounts where it is possible to deposit these funds: about 180,000 transactions worth EUR 23 million are made in 30 accounts. Each year there are 1,000 applications for either wrongly paid or overpaid funds. So this article will set out exactly what action will have to be taken. That is why the Legal Commission has supported it, and no other proposals have been received for the second reading. So I ask my honourable colleagues to support this draft law at second reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-10-06-PT12-378-U85	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote in favour of the second reading of the draft law “Amendment to the Code of Administrative Violations of Latvia”! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 78, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The draft law at second reading has been supported. Please set a deadline for the third reading of the proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-10-06-PT12-378-U86	The Commission has decided that it would be desirable to submit proposals by 11 October of this year.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-10-06-PT12-378-U87	Thank you. Proposals are due by 11 October of this year. On the agenda - the first reading of the draft law “On the Agreement of the Headquarters of the Supreme Grand Command of the Republic of Latvia, the North Atlantic Treaty Organization and the Chief of the Supreme Command Transformation of the United Nations, supplementing the Paris Protocol”. On behalf of the Commission on Foreign Affairs, Member Richard Coll.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-10-06-PT12-378-U88	Madam President, Colleagues! In its meeting, the Foreign Commission examined and supported for the first reading the draft law “On the agreement of the Chief Command of the Republic of Latvia, the North Atlantic Treaty Organization in Europe and the Headquarters of the Chief of Transformation of the Supreme Command of the United Nations, supplementing the Paris Protocol”. What does this draft law provide? In order to comply with the international obligations of the Republic of Latvia, as well as to provide, within the framework of reciprocity, for a sufficient settlement of the military headquarters of the Allied Forces residing in the Republic of Latvia or equivalent entities, the Ministry of Defence, in cooperation with the Headquarters of the Supreme Command Transformation Commander, has prepared an additional agreement to the Paris Protocol and has drafted a draft law for the approval of the Additional Agreement to the Paris Protocol. The Paris Protocol's additional agreement covers a very wide range of issues, such as the conditions for the establishment and deployment of the Joint Force Headquarters, the principles of inviolability of their premises, immunity conditions and scope of both the Joint Force Headquarters established in the Republic of Latvia and their equivalents, as well as their military and civilian international personnel. The Paris Protocol Additional Agreement also provides for other reliefs for staff of the Staff of the United Nations and their equivalents and for their dependants. On behalf of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, I call on Members to support the draft law at first reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-10-06-PT12-378-U89	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote in favour of the first reading agreement of the draft law “On support of the Supreme Grand Command of the Republic of Latvia, North Atlantic Treaty Organization and the Headquarters of the Chief of Transformation of the Supreme Grand Command of the United States of America”, which complements the Paris Protocol! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 76, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The draft law at first reading has been supported. Please set a deadline for the submission of the proposals for second reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-10-06-PT12-378-U90	The deadline for submitting proposals is 22 October this year.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-10-06-PT12-378-U91	Thank you. Proposals are due by 22 October of this year. On the agenda - draft law “Amendments to the Law on Diplomatic and Consular Service”, first reading. On behalf of the Commission on Foreign Affairs, Member Richard Coll.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-10-06-PT12-378-U92	Dear and honourable colleagues! In its meeting, the Foreign Affairs Commission examined and supported the first reading of the draft law on Amendments to the Law on Diplomatic and Consular Service. On the substance of the bill. According to paragraph 2 of Para 5 of the minutes of 7 July 2015 of the meeting of the Cabinet of Ministers No.32, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs has prepared amendments to the Law on Diplomatic and Consular Service, providing for the establishment of a specialised Attaché of the Financial and Capital Markets Commission. The draft law has also been supplemented by other amendments necessary to clarify legal relations within the diplomatic and consular service and to resolve the issues raised by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and the Ministry of Defence in application of the Law on Diplomatic and Consular Service. On behalf of the Commission, I ask Members to support the draft law at first reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-10-06-PT12-378-U93	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote in favour of the first reading of the draft law on Amendments to the Law on Diplomatic and Consular Service! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 78, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The draft law at first reading has been supported. Please set a deadline for the submission of the proposals for second reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-10-06-PT12-378-U94	The deadline for submitting proposals shall be 22 October of this year.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-10-06-PT12-378-U95	Thank you. Proposals are due by 22 October of this year. On the agenda - draft law “On the Convention between the Government of the Republic of Latvia and the Government of the Republic of Cyprus on the Prevention of Double Taxation and Tax Non-payment of Income Tax”, first reading. On behalf of the Commission on Foreign Affairs, Member Richard Coll.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-10-06-PT12-378-U96	Dear colleagues, dear colleagues, In its meeting, the Foreign Commission examined and supported draft law “On the Convention between the Government of the Republic of Latvia and the Government of the Republic of Cyprus on the Prevention of Double Taxation and Tax Non-payment of Income Taxes”. The draft law itself. The draft law was designed to promote the country's competitiveness and sustainable development through an effective and unified external economic policy and to defend external economic interests in the traditional partner countries. Currently, investors in a Contracting State are taxed in the other Contracting State solely on the basis of the tax legislation of the other State. The second country can change both the tax rates and the calculation of the taxable income. There is no guarantee of a certain change in the tax rules over the longer term, so it is not possible to plan the investments, their remuneration and their profits accurately. This regulatory act will ensure for investors of each Contracting State a stable tax regime in the other Contracting State, which will not be affected by the amendments to the tax legislation of the other State, as well as create a legal basis for direct cooperation between the competent authorities of both States and prevent tax avoidance opportunities. This will be implemented through mutual exchange of information. On behalf of the Commission on Foreign Affairs, I ask that the draft law be declared urgent.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-10-06-PT12-378-U97	Thank you. So we must vote for urgency. Please call me! We will vote for the urgent recognition of the draft law “On the Convention between the Government of the Republic of Latvia and the Government of the Republic of Cyprus on the Prevention of Double Taxation and Tax Non-payment of Income Tax”! Please vote mode! Please get the result! It's not about - 80, it's against and refrains from - it's not. The draft law has been declared urgent.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-10-06-PT12-378-U98	I ask Members of the Saeima to support the draft law at first reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-10-06-PT12-378-U99	Please call me! We will vote for support for the first reading of the draft law “On the Convention between the Government of the Republic of Latvia and the Government of the Republic of Cyprus on the Prevention of Double Taxation and Tax Non-payment of Income Tax”! Please vote mode! Please get the result! Not by - 82, not by - and refrains. The draft law at first reading has been supported. Please set the deadline for the second reading of the proposals and the time for the session of the Saeima.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-10-06-PT12-378-U100	If there are no objections on behalf of Members, I ask Members of the Saeima to support the draft law at second, final, reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-10-06-PT12-378-U101	Do Members have objections? There is no objection by Members. Please call me! We will vote for support for the second, final reading of the draft law “On the Convention between the Government of the Republic of Latvia and the Government of the Republic of Cyprus on the Prevention of Double Taxation and Tax Non-payment of Income Tax”! Please vote mode! Please get the result! Not by - 82, not by - and refrains. The law is passed. Thank you. Colleagues! It's time for a break. Please call me! Please check-in mode for Members! While preparing the registration results... Dear colleagues, during the break you are invited to the photo exhibition “Continue living... It's beautiful!’ disclosure in the big lobby. Thank you. Name for reading the registration results to Gunars Kūtris, member of the Saeima Secretary, as soon as the registration results have been prepared.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-10-06-PT12-378-U102	Dear colleagues, Not registered at the moment: Ringolds Balodis, Andris Bērziņš... is, Inesis Boķis, Mārtiņš Bondars, Boriss Cilevičs, Raivis Dzintars, Ojārs Ēriks Kalniņš, Aleksandrs Kiršteins, Ivans Klementjevs, Askolds Kļaviņš, Inese Laizāne, Romanas Mežeckis, Vitalijs Orlovs, Arvīds Platopers, Sergejs Potapkins and Artis Rasmanis. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-10-06-PT12-378-U103	Thank you. Interruption until 11 a.m. ( Interruption)
ParlaMint-LV_2016-10-06-PT12-378-U104	Dear colleagues, It's 11.01, but I just think we don't have a quorum. Could I ask Members to make a call to hear they should come together? The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. J.Adamson: “What about the change of power?” ; dep. I.Zariņš: “Where is the Speaker of the Saeima?” ) Dear colleagues! We're continuing the Saeima sitting. It seems that we are at least halfway through the parliamentary order. It must be hoped that if they see us on TV, they will understand that they have to come. We shall continue to discuss the agenda for today's sitting. We continue with the first reading of the draft law “On the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Latvia and the Government of the Hong Kong Special Administrative Region of the People’s Republic of China on the elimination of double taxation and tax evasion in respect of income taxes”. Member of the Commission on Foreign Affairs Janis Dombrava.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-10-06-PT12-378-U105	Dear colleagues, The Foreign Commission discussed and supported at first reading the draft law “On the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Latvia and the Government of the Hong Kong Special Administrative Region of the People’s Republic of China on the elimination of double taxation and tax evasion in respect of income taxes”. We want to ensure that each country (the Head of the sitting knocks down with a hammer) is covered by this bill, as was the previous draft law and promoted by the Foreign Affairs Commission. or investors on each side would have a stable tax regime in the other country (Dep. J.Adamson: “Very good!” ), which is not affected by amendments to the tax legislation of the other party, as well as creating a legal basis for direct cooperation and exchange of information between the competent authorities of both countries in order to avoid tax evasion. The exchange of information must be carried out in accordance with Article 26 of the OECD Model Tax Convention on Exchange of Information. On behalf of the Commission, I ask that the draft law be declared urgent.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-10-06-PT12-378-U106	Thank you. In accordance with the parliamentary roll of order, we must first vote in favour of granting urgency to the draft law. Please call me! We will vote for the urgent recognition of the draft law “On the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Latvia and the Government of the Hong Kong Special Administrative Region of the People’s Republic of China on the elimination of double taxation and tax evasion in respect of income taxes”! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 57, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The draft law has been declared urgent.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-10-06-PT12-378-U107	On behalf of the Foreign Affairs Commission, I ask Members of the Saeima to support the draft law at first reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-10-06-PT12-378-U108	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote for the draft law “On the First Reading of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Latvia and the Government of the Hong Kong Special Administrative Region of the People’s Republic of China on the Prevention of Double Taxation and Tax Non-payment of Income Taxes”! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 59, against and refrains. The draft law was adopted at first reading. Please specify the deadline for the submission of the proposals and the date of the second reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-10-06-PT12-378-U109	If there are no objections on behalf of Members, on behalf of the Commission for Foreign Affairs, I ask Members of the Saeima to support the draft law now also at second, final, reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-10-06-PT12-378-U110	Are there any objections to Members? Members shall not object. Please call me! We will vote for the second, final reading of the draft law “On the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Latvia and the Government of the Hong Kong Special Administrative Region of China on the Prevention of Double Taxation and Tax Non-payment of Income Taxes”! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. The law is passed. The next item is the draft law on administrative infringement proceedings, second reading. On behalf of the Legal Commission, Member Gunārs Kūtris.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-10-06-PT12-378-U111	Dear colleagues, This is a draft law that began to be reviewed by the 11th Saeima. We took it into our heritage, and it will be the law that will replace in future the 1984 Administrative Violations Code, the only old law that we still have in Latvia. The draft law is conceptually new, there are many new solutions, and by its very nature it had to reconcile the views of more than 70 institutions, all of which are involved in the application of this process. There were more than 26 committee and sub-committee meetings with the participation of experts. Experts also participated in the working group at the Ministry of Justice. Ideas are very progressive, we have already adopted a lot in the amendments of the APC and we have put into practice now from the vision of the new draft law, and it works. At the same time, it will enable the third reading to clarify this draft law if something is not working well. It should be noted that for the third reading maybe a couple of places will change more significantly the draft law, because there are issues to be discussed, but the proposals for the second reading were not submitted. Maybe it should be clarified. And in order not to explain every proposal, I will explain only those issues that, in my opinion, are the most significant corrections, changes... With regard to a whole range of proposals, they relate, first, to the introduction of the concept of 'the owner of the damaged property' by law and, in the context of the protection of his rights, to the very large number of proposals. The other thing. For the sake of clarity, the law now states at every point whether the decision is subject to appeal or not. The third moment. Many of the proposals are editorial, making regulation more precise. And the fourth. A number of proposals are those that have already been introduced by the APC, but were not yet in the original version of this draft law; we have put them in. But specifically on the proposals. The proposal is a proposal from the Minister of Justice. It was supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-10-06-PT12-378-U112	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-10-06-PT12-378-U113	2. - the proposal by Member Inga Betes. No support was given, for each law is intended to prevent people from obeying it. That's why we didn't write the wrong words.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-10-06-PT12-378-U114	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-10-06-PT12-378-U115	3. - the proposal by Member Inga Betes. Neither was it supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-10-06-PT12-378-U116	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-10-06-PT12-378-U117	4. - The legal commission's proposal. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-10-06-PT12-378-U118	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-10-06-PT12-378-U119	5. - The legal commission's proposal. Article 34 will accordingly be excluded. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-10-06-PT12-378-U120	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-10-06-PT12-378-U121	6. - The legal commission's proposal. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-10-06-PT12-378-U122	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-10-06-PT12-378-U123	7. - the proposal by Member Inga Betes. Partly supported by proposal 8.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-10-06-PT12-378-U124	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-10-06-PT12-378-U125	8 / 8 - The legal commission's proposal. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-10-06-PT12-378-U126	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-10-06-PT12-378-U127	9. - The legal commission's proposal. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-10-06-PT12-378-U128	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-10-06-PT12-378-U129	10............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - the proposal by Member Inga Betes. Not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-10-06-PT12-378-U130	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-10-06-PT12-378-U131	11. - The legal commission's proposal. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-10-06-PT12-378-U132	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-10-06-PT12-378-U133	12. - The legal commission's proposal. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-10-06-PT12-378-U134	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-10-06-PT12-378-U135	13. - The legal commission's proposal. Text moved to 149. ... from Article 149 This is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-10-06-PT12-378-U136	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-10-06-PT12-378-U137	14............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - the proposal by Member Inga Betes. Not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-10-06-PT12-378-U138	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-10-06-PT12-378-U139	15............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - The legal commission's proposal. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-10-06-PT12-378-U140	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-10-06-PT12-378-U141	16. - the proposal by Member Inga Betes. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-10-06-PT12-378-U142	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-10-06-PT12-378-U143	17. - the proposal by Member Inga Betes. Not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-10-06-PT12-378-U144	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-10-06-PT12-378-U145	18. - The legal commission's proposal. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-10-06-PT12-378-U146	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-10-06-PT12-378-U147	19. - the proposal by Member Inga Betes. Not supported, because it can delay each process.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-10-06-PT12-378-U148	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-10-06-PT12-378-U149	20............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - The legal commission's proposal. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-10-06-PT12-378-U150	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-10-06-PT12-378-U151	21............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - The legal commission's proposal. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-10-06-PT12-378-U152	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-10-06-PT12-378-U153	22. - the proposal by Member Inga Betes. Not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-10-06-PT12-378-U154	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-10-06-PT12-378-U155	23............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - the proposal of the Minister of Justice Dzintars Rasnačs. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-10-06-PT12-378-U156	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-10-06-PT12-378-U157	24. - The legal commission's proposal. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-10-06-PT12-378-U158	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-10-06-PT12-378-U159	25. - the proposal by Member Inga Betes. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-10-06-PT12-378-U160	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-10-06-PT12-378-U161	26. - a proposal from the Minister of Justice. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-10-06-PT12-378-U162	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-10-06-PT12-378-U163	27. - The legal commission's proposal. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-10-06-PT12-378-U164	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-10-06-PT12-378-U165	28. - The legal commission's proposal. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-10-06-PT12-378-U166	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-10-06-PT12-378-U167	29. - a proposal from the Minister of Justice. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-10-06-PT12-378-U168	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-10-06-PT12-378-U169	30. - The legal commission's proposal. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-10-06-PT12-378-U170	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-10-06-PT12-378-U171	31. - the proposal by Member Inga Betes. Partly supported, included in proposal 32.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-10-06-PT12-378-U172	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-10-06-PT12-378-U173	32. - The legal commission's proposal. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-10-06-PT12-378-U174	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-10-06-PT12-378-U175	33. - The legal commission's proposal. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-10-06-PT12-378-U176	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-10-06-PT12-378-U177	34. - The legal commission's proposal. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-10-06-PT12-378-U178	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-10-06-PT12-378-U179	35. - the proposal from Member Bee. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-10-06-PT12-378-U180	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-10-06-PT12-378-U181	36. - The legal commission's proposal. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-10-06-PT12-378-U182	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-10-06-PT12-378-U183	37. - a proposal from the Minister of Justice. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-10-06-PT12-378-U184	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-10-06-PT12-378-U185	38. - The legal commission's proposal. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-10-06-PT12-378-U186	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-10-06-PT12-378-U187	39. - a proposal from the Minister of Justice. Partially supported, included in proposal 40.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-10-06-PT12-378-U188	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-10-06-PT12-378-U189	40. - The legal commission's proposal. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-10-06-PT12-378-U190	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-10-06-PT12-378-U191	41. - The legal commission's proposal. The part set out in Article 51 shall be disabled. So the proposal is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-10-06-PT12-378-U192	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-10-06-PT12-378-U193	42. - The legal commission's proposal. The text has been moved from Article 97. The proposal is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-10-06-PT12-378-U194	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-10-06-PT12-378-U195	43. - The legal commission's proposal. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-10-06-PT12-378-U196	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-10-06-PT12-378-U197	44. - a proposal from the Minister of Justice. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-10-06-PT12-378-U198	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-10-06-PT12-378-U199	45. - The legal commission's proposal. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-10-06-PT12-378-U200	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-10-06-PT12-378-U201	46. - The legal commission's proposal. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-10-06-PT12-378-U202	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-10-06-PT12-378-U203	47. - the proposal by Member Inga Betes. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-10-06-PT12-378-U204	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-10-06-PT12-378-U205	48. - the proposal by Member Inga Betes. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-10-06-PT12-378-U206	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-10-06-PT12-378-U207	49. - the proposal by Member Inga Betes. Partly supported by proposal 50.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-10-06-PT12-378-U208	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-10-06-PT12-378-U209	50. - The legal commission's proposal. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-10-06-PT12-378-U210	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-10-06-PT12-378-U211	51. - a proposal from the Minister for the Interior. Partially supported, included in proposal 52.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-10-06-PT12-378-U212	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-10-06-PT12-378-U213	52. - The legal commission's proposal. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-10-06-PT12-378-U214	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-10-06-PT12-378-U215	53. - The legal commission's proposal. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-10-06-PT12-378-U216	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-10-06-PT12-378-U217	54. - The legal commission's proposal. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-10-06-PT12-378-U218	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-10-06-PT12-378-U219	55. - the proposal by Member Inga Betes. Not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-10-06-PT12-378-U220	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-10-06-PT12-378-U221	56. - The legal commission's proposal. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-10-06-PT12-378-U222	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-10-06-PT12-378-U223	57. - The legal commission's proposal. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-10-06-PT12-378-U224	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-10-06-PT12-378-U225	58. - the proposal of the Minister of the Interior Rihards Kozlovska. Not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-10-06-PT12-378-U226	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-10-06-PT12-378-U227	59. - The legal commission's proposal. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-10-06-PT12-378-U228	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-10-06-PT12-378-U229	60. - the proposal by Member Inga Betes. Not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-10-06-PT12-378-U230	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-10-06-PT12-378-U231	61. - a proposal from the Minister for the Interior. Partial support has been given to the proposal 64.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-10-06-PT12-378-U232	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-10-06-PT12-378-U233	62. - The legal commission's proposal. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-10-06-PT12-378-U234	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-10-06-PT12-378-U235	63. - a proposal from the Minister for the Interior. Some support has also been given as part of the proposal 64.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-10-06-PT12-378-U236	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-10-06-PT12-378-U237	Proposal 64 covers a number of proposals. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-10-06-PT12-378-U238	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-10-06-PT12-378-U239	65. - the proposal by Member Inga Betes. Partly supported, included in proposal 42.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-10-06-PT12-378-U240	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-10-06-PT12-378-U241	66. - the proposal by Member Inga Betes. Partly supported by proposal 67.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-10-06-PT12-378-U242	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-10-06-PT12-378-U243	67. - a proposal from the Minister of Justice. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-10-06-PT12-378-U244	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-10-06-PT12-378-U245	68. - a proposal from the Minister for Agriculture, Mr. John Dūklav. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-10-06-PT12-378-U246	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-10-06-PT12-378-U247	69. - the proposal by Member Inga Betes. Not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-10-06-PT12-378-U248	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-10-06-PT12-378-U249	70. - the proposal by Member Inga Betes. It is not supported, although partly, I think it is supported in the next proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-10-06-PT12-378-U250	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-10-06-PT12-378-U251	71. - The legal commission's proposal. This is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-10-06-PT12-378-U252	Let's start a debate. The floor in the debate for Ms Inga Bite.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-10-06-PT12-378-U253	Dear colleagues, I would like to thank the Commission and to thank its chairman, Gunaras Kūtris, who is currently putting this draft law in front of us with amendments. He has already said that it is in fact about my previous proposal: we have heard and listened to the people of the regions who live a little further from Riga and who cannot really afford to entrust in their municipality all the preparation of decisions taken by the Administrative Commission to lawyers, because there is simply not enough lawyers or so much resources to hire these lawyers. Thank you, therefore, that these people have been heard and that there are no such requirements in the law anymore! Please support the proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-10-06-PT12-378-U254	The debate is closed. Is there anything to add on behalf of the Commission?
ParlaMint-LV_2016-10-06-PT12-378-U255	Yeah. And the additional argument for us was that this issue should not be regulated by this law: it is regulation of municipal issues.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-10-06-PT12-378-U256	Does Inga Bite want to vote on this proposal? I don't want to. So the proposal is supported...
ParlaMint-LV_2016-10-06-PT12-378-U257	71 were supported. The Commission was in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-10-06-PT12-378-U258	Yes, 71 Members also support the proposal. We shall continue with proposal 72.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-10-06-PT12-378-U259	72. - the proposal by Member Inga Betes. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-10-06-PT12-378-U260	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-10-06-PT12-378-U261	73. - the proposal by Member Inga Betes. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-10-06-PT12-378-U262	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-10-06-PT12-378-U263	74. - The legal commission's proposal. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-10-06-PT12-378-U264	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-10-06-PT12-378-U265	75. - a proposal from the Minister of Justice. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-10-06-PT12-378-U266	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-10-06-PT12-378-U267	76. - The legal commission's proposal. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-10-06-PT12-378-U268	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-10-06-PT12-378-U269	77. - The legal commission's proposal. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-10-06-PT12-378-U270	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-10-06-PT12-378-U271	78. - a proposal from the Minister for the Interior. Not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-10-06-PT12-378-U272	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-10-06-PT12-378-U273	79. - the proposal by Member Inga Betes. Partly supported, included in proposal 80.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-10-06-PT12-378-U274	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-10-06-PT12-378-U275	80. - The legal commission's proposal. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-10-06-PT12-378-U276	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-10-06-PT12-378-U277	81. - The legal commission's proposal. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-10-06-PT12-378-U278	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-10-06-PT12-378-U279	82. - the proposal by Member Inga Betes. Partially supported, included in the next proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-10-06-PT12-378-U280	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-10-06-PT12-378-U281	83. - The legal commission's proposal. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-10-06-PT12-378-U282	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-10-06-PT12-378-U283	84. - The legal commission's proposal. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-10-06-PT12-378-U284	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-10-06-PT12-378-U285	85. - the proposal by Member Inga Betes. The inclusion of the next proposal has been supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-10-06-PT12-378-U286	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-10-06-PT12-378-U287	86. - The legal commission's proposal. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-10-06-PT12-378-U288	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-10-06-PT12-378-U289	87. - The legal commission's proposal. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-10-06-PT12-378-U290	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-10-06-PT12-378-U291	88. - the proposal by Member Inga Betes. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-10-06-PT12-378-U292	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-10-06-PT12-378-U293	89. - The legal commission's proposal. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-10-06-PT12-378-U294	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-10-06-PT12-378-U295	90. - the proposal from Member Bee. Partly supported, included in proposal 91.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-10-06-PT12-378-U296	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-10-06-PT12-378-U297	91. - The legal commission's proposal. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-10-06-PT12-378-U298	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-10-06-PT12-378-U299	92. - The legal commission's proposal. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-10-06-PT12-378-U300	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-10-06-PT12-378-U301	93. - The legal commission's proposal. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-10-06-PT12-378-U302	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-10-06-PT12-378-U303	94. - The legal commission's proposal. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-10-06-PT12-378-U304	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-10-06-PT12-378-U305	95. - a proposal from the Minister for the Interior. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-10-06-PT12-378-U306	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-10-06-PT12-378-U307	96. - The legal commission's proposal. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-10-06-PT12-378-U308	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-10-06-PT12-378-U309	97. - a proposal from the Minister for the Interior. Partly supported by proposal 98.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-10-06-PT12-378-U310	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-10-06-PT12-378-U311	98. - The legal commission's proposal. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-10-06-PT12-378-U312	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-10-06-PT12-378-U313	99. - The legal commission's proposal. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-10-06-PT12-378-U314	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-10-06-PT12-378-U315	100. - the proposal by Member Inga Betes. Not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-10-06-PT12-378-U316	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-10-06-PT12-378-U317	101. - a proposal from the Minister of Justice. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-10-06-PT12-378-U318	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-10-06-PT12-378-U319	102. - The legal commission's proposal. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-10-06-PT12-378-U320	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-10-06-PT12-378-U321	103. - a proposal from the Minister of Justice. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-10-06-PT12-378-U322	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-10-06-PT12-378-U323	104. - The legal commission's proposal. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-10-06-PT12-378-U324	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-10-06-PT12-378-U325	105. - a proposal by the Legal Commission for the merger of two articles. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-10-06-PT12-378-U326	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-10-06-PT12-378-U327	106. - The legal commission's proposal. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-10-06-PT12-378-U328	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-10-06-PT12-378-U329	107. - The legal commission's proposal. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-10-06-PT12-378-U330	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-10-06-PT12-378-U331	108. - a proposal from the Minister of Justice. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-10-06-PT12-378-U332	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-10-06-PT12-378-U333	109. - the legal commission's proposal to include this Article in Article 17. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-10-06-PT12-378-U334	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-10-06-PT12-378-U335	110. - a proposal from the Minister of Justice. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-10-06-PT12-378-U336	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-10-06-PT12-378-U337	111. - The legal commission's proposal. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-10-06-PT12-378-U338	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-10-06-PT12-378-U339	112. - the proposal from Member Bee. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-10-06-PT12-378-U340	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-10-06-PT12-378-U341	113. - The legal commission's proposal. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-10-06-PT12-378-U342	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-10-06-PT12-378-U343	114. - The legal commission's proposal. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-10-06-PT12-378-U344	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-10-06-PT12-378-U345	115. - The legal commission's proposal. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-10-06-PT12-378-U346	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-10-06-PT12-378-U347	116. - The legal commission's proposal. It's supported. And it already exists in the current APC.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-10-06-PT12-378-U348	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-10-06-PT12-378-U349	117. - The legal commission's proposal. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-10-06-PT12-378-U350	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-10-06-PT12-378-U351	118. - the proposal from Member Bee. Not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-10-06-PT12-378-U352	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-10-06-PT12-378-U353	Proposal 119 introduces conditional partial immunity from fines. This is something we have already accepted and it is running from 1 September. In so far as that law too, the Legal Commission supported it.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-10-06-PT12-378-U354	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-10-06-PT12-378-U355	120. - the proposal from Member Bee. There was no support, as this already applies to other arrangements.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-10-06-PT12-378-U356	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-10-06-PT12-378-U357	121. - the proposal from Member Bee. This was also not supported for the same reason.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-10-06-PT12-378-U358	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-10-06-PT12-378-U359	122. - a proposal from the Minister of Justice. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-10-06-PT12-378-U360	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-10-06-PT12-378-U361	123. - the proposal from Member Bee. Supported by including 124. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-10-06-PT12-378-U362	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-10-06-PT12-378-U363	124. - The legal commission's proposal. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-10-06-PT12-378-U364	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-10-06-PT12-378-U365	125. - the proposal from Member Bee. The inclusion of this in the next proposal has been supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-10-06-PT12-378-U366	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-10-06-PT12-378-U367	126. - The legal commission's proposal. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-10-06-PT12-378-U368	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-10-06-PT12-378-U369	127. - The legal commission's proposal. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-10-06-PT12-378-U370	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-10-06-PT12-378-U371	128. - a proposal from the Minister of Justice. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-10-06-PT12-378-U372	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-10-06-PT12-378-U373	129. - The legal commission's proposal. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-10-06-PT12-378-U374	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-10-06-PT12-378-U375	130. - the proposal from Member Bee. Not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-10-06-PT12-378-U376	Not supported. 130. - not supported. And Members do not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-10-06-PT12-378-U377	131. - The legal commission's proposal. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-10-06-PT12-378-U378	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-10-06-PT12-378-U379	132. - a proposal from the Minister of Justice. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-10-06-PT12-378-U380	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-10-06-PT12-378-U381	133. - The legal commission's proposal. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-10-06-PT12-378-U382	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-10-06-PT12-378-U383	134. - a proposal from the Minister of Justice. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-10-06-PT12-378-U384	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-10-06-PT12-378-U385	135. - The legal commission's proposal. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-10-06-PT12-378-U386	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-10-06-PT12-378-U387	136 - a proposal from the Minister of Justice. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-10-06-PT12-378-U388	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-10-06-PT12-378-U389	137. - the proposal by the Minister for Economic Affairs, Dana Reizniece-Ozola. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-10-06-PT12-378-U390	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-10-06-PT12-378-U391	138. - a proposal from the Minister of Justice. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-10-06-PT12-378-U392	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-10-06-PT12-378-U393	139. - the proposal from Member Bee. Partially supported, included in proposal 140.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-10-06-PT12-378-U394	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-10-06-PT12-378-U395	140. - The legal commission's proposal. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-10-06-PT12-378-U396	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-10-06-PT12-378-U397	141. - a proposal from the Minister for Economic Affairs. Not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-10-06-PT12-378-U398	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-10-06-PT12-378-U399	142. - The legal commission's proposal. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-10-06-PT12-378-U400	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-10-06-PT12-378-U401	143. - the proposal from Member Bee. Partially supported, included in proposal 144.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-10-06-PT12-378-U402	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-10-06-PT12-378-U403	144. - The legal commission's proposal. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-10-06-PT12-378-U404	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-10-06-PT12-378-U405	145. - the proposal from Member Bee. This was not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-10-06-PT12-378-U406	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-10-06-PT12-378-U407	146. - The legal commission's proposal. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-10-06-PT12-378-U408	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-10-06-PT12-378-U409	147. - the proposal from Member Bee. Not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-10-06-PT12-378-U410	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-10-06-PT12-378-U411	148. - The legal commission's proposal. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-10-06-PT12-378-U412	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-10-06-PT12-378-U413	149. - The legal commission's proposal. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-10-06-PT12-378-U414	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-10-06-PT12-378-U415	150. - The legal commission's proposal. It is also supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-10-06-PT12-378-U416	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-10-06-PT12-378-U417	151. - The legal commission's proposal. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-10-06-PT12-378-U418	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-10-06-PT12-378-U419	152. - The legal commission's proposal. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-10-06-PT12-378-U420	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-10-06-PT12-378-U421	153. - the proposal from Member Bee. Partly supported and included in proposal 154.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-10-06-PT12-378-U422	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-10-06-PT12-378-U423	154. - The legal commission's proposal. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-10-06-PT12-378-U424	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-10-06-PT12-378-U425	155. - a proposal from the Minister of Justice. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-10-06-PT12-378-U426	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-10-06-PT12-378-U427	156. - The legal commission's proposal. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-10-06-PT12-378-U428	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-10-06-PT12-378-U429	157. - The legal commission's proposal. It is also supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-10-06-PT12-378-U430	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-10-06-PT12-378-U431	158. - The legal commission's proposal. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-10-06-PT12-378-U432	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-10-06-PT12-378-U433	159. - the proposal from Member Bee. Not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-10-06-PT12-378-U434	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-10-06-PT12-378-U435	160. - The legal commission's proposal. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-10-06-PT12-378-U436	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-10-06-PT12-378-U437	161. - The legal commission's proposal. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-10-06-PT12-378-U438	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-10-06-PT12-378-U439	162. - The legal commission's proposal. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-10-06-PT12-378-U440	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-10-06-PT12-378-U441	163. - The legal commission's proposal. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-10-06-PT12-378-U442	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-10-06-PT12-378-U443	164. - The legal commission's proposal. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-10-06-PT12-378-U444	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-10-06-PT12-378-U445	165. - a proposal from the Minister of Justice. Partly supported by proposal 166.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-10-06-PT12-378-U446	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-10-06-PT12-378-U447	166. - The legal commission's proposal. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-10-06-PT12-378-U448	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-10-06-PT12-378-U449	167. - The legal commission's proposal. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-10-06-PT12-378-U450	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-10-06-PT12-378-U451	168. - The legal commission's proposal. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-10-06-PT12-378-U452	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-10-06-PT12-378-U453	169. - The legal commission's proposal. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-10-06-PT12-378-U454	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-10-06-PT12-378-U455	170. - The legal commission's proposal. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-10-06-PT12-378-U456	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-10-06-PT12-378-U457	171. - a proposal from the Minister of Justice. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-10-06-PT12-378-U458	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-10-06-PT12-378-U459	172. - the proposal from Member Bee. Not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-10-06-PT12-378-U460	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-10-06-PT12-378-U461	173. - a proposal from the Minister of Justice. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-10-06-PT12-378-U462	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-10-06-PT12-378-U463	174. - a proposal from the Minister of Justice. It was not supported because it is not mandatory to close the case.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-10-06-PT12-378-U464	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-10-06-PT12-378-U465	175. - The legal commission's proposal. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-10-06-PT12-378-U466	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-10-06-PT12-378-U467	176. - The legal commission's proposal. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-10-06-PT12-378-U468	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-10-06-PT12-378-U469	The proposal refers to a new version of Chapter 31 of this draft law. The content of the edit is already embedded in the current APC. It was simply a draft law that did not yet provide for it. Consequently, the Legal Commission proposes this chapter in a new version. Proposal 177 has been supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-10-06-PT12-378-U470	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-10-06-PT12-378-U471	178. - The legal commission's proposal. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-10-06-PT12-378-U472	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-10-06-PT12-378-U473	179. - The legal commission's proposal. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-10-06-PT12-378-U474	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-10-06-PT12-378-U475	180. - The legal commission's proposal. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-10-06-PT12-378-U476	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-10-06-PT12-378-U477	Proposal 181: In cooperation with the judiciary, the examination of applications was clarified. Consequently, the Legal Commission proposes a version. The 181st proposal is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-10-06-PT12-378-U478	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-10-06-PT12-378-U479	182. - a proposal from the Minister of Justice. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-10-06-PT12-378-U480	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-10-06-PT12-378-U481	183. - the proposal from Member Bee. Not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-10-06-PT12-378-U482	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-10-06-PT12-378-U483	184. - The legal commission's proposal. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-10-06-PT12-378-U484	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-10-06-PT12-378-U485	185. - The legal commission's proposal. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-10-06-PT12-378-U486	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-10-06-PT12-378-U487	186. - the proposal from Member Bee. Supported and included in the next proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-10-06-PT12-378-U488	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-10-06-PT12-378-U489	187. - The legal commission's proposal. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-10-06-PT12-378-U490	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-10-06-PT12-378-U491	188. - The legal commission's proposal. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-10-06-PT12-378-U492	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-10-06-PT12-378-U493	189. - The legal commission's proposal. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-10-06-PT12-378-U494	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-10-06-PT12-378-U495	190. - The legal commission's proposal. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-10-06-PT12-378-U496	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-10-06-PT12-378-U497	191. - The legal commission's proposal. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-10-06-PT12-378-U498	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-10-06-PT12-378-U499	192. - a proposal from the Minister for Agriculture. Some support has been given, which is included in the next proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-10-06-PT12-378-U500	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-10-06-PT12-378-U501	193. - The legal commission's proposal. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-10-06-PT12-378-U502	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-10-06-PT12-378-U503	194. - a proposal from the Minister of Justice. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-10-06-PT12-378-U504	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-10-06-PT12-378-U505	195. - a proposal from the Minister of Justice. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-10-06-PT12-378-U506	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-10-06-PT12-378-U507	196. - The legal commission's proposal. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-10-06-PT12-378-U508	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-10-06-PT12-378-U509	197. - The legal commission's proposal. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-10-06-PT12-378-U510	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-10-06-PT12-378-U511	198. - The legal commission's proposal. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-10-06-PT12-378-U512	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-10-06-PT12-378-U513	199. - The legal commission's proposal. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-10-06-PT12-378-U514	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-10-06-PT12-378-U515	200. - The legal commission's proposal. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-10-06-PT12-378-U516	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-10-06-PT12-378-U517	And these proposals are about taking over the European Union's norms in Latvia. In many places, the wording has been clarified. 201 - The legal commission's proposal. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-10-06-PT12-378-U518	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-10-06-PT12-378-U519	202. - The legal commission's proposal. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-10-06-PT12-378-U520	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-10-06-PT12-378-U521	203. - The legal commission's proposal. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-10-06-PT12-378-U522	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-10-06-PT12-378-U523	204. - The legal commission's proposal. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-10-06-PT12-378-U524	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-10-06-PT12-378-U525	205. - The legal commission's proposal. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-10-06-PT12-378-U526	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-10-06-PT12-378-U527	206. - The legal commission's proposal. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-10-06-PT12-378-U528	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-10-06-PT12-378-U529	207. - the proposal of Minister of Education and Science Inas Druviete. This is supported and partly incorporated in proposal 208.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-10-06-PT12-378-U530	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-10-06-PT12-378-U531	208. - The legal commission's proposal. This is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-10-06-PT12-378-U532	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-10-06-PT12-378-U533	And the 209th proposal is a reference to a directive of the European Union. It is also a proposal from the Legal Commission and it is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-10-06-PT12-378-U534	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-10-06-PT12-378-U535	I therefore ask the Saeima, on behalf of the Legal Commission, to support this draft law at second reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-10-06-PT12-378-U536	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote in favour of the second reading of the draft law “Law on Administrative Violations Procedure”! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 78, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The draft law at second reading has been supported. Please set a deadline for the third reading of the proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-10-06-PT12-378-U537	Request to submit proposals by 16 January 2017.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-10-06-PT12-378-U538	Thank you. Proposals should be submitted by 16 January 2017. On the agenda - draft law “Law on the Maintenance Guarantee Fund”, second reading. On behalf of the Commission for Human Rights and Public Affairs, Member Artus Kaimiņš.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-10-06-PT12-378-U539	Hello, dear colleagues! See the draft law “Law on the Maintenance Guarantee Fund”. 31 proposals have been received. 1. - The proposal from the Legal Bureau of the Saeima. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-10-06-PT12-378-U540	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-10-06-PT12-378-U541	2. - The proposal from the Legal Bureau of the Saeima. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-10-06-PT12-378-U542	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-10-06-PT12-378-U543	3. - The proposal from the Legal Bureau of the Saeima. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-10-06-PT12-378-U544	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-10-06-PT12-378-U545	4. - The proposal from the Legal Bureau of the Saeima. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-10-06-PT12-378-U546	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-10-06-PT12-378-U547	5. - The proposal from the Legal Bureau of the Saeima. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-10-06-PT12-378-U548	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-10-06-PT12-378-U549	6. - The proposal of Karina Plokas, Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Welfare, which aims to provide support for all children until reaching adulthood, as well as for persons after reaching adulthood, if they continue to acquire basic, secondary, vocational or special education in the Republic of Latvia, but not beyond 21 years of age. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-10-06-PT12-378-U550	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-10-06-PT12-378-U551	7. - The proposal from the Legal Bureau of the Saeima. It is also supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-10-06-PT12-378-U552	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-10-06-PT12-378-U553	8 / 8 - The proposal from the Legal Bureau of the Saeima. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-10-06-PT12-378-U554	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-10-06-PT12-378-U555	9. - The proposal from the Legal Bureau of the Saeima. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-10-06-PT12-378-U556	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-10-06-PT12-378-U557	10............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - The proposal from the Legal Bureau of the Saeima. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-10-06-PT12-378-U558	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-10-06-PT12-378-U559	11. - the proposal of the Minister of Justice Dzintars Rasnačs. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-10-06-PT12-378-U560	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-10-06-PT12-378-U561	12. - a proposal from the Commission on Human Rights and Public Affairs. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-10-06-PT12-378-U562	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-10-06-PT12-378-U563	13. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-10-06-PT12-378-U564	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-10-06-PT12-378-U565	14............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-10-06-PT12-378-U566	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-10-06-PT12-378-U567	15............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - the proposal of the Minister of Justice Rasnačs. Partially supported, included 16. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-10-06-PT12-378-U568	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-10-06-PT12-378-U569	16. - the proposal of the Commission for Human Rights and Public Affairs, which provides that the administration of the Fund provides information about the payment of maintenance from the Maintenance Guarantee Fund instead of the debtor, to natural persons through the single state and municipal services portal www.latvija.lv. Information about the debtor’s person will only be obtained if he knows the name of the debtor as well as the personal identification number. In this way, information on the debtor will be partially publicly available; this will prevent any unjustified violation of the fundamental rights of the child. The Commission supported this proposal. But I would like to vote...
ParlaMint-LV_2016-10-06-PT12-378-U570	Members...
ParlaMint-LV_2016-10-06-PT12-378-U571	... as a Member.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-10-06-PT12-378-U572	If one of the Members requests a vote, then we must vote. Please call me! We will vote in favour of 16. - the proposal submitted by the Commission on Human Rights and Public Affairs! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The proposal is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-10-06-PT12-378-U573	17. - The proposal from the Legal Bureau of the Saeima. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-10-06-PT12-378-U574	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-10-06-PT12-378-U575	18. - The proposal by Karina Plokas, Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Welfare. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-10-06-PT12-378-U576	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-10-06-PT12-378-U577	19. - The proposal by Karina Plokas, Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Welfare. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-10-06-PT12-378-U578	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-10-06-PT12-378-U579	20............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - a proposal from the Commission on Human Rights and Public Affairs. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-10-06-PT12-378-U580	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-10-06-PT12-378-U581	21............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - the proposal of the Minister of Justice Dzintars Rasnačs. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-10-06-PT12-378-U582	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-10-06-PT12-378-U583	22. - The proposal from the Legal Bureau of the Saeima. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-10-06-PT12-378-U584	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-10-06-PT12-378-U585	23............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - The proposal by Karina Plokas, Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Welfare. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-10-06-PT12-378-U586	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-10-06-PT12-378-U587	24. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-10-06-PT12-378-U588	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-10-06-PT12-378-U589	25. - the proposal of the Minister of Justice Dzintars Rasnačs. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-10-06-PT12-378-U590	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-10-06-PT12-378-U591	26. - The proposal by Karina Plokas, Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Welfare. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-10-06-PT12-378-U592	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-10-06-PT12-378-U593	27. - a proposal from the Commission on Human Rights and Public Affairs. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-10-06-PT12-378-U594	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-10-06-PT12-378-U595	28. - the proposal of the Minister of Justice Dzintars Rasnačs. Partially supported, included 27. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-10-06-PT12-378-U596	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-10-06-PT12-378-U597	29. - a proposal from the Commission on Human Rights and Public Affairs. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-10-06-PT12-378-U598	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-10-06-PT12-378-U599	30. - the proposal of the Minister of Justice Dzintars Rasnačs. Partially supported, included 27. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-10-06-PT12-378-U600	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-10-06-PT12-378-U601	And the last one is the proposal of the Minister of Justice Dzintars Rasnačs. It is also supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-10-06-PT12-378-U602	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-10-06-PT12-378-U603	On behalf of the Commission for Human Rights and Public Affairs, I call for support to be given to the draft law on the second reading of the Maintenance Guarantee Fund.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-10-06-PT12-378-U604	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote for support for the second reading of the draft law “Law on the Maintenance Guarantee Fund”! Please vote mode! Please get the result! It's not about - 75, it's against and it's abstaining. The draft law at second reading has been supported. Please set a deadline for the third reading of the proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-10-06-PT12-378-U605	The deadline for the submission of proposals for third reading shall be 20 October of this year.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-10-06-PT12-378-U606	Thank you. Proposals are due by 20 October of this year. The next item is "Review of draft decisions". On the agenda - draft decision “On the assessment of the personal liability of the Parliamentary Investigation Commission on the impact of corruption, lobbying, organised crime and smuggling on tax collection and investigation of economic and financial crimes, as well as on the assessment of the personal liability of officials of the Interior, the Ministry of Justice, the Ministry of Finance and other state institutions in respect of public interests and principles of good governance until 21 October 2016”. On behalf of the applicants, Member Veiko Spolitis.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-10-06-PT12-378-U607	Very respectful Speaker of the Saeima! Colleagues! First of all, I would like to thank all the members of the committee for their productive work for almost half a year. And in fact, the reason why this extension is being requested for two weeks, which will not have an impact on finances, because no additional funding is required, is simply a technical detail. After all, this commission, which was established on 19 April, should, in fact, end on 19 October, and it simply took two weeks for the final report to be drawn up legally, technically and technically. That's why... The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. J.Adamson: “Where did he stay?” ) It is almost ready and will be sent out to the members of the commission next week who will look into it and I will report here from the platform in the coming week. So I am asking for this extension and thank you also for the other nine colleagues who have signed this request. Thank you. Please support me.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-10-06-PT12-378-U608	Thank you. Let us start a debate. Name to Member Artus Neminis.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-10-06-PT12-378-U609	What's going on now, what's going on? There's no shame? Six months... I was standing here six months ago, on this platform, and I said that you are not competent enough as a leader for this commission that you cannot "catch" this difficult topic. It's been half a year. The opposition has successfully abandoned this commission - Mr Adamson, Mr Ruck. Thank you to all your colleagues. Who did you say thank you? You, Dombrava and Guntis Kalnins? Tell the taxpayers who have paid EUR 15 000 for your work - for a half-yearly job! The result is under the tail of the cat. The Law of the Lobbyes, which was the basis for this here... In general, the main task of the parliamentary committee of inquiry was the creation of the Law on Lobbyes, which is not dealt with by Latkovsky from the Unity, who does not even listen, nor by Loskutov with the sub-commission. They don't do it! The opposition's only strongest instrument in Parliament is the parliamentary committee of inquiry. Therefore, the opposition collected these signatures, but a coalition representative was appointed as the leader, plus a coalition representative from the ZZS and is voting in Dombrava. There are no opposition representatives in this commission. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. I.Viņķele: “They left!” ) And they investigate - see this long name! - the impact of corruption, lobbying, organised crime, smuggling on tax collection and so on, and so on. You yourself, the coalition, did not allow this commission to give it six months. You did it yourself! Now Take, which three times during its first and, I hope, during the last parliamentary term - three times! - he has already been administratively punished, he's the head of such a commission! What... How can this even be?Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, You're pushing yourself on, that's clear. But you yourself did not want to extend this six-month period. Now Going, apologies, perhaps the king of two, has not dealt with the task - has not written a report. What to do now? The money's been received, Wydo, isn't it? There's to be a return! Just as diligently as you have received and spent, return those 15 thousand euros that you've definitely successfully mastered. I am now turning to the opposition, TO THE WITNESSES. I don't understand why Vilim has signed this here... After all, the vilimus is from the opposition! No, Vilim takes it and signs it because... What is it? Are you in a Unity? Bondor where you're already sitting? Is there no unity yet? The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. J. Viļuma intermediates.) No, I don't have to ask for anything, Bondar. Bondar's asking! The question is that... Please, the honourable opposition, if someone else from the NSL is left here, vote 'no'. Well, purely principled. Because the coalition has already agreed that they will give Wyko Spolitis two weeks for this opinion. We ourselves know that not even a full ruby or a full euro is worth all this measure. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-10-06-PT12-378-U610	We are continuing the debate. The name of the Member is Going to Spolitis.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-10-06-PT12-378-U611	Very short. Mr. Village, I learned that you are a yellow press reader, because the question of the three administrative penalties is clear from your finger. And if you had studied more, then you would have known what the matter is. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. A.Kamiņš: “I don’t have time for your penalties!” ) But thanks for the opinion, thanks for the "good" words. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. A.Kamiņš: “There is no good name! Dilettant!” ) And come in two weeks, and then we will be able to talk about the matter in the context of the final report. — Dep. A.Kimiņš: “The Law of the Lobby!” ), not about rumors (Dep. A.Kimiņš: “The Law of the Lobby!” ), not about your understanding of the rule of law (Dep. A.Kimiņš: “The Law of the Lobby!” ), and not about your understanding of the essence of democracy, because it is at eleventh grade level for you. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. A.Kamiņš: “Doing, Lobby Law!” ) Thank you and I hope you will support.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-10-06-PT12-378-U612	I closed the debate. Please call me! We will vote for the draft decision “On the extension of the duration of the Parliamentary Investigation Commission on the impact of corruption, lobbying, organised crime and smuggling on tax collection and investigation of economic and financial crimes, as well as on the assessment of personal liability of officials of the Interior, the Ministry of Justice, the Ministry of Finance and other state institutions in respect of public interests and principles of good governance until 21 October 2016”! Please vote mode! Please get the result! -59, against -19, refrains - not. Decision adopted. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. A.Kamiņš: “We look forward to an opinion now!” ) On the agenda - draft decision “On the consent of the Saeima to reallocation of appropriations established in the Law “On the State Budget for 2016” (No 410/Lm12). Member of the Commission for Budget and Finance (Tax) Jānis Vucāns.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-10-06-PT12-378-U613	Highly honored Saeima Presidium! Dear colleagues, honourable colleagues! Dear artists of the New Riga Theatre, who are watching the process of the Saeima sitting today! In its meeting of 5 October, the Budget and Finance (Tax) Commission examined three draft decisions prepared by the Saeima on the reallocation of appropriations. We are currently looking at the first of these draft decisions. The Commission examined the draft decision and decided to ask the Saeima to support the re-allocation of appropriations provided for in the Law “On the State Budget 2016” of EUR 4 million 198 thousand from the budget sub-programme “Projects of the Emission Trading Instrument” of the Ministry of Environmental Protection and Regional Development to the budget sub-programme “Payment of medicines and materials to be compensated” of the Ministry of Health in order to cover part of the shortfall in the funds for the reimbursement of medicinal products and medical devices. On behalf of the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission, I call on my colleagues to support this prepared draft decision of the Saeima.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-10-06-PT12-378-U614	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote on the draft decision “On the consent of the Saeima to reallocation of the appropriations established in the Law “On the State Budget for 2016”” (No 410/Lm12)! Please vote mode! Please get the result! It's not about - 80, it's against and refrains from - it's not. Decision adopted. On the agenda - draft decision “On the consent of the Saeima to reallocation of appropriations established in the Law “On the State Budget for 2016”” (No 411/Lm12). Member of the Commission for Budget and Finance (Tax) Jānis Vucāns.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-10-06-PT12-378-U615	In its meeting of 5 October, the Committee on Budgets and Finance (tax) of the Saeima also examined the second prepared draft decision, which states: The Saeima decides to agree to the reallocation of the appropriations established in the Law “On the State Budget 2016” in the amount of EUR 50 thousand from the main budget of the Ministry of Welfare “Prosecution of the State Agency for Employment” to the budget programme of the Society Integration Fund “Governing of the Society Integration Fund” in order to ensure continuity of the services of the mentor scheme until the purchase announced by the Society Integration Fund on 15 August 2016, as a result of the European Social Fund project “Promoting Diversity” will be the subject of an open competition “Promoting social worker’s and social mentor’s services for asylum seekers and persons with refugee or alternative status”. At the Commission meeting, there was a debate on this need, but the Commission decided that this draft decision should be supported. Please also the Saeima to support this draft decision.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-10-06-PT12-378-U616	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote for the draft decision “On the consent of the Saeima to reallocation of the appropriations established in the Law “On the State Budget for 2016”” (No 411/Lm12)! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 67, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Decision adopted. On the agenda - draft decision “On the consent of the Saeima to reallocation of appropriations established in the Law “On the State Budget for 2016”” (No 412/Lm12). Member of the Commission for Budget and Finance (Tax) Jānis Vucāns.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-10-06-PT12-378-U617	In its meeting of 5 October, the Committee on Budgets and Finance (tax) decided to support the prepared draft decision of the Saeima – to agree to the reallocation of appropriations established in the Law “On State Budget for 2016” in the amount of 11 018 euros from the budget sub-programme “Funding for projects and activities to be implemented by the State Real Estate” of the Ministry of Finance for the long-term commitment event “The grant “State Real Estate” for capital investments in the construction of the Principality of Riga” to the budget programme of the State President’s Chancellery “Encourage of the President” to ensure that the transfer expenses to be carried out within the framework of the construction project of the Principality of Riga will be covered by the State Real Estate. So there was also a discussion at the commission's meeting, and in this discussion it was explained that previously these funds had been planned in the real estate budget, but in fact the transfer expenses had to be borne by the President's Registry. Such reallocation is therefore justified. On behalf of the Commission, please support the draft decision of the Saeima.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-10-06-PT12-378-U618	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote on the draft decision “On the Parliament’s consent to reallocation of appropriations established in the Law “On the State Budget for 2016”” (No 412/Lm12)! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 79, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Decision adopted. Ladies and gentlemen, the agenda of the sitting has been examined. I would like to inform you about the answers to Members' questions scheduled for today. Member Elksniņa, Arthur Rubika, Ivana Clementyeva, Raimonds Rubika and Agešina question to Prime Minister Maris Kučinskis about the protection of consumer rights and national interests. The question was referred to the Minister for Economic Affairs, Arvil Asheraden. The written reply received shall be granted to the applicants. On the question of Member Elksniņa, Arthur Rubika, Ivana Clementyeva, Raimonds Rubika and Agešina, Prime Minister Maris Kučinskis, about mechanisation of the National Armed Forces and compliance of Minister of Defence Raimonds Bergmanis with the position to be held.’ The question was referred to the Member of the Prime Minister, Minister for Economic Affairs, Arvil Asheraden. The written reply received shall be granted to the applicants. Member Elksniņa, Arthur Rubika, Ivana Klementyeva, Raimonds Rubika and Agešina Minister of Defence Raimonds Bergmanim “On mechanisation of the National Armed Forces”. The written reply received shall be granted to the applicants. For Members Elksniņa, Potapkina, Agešina, Urbanoviča and Ribakov Minister of Defence Raimonds Bergmanis “On inviting advisory service providers and experts”. The written reply received shall be granted to the applicants. On the question of Member Zarina, Tutina, Potapkin, Urbanovich and Ribakov, Minister of Transport Uldis Augums About Road toll. The written replies received shall not be satisfied. The applicants do not want to ask additional oral questions but will submit them in writing. On the question of Member Zarina, Arthur Rubika, Potapkin, Zemlinska and Ribakova, Minister of Transport Uldis Augums, about additional funding of 10 million. EUR 2 million to be allocated to AS ‘Passenger train’. The written replies received shall not be satisfied. The applicants do not want to ask oral questions, but will submit them in writing. Member Zarina, Agešina, Arthur Rubika, Tutina and Ribakova question to the Minister of Transport Uldis Augums About the project to modernise diesel trains. The written replies received shall not be satisfied. The applicants do not want to ask additional oral questions but will submit them in writing. Consequently, the replies to Members’ questions scheduled for 6 October at 5 p.m. will not be given. New questions have also been received from Members. Members Andrejs Klementyevs, Šimfas, Šics, Orlovs and Jakimovs have submitted a question “On reduction of rows for disability expertise services and improvement of the work of the National Commission of Health and Performance Experts”. We give it to the Minister for Welfare, Janis Reiras. Members Elksniņš, Agešins, Pimenov, Mirskis and Ribakov have tabled the question “On the advanced diesel project”. We give it to Finance Minister Dana Reizniece-Ozola. Members Zarins, Jakimovs, Agešins, Mirskis and Ribakovs have submitted the question “On the project to modernise diesel trains”, which we are submitting to the Minister of Transport Uldis Auglims. Members Elksniņš, Raimonds Rubiks, Tretjaka, Zemļinskis and Zujevs have submitted the question “About the company “The service of rolling stock”” that we submit to the Minister of Transport Uldis Augulis. Please call me! Please register the Members! While preparing the results of the registration, the name of the notice to Member Inese Lībiņa-Egnerė.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-10-06-PT12-378-U619	Dear colleagues, Five minutes after the end of the sitting, I call on you here in the Yellow House to set up a group of Members with the Montenegrin Parliament. Everyone is welcome!
ParlaMint-LV_2016-10-06-PT12-378-U620	Name for the statement to Member Rihard Kola.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-10-06-PT12-378-U621	Dear colleagues, I informed you that today at 14.00 a.m., the meeting of the Saeima Working Group on the Transatlantic Trade and Investment Partnership Agreement will take place in the meeting room of the Committee on Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy, and this time we will begin a cycle of issues relating to regulatory cooperation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-10-06-PT12-378-U622	Thank you. Name Member of the Saeima, Gunārs Kūtris, for reporting the results of the registration.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-10-06-PT12-378-U623	Dear colleagues, Currently not registered: Ringolds Balodis, Inese Boķis, Mārtiņš Bondars, Boriss Cilevičs, Raivis Dzintars, Ojārs Ēriks Kalniņš, Aleksandrs Kiršteins, Ivans Klementjevs, Askolds Kļaviņš, Inese Laizāne, Romanas Mežeckis, Vitalijs Orlovs, Arvīds Platopers, Sergejs Potapkins, Edgars Putra, Artis Rasmanis and Mihails Zemļinskis.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-10-06-PT12-378-U624	Thank you. I'm closing the sitting.
