ParlaMint-LV_2016-10-20-PT12-381-U1	Good morning, honourable Members! I invite you to take your seats in Saeima's meeting room so that we can start the extraordinary sitting of the Saeima on October 20th. On the agenda – draft law “On the state budget for 2017” and related draft laws. So – reports from the Saeima Bureau on draft laws submitted. The Saeima Presidium proposes that the draft law “Amendment to the Postal Law” presented by the Cabinet of Ministers be submitted to the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission, stating that it is the committee responsible, as well as to the Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy Commission. Do Members object to the referral of the draft law to the commissions? There is no objection by Members. The draft law has been passed on to the commissions. The Saeima Presidium proposes that the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Electronic Media” presented by the Cabinet of Ministers be submitted to the Committee on Budgets and Finance (taxes), stating that it is the commission responsible, as well as to the Commission on Human Rights and Public Affairs. Do Members object to the referral of the draft law to the commissions? There is no objection by Members. The draft law has been passed on to the commissions. The Saeima Bureau proposes that the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Ports” presented by the Cabinet of Ministers be submitted to the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission, stating that it is the committee responsible, as well as to the Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy Commission. Do Members object to the referral of the draft law to the commissions? There is no objection by Members. The draft law has been passed on to the commissions. The Saeima Presidium proposes that the draft law “Amendment to the Law on Official Publications and Legal Information” presented by the Cabinet of Ministers be submitted to the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission, stating that it is the commission responsible as well as the Legal Commission. Do Members object to the referral of the draft law to the commissions? There is no objection by Members. The draft law has been passed on to the commissions. The Saeima Presidium proposes that the draft law “Amendments to the Law on the Application of Land” presented by the Cabinet of Ministers be submitted to the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission, stating that it is the committee responsible, as well as to the Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy Commission. Do Members object to the referral of the draft law to the commissions? There is no objection. The draft law has been passed on to the commissions. The Council of the Saeima proposes that the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Geospatial Information” presented by the Cabinet of Ministers be submitted to the Committee on Budgets and Finance (taxes), stating that it is the committee responsible, as well as to the Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy Commission. Do Members object to the referral of the draft law to the commissions? There is no objection by Members. The draft law has been passed on to the commissions. The Saeima Presidium proposes that the draft law “Amendments to the Law on the State Cadastre of Real Estate” presented by the Cabinet of Ministers be submitted to the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission, stating that it is the committee responsible, as well as to the Legal Commission. Do Members object to the referral of the draft law to the commissions? There is no objection. The draft law has been passed on to the commissions. The Saeima Presidium proposes that the draft law “Amendments to the Criminal Procedure Law” presented by the Cabinet of Ministers be referred to the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission, stating that it is the commission responsible as well as the Legal Commission. Do Members object to the referral of the draft law to the commissions? There is no objection. The draft law has been passed on to the commissions. The Saeima Presidium proposes that the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Electricity Tax” presented by the Cabinet of Ministers be submitted to the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission, stating that it is the committee responsible. Do Members have objections? Please turn on the microphone for Roman Money!
ParlaMint-LV_2016-10-20-PT12-381-U2	Colleagues! The request to refer this draft law to the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy as a joint committee.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-10-20-PT12-381-U3	Are Members opposed to passing on the draft law to the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy as a co-responsible Commission? There is no objection. Consequently, the draft law has been passed on to the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission, according to which it is the committee responsible, as well as to the Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy Commission. The Saeima Presidium proposes that the draft law presented by the Cabinet of Ministers “Amendments to the Law on Lot and Gaming Tax and Tax” be submitted to the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission, stating that it is the committee responsible. Do Members have objections? There is no objection by Members. The draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Saeima Presidium proposes that the draft law presented by the Cabinet of Ministers “Amendments to the Law “On Excise Tax” be submitted to the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission, stating that it is the committee responsible. Do Members object to a draft law being passed on to the Commission? There is no objection by Members. The draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Saeima Presidium proposes that the draft law “Amendments to the Law on the Protection of the Rights of the Child” presented by the Cabinet of Ministers be submitted to the Committee on Budget and Financial Affairs (taxes), stating that it is the commission responsible, as well as to the Commission on Human Rights and Public Affairs. Do Members object to the referral of the draft law to the commissions? There is no objection. The draft law has been passed on to the commissions. The Saeima Presidium proposes that the draft law “Amendments to the Law on State Social Benefits” presented by the Cabinet of Ministers be submitted to the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission, stating that it is the committee responsible, as well as the Commission on Social and Labour Affairs. Do Members object to the referral of the draft law to the commissions? There is no objection. The draft law has been passed on to the commissions. The Saeima Presidium proposes that the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Compulsory Social Insurance for Accidents at Work and Occupational Diseases” presented by the Cabinet of Ministers be submitted to the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission, stating that it is the committee responsible, as well as the Commission on Social and Labour Affairs. Do Members object to the referral of the draft law to the commissions? There is no objection. The draft law has been passed on to the commissions. The Saeima Presidium proposes that the draft law presented by the Cabinet of Ministers “Amendments to the Law on Maternity and Sickness Insurance” be submitted to the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission, stating that it is the committee responsible, as well as the Commission on Social and Labour Affairs. Do Members object to the referral of the draft law to the commissions? There is no objection. The draft law has been passed on to the commissions. The Saeima Presidium proposes that the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Unemployment Insurance” presented by the Cabinet of Ministers be submitted to the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission, stating that it is the commission responsible, as well as the Commission on Social and Labour Affairs. Do Members object to the referral of the draft law to the commissions? There is no objection. The draft law has been passed on to the commissions. The Saeima Presidium proposes that the draft law “Amendments to the Packaging Law” presented by the Cabinet of Ministers be submitted to the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission, stating that it is the committee responsible, as well as to the Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy Commission. Do Members object to the referral of the draft law to the commissions? There is no objection. The draft law has been passed on to the commissions. The Saeima Presidium proposes that the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Water Management” presented by the Cabinet of Ministers be submitted to the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission, stating that it is the committee responsible, as well as to the Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy Commission. Do Members object to the referral of the draft law to the commissions? There is no objection. The draft law has been passed on to the commissions. The Saeima Bureau proposes that the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Budgetary and Financial Management” presented by the Cabinet of Ministers be submitted to the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission, stating that it is the committee responsible. Do Members object to a draft law being passed on to the Commission? There is no objection. The draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Saeima Presidium proposes that the draft law presented by the Cabinet of Ministers “Amendments to the Law on Support for Unemployed and Labour Seekers” be submitted to the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission, stating that it is the committee responsible, as well as the Commission on Social and Labour Affairs. Do Members object to the referral of the draft law to the commissions? There is no objection. The draft law has been passed on to the commissions. The Saeima Presidium proposes that the draft law presented by the Cabinet of Ministers “Amendments to the Law on State Pensions” be submitted to the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission, stating that it is the commission responsible, as well as the Commission on Social and Labour Affairs. Do Members object to the referral of the draft law to the commissions? There is no objection. The draft law has been passed on to the commissions. The Saeima Presidium proposes that the draft law presented by the Cabinet of Ministers “Amendments to the Law “On the Register of Enterprises of the Republic of Latvia” be submitted to the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission, stating that it is the committee responsible, as well as to the Legal Commission. ‘ Against’ applied to speak Member Ringolds Balodis.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-10-20-PT12-381-U4	Hello, honourable Chairman of the Saeima. Dear colleagues, So the State Revenue Service and the Ministry of Finance say that the frauds will be caught at the very beginning, and basically the problem must be tackled at the root. What is the subject of this draft law, which is being led as a matter of urgency, in two readings, and which I ask you to remove from the budget package and see in the normal way or, best of all, to give back to the government? The key sentence or the rule of law that has been constructed is as follows: if the Register of Enterprises receives the opinion of the competent authority (please note – the opinion of the competent authority!) on the risks of registration of changes in the rightholder, the National Notary of the Register of Enterprises may, after assessing the opinion of the competent authority, decide to refuse registration. So if a person is so brave that he wants to start a business in Latvia – there really needs to be courage, because it is easier to go to Estonia – he may have to be disappointed if he is a competent authority that can also be a dog breeding society or a flower-growers' society, because the law does not clearly state... Of course, this is about the State Emergency Service, which has built this miracle here. The signature that you will see on this draft law is Dzintaras Rasnačs, and as if the producer is the Register of Enterprises. So what happens if you vote in favour of this draft law as a matter of urgency, instead of meditating on this norm? What will happen if we do not put this draft law in order? I think that perhaps we will listen to President Vējonis, who calls for fundamental amendments not to be made at last reading, and they cannot, in essence, be carried out qualitatively in two readings. The proposed version is so controversial that it requires serious audit and analysis. At the meeting of the Cabinet of Ministers on August 2, the Ministry of Justice was given a task – to develop a project. The Cabinet of Ministers looked at it already on 20 September, but in essence it is not assessed how the existing mechanisms work. You can read today’s “Daily Business” in which the main notary of the country, Guna Paidere, explains that the hunting of the risky persons is threatened to fail. In addition, you know, colleagues, for this project, which will, in fact, deter entrepreneurs from doing business, money of 4 million is being provided. So, on the one hand, if we give the public authorities such a great margin of discretion, the economic operator can be seriously, materially loss-making. If the application becomes suspicious, the time limit will be extended by 10 working days. What business people worry about is that it is actually a trap for everyone. For example, in the “Dienas Bizness” Kalvis Vītoliņš says that, in principle, even a honest businessman will not be able to replace a board member in such a situation, who will act in good faith or even illegally, as the application for changes will be suspended in the risk filter. There is already a rather substantial risk filter, which we have been creating over the course of two years. So there is a list of risk persons, which includes 12 thousand people. There is a list of risk addresses – 146 addresses. There's a ban on all kinds of... a certain type of commercial activity for 600 persons. It is prohibited to take up positions of around 6 thousand persons. To the competent authorities... Registers of undertakings may register a security measure. Currently, 23 thousand are registered – such collaterals. A re-registration ban or suspension may be imposed. At the moment, it has been imposed about 27 thousand. I think that while working in the Register of Enterprises for years... I would not recommend that you give such power to notaries in the Register of Enterprises who work for over a hundred euros. If we are talking about what the consequences can be, we must say that, of course, at best, people will go and appeal. In the worst case, you will go away to other countries for business. The norm is not in line with the principles of administrative law. It does not give the individual sufficient clarity. The existing regulation, this regulation of risk, is not analysed, no one has made an assessment. The State Revenue Service is now without a manager, it is paralyzed – trying to do something to prove that it no longer works. I think that it is now the time for us, fellow Members, to reflect on and return to the government this draft law, so that it recasts this model. So please do not vote in favour of this draft law.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-10-20-PT12-381-U5	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote in favour of transferring the draft law “Amendments to the Law “On the Register of Enterprises of the Republic of Latvia” to the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission, establishing that it is the committee responsible, as well as to the Legal Commission! Please vote mode! Please get the result! -73, against -13, refrains - not. The draft law has been passed on to the commissions. The Saeima Presidium proposes that the draft law “Amendment to the Law on Energy Efficiency” presented by the Cabinet of Ministers be submitted to the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission, stating that it is the committee responsible, as well as to the Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy Commission. Do Members object to the referral of the draft law to the commissions? There is no objection. The draft law has been passed on to the commissions. The Saeima Presidium proposes that the draft law “Amendments to the Construction Law” presented by the Cabinet of Ministers be submitted to the Committee on Budgets and Finance (tax) in order to establish that it is the commission responsible, as well as to the Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy Commission. Do Members object to the referral of the draft law to the commissions? There is no objection. The draft law has been passed on to the commissions. The Saeima Presidium proposes that the draft law presented by the Cabinet of Ministers “Amendments to the Law “On Environmental Impact Assessment” be submitted to the Budget and Finance (tax) Commission, stating that it is the committee responsible, as well as to the Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy Commission. Do Members object to the referral of the draft law to the commissions? There is no objection. The draft law has been passed on to the commissions. The Saeima Bureau proposes that the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Gambling and Gaming” presented by the Cabinet of Ministers be referred to the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission, stating that it is the committee responsible. Do Members object to a draft law being passed on to the Commission? There is no objection. The draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Saeima Presidium proposes that the draft law presented by the Cabinet of Ministers “Amendment to the Law on Higher Education” be submitted to the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission, stating that it is the committee responsible, as well as the Commission for Education, Culture and Science. Mr. Viļuma, are you going to talk about or against? ‘ Against’ applied to speak Member Juris Viļums.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-10-20-PT12-381-U6	Very honourable Speaker of the Saeima! Ladies and gentlemen! This draft law provides for the creation of a register of students and graduates, and probably the main goal is to understand where the workplaces and how much the graduates receive after their graduation. Perhaps the Ministry intends to take this register as the basis for assessing which university works better, which is worse. That is, the Ministry's intention is to assess this on the basis of this criterion - wage level alone. I think if that's what it's gonna do, then... Of course, it is not immediately clear how the benefits of regional universities will be calculated, as they are lower in the regions. And, generally speaking, this draft law actually increases bureaucracy, because these data will still be obtained from the State Revenue Service (for working students and graduates) and the Employment State Agency (for graduates who are unemployed), but the rector of the university will, as he says, be responsible for providing these data. In my opinion, this draft law must be rejected. I call for a 'no' vote.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-10-20-PT12-381-U7	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote in favour of handing over the draft law “Amendment to the Law on Higher Education” to the Committee on Budgets and Finance (taxes), which states that it is the commission responsible, as well as the Commission for Education, Culture and Science! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 81, no, six, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The draft law has been passed on to the commissions. The Saeima Presidium proposes that the draft law “Amendments to the Youth Law” presented by the Cabinet of Ministers be submitted to the Committee on Budgets and Finance (taxes), stating that it is the commission responsible, as well as the Commission on Human Rights and Public Affairs. Do Members object to the referral of the draft law to the commissions? There is no objection. The draft law has been passed on to the commissions. The Saeima Bureau proposes that the draft law “Amendment to the Customs Law” presented by the Cabinet of Ministers be submitted to the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission, stating that it is the committee responsible. Do Members object to a draft law being passed on to the Commission? There is no objection. The draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Saeima Bureau proposes that the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Lottery of Goods and Services” presented by the Cabinet of Ministers be referred to the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission, stating that it is the committee responsible. Do Members object to a draft law being passed on to the Commission? There is no objection. The draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Saeima Presidium proposes that the draft law presented by the Cabinet of Ministers “Amendments to the Law on Corporate Income Tax” be submitted to the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission, stating that it is the committee responsible. Do Members object to a draft law being passed on to the Commission? There is no objection. The draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Parliamentary Bureau proposes that the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Microbusiness Tax” presented by the Cabinet of Ministers be referred to the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission, stating that it is the committee responsible. ‘ Inguna Silverba, Member, against” has applied to speak.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-10-20-PT12-381-U8	Good morning, colleagues! The Saeima constantly mentions the law on micro-enterprises tax as such a hot carp, this time throwing it down to the fact that it says: the micro-enterprises tax regime will end after 2018. Why does the "Welcome to Latvia" group call for a vote against this bill? Because the bill says only one part of the story, but does not say the next part of the story. There are no other draft laws promised in the annotation of this draft law, on which, as stated in the annotation, the Ministry of Finance and the Ministry of Economics are still working on (i.e. on the business solutions that could be offered to entrepreneurs to start-ups, entrepreneurs in so-called lifestyle businesses, and so on). So today's 47,000 micro-enterprises (with almost 90 thousand employees) are told: "By mid-year-on-year, you can register and even start working in this regime, but pay for the end of this regime, you need to register in one of the current forms of business. Become either personal income tax payers or beneficiaries of any patent, or register your SIA!” We cannot accept such a story - that once again we do not take into account the Latvian society. Do you think that people make short-term decisions if they want to start something permanent? That they come up with this today, that they are starting to work tomorrow and that they don't care what happens in five days, and that they are once again ready to accept the situation? How many people are already prepared to accept this situation and have not accepted it! They have left Latvia, they are looking more and more for other tax regimes, in which entrepreneurs in their bills, in which they listen, in which they understand where they help him. And it doesn't have to be far away: it's right here for eyelashes - in Estonia or Lithuania. Therefore, I call again: let us respect Latvian society, let us respect those who are susceptible and try to do something in Latvia, and let us not support this draft law at this point, but let us wait until the government has prepared, in the normal manner, a package of all the laws that will regulate - and hopefully will regulate - business in the coming years! I call on this draft law not to lead the commission at this point!
ParlaMint-LV_2016-10-20-PT12-381-U9	Edgars Putra, a Member, has applied for the floor.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-10-20-PT12-381-U10	Good morning, present! There would be a rather amusing situation, rejecting this bill. This would mean that next year we are restricting sectors, creating various additional obstacles to the micro-enterprises tax regime. With this draft law, we send out a clear signal that the micro-enterprises tax regime will come to an end on 1 January 2019. The government is already... The Ministry of Economy has developed and included in the budget package the first of the three substitutes for the micro-enterprises tax regime, which is the new company tax regime. And the government's approved concept for the rest, both for start-ups and lifestyle companies, suggests that it will be different: these tax regimes will be introduced and replaced by the micro-enterprises tax regime (Dep. A. Leiiņš: “OK!” ), which has been for many companies as a regime that... where they have also worked with others who may have optimized these taxes. Let us therefore support this draft law and work towards the implementation of these two micro-enterprises' tax regimes, which will become (one has already been presented) in life!
ParlaMint-LV_2016-10-20-PT12-381-U11	Thank you. Member Roman Money has a proposal. Please turn on the microphone for the Member.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-10-20-PT12-381-U12	Colleagues! The request to refer this draft law to the Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy Commission as co-responsible.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-10-20-PT12-381-U13	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote in favour of handing over the Budget and Finance (Tax) Commission to the draft law “Amendments to the Law on the Tax on Micro-businesses”, which states that it is the Commission responsible, as well as the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy! Please vote mode! Please get the result! - 73, against - 12, refrains - not. The draft law has been passed on to the commissions. The Saeima Bureau proposes that the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Value Added Tax” presented by the Cabinet of Ministers be referred to the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission, stating that it is the committee responsible. Please turn on the microphone for Roman Money!
ParlaMint-LV_2016-10-20-PT12-381-U14	Please hand over this draft law as a joint responsibility to the Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-10-20-PT12-381-U15	Are Members opposed to handing over the draft law to the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission, making it a responsible commission, as well as to the Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy Commission? There is no objection by Members. The draft law has been passed on to the commissions. The Saeima Bureau proposes that the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Road Use Fees” presented by the Cabinet of Ministers be submitted to the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission, stating that it is the committee responsible. ‘ Against’ applied to speak Gunārs Kūtris.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-10-20-PT12-381-U16	Good morning, Madam President-in-Office of the Saeima. I would also like to say: honourable ministers, who carefully follow the draft laws being passed on to commissions! I understand that today, when deciding to refer these draft laws to the commissions, most of you are more concerned that they all go to the commissions than what their content is. I very much hope that, although you do not agree with our proposals for a more thorough assessment of these draft laws, the commissions will at least pay attention to the criticism we have expressed regarding what constitutes a danger in the draft laws or is normally not acceptable in the country. As regards the amendments to the Road toll law, I draw your attention to a number of cases which are mentioned in the explanatory memorandum to the draft law and which actually reveal the purpose of these amendments and the results of their implementation. I understand that it is difficult for the State Police to record on the road whether or not the car is exempt from payment of this charge. If manually after the documents it must be ensured that the machinery has been released. However, the same could be achieved, as currently, by checking CSDD whether a machine has been registered, tested and insured. There could also be this entry that a particular machine is exempted from payment of the levy. Such a solution would also be possible electronically. The next question, of course, is that in the future it will be possible to do all this with photo-radars. It is also necessary to make sure, by means of a photographic recorder, that the person who owns the number of his car or that that machine does not have any other specific additional factor leading to his being taxed or not subject to any taxes or duties. It can be accepted that these exemptions are to some extent a source of unequal competition. But there's no word in the annotation about why certain machines... certain groups of cars or vehicles were exempted from this charge. Why is there a sudden change in public policy at the moment and it is said that this exemption is no longer necessary? Please note that this exemption has so far also applied to those persons who are included in the database of beneficiaries of the rural support service or in the registered national agency ‘Agricultural Data Centre’ as owners or holders of animals! Have they had such a significant improvement in economic conditions at the moment that we can now say that this relief is not needed? Of course, it is stated that there is compensation. Compensation will be granted on the basis of exemption from this charge or by facilitating the payment of vehicle operating tax. If we look at how another draft law would change the vehicle operating tax, for which only half was to be paid, then we can see that a quarter will have to be paid as this tax rises. Large compensation compared to 260 euros under this law! So this compensation is only part... But I was very careful about this project. If you look at the annotation at paragraph 6, we see that this draft law concerns 2002 machines, which did not need to be fitted with controls, 2000 vehicles in addition (in one case), but... 52 580 vehicles affected. And finally, the Ministry and the Government of the Abstract in the section “Societal participation and communication activities” say: the project does not affect these areas. This project does not affect companies 52 thousand... Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. I think the commission, when it assesses this bill... Talk to the “Famiends’ Family” Society! Talk to the other social partners if it really is so harmless... Fifty thousand people are harmless! I call for a vote against this draft law. Let the government at least learn to make the right points in the annotation! Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-10-20-PT12-381-U17	Edgars Putra, a Member, has applied for the floor.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-10-20-PT12-381-U18	Yes, Mr. Curry, the problem is to technically record it, or let's say, a farmer who has a self-transport licence and who carries his produce... Well, this robot will not determine where they come from, where they come from and what they originate from - whether they are produced by John, Juris or Peter, and whether he leads them to the neighbor. There are two different situations. And technically it was not possible to do this until now. As far as matters relating to this matter are concerned, it should be said that the government is already going to address this issue. The Prime Minister has commissioned the Ministry of Transport to review this mixed draft law, and there are indications that this range of affected cars will be narrowed. Without giving this draft law to commissions, we do not foresee this option at all. I therefore call for support for this draft law.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-10-20-PT12-381-U19	Thank you. Please turn on the microphone for Roman Money!
ParlaMint-LV_2016-10-20-PT12-381-U20	The request to refer the draft law to the Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy Commission as co-responsible.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-10-20-PT12-381-U21	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote in favour of handing over the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission to the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Road tolls”, which states that it is the commission responsible, as well as to the Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy Commission! Please vote mode! Please get the result! There's no one for - 75, against - 14, abstaining. The draft law has been passed on to the commissions. The Saeima Presidium proposes that the draft laws submitted by the Cabinet of Ministers “On the recognition of the Law “On the Tax on Passenger Cars and Motorcyclings” as invalid” be submitted to the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission, stating that it is the committee responsible. Please turn on the microphone for Roman Money!
ParlaMint-LV_2016-10-20-PT12-381-U22	Request to establish the Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy Commission as co-responsible for this draft law.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-10-20-PT12-381-U23	Thank you. Are Members opposed to handing over the draft law to the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission, making it a responsible commission and to the Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy Commission? There is no objection by Members. The draft law has been passed on to the commissions. The Saeima Presidium proposes that the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Natural Resources Tax” presented by the Cabinet of Ministers be referred to the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission, stating that it is the committee responsible. ‘ Inguna Silverba, Member, against” has applied to speak.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-10-20-PT12-381-U24	Colleagues! I call on you to make a distinction between the jokes of the bill and what it says. And if you distinguish the annotation of this draft law “Amendments to the Law on Natural Resources Tax”, you will read that the basis for changing tax rates (and changing them materially) is that there is a practice in other countries – if inflation changes, we also maintain tax rates, and Latvia has not changed tax rates since 2010. There has been inflation, we now need to change this rate. This will also allow a more rational use of natural resources. But there is no reason why, for example, mineral waters used in medical treatment, in healing, this rate is increased by 100 percent. What does that mean? Or, for example, for water used as a mineral water, the rate has been increased by 30 percent for high - value groundwater. And so I can count the examples one by one. What is the basis for such an increase in the rate? It is not possible to find a response to this argument. Consequently, it is possible that in one case inflation has been at 100 per cent, in another case inflation has been at 30 per cent. But what else is very important is that there is no answer to the question: how will it affect the business environment, how will it affect every household? To my question, how it will affect every citizen, I received an answer that, next year, each one will pay five euros more. Well, I suppose every child and every pensioner, and so... This will have a fiscal impact. I think this is a cynical attitude: once again we are just shredding and doing, voting machine works, revenue is needed. As a result, we do not count again on how people and society feel. I call for such an attitude to stop and vote against this prepared draft law.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-10-20-PT12-381-U25	Thank you. Please turn on the microphone for Roman Money!
ParlaMint-LV_2016-10-20-PT12-381-U26	The request also refers this draft law to the Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy Commission as a co-responsible commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-10-20-PT12-381-U27	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote in favour of transferring the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Natural Resources Tax” to the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission, establishing that it is the committee responsible, as well as to the Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy Commission! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The draft law has been passed on to the commissions. The Saeima Presidium proposes that the draft law presented by the Cabinet of Ministers “Amendments to the Law on the Compulsory Insurance of Civil Liability of Land Vehicle Owners” be submitted to the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission, stating that it is the committee responsible. Do Members object to a draft law being passed on to the Commission? There is no objection. The draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Saeima Presidium proposes that the draft law “Amendment to the Law on the State Civil Service” presented by the Cabinet of Ministers be submitted to the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission, stating that it is the commission responsible, as well as the Commission of the State Administration and Local Government. Do Members object to the referral of the draft law to the commissions? There is no objection. The draft law has been passed on to the commissions. The Saeima Presidium proposes that the draft law presented by the Cabinet of Ministers “Amendments to the Law on State Social Insurance” be submitted to the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission, stating that it is the commission responsible, as well as the Commission on Social and Labour Affairs. Do Members object to the referral of the draft law to the commissions? There is no objection. The draft law has been passed on to the commissions. The Saeima Presidium proposes that the draft law presented by the Cabinet of Ministers “Amendments to the Law on the Conduct of Service of the Institutions of the Ministry of the Interior System and Officers of Prisons Administration with Special Degrees of Service” be submitted to the Commission for Defence, Home Affairs and Prevention of Corruption, as well as to the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission, establishing that it is the committee responsible. Do Members object to the referral of the draft law to the commissions? There is no objection. The draft law has been passed on to the commissions. The Saeima Presidium proposes that the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Remuneration of Officials and Employees of State and Local Government Institutions” submitted by the Cabinet of Ministers be submitted to the Commission for Defence, Home Affairs and Corruption Prevention, as well as the Budget and Finance (tax) Commission, establishing that it is the committee responsible, as well as the Commission of State Administration and Local Government. Do Members object to the referral of the draft law to the commissions? There is no objection by Members. The draft law has been passed on to the commissions. The Saeima Presidium proposes that the draft law presented by the Cabinet of Ministers “Amendments to the Law on Personal Income Tax” be submitted to the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission, stating that it is the committee responsible. Do Members object to a draft law being passed on to the Commission? There is no objection. The draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Saeima Presidium proposes that the draft law presented by the Cabinet of Ministers “Amendments to the Civil Procedure Law” be submitted to the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission, stating that it is the commission responsible as well as to the Legal Commission. Do Members object to the referral of the draft law to the commissions? There is no objection. The draft law has been passed on to the commissions. The Parliamentary Bureau proposes that the draft law “Amendments to the Road Traffic Law” presented by the Cabinet of Ministers be submitted to the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission, stating that it is the committee responsible, as well as to the Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy Commission. Mr. Judine, do you have a proposal, will you speak? Please turn on the microphone for Andrejs Judys!
ParlaMint-LV_2016-10-20-PT12-381-U28	Please refer the draft law to the Legal Commission as a co-responsible commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-10-20-PT12-381-U29	Thank you. Do Members object to the fact that the draft law on Road Traffic Law is also passed on to the Legal Commission as co-responsible commission? There is no objection by Members. Thus, the draft law was passed on to the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission, stating that it is the committee responsible, the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy and the Legal Commission. The Saeima Presidium proposes that the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Vehicle Operation Tax and Companies on Passenger Vehicle Tax” presented by the Cabinet of Ministers be submitted to the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission, stating that it is the committee responsible. ‘ Against’ applied to speak Gunārs Kūtris.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-10-20-PT12-381-U30	Dear colleagues, Of course, the idea contained in one article of the bill is very good if it is to be calculated on the basis of carbon dioxide emissions in the future. It will be very good from 2019 when these norms enter into force. And I also understand that today we are heading today, as a matter of urgency, in the draft budget package for 2019 to tell you in time and so that people understand that the tax will rise. The other thing. I understand that you are not particularly concerned about the fact that there is sometimes a write of foolishness in the annotation. And it can be said that this draft law does not in any way affect society and communicate with society is not necessary, because the authors of the draft law say that it does not affect society. But I would like to draw your attention to one another in this draft law, and I understand that the honourable Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Finance may want to come and say like the previous one - about the road toll law, namely: do not look at this draft law, there will be another draft law. The text will be different. Then, please, Members, at least, be aware that you can, with this vote, show respect for Parliament and the demand against the Cabinet. If we are talking about the quality of the draft law or legislation at the moment and say that the draft law should be discussed in three readings or at least two readings, then in this case, as far as is known from the Budget and Finance (Tax) Committee, a new text will come to the second reading, on which we will not be able to submit the other proposals - on this new text - because it will already be the second reading, where we will see what the end result is. Dear colleagues, If the government is late in finding that these amounts, which have been calculated there, actually hit the pocket by those who have simpler cars and who are poorer, while making life much easier for those who have much more powerful cars - with more carbon dioxide emissions... If it turns out later, then... It also needed to be submitted to the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission in due time. At the moment, such a draft law, in which we will actually decide on a completely different text (and we are warned of it in advance), which will not be discussed in two readings, but only in one reading - that is, frankly, a ridicule for Parliament. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-10-20-PT12-381-U31	Edgars Putra, a Member, has applied for the floor.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-10-20-PT12-381-U32	(The line from the fraction reads: ‘With thick machines drive!’ ) To reassure Mr Kūtra, I will personally send him what rates were foreseen in the original version and what adjustments will be made to the CO2 emissions to be submitted by the Ministry of Transport for second reading. And that's quite the opposite of what Mr Curry said. For cars with higher CO2 emissions, the rates have been increased and for those with lower emissions standards the rates have been reduced. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. M.Bondars: “especially for those “Wolkswagen” who... !” ) Council Regulation (EC) No 1257/96 of 20 June 1996 concerning humanitarian aid (OJ L 163, 2.7.1996, p. 1).
ParlaMint-LV_2016-10-20-PT12-381-U33	Thank you. Please turn on the microphone for Roman Money!
ParlaMint-LV_2016-10-20-PT12-381-U34	Colleagues! These draft laws are also requested to be referred to the Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy Commission as co-responsible commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-10-20-PT12-381-U35	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote in favour of handing over to the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Vehicle Operation Tax and Companies Tax” establishing that it is the Commission responsible, as well as to the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy! Please vote mode! Please get the result! -54, against -34, refrains - not. The draft law has been passed on to the commissions. The Saeima Bureau proposes to hand over the draft law presented by the Cabinet of Ministers “Amendments to the Law on Taxes and Fees” (The Head of the Seimas knocks down with a hammer.) The Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission should be designated as the Responsible Commission. Do Members object to a draft law being passed on to the Commission? There is no objection. The draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Saeima Bureau proposes that the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Credit Institutions” presented by the Cabinet of Ministers be referred to the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission, stating that it is the committee responsible. Do Members object to a draft law being passed on to the Commission? There is no objection. The draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Saeima Bureau proposes that the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Payment Services and Electronic Money” presented by the Cabinet of Ministers be submitted to the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission, stating that it is the committee responsible. Do Members object to a draft law being passed on to the Commission? There is no objection. Draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Saeima Presidium proposes that the draft law presented by the Cabinet of Ministers “Amendments to the Law “On Accounting” be submitted to the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission, stating that it is the committee responsible. Do Members object to a draft law being passed on to the Commission? There is no objection. Draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Saeima Presidium proposes that the draft law “Law on Support for the Activities of New Enterprises” presented by the Cabinet of Ministers be submitted to the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission, stating that it is responsible to the Commission, as well as to the Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy Commission. ( Internouncing call.) “About” applied to speak Member Vilnis Ķirsis. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. M.Bondar: “He will speak against!” ) Council Regulation (EC) No 1257/96 of 20 June 1996 concerning humanitarian aid (OJ L 163, 2.7.1996, p. 1).
ParlaMint-LV_2016-10-20-PT12-381-U36	Thank you. President-in-Office of the Saeima, very much. Colleagues! Do you know who is currently Latvia's most valuable company? ( The box “Who? ”) “The Saeima?” ) No, it is “Latvenergo”, whose origins are found in Ulman, when the first – Ķeguma – HES was built, and it has been in fact 80 years for it to reach its size, its size. But do you know such a company “Mikrotik”? ( The box “No! ”) ; “We know!” ) How many of you know this? Well, what 10 percent you know. It is a company that recently donated one million euros to a Child Clinical University hospital for the treatment of children. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. A.Kamiņš: “A second million!” ) This company actually only needed... It produces first and foremost bitters, the Internet... with very good software. ( Interface: “Do not engage in advertising! ” ) And what is unique in this story? In fact, over a few years this company has reached the same level, earning the same amount as Latvenergo, which took 80 years to get there. It is important for our economy to have as many such companies as possible, because they arise in a place that is actually flat, based only on their skills, on their knowledge, do not have to beat the Daugava or do something like that. What is important for these companies? They are, in fact, inventors in some way, and the most important investment must be made in the process of developing this product, in fact, in the first years when there is no income, but the costs are very high, because to create these high-tech products, engineers, IT specialists, perhaps scientists and so on, whose salary levels are... Let's start at 2000 or 3000 euros and up. And it actually happens that, in order to make this product, very large amounts have to be spent on paying the labour tax. Therefore, the Ministry of Economics has developed an aid instrument specifically for this type of company in order to facilitate their activities in the production of these products in the first years. In particular, each employee is entitled to pay two minimum social contributions if the staff member agrees; or if the staff member does not agree, there is a specific programme of Structural Funds which is subsidised, which grants them salaries and taxes. Of course, this process, all the criteria to give companies, not to give... Only give to those who have raised risk capital. It is such a very good filter, because if someone is ready to invest his money in the development of this product, so he has believed. So, colleagues, I call on you to support this draft law and, in fact, in this way to support the transformation of our economy from traditional to as intelligent as possible, which will bring us all greater prosperity. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-10-20-PT12-381-U37	Thank you. Do Members object to the referral of the draft law to the commissions? ( Impressions: “No! None!’ ; dep. M.Bondar: “He was persuasive!” ) There are no objections. The draft law has been passed on to the commissions. The Saeima Presidium proposes that the draft law on the Register of Accounts presented by the Cabinet of Ministers be referred to the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission, stating that it is the committee responsible. Do Members object to a draft law being passed on to the Commission? There is no objection. The draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Saeima Bureau proposes that the draft law “Amendments to the Code of Administrative Violations of Latvia” presented by the Cabinet of Ministers be referred to the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission, stating that it is the commission responsible as well as the Legal Commission. Do Members object to the referral of the draft law to the commissions? There is no objection. The draft law has been passed on to the commissions. The Saeima Presidium proposes that the draft law “Amendments to the Law on the Electricity Market” presented by the Cabinet of Ministers be submitted to the Committee on Budgets and Finance (taxes), stating that it is the commission responsible, as well as to the Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy Commission. ‘ Inguna Silverba, Member, against” has applied to speak.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-10-20-PT12-381-U38	Dear colleagues, We have also met representatives of manufacturing industry in the “Welcome to Latvia” group and fully understand that we have to do everything to support our entrepreneurs. But we have also met representatives of small and medium-sized businesses, we also understand every household in Latvia. And it has to be said that this legislative package stands out in particular with (The Head of the sitting knocks down with a hammer.) The Ministry of Economics has not prepared the product in good quality. And if you again... Once again, I call on you to open an annotation of this draft law and read how many explanations are on this subject. Yes, someone has to pay for what politicians have done in the past decade, because the price of the mandatory procurement component is already more than 250 million euros a year. So someone has to pay for it. And it would have been only quite normal if this draft law were accompanied by a thorough analysis, an explanation, an assessment of the future economic development we see. We understand how much electricity it costs to small and medium-sized businesses, how much it costs to farmers, how much - to households. There are objectives, understanding how the economy will develop further through one policy or another in the electricity market. We don't see anything like that in this bill! We are in favour of having solutions so that there is clarity, that there is clarity for everyone and once again, so that there is clarity in the long term. And we cannot accept the solutions that the entire delegation is given to the Cabinet of Ministers – to decide how the electricity market will work. Once again, I call on you not to pass this draft law on to the commissions, but to ask for quality work from the Cabinet of Ministers and then to decide in the Saeima on the progress of the draft law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-10-20-PT12-381-U39	“About” applied to speak Member Vilnis Ķirsis.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-10-20-PT12-381-U40	President-in-Office. Colleagues! The story is not as much about electricity prices as about manufacturing and manufacturing: do we want or do we not want to see production in Latvia. It is quite rightly said that production is the backbone of the national economy. In fact, we can be very sure of this when we look at 2009, 2010, the years of the crisis that have taken place, and we see that, in the face of economic problems, the first ones are missing services, trade, various commercial services, while production is not disappearing quickly, it remains. And in fact, only thanks to production, we kept much less above water in these years of crisis. And therefore, the government also set in the National Development Plan the target of 20 per cent of our country's gross domestic product in 2020. What's going on now? We see that it is not that we are approaching this target every year, but rather that we are moving away from that target. If in 2010 manufacturing accounted for 13.5 per cent of gross domestic product, now it is only 12 per cent at a steady decrease every year. Colleagues! If all this dynamics continue, I do not know where we are going to come from. I.Zariņš: “Thank you to the Ministry!” ), and the main reason why this fall is also mentioned by the producers themselves is precisely energy prices, namely electricity. And not taxes, as all of us have recently enjoyed talking in public space, or various pressures, but precisely energy prices. And investors, when they choose where to invest - in Latvia or elsewhere - look at this aspect before all tax policy and so on. In this programming period we have also directed a very significant part of European funds to the regions of Latvia for the development of so-called industrial areas. What are we waiting for in industrial areas? Manufacturers! But will they be there if we do not change anything in terms of energy prices? Most likely, they won't be there anymore. If we look at where Latvia is now among the countries of the European Union at electricity prices for the producer, then we have the fourth highest prices. We have higher electricity prices for the producer than in Lithuania and Estonia, not to mention Scandinavia, and several of our large companies have said that they will open their future production facilities not in Latvia, but in Estonia or Finland. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. A.Elksniņš: “Thank you!” ) Valmiera Glass Fibre has already opened its production facility in America. These are jobs that we miss (Dep. I.Zariņš: “This is “the success story”!” ), in addition... they are jobs in regions, because production takes place in Riga very little. Production takes place mainly in regions. In Riga, these are services. If we do not find a solution, both production and, above all, regions will suffer. What the Ministry of Economics is proposing in this bill is nothing new. Such a way that one part of the so-called compulsory procurement component is paid fixed after connection capacity and the other part is variable is not unique. Such a mechanism exists in many European countries. We have, in particular, taken the example of the Austrian model. Colleagues, I call on you to vote not on changing the electricity model this time, but in favour ( Intersades: “ Against! Against!’ ) manufacturing in Latvia or, as Mr Bondara said, 'no'. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-10-20-PT12-381-U41	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote in favour of transferring the draft law “Amendments to the Law on the Electricity Market” to the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission, establishing that it is the committee responsible, as well as to the Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy Commission! Please vote mode! Please get the result! It's not about - 54, it's against - 35, it's not. The draft law has been passed on to the commissions. Dear colleagues, It's time for a break... I'm sorry. So let's keep working. The Saeima Presidium proposes that the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Education” presented by the Cabinet of Ministers be submitted to the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission, stating that it is the commission responsible, as well as the Commission for Education, Culture and Science. ‘ Against” applied to speak Member Andrejs Elksniņš.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-10-20-PT12-381-U42	Highly honored Speaker of the Saeima! Dear colleagues, I ask for amendments to the Law on Education not to be referred for consideration to the Commission, because in essence they do not comply with either the Constitution of the Republic of Latvia or its preamble. The draft law indicates that it has been designed to eliminate as far as possible risks to public and public interests, that is, to prevent the work of the head or teacher of the educational institution, who is unlovable to the Republic of Latvia and its Constitution. Nelojal for what? For the Constitution? Which Constitutional Division? For example, the Constitutional Department on fundamental human rights? Is it illogical, for example, for the preamble to the Satversme, which states that Latvia as a democratic, legal, social and national state is based on human dignity and freedom? Will teachers be disloyal in the future if they express themselves, and this will not be based on universal human and Christian values? To a large extent, the specific amendments are based on strengthening the capacity of the public service of quality education and effectively transferring political functions to that service. In the year, on average, honourable colleagues, there are 10 submissions on this issue. 10 applications to all Latvia, and no more than two applications per year may be related to the content of Section 48, Section 48, Part Five or Section 51, Part One, Point 2. In fact, with these amendments, the Ministry of Education and Science is trying to influence teachers. It is an appeal to educators, to the freedom of expression and diversity of opinion of educators to silence any person who is simply wrong in school in Latvia. Incorrect view of the governing authority, the Ministry of Education and Science. In our view, education should not be linked to any kind of fight against opinions by means of different methods, but it should respect people’s views. People should be taught to think critically. Penalisation and adherence to the wrong interpretation of the Ministry of Education and Science, which defines it as a disloyal person, do not entirely meet the criteria recommended by the Constitution or the wording recommended by the Labour Law as a whole. Because until now it is not clear what enforcement mechanism will be, for example, within the scope of application of Section 101 or Section 115 of the Labour Law. Well, let's accept, according to the specific amendments, a person - a teacher, with whom the employment legal relationship has been terminated, if he has not been loyal to the Republic of Latvia and its Constitution or failed to fulfil his duties as a teacher - will not be able to hold a post of teacher for five years after the termination of the employment legal relationship. I am sorry, but such a sanction with regard to the right to hold certain posts in criminal law is only in certain articles, such as the over-capacity of the service. Well, for example, Shadurski exceeds the mandate of his service in relation to the bombing - blows something out. ( Intercretion: “Sorry! ” ) Only in this case can it be possible to apply the prohibition on taking up a certain post for a term of up to five years. For example, Shadursky takes a bribe. Depp. L. Cigan: “Elksniņš!” )... Take a bribe. If the bribe is pushed out, Shadurski is sentenced to extortion, and only then the court can apply the decision that he is not allowed to continue working... The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. A.Bērziņš: “But if you haven’t squeezed it out?” ) If he is not out of print, he can work. Then he can work! In this case, certain sanctions and restrictions on the impact on the work of educators largely reflect the fact that we are moving towards a political state, that the restrictions contained in the Labour Law are, in substance, in line with the restrictions contained in the Criminal Law on the right to take up office. The examination of this issue in the budget package does not, in substance, contribute to the qualitative assessment of the draft law in question. These changes in terms of loyalty are a step in the political direction. I call on colleagues not to support the referral of the draft law to the commissions.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-10-20-PT12-381-U43	Mr Elksniņš, I am reprimanding you and calling for respect for Article 7 of the Saeima's Code of Conduct, which states that a Member is based on facts, their fair interpretation and reasoning. ( The transcripts are: “Rightly! ”) ) Please call us! We will vote in favour of handing over the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Education” to the Budget and Finance (tax) Commission, stating that it is the commission responsible, as well as the Commission on Education, Culture and Science! Please vote mode! Please get the result! - 52, against - 34, abstaining - not. The draft law has been passed on to the commissions. (Report by the Saeima in accordance with Rule 144 on voting grounds for referral to commissions of the draft law on "Amendments to the Education Law" to be discussed by the Saeima at its extraordinary meeting on 20 October 2016.) The Saeima Presidium proposes that the draft law presented by the Cabinet of Ministers “Amendments to the Law “On State Revenue Service” be submitted to the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission, stating that it is the committee responsible. Do Members object to a draft law being passed on to the Commission? There is no objection. The draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Saeima Presidium proposes that the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Electronic Communications” presented by the Cabinet of Ministers be submitted to the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission, stating that it is the committee responsible, as well as to the Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy Commission. Do Members object to the referral of the draft law to the commissions? There is no objection. The draft law has been passed on to the commissions. The Saeima Presidium proposes that the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Security Activities” presented by the Cabinet of Ministers be referred to the Commission for Defence, Home Affairs and Prevention of Corruption, as well as the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission, stating that it is the committee responsible. Mr. Adamson, will you speak 'no'? John Adamson, a member of the family, has thus applied to speak against him.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-10-20-PT12-381-U44	Highly honored Presidium! Dear colleagues, Unfortunately, when reviewing this draft law, it should be noted that the Cabinet of Ministers does not know what it is doing and what draft laws it considers at all. A much simpler procedure would have been to submit these amendments to the legislative amendments - two draft laws that are already in the Commission for Defence, Home Affairs and Prevention of Corruption. During the last month, the Cabinet of Ministers has submitted three different amendments to the relevant law. What quality are we talking about?Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Moreover, by analogy, proposals have also been put forward in those draft laws which will be examined by the Defence, Home Affairs and Anti-Corruption Commission at its forthcoming sittings. Question: "Why does this happen?" Why doesn't the right hand know what the left is doing? Very interesting! Moreover, the budgetary impact is very interesting. The impact on the state budget is estimated to be 200 thousand euros over three years. I have examined this draft law and I have no idea how these amendments affect the budget and where these 200,000 have been taken from. My proposal will obviously be rejected, but, members of the Budget and Finance (Tax) Commission, please ask me where this money comes from! What has long been talked about by the opposition, by the Commission on Defence, Home Affairs and Anti-Corruption and the relevant decisions, is the question of how a country can withdraw this area from the shadow economy and obtain an additional budget of at least EUR 10 to 14 million. That's a real amount! What must be done to do this? It is a little bit necessary to amend the relevant laws, which will now also be seen by the Commission on Defence, Home Affairs and Prevention of Corruption. I would also like to see representatives of the government here who would come to the tribunal to justify why this draft law should be seen as a matter of urgency. And those absurditys that are written in the annotation! This is very interesting: “Institutions involved in project development: Ministry of the Interior, State Police.” Very good! ‘ Impact of the draft legislative act on society... “ Target groups of society are security staff, businessmen, and so on... Why, though, did there not be a discussion with the associations concerned? Why didn't business talk? Why is it urgent to submit a draft law that can be examined peacefully?Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. We took a decision at the Commission for Defence, Home Affairs and Prevention of Corruption already two years ago and submitted proposals to the Cabinet of Ministers (the then Laimdotas Straujuma) on how to arrange this area, how to avoid tax evasion in this area. Unfortunately, the Cabinet rejected, did not accept these proposals tabled by the Commission for Defence, Home Affairs and the Prevention of Corruption. Perhaps now is the time to reassess the situation and examine these issues in substance, and to accept, however, the views of the Commission on Defence, Home Affairs and the Prevention of Corruption? My call is as follows: to set up a Commission on Defence, Home Affairs and Anti-Corruption and to exclude this bill from the budget package. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-10-20-PT12-381-U45	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote in favour of handing over the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Security Activities” to the Commission for Defence, Home Affairs and Prevention of Corruption, as well as to the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission, stating that it is the committee responsible! Please vote... The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. J.Adamson: “I had a call to change the commission!” ) You were invited to change the commission. Thank you. So let us first vote for the Commission on Defence, Home Affairs and Prevention of Corruption to be established as the Commission responsible. Please call me! We will vote in favour of handing over the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Security Activities” to the Commission for Defence, Home Affairs and Prevention of Corruption, stating that it is the committee responsible! Please vote mode! Please get the result! On - 36, against - 48, refraining from - 4. Consequently, the draft law has not been passed on to the Commission for Defence, Home Affairs and Prevention of Corruption in determining it as the Commission responsible. So there is a proposal to refer the draft law to the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission for the Commission responsible, as well as to the Commission on Defence, Home Affairs and the Prevention of Corruption. Please call me! We will vote in favour of handing over the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Security Activities” to the Commission for Defence, Home Affairs and Prevention of Corruption, as well as to the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission, stating that it is the committee responsible! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 59, against - 28, refrains. The draft law has been passed on to the commissions. The Saeima Presidium proposes that the draft law “On the medium-term budgetary framework for 2017, 2018 and 2019” submitted by the Cabinet of Ministers be submitted to all Saeima commissions, setting the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission for the Responsible Commission. ‘ Against” applied to speak Mārtiņš Bondars. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. A.Bērzins: “Mārtiņš, hold on!” ) Council Regulation (EC) No 1257/96 of 20 June 1996 concerning humanitarian aid (OJ L 163, 2.7.1996, p. 1).
ParlaMint-LV_2016-10-20-PT12-381-U46	Madam President, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I call for a vote against the budget for 2017, 2018, 2019, because it is not a multi-annual budget, it is only the budget for 2017. These pages are, regrettably, uselessly chained (showing the draft law to those present), because in essence, next year there are plans to change the tax system in Latvia. The Minister for Finance has spoken of these ideas in public space, but these ideas do not appear in any way or are not reflected in this multiannual budget. Mr. Putra! I would ask you, however, to tell the Minister for Finance that being a finance minister does not mean the same as playing chess. I understand that there is no way forward in the chess for the opponents. Latvian society is not opponents of the Minister of Finance. She can safely tell us what she is going to do with Latvian finances, economy, taxes and income. We, Latvian society, do not want to be like those who are killed and killed, or those who are claimed to have hair in the chess game. The Minister for Finance should finally understand where she is and what she is doing, not simply describe the paper called the multiannual budget. And, in essence, this document does not correspond to the truth at all. Not in line with what will happen in the next three years. The Ministry of Finance is even proud that they have not even tried to include what will happen in the next three years. They have behaved as if it were today's photography, sent to 2018 and 2019. As economists say, cetero paribus. Right? Nothing changes, everything stays the same. In view of what I have said, however, I call on you to vote against this draft budget and not to make the multiannual budget a regular formality in Latvia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-10-20-PT12-381-U47	“On” has applied to speak to Member Imants Produknieks.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-10-20-PT12-381-U48	Hello! Dear President of the Saeima. Dear colleagues, Mr Bondara seems to have lost himself. I imagined how Mr. Bondara could run the bank (which then went out of the bubble as soon as he left or just as soon as he left), (Mornings.) if he planted the bank's budget according to his own wishes, not what the prescriptions or laws (in this particular case, decisions) have been adopted. It is clear that the budget is drawn up in accordance with the decisions made, not in your own hands or in the hands of someone else. Plans can be different. Yes, we are planning next year, we have set the goal of making an important - perhaps very important - by 1 April! - changes in tax policy, but, Mr Bondara, you probably didn't know. I'll remind you. This decision will be taken here. And when this decision is made here, no matter what prepared by the Ministry of Finance with expert evaluation and recommendations... When we take this decision and amend the laws, we will then introduce new budgets in accordance with them (Minimum: “On the Essential!” ; “On the topic!” ), and only then - only then! - we will be able to draw not only the wishes, but also very specific things. Try finally to understand the right order of things, not to murmur from this platform! The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. M.Bondar: "What?Oh, no, “ Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-10-20-PT12-381-U49	Please call me! We will vote in favour of handing over the draft law “On the medium-term budgetary framework for 2017, 2018 and 2019” to all Saeima committees, stating that the Budget and Finance (Tax) Commission is the committee responsible! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The draft law has been passed on to the commissions. The Saeima Presidium proposes that the draft law “On the State Budget for 2017” presented by the Cabinet of Ministers be submitted to all commissions, including the Committee on Budgets and Finance (tax) and that it be the committee responsible. ‘ For” applied to speak Member Mārtiņš Bondars. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. I.Boķ: “You don’t defile the people! Talk about!’ ) Council Regulation (EC) No 1257/96 of 20 June 1996 concerning humanitarian aid (OJ L 163, 2.7.1996, p. 1).
ParlaMint-LV_2016-10-20-PT12-381-U50	Dear colleagues and honourable colleagues! At this point, I would like to quote the words of Vilnius Chers (Dep. A.Kamiņš: “Better Chehova!” ) The budget and financial (tax) commission. Throughout the examination of the budget package, Vilnis Ķirsis used the following words: “To understand and forgive.” The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. A.Kaimiņš: “It has not been said by the Surgeon, but by an actor from Moscow!” ) Understand and forgive... And I don't want to say these words at this point about Imants Debtor, who made the previous speech, which could not be understood, nor is there a need to forgive. But I would like to talk about understanding and forgiveness in the context of this budget. And you know: no, I will neither understand nor forgive this 2017 budget! I just know one thing: that we Members will have to repair this budget and hope that we will be able to repair it. ( Interface: “This is our job! ” ) Colleagues! There are already priorities for protection, health and education, and more money can be given to protection, health and education, but this does not mean that these sectors will become priorities. The Prime Minister of Latvia has for some six months avoided coming to the meetings of the National Security Commission. To a certain extent, he feels that when he gives money to national defence and internal security, matters in this area are resolved. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, This requires both the proper use of these funds and other activities that the Prime Minister would need. However, unfortunately, I do not have the right, as a member of the National Security Commission, to tell you about those things that the defence sector would currently have to strain on the Prime Minister. ( Pause.) Impressions: “Let’s talk!” ; “Speak about!” ; “On the topic!” ; dep. A.Bērzins: “Let’s not talk in the hall!” ; dep. A. Kaimiņš begins to be applauded, and other Members join him as well. Impressions. (Laughter) Colleagues, I should say this: drink the balldrians! Calm down, listen up! Listen to me now! In healthcare, more than 60 million have been allocated to the next year's budget. You could say that priority. But this priority... You know, when 34 million of them are given to reforms, unknown and incomprehensible (it is not clear whether 16 million are transferred to the construction of Stradins Hospital... No, very nice, we in Latvia must have been constructed too little as public funds?Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Is it a priority for healthcare? I think that the priority is Latvian people and Latvian doctors - people who need health care services, and doctors who need a significant increase in their salary. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. A. Barch’s reply.) Mrs Barch, I understand that you do not agree much, but listen at least this time! The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. A.Kamiņš: “Do not talk to the grass! You have a minute left!” ) Finally. Education as a priority. I understand... I understand that the country salaries teachers. I understand very well that the country salaries teachers, but I just don't understand why the same country that hires teachers makes these teachers care about the number of pupils in classes. Why? Do teachers really have a role to play not only in teaching but also in giving birth to children who will continue to study in these classes? Well, it's not. None! Therefore, my fellow Members, I call for support for the transfer of this budget to the Saeima, because funds are needed for both protection, health and education. At the same time, this budget requires very important repairs, and I hope that we will be able to make these priorities really priorities when we make these repairs. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. J.Adamson: “Naiva!” ) Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-10-20-PT12-381-U51	Ms Inguna Silverba, Member, has applied for a speech.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-10-20-PT12-381-U52	Dear colleagues, There can never be much good, and it seems that such objectives have also been set by the government, as the draft budget is accompanied by 57 more draft laws. ( The head of the sitting was knocked down with a hammer.) However, as often happens, quantity does not grow in quality. We were waiting for the draft budget and the draft laws accompanying it, hoping that we will see so much promised reforms for every citizen of Latvia - reforms that will create a better business environment, more accessible health services, better quality education, more efficient public administration - but once again there is disappointment, because there is no sign of these promised reforms. There is only the current annual efforts to collect as much as possible, without considering that the Latvian economy cannot maintain such public administration. And we are not absolutely satisfied with what the Prime Minister said in his reply: “We are in the process.” It also seems interesting to see the wish expressed by the Minister of Finance at the Budget and Finance (Tax) Commission to carry out a review of budget expenditure so that ministries begin to associate with the Ministry of Finance. What has turned into the reform of the proposed budget review with great pride? The figure is mentioned: EUR 60 million. It is just a virtual game with numbers, because in Excel tables the numbers have been moved from one program to another, but expenditure actually reduced, indeed reduced, is not. The next year's budget will be a budget for the fulfillment of promises. Its priorities: health reforms, education reforms; public security, demographic issues. But on what account will these promises be fulfilled and implemented if at all? At the expense of faster economic growth? There is a plan that the economy will grow by 3.5 percent next year. However - do we see what is the real economic situation in Latvia and elsewhere in the world, what is happening with a decrease in transit flows, with the purchasing power of the population, which has absolutely not arisen? It appears that the growth in gross domestic product promised here too is very optimistic. At the same time, employers are concerned that the budget is not geared towards development and that the money has been allocated to each minor once again. Doctors protest. Many educators are restless with the salary they have already received in October. Education specialists, parents do not understand the ideas of boarding schools. In the budget and financial (tax) commission, we heard a great many responsible officials. And, of course, you can only wonder about the quality and indifference with which the documents, what the draft laws are, have been produced - without calculations, without the desire and interest to really assess the impact of the amendments to these laws on households and businesses. Just a few examples. If, for example, in the Construction Law you read words that the law will enter into force not earlier than January 1, 2018, then you must understand that it was meant: not later than January 1, 2018. Well, this winged saying begins with us: “To understand and to forgive.” And we are encouraged to understand and forgive that draft laws (e.g. on vehicle operating tax) do not contain a line on how it will affect business and households, there is absolutely no need for communication. We are encouraged to understand and forgive that the government and officials are only able to respond when someone starts protesting; only then can we want to have a discussion with a specialist in the field, but while the standard was working there was a complete disregard. And we are also invited to understand and forgive that ministries will still redraft some of the draft laws - not only will errors of negligence be clarified, but they will also redraft them in substance. And there are several important draft laws among them! But what do you think colleagues - how understanding and forgiving will be Latvian businessman and citizen? We cannot, therefore, support a draft law which continues to provide money rather than for smart investment and support for economic development; a draft law which, instead of public administration reform and efficiency, conceals expenditure on entrepreneurs and households; a draft law which is not the basis for the reality of economic growth. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-10-20-PT12-381-U53	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote in favour of handing over the draft law “On State Budget 2017” to all commissions, determining the Budget and Finance (tax) commission as the commission in charge! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The draft law has been passed on to the commissions. The agenda for the extraordinary sitting of the Saeima has been examined. Please call me! Please check-in mode for Members!... Dear colleagues, Today's birthday is celebrated by our colleague Gaidis Berzins. We welcome him! (Applause) Thank you. Name of the Secretary of the Saeima Gunaras Kūtris to read the results of the registration.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-10-20-PT12-381-U54	Dear colleagues, Not registered at the moment: Inga Bite, Ojārs Ēriks Kalniņš, Aleksandrs Kiršteins... There is, Richard Coll, Inese Laizane, Roman Mežeckis, Artis Rasmanis, Ilze Viņķele and Mihail Zemlinski.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-10-20-PT12-381-U55	Thank you. I closed the extraordinary sitting of the Saeima. The ordinary sitting of the Saeima will begin 10 minutes after the end of the extraordinary sitting (interfaces: “Stop!” ; dep. A.Kamiņš: “Stop!” ), that is, 10.40 a.m. This is the procedure announced by the Saeima Bureau.
