ParlaMint-LV_2016-01-28-PT12-341-U1	Good morning, honourable Members! I invite you to take seats in Saeima's meeting room. Let's start the meeting of the Saeima on January 28th. Before examining the agenda adopted by the Bureau, proposals for amendments to it shall be examined. The Legal Commission asks to amend the agenda of the sitting and to include the draft decision “On the authorisation of the Saeima to initiate criminal prosecution against Riga Regional Court judge Iveta Berzina”. Do Members have objections? There is no objection. The agenda has been amended. The Budget and Finance (Tax) Commission asks for an amendment to the agenda of the meeting, including a draft decision on the release of Kristaps Zakulis from the office of Chairman of the Financial and Capital Markets Commission. Do Members have objections? There is no objection by Members. The agenda has been amended. The Legal Commission asks to amend the agenda of the sitting and to include the draft decision “On the approval of Judytė Mauliņa as a judge of the regional court”. Do Members have objections? There is no objection. The agenda has been amended. The Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy asks to amend the agenda of the meeting and to exclude from it the draft law “Amendments to the Competition Law” until the subsequent decision of the Commission. Do Members have objections? ( Interfaces from the drug: ‘ Yes! ’ ; “Vote!” ) Members have reservations and Members want to vote. Please call me! We will vote in favour of changing the agenda of the sitting by excluding the draft law on "Amendments to the Competition Law" from it until the subsequent decision of the Commission. Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The decision has been taken and the draft law is excluded from the agenda of the sitting. The Legal Commission is asking to amend the agenda of the meeting and to include the draft decision on the extension of the deadline for the submission of proposals in the third reading of the draft law “Amendments to the Law on the Expropriation of Real Estate Needs for the Company” (No 430/Lp12) until February 15, 2016. Do Members have objections? There is no objection by Members. The agenda of the sitting has been amended. Members Dainis Liepiņš, Inga Bite, Juris Viļums, Mārtiņš Bondars, Jānis Ruks and Mārtiņš Šics are asking to amend the agenda of the meeting and to include the draft law “Amendments to the Cabinet’s Equipment Law”. Do Members have objections? ( Interfaces from the drug: “Yes! ” ) Members have reservations and we must vote. Please call me! We will vote for amendments to the agenda of the sitting, including the draft law “Amendments to the Cabinet of Ministers’ Equipment Law”! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 25, for - 21, for - 23. The agenda of the sitting has not been amended and the draft law is not included on the agenda. The next item is the Bureau's reports on draft laws submitted. The Saeima Presidium proposes that the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Tax Application in Free Ports and Special Economic Zones” presented by the Cabinet of Ministers be submitted to the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission, stating that it is the committee responsible, as well as to the Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy Commission. Do Members have objections? There is no objection by Members. The draft law has been passed on to the commissions. The Saeima Presidium proposes that the draft law “Law on the Special Economic Zone of Latgale” presented by the Cabinet of Ministers be submitted to the Committee on Budgets and Finance (tax) as well as to the Commission on Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy, stating that it is the committee responsible. Do Members have objections? There is no objection by Members. The draft law has been passed on to the commissions. The Saeima Bureau proposes that the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Scientific Activities” presented by the Cabinet of Ministers be submitted to the Education, Culture and Science Commission, stating that it is the committee responsible. Do Members have objections? There is no objection by Members. The draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Saeima Presidium proposes that the draft law “Law on Official Electronic Address” presented by the Cabinet of Ministers be referred to the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy, stating that it is the committee responsible. Do Members have objections? There is no objection by Members. The draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The next item is entitled ‘On the granting of leave’. ‘ For unpaid leave granted to Member Guntis Kalniņš from 26 January to 29 January of this year’. The Saeima shall inform the Bureau of the receipt of a request made by Member Gunta Kalniņa to grant him unpaid leave from 26 January to 29 January of this year. The Saeima Bureau has granted this leave and shall inform the Saeima thereof. The next item on the agenda - Election, approval, appointment, dismissal or dismissal of officials, expression of trust or distrust. On the agenda - draft decision “On authorisation of the Saeima to initiate criminal prosecution against Riga Regional Court judge Iveta Berzina”. On behalf of the Legal Commission, Mr Valery Agešin, Member.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-01-28-PT12-341-U2	Good morning, dear colleagues! During the meeting of the Legal Commission of the Saeima on 26 January this year, the draft decision “On the authorisation of the Saeima to initiate criminal prosecution against Iveta Bērzina, a judge of Riga Regional Court” was reviewed. Taking into account that the proposal on the abolition of criminal immunity and the granting of consent to criminal prosecution against the judge Iveta Berzins and the information contained in the accompanying note is the secret of investigation and contains information of limited availability, each member of the Saeima was able to get acquainted with these documents this week in the Special Procedure Division. The members of the Legal Commission have unanimously supported the draft decision. Taking into account that the judge is an official appointed by the Saeima, on behalf of the Legal Commission, I call for permission to initiate criminal proceedings against Iveta Berzina, a judge of Riga Regional Court.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-01-28-PT12-341-U3	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote for the draft decision “On the authorisation of the Saeima to launch criminal prosecution against Riga Regional Court judge Iveta Berzina”! Please vote mode! Voting mode! Please get the result! No, 73, against and refrains. The decision has been taken. On the agenda - draft decision on the release of Kristaps Zakulis from the office of Chairman of the Financial and Capital Market Commission. On behalf of the Commission for Budget and Finance (Tax) - Member Kārlis Šadurskis.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-01-28-PT12-341-U4	Good morning, honourable President and honourable colleagues! We have received an application from Kristaps Zakulis, and the Budget and Finance (Tax) Commission has prepared an appropriate draft decision on the release of Mr. Zakulis from the office of Chairman of the Financial and Capital Market Commission. Please vote!
ParlaMint-LV_2016-01-28-PT12-341-U5	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote on the draft decision on the release of Kristaps Zakulis from the office of Chairman of the Financial and Capital Markets Commission! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 69, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The decision has been taken. On the agenda - draft decision “On approval of Judytė Mauliņa as a regional court judge”. On behalf of the Legal Commission, Mr Valery Agešin, Member.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-01-28-PT12-341-U6	At the meeting of the Legal Commission of the Saeima on 27 January this year, the draft decision “On the approval of Judytė Maulina as a judge of the regional court” was reviewed. Members of the Commission have unanimously supported the draft decision. On behalf of the Saeima Legal Commission, I call on Judith Maulina to be a regional court judge, while at the same time releasing him from office of a district (city) court judge.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-01-28-PT12-341-U7	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote for the draft decision “On approval of Judytė Mauliņa as a regional court judge”! Please vote mode! Please get the result! On - 74, against and refrains - not. The decision has been taken. The next item is "Provision of draft legislation". On the agenda: Draft law on Amendments to the Criminal Law, third reading. On behalf of the Legal Commission, Mr Andrejs Judin.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-01-28-PT12-341-U8	Dear colleagues, Draft law No 350/Lp12 on the third reading is under consideration - Amendments to the Criminal Law. Initially it was envisaged that the draft law could enter into force on 1 January, but we have worked less slowly. There are therefore two proposals. 1. - Legal Bureau proposal - to exclude the indication that the law will enter into force on 1 January. Please support me.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-01-28-PT12-341-U9	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-01-28-PT12-341-U10	The second proposal, which has also been supported by the Legal Commission, provides that the law will apply from 1 March. Please support me.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-01-28-PT12-341-U11	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-01-28-PT12-341-U12	Please support the draft law at third reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-01-28-PT12-341-U13	Thank you. Please call me! Let us vote in favour of the third, final, reading of the draft law on criminal law. Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 76, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The law has been passed. On the agenda - draft law “Amendments to Law on Procedure of Entry into Force and Application of Criminal Law”, third reading. On behalf of the Legal Commission, Member Gunārs Kūtris.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-01-28-PT12-341-U14	Dear colleagues, good morning. This draft law is linked to the previously supported draft law and specifies the amount. This draft law contains one proposal: it is a proposal from the Legal Commission on the date of entry into force of the law. The Commission is asking for support.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-01-28-PT12-341-U15	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-01-28-PT12-341-U16	I therefore call on Members on behalf of the Commission to support this draft law at third reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-01-28-PT12-341-U17	Please call me! We will vote for the support of the draft law “Amendments to the Law “On Procedure of Entry into Force and Application of Criminal Law”” in the third, final reading! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. The law has been passed. On the agenda - draft law “Amendment to the Sport Law”, third reading. On behalf of the Commission for Education, Culture and Science - Member Ivan Klementjev.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-01-28-PT12-341-U18	Good morning, honourable President. Honourable Members! We work with document No.349/Lp12 - Amendment to the Sport Law. One proposal has been received from the Education, Culture and Science Commission, which was supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-01-28-PT12-341-U19	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-01-28-PT12-341-U20	Therefore, please support this draft law at third reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-01-28-PT12-341-U21	Please call me! We will vote in favour of the third, final, reading of the draft law on Sport Law! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. The law has been passed. On the agenda - draft law “Amendments to the Law on Protection Zones”, first reading. On behalf of the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy, Member Ingmārs Līdaka.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-01-28-PT12-341-U22	Good morning, honourable colleagues! So to your attention, amendments to the Protection Zone Law for first reading. These amendments are intended to clarify the safety zones around car gas stations, as there are currently a number of misunderstandings in the process of starting construction. The commission responsible has examined these amendments and calls for support at first reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-01-28-PT12-341-U23	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote in favour of the first reading of the draft law "Amendments to the Law on Protection Zones"! Please vote mode! Please get the result! It's not about - 75, it's against and it's abstaining. The draft law at first reading has been supported. Please set a deadline for the submission of the proposals for second reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-01-28-PT12-341-U24	February 4.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-01-28-PT12-341-U25	Thank you. Proposals are due by 4 February this year. On the agenda - draft law “Amendments to the Law on the Protection of Cultural Monuments”, first reading. On behalf of the Commission for Education, Culture and Science - Member Valdis Skujiņš.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-01-28-PT12-341-U26	Dear President, Colleagues! The Commission for Education, Culture and Science has received an examination and has also examined the draft law “Amendments to the Law on the Protection of Cultural Monuments”, which has been approved at the meeting of the Cabinet of Ministers and has been drafted by the Ministry of Culture. The law has been in force since 1992, so long ago. These amendments have been prepared on the basis of the laws and regulations of the Cabinet of Ministers on the temporary export of state-owned antiques, art and antique items from the State. Having heard the opinions of the Ministry of Culture, State Cultural Monument Protection Inspectorate, professionals and experts, the Commission for Education, Culture and Science recognised these amendments as good. Please confirm these at first reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-01-28-PT12-341-U27	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote for support for the first reading of the draft law “Amendments to the Law on the Protection of Cultural Monuments”! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 76, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The draft law at first reading has been supported. Please set a deadline for the submission of the proposals for second reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-01-28-PT12-341-U28	Submission of proposals for second reading by 12 February this year.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-01-28-PT12-341-U29	20? 12. So the proposals are due by 12 February this year. On the agenda - draft law “Amendments to the Law on the Movement of Explosives for Civil Purposes”, first reading. On behalf of the Commission for Defence, Home Affairs and Anti-Corruption - Member Kārlis Krēsliņš.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-01-28-PT12-341-U30	Dear Chairman of the Saeima. Dear colleagues, Draft law ‘Amendments to the Law on the Movement of Explosives for Civil Purposes’. The draft law was submitted by the Cabinet of Ministers. It has been developed to implement the standards of European Parliament and Council Directives 2014/28/EU of 26 February 2014 on harmonisation of the laws of the Member States relating to the making available on the market and supervision of explosives for civil uses. According to the Directive, it is intended to clarify the terms used in the Law on the Movement of Explosives for Civil Purposes, the provisions of the law on the conformity assessment of these explosives, as well as the conditions for placing explosives and explosive devices on the market in accordance with the Directive. In addition, it is planned that in future the requirements for marking explosives and explosive devices will be included in the Cabinet of Ministers regulations. A delegation to the Cabinet of Ministers is foreseen - to set requirements for the manufacturer of explosives and explosive equipment, his authorised representative, importer and distributor. Transitional provisions are intended not to restrict the placing on the market of explosives and explosive devices placed on the market before 19 April 2016 and complying with the requirements of existing regulatory enactments. On behalf of the Commission, I call for support for the draft law at first reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-01-28-PT12-341-U31	Head of the sitting. Thank you. Please call me! We will vote for support for the first reading of the draft law on the law on the circulation of explosives for civil purposes! Please vote mode! Please get the result! It's not about - 75, it's against and it's abstaining. The draft law at first reading has been supported. Please set a deadline for the submission of the proposals for second reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-01-28-PT12-341-U32	February 2.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-01-28-PT12-341-U33	Thank you. Proposals are due by 2 February this year. On the agenda - draft law “Amendment to the Law “On Taxes and Fees”, first reading. On behalf of the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission, Member Imants Debtor.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-01-28-PT12-341-U34	Good morning, colleagues! In its meeting of 20 January this year, the Budget and Finance (Tax) Commission saw the draft law “Amendment to the Law on Taxes and Fees” (No. 447/Lp12) prior to the first reading. This draft law is prepared in complex form with the draft law “Amendments to the law “On the Protection of Cultural Monuments””, which was already reported by my colleague Valdis Skujiņš. What is included in this draft law? Taking into account the Information Report of the Ministry of Finance of 20 March 2012 on the separation of paid services and state fees, the Ministry of Culture together with the State Inspectorate for the Protection of Cultural Monuments has fulfilled this task and will continue to issue a permit for the export of art and antique objects, as well as for the temporary export of cultural monuments and state-owned antiques from Latvia, together with these amendments will no longer be charged as a fee for the service, but will have to pay the fee. On behalf of the Commission, I call for support for this draft law at first reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-01-28-PT12-341-U35	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote for support for the first reading of the draft law “Amendment to the Law on Taxes and Fees”! Please vote mode! Please get the result! It's not about - 80, it's against and refrains from - it's not. The draft law at first reading has been supported. Please set a deadline for the submission of the proposals for second reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-01-28-PT12-341-U36	The deadline for submitting proposals is February 2.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-01-28-PT12-341-U37	Thank you. Proposals are due by 2 February this year. On the agenda - draft law “Amendments to the Code of Administrative Violations of Latvia”, first reading. On behalf of the Legal Commission, Member Jūlija Stepanenko.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-01-28-PT12-341-U38	President-in-Office of the Saeima, very much. Dear colleagues, The Legal Commission has worked with document No.459/Lp12 - First reading of the Code of Administrative Violations of Latvia. These amendments provide for responsibility for the presence of ice on the inland public and coastal water bodies, where there is a ban on its presence, and for a fine of up to EUR 70. Taking into account that municipalities should also have the task of informing people about the ban in an appropriate manner, and the working group should lay down the following regulations and supplement the Law “On Local Government”, therefore a letter from the State Administration and the municipal committee has been received. The Legal Commission is asking to support this draft law at first reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-01-28-PT12-341-U39	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote for support for the first reading of the draft law “Amendments to the Code of Administrative Violations of Latvia”! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. The draft law at first reading has been supported. Please set a deadline for the submission of the proposals for second reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-01-28-PT12-341-U40	Taking into account the receipt of a request from the National Administration and Municipal Commission and the agreement of the Legal Commission, please set the deadline for the submission of proposals – March 29.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-01-28-PT12-341-U41	Thank you. The proposals should therefore be submitted by 29 March this year. On the agenda - draft law “Amendment to Law “On Local Government”, first reading. On behalf of the National Administration and Municipal Commission, Member Sergej Dolgopolovs.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-01-28-PT12-341-U42	Dear colleagues, This law, drafted by the Cabinet of Ministers, is related to the previous one. This includes granting municipalities the right to impose a prohibition on ice. The Commission has examined this, supported it at first reading and is asking the Saeima to support this draft law at first reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-01-28-PT12-341-U43	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote for the support of the draft law “Amendment to Law “On Local Government” at first reading! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. The draft law at first reading has been supported. Please set a deadline for the submission of the proposals for second reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-01-28-PT12-341-U44	Deadline for the submission of proposals - March 29, this year.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-01-28-PT12-341-U45	27?
ParlaMint-LV_2016-01-28-PT12-341-U46	29.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-01-28-PT12-341-U47	So the proposals are due by 29 March this year. The agenda is an examination of the own-initiative proposals. The next item is the draft decision “Declaration “On the Protection of Minors of the State of Latvia in the Field of Children’s Rights abroad”” submitted by Members Imants Krādnieks, Inguna Silverba, Jānis Dombrava, Inga Bite, Andrejs Elksniņš, Jūlija Stepanenko, Gunārs Kūtris, Igors Pimenovs, Rihards Kols, Gaidis Berzins and Boriss Cilevičs, as well as the alternative decision submitted by the Commission on Human Rights and Public Affairs – Declaration on the Protection of the Rights of Minors of Latvian Citizens abroad”. First of all, on behalf of the Commission, Member Lolita Čigāne will report on both draft decisions, and then there will be a debate on both. There will then be a vote, first of all on the draft decision that the Commission has asked for to be rejected, and then on the alternative draft decision. On behalf of the Commission for Human Rights and Public Affairs, Member Lolita Čigāne.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-01-28-PT12-341-U48	Dear President of the Saeima. Dear colleagues, As the Speaker of the Saeima has already informed us, the Members mentioned drew up a draft declaration from the Saeima, which the Saeima decided to refer to the Commission on Human Rights and Public Affairs. In this draft declaration, Members have drawn attention to the situations where guardians are appointed to the children of Latvian citizens in other Member States of the European Union and other countries, and have found that there have been specific situations where the responsible authorities of these countries have not informed Latvian diplomatic missions about the specific actions carried out. In this draft declaration, initially submitted, Members urged foreign authorities to comply with the Vienna Convention in accordance with the best interests of children, as well as provided for a number of tasks for different institutions of Latvia. After this draft declaration was submitted to the Commission for Human Rights and Public Affairs, the Commission started a long and thorough work on the situation. I believe that this was a very valuable process, because we really understood all those different problem situations, situations that arise for Latvian citizens (and which can happen to everyone!) , if they may not have been fully able to take care of their children and if, in such cases, the authorities of any other country - whether a Member State of the European Union or any other country - have decided, for example, on the appointment of guardians for these children. The Commission discussed these issues carefully and listened to the opinion of the Legal Bureau of the Saeima. And I would like to say a great deal of thanks to the Legal Office of the Saeima, which has been very actively involved in the development of an alternative project. I would also like to thank the Ministry of Justice and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, which reported very actively and analytically on the specific situations that have arisen. And the result of this long process: thanks to the fact that the non-commissioned Members were involved in this work and submitted proposals, the Commission prepared an alternative project, which largely clarifies the references to the Vienna Convention and the specific terms used, as well as the way in which the link between the Vienna Convention and the UN Convention on the Rights of the Child is clearly indicated, as well as the extent to which the competent authorities of Latvia are invited to respect and respect the obligation of Latvia to defend the interests and rights of its citizens outside Latvia. The alternative draft declaration also requires the Cabinet of Ministers to inform about the acceptance of this declaration in the Saeima of the respective countries where such cases have occurred, to represent Latvian citizens in various relevant institutions in other countries where such situations arise, as well as - this is very important! - to educate Latvian citizens about what childcare standards and traditions should be observed when Latvian citizens live and work outside Latvia. Dear colleagues, As the Chairman of the Saeima has already said, the Commission has worked closely on this project and therefore calls not to support the original draft declaration, but to agree on the support for the draft declaration drawn up by the Commission, because it is much more precise in terms of both size and addressees.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-01-28-PT12-341-U49	Thank you to the rapporteur. Let us start a debate. Name to Member Artus Neminis.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-01-28-PT12-341-U50	Good morning, people's servants! Thus, the State of Latvia loses most of its young Latvian citizens during one year in traffic accidents. The second position is that of children who have been removed abroad from the families of Latvian citizens. To have a broader view, I... The figures are very tragic: 53 children were... There have been 53 cases of violations of children's rights in 2010, there have been 88 cases in 2011, 102 cases in 2012, 132 cases in 2013, 122 cases in 2014 and 99 cases in 2015, of which in 25 cases these children have been removed from their families. This means (and these figures show it) that people are not informed. Those who live abroad do not have the sense and understanding of the laws, traditions and customs of that country. This declaration contains a very important task for the Cabinet of Ministers. The Cabinet of Ministers will be obliged to inform the families of Latvian citizens living abroad about the norms, requirements and traditions of this country in the field of protection of children's rights. Latvian citizens, who choose to live abroad, need practical assistance on the traditions and requirements of the home country in matters of children's rights. The Ministry of Foreign Affairs should collect such information and make use of all the possibilities available to it to inform Latvian citizens living abroad. The huge number of problems indicates a catastrophic lack of such information. The Latvian citizens who live abroad should not become experts in international law in the field of child adoption and children's rights, they should be clear about what can and cannot be done in the country. I would therefore ask you to reject this proposal, which is the first one, and to support the alternative proposal of the Human Rights Commission, because the first proposal was not legally and technically correct and precise. Since all of you have done better in the second, please reject the first and support the alternative. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-01-28-PT12-341-U51	Thank you. The name of Member Julia Stepanenko.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-01-28-PT12-341-U52	Dear colleagues, A document has been produced that will finally help the Ministry of Foreign Affairs to strengthen its political will to protect the interests of our citizens. In view of the fact that the Vienna Convention is still being violated and this year we have seen another case where our responsible services were not informed about the removal of the child from the family, this is a very important turning point in the protection of our rights. It is clear to all reasonable ones that the family is the best place for the child, as well as the insaneness of the child’s forced divorce with his parents. Unfortunately, in practice, the fact that the term "best interests of the child" can be turned against the child's own family and the best interests of the child's parents can be defended by a stranger, a social worker. You are wrong, honourable colleagues, if you think that children are taken away only by totally hopeless parents who put children in danger or do not care for them. You also make a mistake when you start to appreciate your parents ’ personality and actions during the process. Never do this because the child is not a coffer that can be lost for entertainment, and the child is not a sanction or a prize that can be awarded or withdrawn. The child has the right, and the child wants to return to the family. In this situation, I urge you to think first of all about your child, not about what every parent has done or has not done. Why do we trust in deciding our destiny for someone else? We have to look at each such case ourselves, given the potentially high error rate allowed by the staff of the relevant services, such as Britain. In shock, one social worker said: “We break ten normal families and save one child from danger than we do nothing.” Think about the price. ( The intermediate statement: “Who will be the one who will appreciate the family? ” ) I personally contacted seven mothers and one grandmother, and each has a story... All are citizens of Latvia. These are adequate people. Some have succeeded in saving their children, but some have not yet. For illustration, for example, a case from British case law. My parents, Carris Cox and Richard Carter, were arrested because their six - week - old child had health problems. The parents were responsible for these problems. After three years of trial, the parents were justified, but the child was adopted. The child has lost his parents. That's a mistake! Another shouting, already historical example of injustice. In Australia, the country pursued a policy of taking children away from single, single, poor mothers by placing them in foster families. This practice began between the end of the Second World War and the 1970s, and therefore thousands of children were affected, and only recently Australian Prime Minister Julia Gilarde admitted this terrible mistake on behalf of the state and apologies to all the people of the country who had suffered from this injustice. I return to Britain: 95 percent of the approximately five thousand adoptions that take place there every year are so-called forced adoptions. This is not a precise term, but it is a term that means that the parents have not given their consent. And that's not because parents have died or have not been able to express their will; it's because parents are fighting for their children and never want to accept that children are separated from them. Without knowledge of their rights, parents are often forced to sign various documents, including those legally translated into a child’s opt-out. They are usually powerful, adequate people. If parents are allowed to meet a child, they are under supervision and not allowed to communicate with the child in their mother tongue, since each contact is evaluated and the children live separately. For this time, I personally know eight children who are forced away from the family. But the Ministry of Justice certainly has much more such data. Some of these children are being prepared for adoption, just as we have already lost a little daughter, Catherine. Then the question arises: how many children are to be adopted so that the State of Latvia starts to react and fulfil its functions set out in Article 98 of the Satversme?Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. We also need to follow the example of other countries. The Czech President is very strongly in favour of children's rights; Slovakia has relieved two of its children from the burden of social services in Britain. Some of our compatriots abroad, especially in the UK, tend to compare with refugees, saying that they see Britain tolerates our compatriots and that it will only be necessary to show solidarity... But is there at least one case of a child being taken away from the refugee family? You see these families travelling to Europe - in insecure boats, sometimes without life jackets. And miraculously, they stay alive! Britain has adopted about seven hundred children last year, who have gone away alone - without parents. On 11 August last year, the President of Latvia, together with the Minister of Justice, agreed to provide assistance to children abroad. Prime Minister Laimdota Straujuma, in cooperation with the Ministry of Justice, has established a working group on the protection of children of Latvian citizens abroad on 1 September this year. In view of all this, it will be a great shame for the country, if, even when the senior officials of the country involved in this matter are involved, we will continue to lose our children. We're just gonna be laughing at! It is now absolutely clear that there is a lack of a common policy in Latvia to protect children's rights abroad. Silence in courts and soft, petitioning letters will not be enough to defend our citizens. There is a need for a clear diplomatic but firm position on this issue. I call on Members to follow up on this declaration and to promote the establishment of a clear and stable mechanism for the protection of children. If I understand correctly, this declaration could be the first international document in which Latvia emphasises its rights and responsibilities to take care of its children and calls on other countries to do so. With this declaration, Latvia will be among the countries that have clearly set their priorities in the field of child protection, and may receive colleagues and associates in this fight for their citizens. Dear colleagues, It must be concluded that, in my view, the two versions of the declaration are quite good. As one of my co-authors, I fought for some things to remain. Therefore, I will consistently support both options, while realising that the second option is more correct and diplomatic. I would like to thank my colleagues for their efforts in drawing up the declaration. I would also like to thank those staff of the ministries and consular department and ambassadors who carry out their duties in good faith in the protection of the interests of our citizens. I believe that we can, diplomatically, but insist on reminding us of our interests, and we should not be afraid of that. I call upon you to take note of this declaration and to stand up for it as soon as possible, whoever you are and whatever you think. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-01-28-PT12-341-U53	Thank you. Name to Member Igor Pimenov.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-01-28-PT12-341-U54	Hello, colleagues! In addition to what both colleagues have already said, I would like to draw the attention of those who allow our declaration to be an attempt to intervene in the litigation and legal system of other Member States of the European Union, because our declaration is not interference. It recalls the rights, the rules adopted in the world and called upon to follow international organisations as well as the Vienna Convention. The situation is very difficult. For example, in the same United Kingdom, the Minister for Family Affairs is actually conducting a policy under a concrete plan for adoption of children in Great Britain. And for the five thousand that have already been mentioned, the Minister has said that this is a small number and that even more children are waiting for their new families, so that social services need to work even harder and more determinedly. Although the Supreme Judge admitted last April that social services in Britain in family matters were actually in breach of world standards that are binding on Britain. And the last thing I'd like to say. The failure of our country, in some cases the errors in the proceedings of Britain and other countries and the actions of certain social services forced our fellow citizens to actually violate the laws of the respective countries and to run to Latvia, away from those countries. In order to normalise this situation, in order to involve our institutions in the legal processes that guarantee the rights of our children and our families, it is necessary to adopt an appropriate document that is stronger than the practice which has been implemented so far, also with the participation of the institutions of our republic and of specific experts in the field of the protection of the rights of the child. I call on the Saeima to support the declaration made by the Commission. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-01-28-PT12-341-U55	Thank you. I closed the debate. On behalf of the Commission, does the rapporteur want to add something?
ParlaMint-LV_2016-01-28-PT12-341-U56	Dear colleagues, As the debate has already shown, the Commission has indeed worked very hard on this alternative draft declaration, involving all parties constructively, so on behalf of the Commission I ask you to reject the original draft declaration and to decide on the approval of the draft declaration which the Saeima has proposed to the Commission on Human Rights and Public Affairs.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-01-28-PT12-341-U57	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote for the draft decision “Declaration “Declaration of the Protection of Minors of Latvia’s Nationals abroad in the Field of Children’s Rights” submitted by Member Imantas Rūdnieks, Inguna Silverba, Jānis Dombrava, Inga Bites, Andrejs Elksniņa, Julija Stepanenko, Gunāra Kūtra, Igora Pimenova, Rihards Kola, Gaida Berzins and Boris Cilevičs”! Please vote mode! Please get the result! About - 28, against - 31, abstaining - 12. The draft decision is rejected. Please call me! We will vote on the draft alternative decision drawn up by the Commission for Human Rights and Public Affairs “Declaration on the protection of the rights of minors of Latvian citizens abroad”! Please vote mode! Please get the result! It's not about - 75, it's against and it's abstaining. The decision of the Saeima “Declaration on the Protection of the Rights of Minors of Latvia abroad” has been adopted. The next item on the agenda is "Preview of draft decisions". On the agenda - draft decision “On extension of the deadline for submission of proposals in the third reading of the draft law “Amendments to the Law on the Expropriation of Real Estate Needed for the Company” (No 430/Lp12) until 15 February 2016. Please call me! We will vote for the draft decision “On extension of the deadline for submission of proposals in the third reading of the draft law “Amendments to the Law on the Expropriation of Real Estate Needed for the Company” (No 430/Lp12) until February 15, 2016”! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 76, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The decision has been taken. The agenda of the sitting has been examined, but I would like to inform you of the questions put by Members. Regarding Member Agešina, Urbanoviča, Ribakova, Tutina and Zemļinskas, the Minister for Economics Dana Reizniece-Ozola “On multi-apartment house insulation programme” has received a written answer, and the applicants inform that they do not want to ask additional questions. The replies to Members' questions will therefore not be given today at 17.00. Members Silver, May, Platoper, Šics and Šifa have submitted the question “On the VSIA “Bulduri Secondary School of Gardening”, which we submit to Minister of Education and Science Mārīte Seile for a reply. Members Zarins, Agešins, Arturs Rubiks, Tutins and Ribakovs have submitted the question “On the investor of Air Baltic Corporation”, which we submit to the Minister of Transport for reply. The reason for the question is given to the Member Ivars Zarins.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-01-28-PT12-341-U58	Hello, colleagues! You all remember how quickly we had to decide on airBaltic's rescue, how quickly the government hastened to save it. We asked then: let's wait at least a week, and within a week we'll ask the competent services to assess this investor... to assess the investment contract and, when we have full clarity, let us take this decision! But we were told: no, we need it all very urgently! Two months, almost two months have already passed, but this Treaty has still not been signed. So there's a valid question: what's going on with airBaltic now? Because, according to the information that was provided to us, airBaltic should already have gone through the shave path, I apologize, and the investor should have been somewhere else. So we ask: what is the situation? Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-01-28-PT12-341-U59	Thank you. The agenda of the sitting has been examined and the time for registration has come. Please call me! Please register the Members! Please get the results! While the results of the registration are being prepared, the name of Member Vital Orlov is being prepared.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-01-28-PT12-341-U60	Dear colleagues working for the Subcommittee on Public Health. I invite you to attend the Social and Labour Commission's premises at 10 a.m. for a sub-committee meeting.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-01-28-PT12-341-U61	Thank you. Name for reading the results of the registration to Gunārs Kūtris, member of the Saeima Secretary.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-01-28-PT12-341-U62	Dear colleagues, Not registered at the moment: Aldis Adamovičs, Ringolds Balodis, Andris Bērziņš, Boriss Cilevičs, Guntis Kalniņš, Nally Kleinberga, Armands Krauze, Maris Kučinskis... is, Vilnis Ķirsis, Inese Laizāne, Inese Lībiņa-Egnere, Ainārs Mežulis, Sergejs Mirskis, Nikita Nikiforovs, Artis Rasmanis, Romualds Ražuks, Juris Vectirāns and Jānis Vucāns. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-01-28-PT12-341-U63	Thank you. I'm closing the sitting.
