ParlaMint-LV_2016-06-09-PT12-370-U1	Good morning, honourable Members! I invite you to take seats in Saeima's meeting room. Let's start the 9th June meeting of the Saeima. Before starting to discuss the agenda of the Bureau meeting, proposals for amendments to it should be examined. The Commission on Social and Labour Affairs asks for amendments to the agenda of the sitting and to exclude from it the draft law on Amendments to the Law on Sexual and Reproductive Health. Are Members opposed to this amendment of the agenda? There is no objection by Members. The draft law is excluded from the agenda of the sitting. The Legal Commission is asking to amend the agenda of the sitting and to include in it the draft decision “On Extension of the Term of Submission of Proposals in the Law “Amendments to the Law on Solvency” (No 106/Lp12) for the second reading until 1 August 2016. ‘ Inga Bite, Member, has applied to speak against’.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-06-09-PT12-370-U2	Dear colleagues, On Tuesday, the Legal Commission thought, talked, talked, then once again thought, thought and thought that it was necessary to think more about insolvency proceedings, about the problems that are in insolvency proceedings, and about supervision of insolvency administrators. Let us continue to think until August 1, despite the dozens of proposals that have already been submitted to the draft law. Let us get a few more dozen proposals. You know, there are now three proposals on how insolvency administrators could be monitored. Two of them have already been put forward in existing proposals. The third and fourth options will probably also appear by August. In August, we will return to the situation in which we are, with even more proposals, with more controversial proposals, and we will continue to work from the same point, or even a few steps backwards, than we are now. In essence, two coalition colleagues - Unity and National Union - are criticising one another to delay the process and not put on the agenda, and the other to extend the deadline for tabling proposals. But the result is already equal! We will do nothing in the coming months, and in a few months we will start a couple of steps back from where we are now. Colleagues, what I am offering instead is for the commission or sub-committee to continue discussions, to continue working on these issues, to discuss among themselves the best possible solutions, and when there is a decision in this debate (which Members, colleagues, have to do, that is to say, make decisions, not wait for someone to come to us with ready texts)... when a decision has been taken, appropriate commission proposals must be drawn up in accordance with the decision and referred to the Saeima. In this way, it would be possible to achieve a result at a much faster rate, and the result would be a much more qualitative one. Colleagues, the most important problem at the moment is the tools to clear the system from unscrupulous insolvency administrators. In its study, as well as presenting this study, the Council of Foreign Investors in Latvia pointed out that there are specific surnames that are repeated in connection with insolvency proceedings, where there are visible signs of dishonesty. It is therefore necessary to set up these instruments to clear the insolvency administrators from devious people. And it is possible to do this quite quickly, quite simply even in this summer, if it were the will. Colleagues, I am calling for work to be done, not thinking about thinking more! Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-06-09-PT12-370-U3	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote for amendments to the agenda of the sitting, including the draft decision on the extension of the deadline for the submission of proposals to the second reading of the draft law on “Amendments to the insolvency law” (No 106/Lp12) by 1 August 2016! Please vote mode! Please get the result! -59, against -19, refrains - not. The agenda has therefore been amended. The Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy asks for amendments to the agenda of the meeting, including the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Public Equity and Corporate Governance”. Are Members opposed to such an amendment to the agenda? There is no objection by Members. The agenda has been amended. Members Gaidis Berzins, Raivis Dzintars, Einārs Cilinskis, Rihards Kols, Inese Laizāne and Ilmārs Latkovskis ask to amend the agenda of the sitting and to exclude from it the law “Amendments to the Immigration Law”. Are Members opposed to such an amendment to the agenda? ( Interface: ‘ Vote! ’) ) Members have reservations. Please call me! We will vote in favour of amending the agenda of the sitting by excluding the law on amendments to the Immigration Law! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 21, for - 52, for - 6. The order of business has not been amended. Draft legislation shall not be excluded from the agenda of the sitting. The next item is the Bureau's reports on draft laws submitted. The Saeima Bureau proposes that the draft law “Amendments to the Law on International Assistance” presented by the Cabinet of Ministers be referred to the Foreign Affairs Commission, stating that it is the commission responsible, as well as the Commission on Social Affairs and Labour. Do Members have objections? There is no objection by Members. The draft law has been passed on to the commissions. The Parliamentary Bureau proposes that the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Social Services and Social Assistance” presented by the Cabinet of Ministers be referred to the Foreign Affairs Commission, as well as the Commission on Social and Labour Affairs, stating that it is the committee responsible. Do Members have objections? There is no objection by Members. The draft law has been passed on to the commissions. The Parliamentary Bureau proposes that the draft law presented by the Cabinet of Ministers “Amendments to the Law on Control of Business Support” be submitted to the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission, stating that it is the committee responsible. Do Members have objections? There is no objection by Members. The draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Council of the Saeima proposes that the draft law “Amendments to the Law on the Markets in Financial Instruments” presented by the Cabinet of Ministers be referred to the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission, stating that it is the committee responsible. Do Members have objections? There is no objection by Members. The draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Saeima Presidium proposes that the draft law presented by the Cabinet of Ministers “Amendments to the Law “On Sworn Auditors” be submitted to the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission, stating that it is the committee responsible. Do Members have objections? There is no objection. The draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Saeima Bureau proposes that the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Value Added Tax” presented by the Cabinet of Ministers be referred to the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission, stating that it is the committee responsible. Do Members have objections? There is no objection by Members. The draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Parliamentary Bureau proposes that the draft law ‘Amendments to the Law on the Movement of Genetically Modified Organisms’ presented by Inguna Silver, Silvia Simfa, Aivars Meija, Ringold Baloža, Gunāra Kūtra, Arvidas Platopera and Romana Mežeckas be referred to the Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy Commission, stating that it is the Commission responsible. ‘ For” applied to speak Member Roman Mežeckis.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-06-09-PT12-370-U4	Good morning, honourable President. Good morning, honourable colleagues! I invite you to support the draft law on the prohibition of cultivation of genetically modified organisms throughout the territory of Latvia. There are three reasons why this should be done. The first reason concerns the European Union. The Directive of the European Parliament and of the Council of 11 March 2015 provides for the possibility for Member States to prohibit the cultivation of genetically modified organisms on their territory. If this possibility exists for more than a year, why has Latvia not yet taken a decision on the ban? Why is there a need to delay? The idea of this bill came to me during the meeting of the Committee on European Affairs, discussing Latvia's market protection. Thank you to the Commission, thank you to my group colleagues and, in particular, to Ineta Stabulniece for her work in preparing the bill! The second reason for supporting changes to the law is linked to the competitiveness of our economy in the future. The main argument why Scotland, as one of the first European countries, decided to ban the cultivation of genetically modified organisms, was very rational: much of Scotland's export production was made up of food goods and beverages, and the Scottish Government considered that this decision would significantly increase the global competitiveness of their food production. I think that Latvian farmers' production will also be more competitive if their buyers know that it is produced from genetically modified organisms in a free country. I am not giving in to illusions: the adoption of these amendments to the law will not be easy. The cultivation of genetically modified organisms has its own strong defenders, both among the business community and among officials in some ministries. And if you vote in favour of this bill today, there will be glass broken in some offices tonight. The third reason for voting in favour is linked to responsibility. Each person today is determined by his past decisions and actions. For years, we have been unable to clean up the full volume of chemical waste in Inčukalns, and, as we can read in the press, there is a risk that pollution is slow, but certainly stealing ever closer to groundwater, threatening to contaminate the environment. Someone can say: “Yes, but we are not responsible for it. The decision to create a wise pond was taken by another power, and those decisions were taken many years ago.’ We cannot change what happened yesterday, but we can influence what will happen tomorrow. Therefore, we must not allow future generations to fight against the consequences of our decisions (as we are today with smart ponds) if we have not been able to protect our Latvian land from contamination by genetically modified organisms. I would like to compare the vote on authorising or prohibiting the cultivation of genetically modified organisms with the vote on the construction or non-construction of a nuclear power plant. Experts believe that nuclear energy is the cheapest and most economically advantageous form of energy. However, is this advantage proportionate to the pollution caused by the nuclear reactor? Is the economic advantage proportionate to the potential risk and damage caused by the damage or accident at the nuclear power plant? Many countries, such as Germany, abandoned nuclear power plants after the Fukushima tragedy, but others continue to use them and even build new ones. It's their choice. Not so dramatic, but our choice of cultivation of genetically modified organisms today is similar. If we do not make the right choice, then there will also be a risk that our land will be polluted forever with relative economic benefits. We must be aware that we have not created this land, but that we have received it from our fathers. And that is why it is important that we leave it to future generations. It is about responsibility - our joint responsibility and also our personal responsibility. I call on everyone to think about it before the vote.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-06-09-PT12-370-U5	Thank you. Are Members against passing on the draft law to the Commission? There is no objection by Members. The draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Saeima Presidium proposes that the draft law “On the Convention on the Organisation of Economic Cooperation and Development of 14 December 1960 and the Treaty concerning the Accession of the Republic of Latvia to the Convention on the Conditions of Economic Cooperation and Development of the Republic of Latvia” submitted by the Cabinet of Ministers be referred to the Foreign Affairs Commission, stating that it is the committee responsible. ‘ Ojārs Ēriks Kalniņš, Member for the” has applied to speak.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-06-09-PT12-370-U6	Thank you, Presidium. Honourable Members! In 1996, five years after the restoration of independence, Latvia publicly declared its wish to join the Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development (OECD). 20 years have passed, and finally, this organization, one of the most prestigious institutions in the world, has appreciated our country and has invited us to join the world's most developed nations. This best practice club brings together 34 Member States, which account for 80 percent of the global economy. It is a unique forum and a globally recognised centre of expertise that allows Member States' representatives to effectively address their binding issues in a number of sectors. The OECD is developing international guidelines and standards to promote sustainable development and to respond to current global challenges. What will Latvia benefit from joining the OECD? First. It is an international quality stamp, which shows that Latvia has an orderly business and investment environment. Perception promotes investment, and now the perception of international investors and financiers, their opinion on Latvia will improve significantly. Secondly. This has a positive impact on our international credit rating, which in turn has a positive effect on the interest rate. This is a new advantage for our entrepreneurs and governments. Thirdly. It contributes to Latvia's economic recognition and ensures greater confidence in Latvia's economic potential and investment security. And the end. The OECD demands higher standards for business, financial transactions, corporate governance and the fight against corruption in international business transactions. Our participation in the OECD will stimulate the improvement of our own standards in Latvia. The Saeima will also have direct cooperation with the OECD, as the OECD has established a global parliamentary network. If we use it correctly, it will be an important instrument in the hands of every Member who wants to promote direct cooperation with the most successful countries in the world. Over the last year, one of the most topical topics at the OECD parliamentary conferences has had an impact on society and the economy. The accession process itself has already shown that membership of the OECD has not been an end in itself, but an instrument for the country to improve its policies in almost all economic or social areas. The OECD recommendations provided a strong incentive for necessary internal reforms in the field of anti-corruption and prevention of the laundering of illicit financial assets. We have done a lot, but we have made a commitment to continue with the reforms and improvements that have been undertaken. Of course, this work will continue after accession, but now we will have the opportunity to make use of the expertise and experience of the other Member States and the OECD Secretariat. Our participation in the Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development does not give us guarantees - there is no one in this world - but gives us huge opportunities if we know how to use them efficiently and quickly. I congratulate this achievement and warmly support this historic bill.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-06-09-PT12-370-U7	Thank you. Do Members object to a draft law being passed on to the Commission? There is no objection by Members. The draft law has been passed on to the Commission. Dear colleagues, Members Jānis Vucāns, Edgars Putra, Jānis Trupovnieks, Laimdota Straujuma, Ivans Ribakovs and Imants Raudnieks ask for a 15-minute break before the agenda item “Amendments to the Immigration Law”. Do Members have objections? There is no objection by Members. Please call me! Please check-in mode for Members! While the results of the registration are collected, the name of the Member Janis Vucanas.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-06-09-PT12-370-U8	Dear colleagues from the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission, please attend the Commission's meeting at 9.23.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-06-09-PT12-370-U9	Name to Member Ainars Latkovsky.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-06-09-PT12-370-U10	The sitting of the Members of the Commission on Defence, Home Affairs and Anti-Corruption, right now, in this break, in the premises of the Commission on Defence, Home Affairs and Anti-Corruption.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-06-09-PT12-370-U11	Name Member of the Saeima, Gunars Kūtris, to read the results of the registration.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-06-09-PT12-370-U12	Hello, colleagues! Currently not registered: Guntis Belēvičs, Jānis Kžads, Armands Krauze, Vilnis Ķirsis, Sergejs Mirskis, Vladimirs Nikonovs, Vitalijs Orlovs... Yes, Edward Smilten... Yes, Veiko Spolitis and Jānis Urbanovičs.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-06-09-PT12-370-U13	Thank you. Interruption until 9.30 a.m. ( Interruption) ( Interruption)
ParlaMint-LV_2016-06-09-PT12-370-U14	Ladies and gentlemen, I call for seats to be held in the Chamber. We're going to keep the Saeima sitting. On the agenda - the law “Amendments to the Law on Immigration”, re-reading. On behalf of the Commission for Defence, Home Affairs and Anti-Corruption - Member Ainars Latkovskis.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-06-09-PT12-370-U15	Hello, colleagues! Proposal 1 is a proposal from a political group. Unfortunately, this proposal cannot be seen because it goes beyond the veto of the President of Latvia. ( From the hall: ‘ Vote! ’) ) Council Regulation (EC) No 1257/96 of 20 June 1996 concerning humanitarian aid (OJ L 163, 2.7.1996, p. 1).
ParlaMint-LV_2016-06-09-PT12-370-U16	This is therefore not a proposal to be examined. Proposal No 2...
ParlaMint-LV_2016-06-09-PT12-370-U17	Proposal 2 and the proposal of the Saeima Legal Bureau. Partially supported, included 3. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-06-09-PT12-370-U18	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-06-09-PT12-370-U19	3. - A proposal from the Saeima Commission on Defence, Home Affairs and Prevention of Corruption. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-06-09-PT12-370-U20	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-06-09-PT12-370-U21	4. - Losktov's proposal. Unfortunately, this goes beyond the veto of the President of Latvia and is not visible either.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-06-09-PT12-370-U22	So we're looking at the next one.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-06-09-PT12-370-U23	Yeah. Proposal 5 and the proposal of the Saeima Legal Bureau. There is no support in the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-06-09-PT12-370-U24	Let us start a debate. Name to Member Edvin Schnorem.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-06-09-PT12-370-U25	Dear Chairman of the Saeima. Dear colleagues, I would like to express my support for this proposal by the Saeima's Legal Bureau, which was created by analysing the comments of the President of Latvia after he passed on the draft law to re-read. What is the nature of this proposal? It provides that those who bought temporary residence permits for five years in exchange for the acquisition of real estate would be given the possibility to renew the temporary residence permit for another five years by paying a fee of EUR 5 thousand to the State. The proposal provides for this provision to be applied from this year on. What would be the impact on the national budget? The impact would be positive: approximately EUR 5 million of income each year. By supporting this proposal, you have the opportunity to ensure that the country receives and uses such income, for example, for the first housing programme. If you vote against it, the country will not be able to take these 5 million of temporary residence permits for buyers, namely the investors that we attracted to the country's economy. So instead of taking this money from them, the country will be forced to take it from our citizens, from the state budget, which, as we know, is chronically lacking. Yesterday we had the opportunity to meet with the Minister for Education and Science, who said that the reform of teachers' salaries lacked EUR 6 million. There is also a shortage of money for the health sector. Here is the opportunity to take the money. Would the adoption of this proposal not violate the principle of legitimate expectations and would it not be possible for Latvia to sue the European courts, as it was from certain stakeholders to whom this norm would apply and who, of course, do not want to pay anything extra? In the Commission we discussed these issues in detail, the Legal Bureau of the Saeima analysed all these reservations and clearly concluded that the principle of legitimate expectations would not be violated. This was agreed by the President's lawyers. There are therefore no legal obstacles to the implementation of this proposal. I would remind you that the President of Latvia, by passing the law on to the re-reading, stressed that he also had no objection to the fact that 5 thousand euros would be required for the extension of temporary residence permits, and there is no objection to the fact that this norm is implemented immediately as provided for in this proposal. I therefore call on you to support this important proposal for our country and for our country's economy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-06-09-PT12-370-U26	Thank you. Name to Member Ivars Zarins.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-06-09-PT12-370-U27	Hello, colleagues! Well, what you have said at the moment is either maximum short-sightedness or maximum hypocrisy, which has now been expressed, because in fact, with these amendments, you are achieving the opposite. So if you want to collect more from this program, then you have to think it would be interesting enough for anyone to take part in it at all. On the contrary, these amendments will make it less attractive, and you can see that. As you remember, last week, the question was discussed here about why the housing programme needs to change the conditions, why the working families themselves will have to pay for these state guarantees. And the reason is very simple - after your legendary amendments, after your activities, just money is no longer available for this program. That is what you have achieved! All your efforts are on the contrary! You are acting against the interests of Latvian families! Unfortunately, that is the situation. I therefore call for such things not to be supported at all and for demagogy to start thinking in a sustainable way, and for them to begin to take real care of their people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-06-09-PT12-370-U28	Name to Member Igor Pimenov.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-06-09-PT12-370-U29	Dear Members, Honourable Members! I have never supported the attraction of foreign buyers to the real estate market in Latvia. I have both spoken and written about the fact that prices in the entire real estate market as well as rents. Unsatisfactory internal demand for expensive apartments will keep wage increases and producer costs rising, thus reducing the profits of domestic producers, all of which may reduce their competitiveness. My arguments against this proposal are very simple. In my opinion, it is a shame - to impose a new charge on those foreigners who had once relied on Latvian law. I believe that this is a damage to the image of the country, the reputation of our country. Not to the reputation of the government, but to the reputation of the state! ‘ It is the same stupidity as the introduction of non-citizeny and hysteria around immigrants from the Middle East. I call on you not to support this proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-06-09-PT12-370-U30	Name to Member Janis Dombrava.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-06-09-PT12-370-U31	Dear Saeima! Once again, it is worth pointing out that this is a proposal from the Legal Bureau, not a proposal from a political party. If we are talking about some kind of legal certainty and some kind of increase in unfair charges, it is important to note that we can take as a comparative example the national passport fee. It is a document with a specific legal status and there is a state fee for issuing a passport. In 1999 this fee was 5 lats. In the meantime, this fee has increased by 400 percent: currently it has reached 20 lats or 28 euros... EUR 28,46. The State can raise the charges, introduce new charges, and this is not a violation of any principle of legitimate expectations. If the State has already acted by increasing the fees for issuing the passport, what is the basis for not increasing or introducing new fees in connection with the extension of residence permits?Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. I would also like to point out the possible reason why SASKANI's colleagues are so active: on April 29, a donation of 10 000 euros from the head of ABLV bank Ernest Berņa has been received. ( FROM a fraction DECLARES: “Well? ” ) Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-06-09-PT12-370-U32	Name to Member Edvin Schnorem, second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-06-09-PT12-370-U33	Yes, honourable colleagues! I want to point out... It was said here that asking for EUR 5 000 is a clear stupidity and that it will delay, and so on, as Mr. Zarins said. But I would like to point out that we have just supported Amendment 3. Read it! It is already foreseen that we support it. We have already voted. Now we are talking only about at what point and to which people it will apply. That was what the President called for an assessment: which groups will be covered by it. This wish of the President is interpreted by the Legal Bureau of the Saeima by means of a proposal 5. And that is clearly what this proposal and this provision must cover. There you go! That's one. The other, which relates to what Mr. Pimenov said, was that those people had relied on Latvian law, and now Latvia, as it says, has deceived them in some way. Well, I stress once again: there is no breach of the principle of legitimate expectations. That's what lawyers say - that's what the Saeima's Legal Office says. And the situation in this case is similar to the situation if the tenant enters into a lease contract for one year or five years, as in this case, but the contract ends... He is confident that he will continue to pay, for example, EUR 100 per month. But the situation on the market is changing, he will have to pay EUR 90 or EUR 120. He wanted to... Well, he has wanted, but no one has promised him anything, and in this case neither the Latvian State has promised anything, and in law everything is completely correct. And the last one. That, due to this proposal, few applicants apply for these residence permits. Well, this is not about this proposal. This is due to the fact that this rate has been changed from last year, if I am not mistaken, or from 2014, and therefore do not apply. It's not related to this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-06-09-PT12-370-U34	Name to Member Juris Villums.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-06-09-PT12-370-U35	Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Schnores said that this situation could be brought into line with the lease agreement. It seems to me that this comparison is not quite appropriate, because perhaps once the rental contract has ended, we do not get to pay EUR 5 000 straight away. The most important thing I want to say right now is very briefly. Let us compare this situation with the situation of Soviet times when several Latvians and representatives of other nations left the Soviet Union! Well, then went from the Soviet Union to various Western European countries. ( VL-TB/LNNK interconnections.) And now, too... With these temporary residence permits, some people are really fleeing from Russia. And, of course, they're... part of them, perhaps (let's say so, probably!) , are rich enough, perhaps close people ruling in Russia and are able to pay both 5 thousand and perhaps more; maybe we can, so to speak, wipe even more money - not only 5 million, but perhaps more - for the new families in Latvia, and so on. However, some of these people have really left their country. It wasn't an easy decision for them, I think. And when I talk to these people, I really try to understand them and really compare them a little with the situation that I just mentioned: our people also had to flee from the Soviet Union. And in this respect, I think we really need to listen to these people and let them continue to live here. And the next proposal - the 6th proposal - makes it clear that no further derogation will be: they need to learn Latvian. Some of them have already done so. Moreover, they very much welcome the system of our country, let us say so, and see that the situation with us is, however, much better than in our great neighbourhood. I think that these people could gradually naturalize themselves and make a serious contribution in general to our country, Latvia, Russian-speaking people, not only Russian, but any person who speaks Russian today and who, unfortunately, are often unable to violate some of their ideas, is unable to learn Latvian and is not loyal to our country... I think that from these people who have now arrived in Latvia and perhaps yet to come, we can really not only benefit our country, but help our great neighbour gradually to understand that what happens to them does not really encourage people to stay there and normal living conditions. I therefore call for Amendment 5 to be rejected and for the next proposal - Amendment 6, which is the proposal of the committee responsible and which, in my opinion, regularises this situation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-06-09-PT12-370-U36	Name to Member Alexander Kirštein.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-06-09-PT12-370-U37	Dear President, Honourable Members! A little statistics. Where do the most tourists come from, who have bought these residence permits? You know, from Russia. We're looking at Russian statistics. We can test it on the Internet. So for the time being, there have been no 70 percent of Russians abroad - outside Russia. Of the 30 percent that have been abroad, 20 percent have only been in the CIS countries. So only 10 percent have left outside the former CIS. These 10 percent are people who are mostly very wealthy or super-sustainable and use these residence permits not so much to work hard in Latvia and increase Latvia's gross domestic product, but to buy here properties in Jurmala, because most of the properties bought are in Riga and Jurmala. So, by lifting up, as has already been said here, the price of real estate is abnormally high, not allowing them to be bought by local people, because they are mainly buying this property, they are living in it, say, not for a few weeks a year and are travelling across the European Union, which would not be bad. What are the benefits of this sector? Let's count the balance. Do their children go to Latvian schools and study Latvian? The organization “Young Latvians” has been established, which is welcome. But there are only a few dozen in this organization. Most of those who come here send their children to Russian schools, which means that Latvia's transhipment continues. Specifically formulated by the popular Russian actor Svetlakov from Comedy Club (he lives here for three and a half years - he has this residence permit and property in Jurmala), when he was asked whether he had learned even one word in Latvian. And what he answered, you could all see and hear on TV: “For what? Latvia is almost like Russia. Here everyone speaks Russian.” The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. I.Pimenova intermediate call sign.) This is the balance of these residence permits, speaking from the language and from the other point of view. Let's talk about tourism now. Two weeks ago, there were European cases of European Parliaments in Athens... ( Interface: “On the proposal! ” ) Yes, on the proposal... Joint meeting of the European Commissions for Affairs and Economic Affairs on the tourism industry, in which a representative of the OECD spoke. ( Today we passed on to commissions the law on joining the OECD organization.) The tourism industry is now the main one, it brings more money than the metallurgy we finance, or the automotive industry and in many countries, even more than information technology. In terms of employment, it can reach 15 per cent of GDP and 10 per cent to 15 per cent of total GDP. So what is Latvia's benefit from tourism? It's more than three percent salt. Do residence permits promote tourism? We take the European city of Jurmala, which was famous for its wooden architecture as Mariehamna or Turku or the small towns of Norway. If tourism is personalized, people do not go somewhere the same way. They travel either on a religious or family trip or to battle areas where we do not have unasphalt roads, such as Lesten or German graves in Saldus, or to ancient castles or wooden architectural cities. And Jurmala, which was a pearl of architecture of European importance with architecture of the late 19th century and 20th and 30th century, designed not only by Latvian architects, but also by many German, Finnish and Swedish architects, has been completely destroyed because two-storey architecture has been plagued by the five-storey and seven-storey cousins who have not been built, say, somewhere in Kauguri... The high pressure of money in local municipalities tends to change building laws, and this city has therefore been completely destroyed. So Latvia renounces the billions of money that can be obtained from tourism, and fives its environment, as I said... Now, look at what those tusks look like! With the dragged reinforced concrete bulldogs, we've taken tourists away... There's no secret: we've scared historical tourism, let's say, lovers. And we are also telling you that EUR 5 000 for these millionaires or very wealthy, very wealthy people, representing 10 percent of the population of Russia and the CIS countries... that it will be a huge disaster for them... And without even protecting us, we come here and say, "No, you know, we don't need money for the first housing programme or demographics. Let's take the next city, let's go more." Soon there will be nowhere to build in Jurmala. And where else to talk about real estate prices and everything else!
ParlaMint-LV_2016-06-09-PT12-370-U38	Mr Kirštein, your speaking time is over!
ParlaMint-LV_2016-06-09-PT12-370-U39	I call for support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-06-09-PT12-370-U40	The name of the Member, Martin Bondar.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-06-09-PT12-370-U41	Colleagues! I listened very carefully to what the National Association is making. Well, try to listen. Is it such a true story of highway robbers that they want to draw deeper into the forest and then take as much money as possible? What is it? Hided behind the Law Office, hid behind the President of Latvia... And thank you, Mr. Schnores. Mr Schnores put it in the most precise way. He said: “Mothers and gentlemen! Latvia is rented for 5 thousand euros for five years.” ( From the VL-TB/LNNK faction: “Do you want to?Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, “ Thank you, Mr. Schnore. Now it is clear to me - the National Association rents Latvia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-06-09-PT12-370-U42	Name to Member Rihard Cole.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-06-09-PT12-370-U43	Dear President of the Saeima. Dear and honourable colleagues! What has been said here from the triple... Those who oppose the proposal of the Legal Bureau of the Saeima should remind them that this is an investment programme, so the programme by which to raise funding - contributions to the state budget. What Mr Viļuma mentions about integration and other issues... It's not, I don't know, temporary stay... the refugee programme. These things should, however, be separated, and this is not a fundamental task for this programme. With regard to this particular proposal, we need to look at the current acute needs of the country in terms of education reforms, in terms of health reforms. We have to talk about the funding available in the state budget. And here's a great opportunity... Contrary to the claim that legal certainty is violated, the Immigration Act does not state that the residence permit is granted for a period of five years and is automatically extended to you. Thus, the person applying for a temporary residence permit understands: “I acquire property as explicitly written in law, and for a period of five years I obtain a temporary residence permit.” No multiple points! The State can therefore decide on additional conditions: if a person wishes to extend this authorisation, certain contributions must be made. And 5 thousand - it is not an extraordinary sum, however, if we look at how much it costs in other countries at all. And it is precisely about the acquisition of real estate for temporary residence permits. In Britain, starting at GBP 1 million... ( Interface: “We also demand a million! ” ) We ask, but we have 350 thousand... The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. A.Kamiņš: “Don’t talk to the grass!” ) I would like to raise for half a million. In any case, however, I call for one important point to be taken into account in this proposal. Members of the Saeima should, however, respect this, given that you respect the author of this proposal very much in other commissions and other draft laws. It is a proposal proposed and evaluated by the Legal Bureau of the Saeima. I call for support.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-06-09-PT12-370-U44	The name to Member Boris Cilevič.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-06-09-PT12-370-U45	Dear colleagues, We hear a lot of very interesting things in this discussion: fees for Britain, for tourists, for everything, but not for the substance. And what is the nature of the matter? The first basic question is: Why do we not trust? Because we are changing the rules all the time. Changing the rules of the game over the course of the game is bad. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. R. Kola’s intermediate call.) This applies both to tax legislation, for which we are constantly criticised, and all the more so, to this programme. Let's see what's going on. Let's go! There is now competition in the world - very intense competition! - above all on investment and on human resources, which is even more important. Similar programmes that offer residence permits and even nationality exist today in more than 90 countries worldwide, including 22 countries of the European Union. When we launched this programme, these amounts were, of course, very small (I would say, disproportionately small) for one simple reason: we should have broken this market, we had to be competitive, and that is why we managed it. Look at the numbers! How much money did the state budget get in the first years - 2010, 2011 and so on? Now the process that you want to continue and lead to a logical end begins gradually. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. I. Interdependence of the lender.) You are starting to complicate this process: increasing requirements, further criteria and so on. As a result, its amounts and the benefits of our budget are being substantially reduced. Mr Zarins told you about this, but you did not even consider it necessary to respond to his arguments. I understood very well why, because it is very difficult to answer numbers. You know these figures - about 2012, 2013, 2014... Come on, let's be honest! Your party has always stood against this programme from the outset and you are doing everything you can to use your influence in the coalition to actually stop this programme at all. Then say it! Well, you shouldn't be two-to-one. You come up with some arguments instead of simply saying that you don't want this program, because the Russians are taking this money here, and you don't want more Russians in Latvia. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. R.Kols: “For real estate!” ) And we do not need to figure out something and pretend to be Europeans! You are not Europeans in this regard. I am very sorry that those people in a coalition who really think economically and who understand that money does not have nationality become your hostage, and you simply use it completely unfairly. So let's be honest. This programme has already been largely lost since last year there were 118 submissions... How many people are going to leave and never live here, and don't spend their money? Get to know what those people who really want to live in a European Union country, not Russia... They're going to look for other countries. And now we are no longer competitive, because by investing just as much and less money, people can gain more favourable and more favourable conditions in other European Union countries: not only permanent residence permits (as opposed to our programme), but also citizenship. If this proposal is adopted, it will be the last nail in this programme. That is what you want. I propose that we do not support this proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-06-09-PT12-370-U46	The name of the Member, John Adamson.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-06-09-PT12-370-U47	Highly honored Presidium! Dear colleagues, I would like to start by replying to Mr Kirštein. When you speak, Mr Kirštein, about Jurmala, remember the history: you were in a coalition when the same Ķemeri were sold out, and the whole situation in Jurmala is in many ways related to the coalition that was in power at that time. For the past 20 years, you have always been in power, either directly or in the last resort. Next. On the legal office and on the proposals that have been submitted. Unfortunately, I did not receive a reply from the Legal Office at the Commission's sitting, why the proposal is not under consideration. What was that? Powered out of this Article. In our opinion, therefore, all the questions raised by the President of Latvia would be answered. Obviously this explanation will need to be received further from the Constitutional Court. Next. This is about one or two sponsors. Well, look at you, Mr. Dombrava! Look who your sponsors are and how they have insolvency, with bailiffs, with real estate and so on, and then there's going to be a lot of questions. And then it's clear what's being treasured. Next. You know, somehow interesting it happens that this mansmaid around the Immigration Law started us in 2014. Then was the election time, then there was blackmail: one coalition partner blackmailed the other to accept one or the other correction. What's happened? According to the statistics at the Commission's disposal, Mr Kirštein, it can be seen that the benefits of the investment, of the funds that were invested in the Latvian economy, were over EUR 2 billion. Is that a significant number or not? I don't know. At the same time... We are talking about attracting investors, but the same hockey club “Riga” is not able to sponsor from our state companies, and they are looking around the world to support our hockey, which is the basis for our selection of Latvia. Let us be realistic! Next. As for 2014, you know, you don't want to draw parallels, but such interesting coincidences appear. It was in 2013 that the President of Russia announced that it was necessary to fight for investments not to flow outside Russia. What's going on with us? The Immigration Act is being amended suddenly. And suddenly one political force with foam on the lips starts to tell: “You know, we don’t need this investment!” ( From the VL-TB/LNNK Group: “Your partners! ” ) So what? How do you defend your interests then? I can already mention that one other Foreign Minister also fought against the sale of Mistral to Russia because he fully supported the Russian military doctrine because they did not need these base ships... It's time for that man to go after the order. However, I call for you to land on sinful land and to understand what we really want. Do we want these articles to work and invest in us, do we not want them? And the answer will be very simple. Because we always disgust about this law by constantly amending it. No more years... We change the rules of the game in one point or the other point or article. What perspective - the investment perspective, the country's development perspective - can we talk about if we change the rules of the game all the time? But nothing will change with it. You have already achieved one elemental thing, that the price of real estate in Jurmala and Riga is absolutely the same as that in all the rest of Latvia. Where will their real estate be bought if about 250 thousand people in Zilupe can buy a semi-urban city? The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. M.Bondars: “Everything!” ; dep. J.Dombrava: “You drive that city! What are you doing?” ) Mr Dombrava, I would advise you to read more often what is being led and what is represented and not just by rumours. ( Interface: “Do not talk to the grass! ” ) And by returning to the Legal Bureau's proposals...
ParlaMint-LV_2016-06-09-PT12-370-U48	Mr. Adamson, your speaking time is over!
ParlaMint-LV_2016-06-09-PT12-370-U49	The last sentence. All the proposals made by the Commission for Defence, Home Affairs and Prevention of Corruption are in practice proposals prepared by the Legal Bureau. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-06-09-PT12-370-U50	Dear colleagues, I would like to remind you: in cases where the President of Latvia has requested the re-reading of the law in accordance with Article 71 of the Satversme, the procedure shall be determined by Article 115 of the Saeima Rules of Procedure roll. Name to Member Raiv Dzintar.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-06-09-PT12-370-U51	Dear Chairman of the Saeima. Dear colleagues, It is very clear why the representatives of the "Centre of Understanding" are very actively fighting against this proposal. Today they are, in fact, the main debate calling for a 'no' vote. But... The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. V.Orlovs: “Dzintar, SAVE, not “Centre of Conversation”!” ) I am very sorry, Member Viļums, who has not so far been seen as part of this group and who has actually described this audience, which we are talking about today, almost as such political refugees, has also lost ground. I would like to recall what Mr Šnores has already emphasised: we are talking about the category that obtained residence permits from 2010. Please, Mr Viļuma, of what did these people flee in 2010? What are these refugees? And why do the Security Police, when talking about this programme, recognise that this programme poses a potential threat to national security? Why do you think these refugees pose a threat to national security? Because we are not talking about refugees at the moment. Even if we could talk potential... In theory about a political refugee who might have obtained a residence permit in Latvia now in the context of the Ukrainian crisis, I would like to remind you once again that the version currently supported by the Commission provides that these 5 000 will be collected from them. This is, for the most part, the case for this category of Russian young farmers who want to obtain travel rights in the European Union and who are taking advantage of the fact that we are offering these rights cheaper than any other country of the European Union. We did it humiliatingly cheaply, and they used it. We now need to answer the main question. I feel that some Members do not understand what question we are looking for. The question is not whether the country needs an additional 5 million. If we were to live now in the region, we could figure out whether we needed 5 million or not. The country needs 5 million. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. J.Adamson: “A where will he come from?Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, “ And the question is, not whether you need it, but how to take these 5 million. Whether to take from the new mothers, or to take from teachers who lack this million to implement the reform of teachers' salaries, or to take from Russia the new rich, to whom this amount... The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. I.Zariņš intermediates.) Well, sorry, who are they for investors if they have a problem paying EUR 5 000 every five years? What investments are we talking about? So, please, let us not embarrass people and simply everyone (I am referring here to the coalition partners in particular, because the opposition will always say - everyone's lower taxes, everyone's higher wages - and they do not have to answer for their decisions) who work in government, to make a choice. There is a need to make a distinction: which are our target groups, which we are defending and which will be those that will, however, help to implement social measures that are important to the country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-06-09-PT12-370-U52	Name to Member Igor Pimenov, for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-06-09-PT12-370-U53	Dear colleagues, The legal bureau's proposals have always been precise and exhaustive. However, the issue is about political consequences and justice. Telling people: “Welcome to Latvia!” , we say to the guest next moment: “Get out!” These are the consequences, and they are unjust. The next proposal, i.e., implements the same President's instruction, but the political consequences are completely different and justice is greater. I therefore call on you, using this opportunity, not to support Amendment 5 and to support Amendment 6. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. A.Bērzins: “We all understand this, we will now vote!” ) Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-06-09-PT12-370-U54	Name to Member Alexander Kirštein, for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-06-09-PT12-370-U55	Dear President, Honourable Members! I didn’t want to speak (Interface: “Do not speak!” ), but I always have to speak after Mr. Adamson as a teacher of the elimination of illiteracy. So Ķemeri, Mr. Adamson, was destroyed by Soviet power, including them in the city of Jurmala, destroying the tramline from Ķemeri sanatorium to the sea, destroying the famous, famous European restaurant “The Funod” in which some trade union house was built, then a pioneer camp, and so all of this ended in natural death in a fatal way. Now this sanatorium is being restored if you don't know it.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-06-09-PT12-370-U56	I call for a debate on the proposal!
ParlaMint-LV_2016-06-09-PT12-370-U57	Next. Numbers. Here, we said we were supposed to give up a billion. I would like to remind you: if we stick to these 12 or 15 per cent of GDP from tourism... Mr Adamson, it's 3.75 billion, it's three times more than the figures you mentioned. Here we were threatened, namely, if we now vote in favour of this proposal, these billionaires, millionaires and multimillionaires will travel elsewhere. Obviously, they will go to Monaco, where a two-room apartment costs 2 million, or to the United States, where a residence permit can be obtained, if they invest 1 million dollars in some production, or to Bavaria, which is slipping into the current floods. As far as I am aware, there are only four five countries in Europe that are not contaminated, that have a normal environment and normal climatic conditions; they can go there. They are Scandinavian countries, Latvia and other Baltic countries. So please don't sell these options cheaply! I am ashamed of those people who say that millionaires, multi-millionaires and those who can pay, as I said, for a reinforced concrete can of 300 or 500 thousand in Jurmala, without suddenly having the money to pay 5 thousand every five years. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-06-09-PT12-370-U58	Member Juris Villums, second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-06-09-PT12-370-U59	Ladies and gentlemen! Of course, this programme was initially an investment programme, but when we go, we see that these people who have come to Latvia are actually divided into two groups. One group is ordinary investors, and the other group is those that I mentioned before, in my first speech, - people who are actually fleeing or forced to leave their homeland. Yes, it was said here that such people could claim political asylum. But, you know, there is one person in Latvia who is currently living in Liepaja and has asked for political asylum in Latvia, but the answer is waiting for more than half a year, in fact, there will be a year. Clearly, this does not allow a person to get any answer from Latvia in a short time. So some of these people really used this as an investment programme, but at the same time, of course, they had the opportunity to legally leave their country and gradually build, as they say, life elsewhere. And if it is said that I or the Association of the Regions of Latvia are in some way in favour of the same position, then I will honestly say: I think these people who come to Latvia are - quite the opposite! - disfavorably, because, as I said on the first occasion, they can really help us address the Russian-speaking part of Latvian society, which does not support SASKA’s policy and which does not support the policy of “United Russia”, i.e. the Russian Federation. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. I.Zariņš: “That’s it!” ) And the last thing I want to say is that the National Association shows, in essence, that there are bad owners, because instead of getting funding to support young families, right here in Latvia, with sensible farming, sorting... Yes, I have to remind you once again of the system of punitiveness of insolvency administrators. Instead of sorting out the economic processes in our own country, we are trying to "knock" out of one of the arrivals.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-06-09-PT12-370-U60	Mr Viļuma, your speaking time is over!
ParlaMint-LV_2016-06-09-PT12-370-U61	Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-06-09-PT12-370-U62	Name to Member Sergey Dolgopolov.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-06-09-PT12-370-U63	The High Saeima! This debate has long turned not into a debate on amendments to the Immigration Law, but on it - good or bad to take the Robin Huda principle into its armament - to take away from the rich and divide the poor, including insolvency administrators perhaps. This is not about what is good, what is bad. It is about this: when this programme was introduced, Latvia survived the post-crisis period. The main problem was to complement the budget revenue and it was implemented through this programme. The second task was to try to reduce the impact of the real estate bubble, and therefore it was placed on the purchase of real estate. But, you forgive me, none of the foreign countries, none of the outside had forced us, the legislators, to accept a programme that would promote one direction or another. Investments could be made in real estate, could be invested in the banking sector, could be invested in the development of production, tourism and so on. Legislator - our legislator, not one of the sides! - had chosen what he had chosen. Next, as we have unfortunately adopted, we are beginning to improve something that cannot, in principle, be improved. And now we are starting to engage in demagogy, that, behold, the Security Police believes that this is a risk to our security. However, I would like to remind you that any application for this type of authorisation is also subject to a security police check. There were cases where the refusal by that authority was grounds for refusing to participate in the programme as well. That's why it's mythology again, and nothing more! Any investor first assesses not whether we have a workforce or not, whether there are good taxes or bad taxes, whether there are resources, energy resources and so on... These are remarkable things, of course! But the foundations are based on stability - stability in tax policy, stability in legislation and so on, and so on. Because only in a stable environment can we talk about a perspective, about investments in the long term, not at the given moment and until the next day. The principle of stability is therefore one of the most important when we are talking about attracting investment. And that's why what the National Association stands for today... To be honest, it has been rightly said that it is an attempt to drive us out of the rather large European Union market by using such not particularly honest techniques, using the rhetoric of Robin Hud. I call, however, for action to be taken and for a decision to be made wisely. And the last thing I want to say. You see, here the programme - reception of people in Latvia - is very different from what we discussed when we talk about refugee problems and the placement of refugees in Latvia. Perhaps it would not be unnecessary to compare these two programs and think that there are many similar and much different. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-06-09-PT12-370-U64	Name to Member Carl Sergeant.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-06-09-PT12-370-U65	Good morning, colleagues! I think we should all, however, be honest about saying that this is not a question of investment or of legal certainty. This is a question of political resolution. When I hear you say that legitimate expectations have been violated... I also consulted lawyers other than the Legal Bureau of the Saeima yesterday specifically, and I was clearly told that, in a situation where there is a time limit for the operation of a norm or law, and this time limit expires, anyone - both the state and the person who has concluded such a contract - can change these conditions. If we had, let's accept, issued a permit for five years, and after three years knocked on the door of this residence permit and said, "Well, now, man, pay more or immediately sing an anthem without any mistakes, otherwise go away!" - This would be a violation of legitimate expectations. The other thing. Is this an investment programme? Of course, it was conceived as an investment programme. Unfortunately, statistics show that more than 93 percent were not investments in the economy or banks, but only in real estate. Of course, we rescued the real estate sector by means of this programme, and in 'Thank you' for it, the real estate sector is now the largest shadow economy. ‘ Thank you” for them, of course! So let's not talk about we're breaking something here. We're not breaking anything! We can take this politically or not. If we are talking about the prospects or future of this investment programme, you know, this year, with no rules on additional contributions yet, a little over a hundred applicants have applied. So, I think, this programme has come to an end in itself, because Russia simply has no more money to afford to pay 80 000 for a Schengen visa. There's no money anymore, and no investors will come down here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-06-09-PT12-370-U66	The name to Member Boris Cilevič, for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-06-09-PT12-370-U67	Dear colleagues, I would like to respond to Mr Dzint. Mr. Dzintara, in recent years I really have the impression that you've grown up as a serious politician, but...
ParlaMint-LV_2016-06-09-PT12-370-U68	I call on you to speak on the proposal, Mr Cilevič.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-06-09-PT12-370-U69	I am referring to the proposal. That is the discussion. ... But your speech today made me very disappointed. First. There is a general principle - to answer reasonedly, not to attack. Your main argument is that it is defended, so it's bad. This means that you have nothing to object to in essence. Secondly. What you said is that all the investors who entered Latvia are billions who don't mean anything, whether there's plus or minus 5,000, clearly shows that you just don't know who these people are. The vast majority of these people are self-employed or small entrepreneurs who simply sold their apartment somewhere in Moscow or other Russian cities and bought it here because of the difference in prices - so that you know it! - is absolutely sufficient. And thirdly. Most important. You believe that a smart investor is paying to the right and to the left what he requires, and the fact that he has that extra charge doesn't mean anything to you. Mr. Amber! A smart investor will consider all the considerations and think ten times about whether it is worth investing in a country where the rules of the game change too often. Unfortunately, your logic is: “He has money. Let's take it! Let's figure out something like legally taking this money!” Well, yes, you can already cut its sheep before they have grown up with wool, but that's why our economy is what it is. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-06-09-PT12-370-U70	Name to Member Ivars Zarins, for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-06-09-PT12-370-U71	(Interjection.) The anecdotes will not come in two minutes, so I will talk about the most important thing. I will try to believe in good faith that the National Association simply does not understand what they are doing and that they are lost in good intentions and that it is not done in the interests of their sponsors... ( Interface: “On the proposal! ” ; dep. J.Dombrava, dep. A.Kirštein's intermediate names.)
ParlaMint-LV_2016-06-09-PT12-370-U72	On the proposal, Mr. Zarins!
ParlaMint-LV_2016-06-09-PT12-370-U73	That is what I am talking about.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-06-09-PT12-370-U74	I call for a debate on the proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-06-09-PT12-370-U75	... In the interest of insolvency administrators, so that they have more work and no investor to save it... Because, see if yours ( Dep. R.Kols: “But what connection?” ) would be really economically sound, then I... I would like to hope that your idea was really to take care of Latvian families. But you should know that there is a Laffer curve, the regularity you explore, you can understand what you will achieve with your proposal. It's the essence that by increasing some kind of tax burden, your income to some point... The growth rates begin to decrease. And that is exactly what has happened to this programme at the moment. Its curve has exceeded the peak point and goes down, and each additional load does not increase, but reduces income in this program. With these initiatives, you are on the contrary! - grieving, you're doing the opposite of what you're telling. You are achieving exactly what you have already achieved: the housing programme no longer has money, because it was funded by this residence permit programme. And thanks to your initiatives, now Latvian families will have to pay for this programme themselves. And you want to go on with it! However, I have a reasonable suspicion that you are doing this not for the sake of the interests that you are now calling for, but for the interests of your sponsors - the insolvency administrators - to have more for them so that there are more insolvent people here who could not buy this property at a price of money, but could be taken over by someone cheaply so that they could then speculate. Unfortunately, that is what happens. Have you been misled in good faith? If you are mistaken, think about it calmly, acknowledge your mistakes and really do something meaningful for the people of Latvia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-06-09-PT12-370-U76	Name to Member Ainars Latkovsky. Name to Member Ainars Latkovsky... The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. A.Latkovsky: “On behalf of the Commission!” ) The name of Member Alexey Loskutov.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-06-09-PT12-370-U77	Dear colleagues, It is difficult to speak when our bipolar world is already clearly marked. Professional patriots have already said that those who are not professional patriots are enemies of the state. I will risk, however, not talking about patriotism, not about money, but about something else. Indeed, these amendments come from very many points of view. We can talk about money, we can talk about investment, we can talk about the situation in Russia, we can talk about such amendments being made by the Legal Bureau. I will draw your attention, those who did not notice: the Commission on Defence, Home Affairs and the Prevention of Corruption has not supported these proposals from the Legal Bureau. Mr Schnores attended the commission meeting and knows clearly that both the 5th and 6th proposals have been drawn up in a legally correct manner. They are equally legally correct. We are only talking about a political solution - which we support. I agree with those who said that the principle of legitimate expectations has not been violated. I also agree with those who said that there are no legal barriers. However, I think that the life of a country is characterised not only by regulation, not only by legal certainty, but by the existence or absence of legal barriers. I think the situation is... This programme, originally conceived as an investment programme, was used by a large number of intelligence representatives from Moscow, from St. Petersburg. These are people who have sold their only apartment and moved to permanent residence in Latvia. If we now say to people who have no other place, “You are trapped, now you will have to pay!” - that is not acceptable. Legal trust has not been violated, but morals have been violated, ethical trust has been violated. Of course, you can compare with tenants, holders of passports, but let us remember that the tenant has the opportunity to choose a different place of residence. He can rent cheaper accommodation elsewhere. But a person who has already bought an apartment cannot be accused of living there exactly. I believe that our country's policy must be both consistent and fair. I call on you not to support Amendment 5 and to support Amendment 6.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-06-09-PT12-370-U78	I closed the debate. Will the rapporteur add a note on behalf of the Commission? The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. A.Bērzins: “You don’t need anything! Let's vote!' ) Council Regulation (EC) No 1257/96 of 20 June 1996 concerning humanitarian aid (OJ L 163, 2.7.1996, p. 1).
ParlaMint-LV_2016-06-09-PT12-370-U79	Thank you to all the debateers. Everyone had their own arguments. But in my view, the best arguments are the Defence, Home Affairs and Anti-Corruption Commission, whose proposal 5 has not been supported. Please vote!
ParlaMint-LV_2016-06-09-PT12-370-U80	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 5. - Saeima Legal Bureau's proposal! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 24, for - 55, for - 4. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-06-09-PT12-370-U81	6. is a proposal from the Saeima Commission on Defence, Home Affairs and the Prevention of Corruption. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-06-09-PT12-370-U82	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-06-09-PT12-370-U83	That's all. Was there so much to argue about? ( Intercretion: “Rightly! ” ) I call for support to be given in general at third reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-06-09-PT12-370-U84	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote for the adoption of the law “Amendments to the Law on Immigration” after re-reading! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The law has been passed. Dear colleagues, The Budget and Finance (Tax) Commission asks for changes to the agenda of the Saeima sitting and to include in it the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Value Added Tax” at first reading. Are Members opposed to such an amendment to the agenda? There is no objection by Members. The agenda has been amended. On the agenda - draft law on the second reading of the Deep Partnership and Cooperation Agreement between the European Union and its Member States, of the one part, and the Republic of Kazakhstan, of the other part. Member Ojārs Ēriks Kalniņš on behalf of the Commission on Foreign Affairs.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-06-09-PT12-370-U85	Good afternoon. We work with document No 2260. The Foreign Affairs Commission has examined this draft law at second reading. No proposal has been received. On behalf of the Commission, I call for support for the second, final, reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-06-09-PT12-370-U86	Thank you. Please call me! Let us vote in favour of supporting the second final reading of the draft law on the Deep Partnership and Cooperation Agreement between the European Union and its Member States, of the one part, and the Republic of Kazakhstan, of the other part! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 84, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The law has been passed. On the agenda - draft law on the Economic Partnership Agreement between the CARIFORUM States, of the one part, and the European Community and its Member States, of the other part, second reading. Member Ojārs Ēriks Kalniņš on behalf of the Commission on Foreign Affairs.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-06-09-PT12-370-U87	We work with document No 2261. The Foreign Affairs Commission examined the draft law before the second reading. We did not get any proposals. In the draft law commission, we supported it, and I therefore call on the Saeima to support it at second, final, reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-06-09-PT12-370-U88	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote in favour of the second final reading of the draft law on the Economic Partnership Agreement between the CARIFORUM States, of the one part, and the European Community and its Member States, of the other part! Please vote mode! Please get the result! It's not about - 83, it's against and refrains from - it's not. The law has been passed. On the agenda - draft law “Amendments to the Public Prosecutor’s Office Law”, third reading. Member of the Commission for Defence, Home Affairs and Prevention of Corruption Juris Vectirāns.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-06-09-PT12-370-U89	Dear President, Dear colleagues, In its meeting of 31 May this year, the Commission for Defence, Home Affairs and Prevention of Corruption discussed draft law “Amendments to the Public Prosecutor’s Law” for the third reading. No proposals. Please support the draft law at third reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-06-09-PT12-370-U90	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote in favour of supporting the draft law “Amendments to the Public Prosecutor’s Office Law” in the third, final, reading! Please vote mode! Please get the result! It's not about - 86, it's against and refrains from - it's not. The law has been passed.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-06-09-PT12-370-U91	Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-06-09-PT12-370-U92	On the agenda - draft law “Amendments to the Code of Conduct for Penalties of Latvia”, third reading. On behalf of the Commission for Defence, Home Affairs and Anti-Corruption - Member Kārlis Sergeant.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-06-09-PT12-370-U93	Colleagues! This is the third reading of the draft law. We have received three proposals. 1 and the proposal of the Legal Bureau of the Saeima, which is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-06-09-PT12-370-U94	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-06-09-PT12-370-U95	2. is a proposal from the Commission on Defence, Home Affairs and Anti-Corruption, which is also supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-06-09-PT12-370-U96	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-06-09-PT12-370-U97	And 3 is the proposal of the Saeima's Legal Office, which is also supported. So please support the draft law at third reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-06-09-PT12-370-U98	Members support proposal 3. Please call me! We will vote for the support of the draft law “Amendments to the Code of Conduct of Penalties of Latvia” in the third, final, reading! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 88, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. The law has been passed. On the agenda - draft law “Amendments to the Law “On Aviation”, third reading. On behalf of the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy, Member Edward Smilten.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-06-09-PT12-370-U99	Hello, colleagues! We work with the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Aviation”. In total, we have received eight proposals. 1. is the proposal of the Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Transport, Edgars Tatars, which includes a delegation to the Cabinet of Ministers. The proposal has been supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-06-09-PT12-370-U100	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-06-09-PT12-370-U101	2. - The proposal from the Legal Bureau of the Saeima. The Commission has received support.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-06-09-PT12-370-U102	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-06-09-PT12-370-U103	3. - The proposal from the Legal Bureau of the Saeima. The Commission is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-06-09-PT12-370-U104	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-06-09-PT12-370-U105	4. - a proposal from the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-06-09-PT12-370-U106	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-06-09-PT12-370-U107	5. - The proposal of the Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Transport, Edgars Tatars. Some support has been given and included in the proposal 7.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-06-09-PT12-370-U108	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-06-09-PT12-370-U109	6. - a proposal from the committee responsible. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-06-09-PT12-370-U110	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-06-09-PT12-370-U111	7. - a proposal from the committee responsible, which shall also include 5. - Edgar Tatar's proposal. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-06-09-PT12-370-U112	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-06-09-PT12-370-U113	And the last one is 8. - a proposal from the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy. This has been unanimously supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-06-09-PT12-370-U114	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-06-09-PT12-370-U115	Therefore, colleagues, we have examined all the proposals. On behalf of the Commission, I call on you to vote in favour of adopting this draft law at third, final, reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-06-09-PT12-370-U116	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote for the support of the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Aviation” in the third, final, reading! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 84, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The law has been passed. On the agenda - draft law “Amendments to Law on Prevention of Conflict of Interest in Activities of Public Officials”, third reading. On behalf of the National Administration and Municipal Commission, Member Sergej Dolgopolovs.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-06-09-PT12-370-U117	Dear colleagues, The third reading is accompanied by a table of proposals containing four proposals. They all encourage to expand the range of officials to include officials of Liepaja Special Economic Zone. 1. - a proposal from the Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Transport, which has been partly supported and included in 2. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-06-09-PT12-370-U118	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-06-09-PT12-370-U119	2. - A proposal from the Commission of Public Administration and Local Government. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-06-09-PT12-370-U120	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-06-09-PT12-370-U121	3. - A proposal from the Commission of Public Administration and Local Government. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-06-09-PT12-370-U122	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-06-09-PT12-370-U123	And 4. - a proposal from the committee responsible. It is also supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-06-09-PT12-370-U124	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-06-09-PT12-370-U125	All the proposals have therefore been examined. On behalf of the Commission, I call for support for this draft law at third, final, reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-06-09-PT12-370-U126	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote for the support of the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Prevention of Conflict of Interest in the Activities of Public Officials” in the third, final reading! Please vote mode! Please get the result! Not by - 82, not by - and refrains. The law has been passed. On the agenda - draft law on consumer protection law, third reading. On behalf of the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy, Member Edward Smilten.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-06-09-PT12-370-U127	Yes, colleagues! We work with amendments to the Consumer Rights Protection Law. In total, 11 proposals have been received, 1 of which is the Member Imants Debtor's proposal, on which he has taken part in the debate.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-06-09-PT12-370-U128	Let us start a debate. The name of the Member Immant Debtor.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-06-09-PT12-370-U129	Good morning, Madam President-in-Office of the Saeima. Dear colleagues, The substance of the proposal is to add one more foundation - family status - to the list of the prohibition of differential treatment, or grounds, which are currently laid down because of gender, race, ethnic origin or disability. A year ago, in June of last year, we were already debating such a proposal, which I had submitted to the third reading. The arguments that led to this rejection were based on the fact that it was hasty and has not received the opinions of the responsible authorities. Therefore, a number of colleagues did not support this proposal. A year has passed, the opinions of the responsible authorities have been received. The Ministry of Welfare, the Ministry of Justice, the Ombudsman, the Ministry of Economics and the Faculty of Law of the University of Latvia have given their opinion. In essence, they all support these proposals as a whole, perhaps there are only a few details, such as the Ministry of Welfare has proposed that the grounds for non-discrimination on the grounds of family status be supplemented by a "family and marriage status"... However, in consultation with lawyers, it is clear that the situation of the family already covers their situation - whether they are married or not. That is why I will perhaps not share all the opinions, just the most important one - the Ombudsman's opinion, in which he stresses that "in addition to the Consumer Rights Protection Law with a new framework for non-discrimination - "family status", implementation of the right to housing will be strengthened, access to housing is encouraged and the possibility for families to protect their rights in the event of discrimination". I would remind you that this proposal was created at the time after an experiment in the program "Absent Method". And at that time, some colleagues said that they did not have any examples to justify their attitude. That is why, especially Edward Smilten, who said that he had not heard much about such cases, and Andrey Judin, who called from the site and asked for examples, I will give you a few examples. Mrs Barča, advert from the website lējniekujams.lv. It is placed on June 6, and in a free translation from a language that is not the state language, it reads: “For rent a one-room apartment in the south-west region of Liepaja, a house renovated, next to Maxima, with a view to the sea, an individual car house next to the house, preferably for a long time, not less than a year, without animals and children (up to 3 years).” Is this about animals under three years of age or children? I guess there's talk about kids. Advertise from the portal ss.lv, placed this year: “In Jelgava rent an apartment for tenants without children, in the center. Nearby bus station and Rimi shop.’ Well, there are some special cassios: “The dobele rents a one-room apartment for a longer time – for working people without children and animals.” It is further described that there is a repair carried out. And then it added: “ Shops, school, kindergarten and parking place three minutes away.” It's very interested in someone who has no children! And especially unique is the ad that has been placed on the portal ss.lv on 17 May: “A decent, non-smoking tenant (30-50 years) without children and pets rents an apartment in the old Ziepniekkalns in the long term. The apartment is located on the third floor of a five-storey building. The yard shall have a playground for children.’ I think it has been said, either that she, if she is a special child-sponsor, would understand that she should take care of the children's guys, or perhaps because she, this decent, non-smoking woman, could go out on the children's playground. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. A.Kamiņš: “Play again!” ) There are several other articles I would like to read. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. A.Kamiņš: “Read All!” ) I only chose one. Līga writes: “It happened that we want to move with a man from a small single-room apartment to a two-room apartment, because we are gradually thinking about family growth. And now there's a problem: many flats for rent are written - without children, without animals. We are a family that would like several children, but we are not very wealthy and we cannot afford expensive apartments. The local government class of apartments has to wait for an unacceptably long time, so we have to rent the apartment ourselves from the owner. How can a family feel about the fact that all the cheapest apartments are not accessible to them, because honest, cynical hosts can afford to discriminate against families with children, even if they are able to keep quiet and order? Why do we have rules on the labour market that do not discriminate on grounds of gender, age and other parameters if this is not justified, but on the housing market can do what they want, leaving families with children in the last place?" Finally, she writes: “In a country which, at least on paper, protects families, should not adopt a law against discrimination, so that the tenant should not be required to be without children?” I call for support to be given to both the Ombudsman's position and the position of these mothers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-06-09-PT12-370-U130	The name of the Member, Andrejs Judin.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-06-09-PT12-370-U131	I would very much like Mr. Debtor to help me understand his proposal better. That is, when I read the article, I see there not the word 'discrimination', but the fact that 'the difference in treatment is prohibited'. And now let us imagine that there is a businessman who offers some kind of family service to the children by taking care of their children! Is that not a different attitude? I am simply concerned that, if we accept your proposal, it will happen that a company that offers something particularly favorable to children will be a infringer of the law. For then do those who have no children? R.Janson’s intermediate call.) , may require such discriminatory treatment to be discontinued. Will that not be the case? Can you help me understand this rule? Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-06-09-PT12-370-U132	The name of the Member Immant Debtor, for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-06-09-PT12-370-U133	Mr. Judin, you're like a lawyer, aren't you? Well, you seem to understand that if any favourable conditions are applied to some categories of population - families with children - this cannot in any way be regarded as discrimination against others. Well, you understand that very well! It also happens: if people with disabilities are given special conditions, then we are discriminating against those who are not disabled. Mr. Judine, think what you're talking about at all.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-06-09-PT12-370-U134	Name to Member Andrejs Judin, for the second time. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. A.Kamiņš: “Eu, guys, come on!” ; dep. A.Bērzins: “Andrey, let him alone!” ) Council Regulation (EC) No 1257/96 of 20 June 1996 concerning humanitarian aid (OJ L 163, 2.7.1996, p. 1).
ParlaMint-LV_2016-06-09-PT12-370-U135	Well, see! How can we stop when we start talking about education?Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, I’ll just read it, maybe there was no time for Mr. Debtor to read the article. A.Bērzins: “Keep the Debtor at peace!” ) It states: ‘Distinguishing treatment... shall be prohibited when offering goods or services, selling goods or providing services.’
ParlaMint-LV_2016-06-09-PT12-370-U136	I closed the debate. Will the rapporteur add a note on behalf of the Commission?
ParlaMint-LV_2016-06-09-PT12-370-U137	Yes, colleagues, we assessed this rule in the Commission. The discussion was whether the wording would be relevant to the purpose of this provision. The majority of Commission Members tend, however, not to support proposal 1.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-06-09-PT12-370-U138	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote in favour of 1. - Imants Debtor's proposal! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 36, for - 35, for - 3. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-06-09-PT12-370-U139	The proposal comes from the Legal Bureau of the Saeima. The Commission has received support.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-06-09-PT12-370-U140	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-06-09-PT12-370-U141	3. - The proposal of the Legal Bureau of the Saeima, which is supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-06-09-PT12-370-U142	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-06-09-PT12-370-U143	The 4th is also a proposal from the Legal Bureau of the Saeima, which received support from the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-06-09-PT12-370-U144	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-06-09-PT12-370-U145	5.is the proposal of the Prime Minister, Minister for Economic Affairs, Arvil Asheraden, who has been partly supported and included in proposal 6.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-06-09-PT12-370-U146	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-06-09-PT12-370-U147	6. is the proposal of the Legal Bureau of the Saeima, which also includes the previous proposal - 5. The Commission is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-06-09-PT12-370-U148	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-06-09-PT12-370-U149	7 and the proposal of the Prime Minister, Minister for Economic Affairs, Arvil Asheraden, who was supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-06-09-PT12-370-U150	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-06-09-PT12-370-U151	8 / 8 - The proposal of Prime Minister Arville Asheraden, Minister for Economic Affairs. Has received support from the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-06-09-PT12-370-U152	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-06-09-PT12-370-U153	9. - The proposal of Prime Minister Arville Asheraden, Minister for Economic Affairs. The Commission has partially supported and included in the next proposal - 10.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-06-09-PT12-370-U154	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-06-09-PT12-370-U155	10. is a proposal from the Legal Bureau of the Saeima, which received support from the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-06-09-PT12-370-U156	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-06-09-PT12-370-U157	And the proposal of 11 and the Member of the Prime Minister, Arvil Asheraden, who is supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-06-09-PT12-370-U158	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-06-09-PT12-370-U159	We have therefore examined all the proposals and call for the vote on the draft law at third, final, reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-06-09-PT12-370-U160	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote in favour of supporting the third, final reading of the draft law on consumer protection! Please vote mode! Please get the result! It's not about - 85, it's against and abstains. The law has been passed. On the agenda - draft law “Amendment to the Law on the Procedure for the entry into force of the Commercial Law”, third reading. On behalf of the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy, Member Edward Smilten.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-06-09-PT12-370-U161	Yes, colleagues! We work with an amendment to the Law on the Procedure for the entry into force of the Commercial Law. One proposal has been received for the third reading. In other words, the Commission itself has made a proposal. So 1 is the proposal of the Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy Commission of the Saeima, which sets a new deadline for the entry into force of the law. The previous one was set on June 1, which cannot be objectively fulfilled. Now it is 1 August this year. In the Commission, the proposal has been supported and I call on you to support it.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-06-09-PT12-370-U162	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-06-09-PT12-370-U163	We have therefore examined all the proposals. I call for support to be given to this draft law at third, final, reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-06-09-PT12-370-U164	Please call me! We will vote in favour of supporting the third final reading of the draft law on the procedure for entry into force of the Commercial Law. Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 87, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The law has been passed. On the agenda - draft law “Amendments to the Code of Administrative Violations of Latvia”, third reading. On behalf of the Legal Commission, Member Jūlija Stepanenko.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-06-09-PT12-370-U165	Dear colleagues, The Legal Commission of the Saeima has concluded work on the draft law “Amendments to the Code of Administrative Violations of Latvia” (No 459/Lp12). The Commission received six proposals for a third reading. 1. is a proposal of a editorial nature of the Legal Office. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-06-09-PT12-370-U166	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-06-09-PT12-370-U167	2. - The legal commission's proposal. It is also, by its very nature, a drafting proposal which clarifies the composition of the Court of Appeal. The Commission is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-06-09-PT12-370-U168	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-06-09-PT12-370-U169	3. - a proposal of a editorial nature of the legal office. This is also supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-06-09-PT12-370-U170	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-06-09-PT12-370-U171	4. - a proposal by the Legal Commission specifying the time limit for refusal of an appeal. It is also supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-06-09-PT12-370-U172	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-06-09-PT12-370-U173	5. - a proposal by the Legal Bureau of a editorial nature. It is also supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-06-09-PT12-370-U174	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-06-09-PT12-370-U175	And six. - a proposal from the Legal Bureau, which is also of a editorial nature, specifying the date of entry into force of a separate paragraph of the transitional provisions. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-06-09-PT12-370-U176	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-06-09-PT12-370-U177	Therefore, on behalf of the Saeima Legal Commission, I call on you to support the draft law at third, final, reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-06-09-PT12-370-U178	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote for the support of the draft law “Amendments to the Latvian Administrative Violations Code” in the third, final, reading! Please vote mode! Please get the result! It's not about - 85, it's against and abstains. The law has been passed. Colleagues, it's time for a break. Please call me! Please check-in mode for Members! While the results of the registration are being prepared, I would like to inform you that our 53rd anniversary is celebrated by our fellow Member Raimonds Rubiks. Welcome to him! (Applause) Name to Member Vital Orlov.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-06-09-PT12-370-U179	Dear colleagues working in the Saeima Committee on Mandates, Ethics and Application! Please gather in five minutes to the committee meeting.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-06-09-PT12-370-U180	Name Member of the Saeima, Gunars Kūtris, to read the results of the registration.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-06-09-PT12-370-U181	Colleagues! Not registered at the moment: Jānis Adamsons, Aleksandrs Kiršteins... Yes, John Crowd, Andrejs Clementyev... is, Vilnis Ķirsis, Sergey Mirskis, Vladimir Nikonovs, Veiko Spolitis and Jānis Urbanovičs.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-06-09-PT12-370-U182	Thank you. Interruption until 11.30 a.m. ( Interruption) ( Interruption)
ParlaMint-LV_2016-06-09-PT12-370-U183	Honourable Members! I invite you to take your seats in the Saeima Meeting Room so that we can continue the Saeima sitting! On the agenda - draft law “Amendments to Civil Procedure Law”, third reading. Member of the Legal Commission Gaidis Berzins.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-06-09-PT12-370-U184	Dear Chairman of the Saeima. Dear colleagues, See the draft law “Amendments to Civil Procedure Law”. The Commission has received and examined 10 proposals. 1. is a proposal of a terminology nature of the Legal Office. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-06-09-PT12-370-U185	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-06-09-PT12-370-U186	The same is true of 2. - a proposal from the Legal Bureau, which is supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-06-09-PT12-370-U187	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-06-09-PT12-370-U188	3. is a proposal from the Legal Office. The essence of this proposal is related to the fact that if the cassation complaint is submitted by a sworn lawyer (as we know, the Civil Procedure Law provides for such procedure), an additional authorisation and warrant should be submitted. In the event that this authorisation and the warrant are already in the case and give the applicant the right to submit a cassation complaint, the said documents are not to be submitted in addition. It is therefore a clarification proposal by the Legal Office, which is supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-06-09-PT12-370-U189	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-06-09-PT12-370-U190	3. is a proposal from the Legal Office, which is supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-06-09-PT12-370-U191	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-06-09-PT12-370-U192	So... One second... 4. - We looked, yeah... So the 5th is the Law Office...
ParlaMint-LV_2016-06-09-PT12-370-U193	So four. ...
ParlaMint-LV_2016-06-09-PT12-370-U194	I am sorry, 4 is the proposal from the Legal Bureau, which has been supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-06-09-PT12-370-U195	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-06-09-PT12-370-U196	5. is a proposal from the Legal Office, which is similar to 1. - a proposal of a terminology nature already supported. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-06-09-PT12-370-U197	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-06-09-PT12-370-U198	6. There is also a proposal for the terminology of the Legal Office. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-06-09-PT12-370-U199	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-06-09-PT12-370-U200	7. is a proposal from the Legal Office, which is supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-06-09-PT12-370-U201	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-06-09-PT12-370-U202	8. is a proposal from the Legal Bureau, which is also supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-06-09-PT12-370-U203	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-06-09-PT12-370-U204	9. is a proposal of the Legal Commission, which provides for the extension of Section 32.1 of the Law until 31 December 2018. This is due to the completion of the reform of the courtrooms, which is also dated on that date. The proposal was also discussed in the Council for the Judiciary, where it received majority support. This proposal is also addressed in the Subcommittee on Justice Policy, where it was supported. The Commission drafted and supported the proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-06-09-PT12-370-U205	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-06-09-PT12-370-U206	10. is a proposal from the Legal Office, which has been supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-06-09-PT12-370-U207	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-06-09-PT12-370-U208	So, colleagues, we have examined all the proposals. On behalf of the Legal Commission, please support the draft law “Amendments to the Civil Procedure Law” at third, final reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-06-09-PT12-370-U209	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote for the support of the draft law “Amendments to Civil Procedure Law” in the third, final, reading! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. The law has been passed. On the agenda - draft law “Amendments to the Law on Pollution”, third reading. On behalf of the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy, Member Edward Smilten.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-06-09-PT12-370-U210	Colleagues! We work with amendments to the law “On Pollution” at third reading. We have received a total of seven proposals from the Commission. 1. is the proposal of the Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Environmental Protection and Regional Development, Mr Janis Eglitis, who has been partly supported and included in the next proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-06-09-PT12-370-U211	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-06-09-PT12-370-U212	The next is the proposal from the commission responsible, which also includes proposal 1. The Commission has received support.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-06-09-PT12-370-U213	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-06-09-PT12-370-U214	3. - The proposal of Parliamentary Secretary Eglitis. Partly supported and included in the next proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-06-09-PT12-370-U215	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-06-09-PT12-370-U216	4. - a proposal from the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy, which has received support.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-06-09-PT12-370-U217	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-06-09-PT12-370-U218	5. It is the proposal of the Parliamentary Secretary, Eglitis, who has been partly supported and included in the next proposal - 6.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-06-09-PT12-370-U219	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-06-09-PT12-370-U220	The 6th proposal, which includes the previous one, is a proposal from the committee responsible and it has received support from the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-06-09-PT12-370-U221	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-06-09-PT12-370-U222	And the last one, colleagues, is 7. - the proposal of the Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy Commission for the coming into force of the law. This has been supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-06-09-PT12-370-U223	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-06-09-PT12-370-U224	We have therefore examined all the proposals. And I call on you to vote in favour of the adoption of this draft law at third, final, reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-06-09-PT12-370-U225	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote for the support of the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Pollution” in the third, final, reading! ( From the fraction below: “On pollution or against pollution: what is it?” ) Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 81, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. The law has been passed. On the agenda - draft law “Amendments to the Law on Credits”, first reading. On behalf of the Legal Commission, Member Gundars Dauge.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-06-09-PT12-370-U226	Dear colleagues, We work with the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Credits” at first reading. I think it will be interesting for you to know, like me, that Section 2 of this Law states that courts of war shall be established by order of the Minister of Justice in cases where an exceptional situation or war has been declared in accordance with the procedure laid down by laws and regulations of the country. This law was adopted in 2005 and amended only once - in 2008. The current amendments have been submitted by the Cabinet of Ministers and are necessary to update the Law of the Courts in line with the current situation. I will actually say it (and I think you also think): Give, God, that we never have to experience the application of this law in practice! First. These amendments to the law provide for the exclusion from the law of the reference to military personnel. This is due to the fact that military staff were civilians who, on the basis of a contract of employment, were carrying out duties that were to be carried out by soldiers while the staff were not filled with soldiers. Military staff are no longer part of the staff of the National Armed Forces. Secondly. These amendments to the law determine the availability of the services of lawyers in military courts. According to the applicants, these amendments to the law provide for a better procedure. In particular, the Latvian Council of Sworn Advocates will be obliged to set up and maintain a register of lawyers who are required to perform the functions of lawyers in cases subject to the courts of war, and these Sworn Advocates will have to be trained as judges and prosecutors to deal with cases subject to the courts of war. The Legal Commission supported the draft legislation at first reading. Please support the draft law at first reading by the Saeima.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-06-09-PT12-370-U227	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote in favour of the first reading of the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Credits”! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 84, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The draft law at first reading has been supported. Please set a deadline for the submission of the proposals for second reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-06-09-PT12-370-U228	Deadline for submission of proposals - July 11.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-06-09-PT12-370-U229	Thank you. Proposals should be submitted by 11 July this year. On the agenda: draft law on monitoring projects under the Connecting Europe Facility, first reading. On behalf of the Commission on Budget and Finance (Tax) - Member Vilnis Ķirsis... So, Member John Wucan.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-06-09-PT12-370-U230	Dear colleagues and honourable colleagues! The Budget and Finance (Tax) Commission has examined the draft law on the supervision of projects under the Connecting Europe Facility at first reading. This is due to the fact that the European Parliament and the Council established the Connecting Europe Facility on 11 December 2013 by Regulation (EU) No1316/2013 and thus to the general rules for granting financial support from the European Union under that financial instrument. The acquisition of this financial support of the European Union in Latvia is not currently regulated by any of the laws and regulations of the Republic of Latvia. This draft law, which is being passed by the Cabinet of Ministers to the Saeima, will fill this gap in legislation, establishing national regulation and sharing responsibility for the implementation of the Member State's obligations under Regulation No.1316/2013, including the monitoring of the absorption of funding under the Connecting Europe Facility. On behalf of the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission, please support this draft law at first reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-06-09-PT12-370-U231	Thank you. Let us start a debate. The name of the Member, Martin Bondar.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-06-09-PT12-370-U232	Colleagues! Colleagues! The purpose of the law as recorded in the draft law is: ‘The purpose of the law is to implement effective and transparent monitoring of the projects of the Connecting Europe Facility’. The draft laws at the Commission's meeting, to be more precise to the public administration, were asked: "What currently hampers effective and transparent monitoring of projects in legislation?" Everyone said unanimously: “It’s absolutely nothing! The monitoring of projects in order to be transparent and effective can be carried out through existing legislation." Then, of course, is the next logical question: “For what does such a law need?” There was a totally clumsy silence in the Commission's sitting. Officials were either able to respond or members of the coalition present. Colleagues! I can tell you that next week there will be a draft law on special economic zones and ports, where there will also be proposals by Mr Wuzan, whose aim does not correspond to the true nature. Just like this bill. Colleagues in power, how long will we continue to do so?
ParlaMint-LV_2016-06-09-PT12-370-U233	I closed the debate. Does the rapporteur wish to add something on behalf of the Commission?
ParlaMint-LV_2016-06-09-PT12-370-U234	What I would like to add on behalf of the Commission is that the debate in question really covered the issues mentioned by Mr Bondar. But the practical importance of this draft law was also stressed. Because it is about infrastructure facilities, about investing European Union funding in large infrastructure facilities, where the harmonisation procedure and the monitoring procedure are much more intensive, much more complex and, in terms of money resources, there is a much greater responsibility for using these funds for the intended purposes. Consequently, the principles laid down jointly within the European Union are mentioned in my Regulation No.1316/2013. I have already mentioned that no regulatory act in Latvia regulates supervision of large infrastructure objects in accordance with the requirements of this Regulation. Of course, any regulation is enforceable in any Member State. This is a general principle. But, at the same time, we have the opportunity to incorporate our specific interests into this legislation when we draft such national legislation. This was the main reason why, however, the commission decided that such a draft law created by the Cabinet of Ministers was necessary, and the majority of the commission supported its progress in the Saeima. On behalf of the Commission, I ask you once again to support this draft law at first reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-06-09-PT12-370-U235	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote in favour of the first reading of the draft law on the supervision of projects under the Connecting Europe Facility! Please vote mode! Please get the result! About - 83, against - no, abstaining - 4. The draft law at first reading has been supported. Please set a deadline for the submission of the proposals for second reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-06-09-PT12-370-U236	June 30th, this year.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-06-09-PT12-370-U237	Thank you. Proposals shall be submitted by 30 June of this year. On the agenda - draft law “Amendment to the Law on Land Management”, second reading. On behalf of the National Administration and Municipal Commission - Member Aldis Adamovičs.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-06-09-PT12-370-U238	Dear President, Colleagues! See the draft law “Amendment to Land Management Law” at second reading. I would remind you that the amendment provides for the right of municipalities to impose a ban on ice - on dangerous ice. For the second reading, the Commission has not received any proposals, so please support the draft law at second reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-06-09-PT12-370-U239	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote in favour of the second reading of the draft law on Land Management. Please vote mode! Please get the result! It's not about - 86, it's against and refrains from - it's not. The draft law at second reading has been supported. Please set a deadline for the third reading of the proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-06-09-PT12-370-U240	The deadline for the third reading of the proposals is 14 June this year.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-06-09-PT12-370-U241	This year... Is that so?
ParlaMint-LV_2016-06-09-PT12-370-U242	June 14th
ParlaMint-LV_2016-06-09-PT12-370-U243	Thank you. Proposals are due by 14 June this year. On the agenda - draft law “Law on Compensation for Damages in Criminal Procedure and Administrative Violations Procedure”, first reading. On behalf of the Legal Commission, Member Andrejs Elksniņš.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-06-09-PT12-370-U244	Dear Chairman of the Saeima. Dear colleagues, At first reading we look at the draft law “Law on Compensation for Damages in Criminal Procedure and Administrative Violations Procedure”. The purpose of the law is to ensure to a private person the right guaranteed in the Constitution of the Republic of Latvia to adequate compensation for the damage caused, namely, damage caused by damage or personal, including moral, in criminal proceedings due either to unlawful or unfounded conduct of investigating institutions, prosecutor’s office or court, or to administrative infringement proceedings due to unlawful or unjustified conduct of the institution, as well as – in the cases provided for by law – due to unjustified or unlawful conduct of the anti-money laundering service. On behalf of the Legal Commission, I call for support for the draft law at first reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-06-09-PT12-370-U245	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote for support for the first reading of the draft law “Law on Compensation for Damages in Criminal Procedure and Administrative Offences”! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 88, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. The draft law at first reading has been supported. Please set a deadline for the submission of the proposals for second reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-06-09-PT12-370-U246	September 15th.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-06-09-PT12-370-U247	Thank you. Proposals shall be submitted by 15 September of this year. On the agenda - draft law “Amendments to the property law of the apartment”, second reading. On behalf of the Commission of the State Administration and Local Government - Member Jānis Tutins.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-06-09-PT12-370-U248	Dear colleagues, We work with the draft law “Amendments to the Housing Property Law”. At second reading, 24 proposals have been received and considered by the Commission. 1. - The proposal of the Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Justice. This is supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-06-09-PT12-370-U249	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-06-09-PT12-370-U250	2. - a proposal from the Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Justice. This is also supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-06-09-PT12-370-U251	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-06-09-PT12-370-U252	3. - a proposal from the Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Justice. The Commission has partially supported the inclusion of proposal 4.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-06-09-PT12-370-U253	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-06-09-PT12-370-U254	4. - A proposal from the Commission of Public Administration and Local Government. The Commission has received support.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-06-09-PT12-370-U255	Members are in favour. ( The head of the sitting was knocked down with a hammer.)
ParlaMint-LV_2016-06-09-PT12-370-U256	5. - a proposal from the Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Justice. Partly supported and included 6. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-06-09-PT12-370-U257	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-06-09-PT12-370-U258	6. - A proposal from the Commission of Public Administration and Local Government. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-06-09-PT12-370-U259	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-06-09-PT12-370-U260	7. - A proposal from the Commission of Public Administration and Local Government. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-06-09-PT12-370-U261	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-06-09-PT12-370-U262	8 / 8 - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. The Commission has received support.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-06-09-PT12-370-U263	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-06-09-PT12-370-U264	9. - a proposal from the commission responsible, that is, the Commissions of Public Administration and Local Government. The Commission is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-06-09-PT12-370-U265	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-06-09-PT12-370-U266	10............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. The Commission is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-06-09-PT12-370-U267	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-06-09-PT12-370-U268	The 11th proposal, tabled by Mr Vilks, was unfortunately not supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-06-09-PT12-370-U269	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-06-09-PT12-370-U270	12. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. In part, the Commission was supported, including 14. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-06-09-PT12-370-U271	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-06-09-PT12-370-U272	13. - A proposal from the Commission of Public Administration and Local Government. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-06-09-PT12-370-U273	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-06-09-PT12-370-U274	14............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - A proposal from the Commission of Public Administration and Local Government. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-06-09-PT12-370-U275	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-06-09-PT12-370-U276	15............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. The Commission has partially supported and included in proposal 16.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-06-09-PT12-370-U277	No, no. Supported. Thus, Proposal 15 has been supported by inclusion 16. - the Commission's proposal. Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-06-09-PT12-370-U278	16. - A proposal from the Commission of Public Administration and Local Government. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-06-09-PT12-370-U279	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-06-09-PT12-370-U280	17. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-06-09-PT12-370-U281	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-06-09-PT12-370-U282	18. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Partially supported, included 19. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-06-09-PT12-370-U283	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-06-09-PT12-370-U284	19. - A proposal from the Commission of Public Administration and Local Government. The Commission is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-06-09-PT12-370-U285	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-06-09-PT12-370-U286	The 20th proposal, tabled by Mr Vilks, did not receive support from the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-06-09-PT12-370-U287	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-06-09-PT12-370-U288	21............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - A proposal from the Commission of Public Administration and Local Government. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-06-09-PT12-370-U289	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-06-09-PT12-370-U290	The 22nd proposal, tabled by Member Lochmele-Lunova, did not receive any support from the Commission. ( From the hall: ‘ Vote! ’) ) Council Regulation (EC) No 1257/96 of 20 June 1996 concerning humanitarian aid (OJ L 163, 2.7.1996, p. 1).
ParlaMint-LV_2016-06-09-PT12-370-U291	Members ask for a vote. Please call me! We will vote in favour of 22. - Mrs Regina Ločmele-Lunova's proposal! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 26, for - 60, for - 2. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-06-09-PT12-370-U292	23............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - A proposal from the Commission of Public Administration and Local Government. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-06-09-PT12-370-U293	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-06-09-PT12-370-U294	And 24. - A proposal from the Commission of Public Administration and Local Government. The Commission is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-06-09-PT12-370-U295	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-06-09-PT12-370-U296	All the proposals have therefore been examined. On behalf of the Commission, I call for support for the draft law at second reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-06-09-PT12-370-U297	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote for support for the second reading of the draft law “Amendments to the Housing Property Law”! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 87, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The draft law at second reading has been supported. Please set a deadline for the third reading of the proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-06-09-PT12-370-U298	The Commission proposes to submit proposals for the third reading by 27 June this year.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-06-09-PT12-370-U299	Thank you. Proposals are due by 27 June this year.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-06-09-PT12-370-U300	Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-06-09-PT12-370-U301	On the agenda - draft law “Law on Intangible Cultural Heritage”, second reading. On behalf of the Commission for Education, Culture and Science - Member Inguna Rībena.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-06-09-PT12-370-U302	Dear colleagues, We work with document No.2268 - “Law on Intangible Cultural Heritage”. 18 proposals have been submitted to the draft law. 1. - a proposal from Minister of Culture Dace Melbards. The Commission is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-06-09-PT12-370-U303	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-06-09-PT12-370-U304	2. - a proposal from the Minister for Culture. This is also supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-06-09-PT12-370-U305	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-06-09-PT12-370-U306	3. - a proposal from the Minister for Culture. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-06-09-PT12-370-U307	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-06-09-PT12-370-U308	4. - a proposal from the Minister for Culture. It is also supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-06-09-PT12-370-U309	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-06-09-PT12-370-U310	5. - a proposal from the Minister for Culture. It is also supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-06-09-PT12-370-U311	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-06-09-PT12-370-U312	6. - the proposal of Minister of Culture Melbard. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-06-09-PT12-370-U313	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-06-09-PT12-370-U314	7 - a proposal from the Minister for Culture. It is also supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-06-09-PT12-370-U315	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-06-09-PT12-370-U316	8 / 8 - a proposal from the Minister for Culture. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-06-09-PT12-370-U317	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-06-09-PT12-370-U318	9. - a proposal from the Minister for Culture. It is also supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-06-09-PT12-370-U319	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-06-09-PT12-370-U320	10............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - a proposal from the Minister for Culture. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-06-09-PT12-370-U321	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-06-09-PT12-370-U322	Also 11. - a proposal from the Minister for Culture. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-06-09-PT12-370-U323	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-06-09-PT12-370-U324	12. - a proposal from the Minister for Culture. It is also supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-06-09-PT12-370-U325	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-06-09-PT12-370-U326	The same is true of 13. - the proposal of the Minister of Culture - has been supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-06-09-PT12-370-U327	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-06-09-PT12-370-U328	There is also 14 support.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-06-09-PT12-370-U329	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-06-09-PT12-370-U330	15. Also supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-06-09-PT12-370-U331	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-06-09-PT12-370-U332	16. - a proposal from the Minister for Culture. It is also supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-06-09-PT12-370-U333	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-06-09-PT12-370-U334	17. - a proposal from the Minister for Culture. Not supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-06-09-PT12-370-U335	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-06-09-PT12-370-U336	18, on the other hand. - the proposal of the Commission for Education, Culture and Science - is supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-06-09-PT12-370-U337	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-06-09-PT12-370-U338	I therefore ask you to vote and support the draft Intangible Cultural Heritage Law at second reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-06-09-PT12-370-U339	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote in favour of the second reading of the draft law on the Intangible Cultural Heritage Law! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 88, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. The draft law at second reading has been supported. Please set a deadline for the third reading of the proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-06-09-PT12-370-U340	The deadline for the third reading is 29 July.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-06-09-PT12-370-U341	Thank you. Proposals should be submitted by 29 July this year. On the agenda - draft law “Amendments to the Law on Public Equity Shares and Corporate Governance”, first reading. On behalf of the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy, Member Edward Smilten.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-06-09-PT12-370-U342	Yes, colleagues! We work with amendments to the Law on Public Equity Shares and Corporate Governance. Why is the draft law designed? Therefore, in order to comply with the Law on the Annual Report and the consolidated annual accounts, which entered into force on 1 January of this year, as well as to specify certain provisions of the Law on the Management of Public Person’s Shares and Capital Companies. First, the time limit for the decision by the decision-making body of a public person to participate directly in capital companies has been extended. Secondly, the procedure for selling the shares resulting from the capitalisation of the tax debt has been clarified in order to bring the law into line with the actual and legal situation. We have examined the draft law within the Commission and ask it to be declared urgent.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-06-09-PT12-370-U343	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote for recognition of the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Public Equity Shares and Corporate Governance” as urgent! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The draft law has been declared urgent.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-06-09-PT12-370-U344	Yes, colleagues! I call on you to vote in favour of this draft law at first reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-06-09-PT12-370-U345	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote for support for the first reading of the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Public Equity Shares and Corporate Governance”! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 87, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The draft law at first reading has been supported. Please set a deadline for the second reading of the proposals and a time for the examination of the draft law at the sitting of the Saeima.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-06-09-PT12-370-U346	Colleagues! The constructive proposals are expected from you until June 13. And consideration - at the last meeting of the Saeima Spring Session on 16 June.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-06-09-PT12-370-U347	June 16th. Thank you. So the proposals must be submitted by 13 June this year, and consideration at the Saeima sitting - 16 June this year. On the agenda - draft law “Amendments to the Law on Value Added Tax”, first reading. On behalf of the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission, Member Laimdota Straujuma.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-06-09-PT12-370-U348	Dear colleagues, We work with the draft law “Amendments to the Value Added Tax Act”. The proposed draft law is received from the Cabinet of Ministers and intends to introduce a reverse VAT procedure or reverse VAT in the sectors of cereals and technical cultures. The aim is to reduce VAT evasion. As we know, with the introduction of the reverse charge arrangements in some sectors, the results are very good. This is the case, for example, in sectors such as wood industry and construction. The Commission examined the draft law before the first reading at its meeting on 9 June and supported it. Please declare the draft law urgent.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-06-09-PT12-370-U349	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote for the recognition of the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Value Added Tax” as urgent! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 75, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The draft law has been declared urgent. And the Commission is asking for support...
ParlaMint-LV_2016-06-09-PT12-370-U350	Please support at first reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-06-09-PT12-370-U351	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote in favour of the first reading of the draft law on "Amendments to the Law on Value Added Tax". Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The draft law at first reading has been supported. Please set a deadline for the second reading of the proposals and a time for the examination of the draft law at the sitting of the Saeima.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-06-09-PT12-370-U352	Deadline for the submission of proposals for second reading - 13 June. And consideration at the Saeima on June 16th.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-06-09-PT12-370-U353	Thank you. Proposals are to be submitted by June 13, the session of the Saeima - June 16, this year. The next item is "Review of draft decisions". On the agenda - draft decision “On extension of the deadline for the submission of proposals for the second reading of the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Insolvency” (No 106/Lp12) until August 1, 2016”. On behalf of the Legal Commission - Member Inese Lībiņa-Egnere.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-06-09-PT12-370-U354	Dear colleagues and honourable colleagues. Since a wide range of information on this decision of the Legal Commission to extend the deadline for submitting proposals to the draft law on “Amendments to the insolvency law”, I am obliged to provide you on behalf of the Commission with information on why the Legal Commission has decided to do so. That is, the draft law is very long ago. It is not a vision of the Ministry of Justice on solutions in the area of insolvency; it is a draft law of the working group specifically set up by the 11th Saeima Committee on Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy - from 2013 onwards. And in 2014, shortly before the parliamentary elections, they were adopted at first reading, they were once again asleep (Dep. A.Elksniņš: “Watch!” The 12th Saeima took over this bill, and it came to the Legal Commission. We only supported it here in substance, and we did not debate it. And the deadline for submitting proposals was March 1, 2015. As a result, last week, the Legal Commission received a draft law containing proposals of at least 15 months' age and found that these proposals did not cover all the issues that we should be answering today, both for economic operators and for others who criticise public policy in the area of insolvency. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. J.Adamson: “Who is guilty?” ) The majority of the Legal Commission decided that all issues should be dealt with in Parliament and that this draft law should be opened up to current proposals. We have had a conference on this issue, we have had four sub-committee meetings, there have been very many proposals, and the Legal Commission wants to work on these proposals. Moreover, the Minister of Justice has also said that next Monday, that is, on 13 June, his vision of solutions to the insolvency law will be. The Legal Commission would also like to examine them in this draft law. Consequently, the Legal Commission is not delaying the adoption of this draft law, but on the contrary! - are ready to work immediately and work with what is topical today, not only with a small part, and are waiting until August 1, all proposals, including from businessmen and the Ministry of Justice. I also very much hope for good proposals from you, honourable colleagues. I therefore call for support for the deadline for extending the proposals to this draft law by 1 August this year. And the Legal Commission is ready to work also in summer, as it has always been.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-06-09-PT12-370-U355	Thank you. Let us start a debate. The name of the Member is Waiting for Burns.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-06-09-PT12-370-U356	Dear Chairman of the Saeima. Dear colleagues, Keeping on with what Mrs. Lībiņa-Egnere said... Indeed, the Ministry of Justice drafted this bill some time ago. Let us remember that in the meantime there have been several proceedings before the Constitutional Court, challenging also the individual amendments adopted at third reading here, in the Saeima, including regarding both the status of the state official and the number of violations, which are the reason why the administrator is expected to withdraw the certificate. At the same time, however, when it comes to reforms that have not been called into question... and this is confirmed by several discussions in the Advisory Council and rulings, where, for example, the Foreign Investors' Board in Latvia in the last meeting of the Advisory Council clearly and unequivocally expressed its support for the above-mentioned amendments. I think that there is no reason to delay the examination of these amendments at the moment, because when it comes to the subsequent proposals of the Ministry of Justice and the ideas expressed at the conference, it should be pointed out that these proposals are to be divided into two parts. The first part is what could actually be decided on now, namely what is in this draft law. If any clarification was needed, it would be more technical and could be done by the Commission both in relation to the transfer of certification functions to the State, which was discussed specifically by the Council of Foreign Investors in Latvia, as well as the introduction of disciplinary responsibility to administrators. I did not really hear in any of the discussions in either the Legal Commission or the Subcommittee on Judicial Policy or at any conference any objections to the determination of disciplinary responsibility. These amendments also provide for the addition of a list of restrictions which would prevent administrators from carrying out their duties in specific insolvency proceedings. I do not really see any obstacles to considering and adopting these amendments at the moment. On the other hand, with regard to this second part, which I mentioned, namely the ideas expressed at the conference, such as the separation of legal protection proceedings from insolvency proceedings, the focus specifically on achieving the objective of legal protection, namely the restoration of solvency, possibly also involving sworn auditors or other professions... This would allow an objective assessment of the ability of the debtor, or legal entity in difficulty, to restore its solvency. Also, the initiatives and ideas that have now been put forward, for example, in relation to giving a similar function to the Competition Council to the national supervisory authority, giving it the right to exercise more active control over the work of the administrators, as well as a number of other ideas, would be worthy of discussion and could be done in parallel. And, as it is clear, the Minister of Justice will speak on the second section of the Advisory Council at its meeting on 13 June, because there has in fact been no discussions on the first section, which is in this draft law. Consequently, I believe that at present there are no grounds for extending the deadline for the submission of proposals and that there should be no delay. These proposals should be examined and supported more quickly, and future proposals could then be decided separately. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-06-09-PT12-370-U357	Thank you. The name of the Member, Andrejs Elksniņš.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-06-09-PT12-370-U358	Dear colleagues, Unfortunately, the President of the Legal Commission's speech calls for this proposal not to be supported - extending the deadline for tabling proposals - to a large extent is a reminder of the Russian propaganda that you criticise every time in the public space and here, too, from the tribunal. Dear colleagues, In fact, the situation is absolutely simple. We are looking at the draft law presented at the 11th Saeima, which many of those present were not yet present. The draft law was reviewed at first reading on 11 December 2014 and on 11 December 2014 the deadline for the submission of proposals was foreseen to be 15 March 2015. People have put forward proposals, Members have worked very hard. Within 15 months, the person who sets the agenda for the Legal Commission, namely Mr. Gaidi Berzins himself, was absolutely not concerned about the fact that the draft law should be examined by the Legal Commission. The head of the Legal Commission from the National Union was not concerned about either the problems of insolvency or the problems of investors in our economy, or anything else that relates to the need to sort out the area of insolvency as such. There was, in fact, no question. The book was drawn somewhere at the bottom of the table, and no problem was seen by the Chairman of the Legal Commission, nor was he willing to see it, nor was he willing to raise this issue in any way. Now suddenly one day is enlightened: you see, we have problems in the area of insolvency! What does the Chairman of the Legal Commission do instead of supporting the idea and from the Minister of Justice, who has actually sold both the rule of law and the law in our country, expect the concepts, the content of what we should do with the insolvency administrator's institution at all? What will be the way, for example, in which creditors' claims will be recognised? Will they be recognised by the insolvency administrator or by the court? Who will determine who should be the insolvency administrator in the particular case? Either as it is today - not as a matter of chance... Is that so? Or maybe we will delegate this function to courts or, for example, to creditors themselves? Courts now have... Will we delegate to the creditors themselves? Or should we decide that the Institute of insolvency administrators should be abolished at all and that administration of companies should be returned to sworn lawyers, as has been the case so far? Is it possible to hand over the insolvency administration to sworn notaries? For example, with regard to sworn notaries, the only idea of the Minister of Justice is to allow them to marry. That's how he wants to strengthen the sworn notary institute. But, in fact, this idea, which is being discussed today, is that we should all submit substantive proposals for a substantive reform of the institution of insolvency administrators by 1 August and decide conceptually how they will work, what they will be subject to, how they will act in the interests of creditors, because until now, according to the comments made by the Council of Foreign Investors in Latvia, they are acting as an organised criminal group; what will be their remuneration rates for what they are doing, and so on. We offered to both former Minister of Justice, Mr Berzins, who is now chairing the Legal Commission, and to the existing Minister of Justice, Mr Rasnačs, who is not really worthy to wear this word, to come up with conceptual proposals on the substance, not to jump suddenly to the third reading. Mr. Berzins will immediately come and tell us that he has waited 15 months for judgements of the Constitutional Court. You tell me at least one other case in which the Saeima has waited for the judgement of the Constitutional Court in the circumstances when the Saeima, as a defendant, does not recognise the application submitted to the Constitutional Court. It really is schizophrenic! Or, for example, when there have been cases where the draft law has fallen asleep for five months, and here, suddenly, we could all agree on something within the Legal Commission now?Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. Why not allow all Members, individual parliamentary groups to submit new, own-initiative proposals for the draft law in substance, rather than moving this debate to the parliamentary Legal Commission, where we will not be able to agree on what proposals to submit or not to submit on behalf of the Legal Commission?Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. Indeed, I call on you, my fellow Members, to support this idea and to extend the deadline for the submission of proposals to 1 August. The group proposed to the Legal Commission that the deadline for the submission of proposals should be extended until 20 June, which was accordingly not supported by the Commission. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-06-09-PT12-370-U359	Thank you. So one Member said 'for', one spoke 'for'. And we have to vote. Please call me! We will vote on the draft decision “On extension of the deadline for the submission of proposals in the second reading of the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Insolvency” (No 106/Lp12) until August 1, 2016”! Please vote mode! Please get the result! -64, against -18, refrains - not. The decision has been taken. The agenda of the sitting has been examined. But I would like to inform you about the answers to Members' questions. The question of Members Silver, May, Platoper, Baloža and Šymfas to Prime Minister Maris Kučinskis “On the information report on the evaluation of the proposals contained in the final report of the parliamentary committee of inquiry of the Saeima”. The written replies received shall not be satisfied. The Prime Minister informs that due to the previously planned measure, no oral answer can be given. The question of Members Silver, Simfas, Meija, Mežecka and Platopera has been readdressed to the Minister of Economics Arvilas Ašeradens and Finance Minister Dana Reizniece-Ozola for a joint response. The written replies received shall not be satisfied. The Minister for Economics informs that an oral answer can be given. The question of Members Elksniņa, Potapkina, Raimonds Rubika, Agešina and Mirskas to the Minister of Health Guntis Belēvičs “On possible reorganisation of the Latvian Blood Service”. The written reply received shall be granted to the applicants. The question of Members Elksniņa, Raimonda Rubika, Tutina, Arthur Rubika and Orlovas, Minister of Environmental Protection and Regional Development Kaspars Gerhards, about projects financed by European Union funds in Daugavpils city. The written reply received shall be granted to the applicants. The question of Members Elksniņa, Raimonda Rubika, Tutina, Arthur Rubika and Orlovas, Minister of Defence Raimonds Bergmanis, “On Government Media Contracts”. The written reply received shall be granted to the applicants. The question of Members Elksniņa, Raimonda Rubika, Tutina, Arthur Rubika and Orlova is addressed to Prime Minister Maris Kučinskis “On the Situation of Daugavpils Locomotive Repair Plant” by the Minister of Transport Uldis Auglims. The written reply received shall be granted to the applicants. The question of Members Elksniņa, Raimonda Rubika, Tutina, Arthur Rubika and Orlovas, Foreign Minister Edgars Rinkēvičs, “On public administration contracts with the media”. The written reply received shall be granted to the applicants. The question of Members Elksniņa, Raimonda Rubika, Tutina, Arthur Rubika and Orlovas, Minister of Environmental Protection and Regional Development Kaspars Gerhards, about projects of Daugavpils City Council funded by the European Union funds. The written reply received shall be granted to the applicants. The question of Members Elksniņa, Raimonda Rubika, Tutina, Arthur Rubika and Orlova to the Minister of Health Guntis Belēvičs “On Financing for Daugavpils Regional Hospital”. The written reply received shall be granted to the applicants. The question by Members Elksniņa, Tutina, Agešina, Adamson and Ribakov, Minister of Environmental Protection and Regional Development Kaspars Gerhards “On Public Administration Contracts with Media”. The written reply received shall be granted to the applicants. The written responses received to the Member Elksniņa, Agešina, Ribakova, Adamson and Orlov Minister for Agriculture Janis Dūklavs “On the contracts of public administration with legal service providers” are satisfied. The written reply received to the Member Elksniņa, Tutina, Arthur Rubika, the Minister of Transport of Adamsson and Orlovs Uldis Augulis “On public administration contracts with media” is satisfied with the applicants. The written responses received to the question by Member Elksniņa, Agešina, Ribakova, Adamson and Orlovas, Minister of Environmental Protection and Regional Development Kaspars Gerhards “On public administration contracts with legal service providers” are satisfied. The written reply received to the Member Elksniņa, Tutina, Arthur Rubika, the Minister of Justice of Adamson and Orlovas Dzintars Rasnačs “On state administration contracts with media” is satisfied with the applicants. The written responses received to the Member's questions from Elksniņa, Agešina, Ribakova, Adamson and Orlova to the Minister of Health Guntis Belēvičs “On public administration contracts with legal service providers” are satisfied. The written responses received to the question by Member Elksniņa, Tutina, Arthur Rubika, the Minister of Finance of Adamson and Orlovs Dana Reizniece-Ozola “On public administration contracts with media” are satisfied. The written responses received to the Members Elksniņa, Agešina, Arthur Rubika, the Minister of Justice of Adamson and Orlov Dzintars Rasnačs “On the contracts of the state administration with legal service providers” are satisfied. The written reply received to the Member Elksniņa, Tutina, Ribakova, the Minister for Welfare of Adamson and Orlovs Janis Reirs “On contracts of public administration with media” is satisfied with the applicants. The written responses received to Members Elksniņa, Tutina, Rihards Kozlovskis, Minister for the Interior, Rihards Kozlovskis, about contracts of public administration with media, are satisfied. The written responses received to the question by Member Elksniņa, Tutina, Arthur Rubika, Minister of Education and Science of Adamson and Orlovas Kārlis Šadurskis “On Public Administration Contracts with Media” are satisfied. The written reply received to the Member Tutina, Arthur Rubika, Adamson and Orlova's question to the Minister of Culture Dace Melbārdė “On contracts with the public administration with the media” shall satisfy the applicants. The written reply received to the question by Member Elksniņa, Tutina, Agešina, Adamson and Ribakov, Minister of Economics, Arvilas Asheraden, about contracts of public administration with the media, is satisfied with the applicants. The written responses received to Members Elksniņa, Orlova, Potapkina, Raimonds Rubika and Mirskas, Minister of Health Guntis Belēvičs, “On Public Administration Contracts with Media” are satisfied. The written responses received to Members Elksniņa, Orlova, Potapkina, Raimonds Rubika and Mirskas, Minister of Agriculture Janis Dūklavs “On Public Administration Contracts with Media” are satisfied. The written responses received to Members Elksniņa, Agešina, Artūrs Rubika, Rihards Kozlovskis, Minister for the Interior of Adamson and Orlovs “On public administration contracts with legal service providers” are satisfied. The written responses received to the Members Elksniņa, Agešina, Arthur Rubika, the Minister for Welfare of Adamson and Orlovas Janis Reirs “On contracts of public administration with legal service providers” are satisfied. The written responses received to the question by Member Elksniņa, Agešina, Ribakova, Adamson and Orlova to the Minister of Foreign Affairs Edgars Rinkēvičs “On public administration contracts with legal service providers” are satisfied. The written responses received to the question by Member Elksniņa, Agešina, Ribakova, Adamson and Orlov, Minister for Economic Affairs, Arvilas Asheraden, about the contracts concluded between the public administration and legal service providers, are satisfied with the applicants. The written reply received to the Member Elksniņa, Agešina, Ribakova, Adamson and Orlovas Minister of Transport Uldis Augulis “On public administration contracts with legal service providers” is satisfied with the applicants. The written responses received to Members Elksniņa, Orlova, Potapkina, Raimonds Rubika and Mirska's Minister of Defence Raimonds Bergmans "On public administration contracts with legal service providers" are satisfied. The written responses received to the question by Member Zarina, Agešina, Arthur Rubika, Tutina and Ribakova to the Minister for Economics, Arvilas Asheraden, about generous support to electricity producers, were satisfied, as we just learned, but the Minister informed that he could also come to give an oral answer. The written responses received to the question by Member Elksniņa, Agešina, Ribakova, Adamson and Orlova to the Minister of Culture Dace Melbārdė “On public administration contracts with legal service providers” are satisfied. The written responses received to the question by Member Elksniņa, Agešina, Ribakova, Adamson and Orlova to the Minister of Education and Science Kārlis Šadurskis “On public administration contracts with legal service providers” are satisfied. The written responses received to the question by Member Elksniņa, Agešina, Ribakova, Adamson and Orlov, Minister of Finance Dana Reizniece-Ozola “On public administration contracts with legal service providers” are satisfied. So today's answers to Members' questions take place at 17.00. Please call me! Please check-in mode for Members! Registration mode! While preparing the results of the registration, the name of the announcement to the Secretary of the Saeima Andrejs Klementyev.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-06-09-PT12-370-U360	Good afternoon, honourable Members! I call on the leaders of the political groups to hold a very short meeting of the Council of political groups for five minutes. I hope that we will limit ourselves to one question. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-06-09-PT12-370-U361	Name for the statement to Member Andris Bērziņš.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-06-09-PT12-370-U362	Colleagues! Five minutes later, a joint meeting of the Public Expenditure and Audit Committee, the Social and Labour Affairs Commission and the Health Sub-Commission will take place in room 409. Five minutes later, at the premises of the Committee on Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-06-09-PT12-370-U363	Name for reading the results of the registration to Gunārs Kūtris, member of the Saeima Secretary.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-06-09-PT12-370-U364	Colleagues! Not registered today: Jānis Kžads, Vilnis Ķirsis, Sergejs Mirskis, Vladimirs Nikonovs, Ivans Ribakovs, Veiko Spolitis, Zenta Tretjaka and Jānis Urbanovičs.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-06-09-PT12-370-U365	Thank you. I'm closing the meeting.
