ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-22-PT12-394-U1	Good morning, honourable Members! I invite you to take seats in Saeima's meeting room! Let's start December 22, 2016! First of all... ( There is no noise in the hall. The head of the sitting shall be knocked down by means of a hammer.) I invite you to take seats in Saeima's meeting room so that we can start the Saeima's sitting! The amendments tabled to the agenda approved by the Bureau should be examined first. Members Lībiņa-Egnere, Andris Bērziņš, Kleinberga, Šulcs, Mežulis, Skujiņš and others are asking to include on the agenda the draft decision “On the approval of Andris Bērziņš as Deputy Head of the Latvian Delegation of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe”. Are Members opposed to this amendment of the agenda? There is no objection by Members. The agenda has been amended. The Legal Commission asks to amend the agenda of the sitting and to include in it the draft decision “On approval of Jānis Neimanis as a judge of the Constitutional Court”. Are Members opposed to this amendment of the agenda? There is no objection by Members. The agenda has been amended. The Legal Commission is asking to amend the agenda of the sitting and to include in it the draft decision “On the approval of Arthur Kučs as the judge of the Constitutional Court”. Are Members opposed to this amendment of the agenda? There is no objection. The agenda has been amended. The Legal Commission requests that the agenda of the sitting be amended and that it include the draft decision ‘On the approval of Erlen Ernstson as a judge of the district (city) court’. Are Members opposed to this amendment of the agenda? There is no objection. The agenda has been amended. The budget and financial (tax) commission asks for an amendment to the agenda of the meeting and the draft decision on the approval of Mārtiņš Kazaks as a member of the Board of Fiscal Discipline. Are Members opposed to this amendment of the agenda? There is no objection. The agenda has been amended. The Budget and Finance (Tax) Commission asks for the draft decision on the approval of Morten Hansen as a member of the Board of Fiscal Discipline to be on the agenda for the sitting. Are Members opposed to this amendment of the agenda? There is no objection. The agenda has been amended. Members Lībiņa-Egnere, Dauge, Mūrniece, Kūtris, Kleinberga, Urbanovičs and others are asking to include in the agenda the draft decision “On the admission of Mikhail Baryshnikov to Latvian citizenship for special merits in favour of Latvia”. Are Members opposed to this amendment of the agenda? There is no objection by Members. The agenda has been amended. We are starting to look at the amended agenda. Reports by the Bureau on draft legislative acts submitted. The Saeima Presidium proposes that the draft law “Amendments to the Law on the Establishment and Use of the DNA National Database” presented by the Cabinet of Ministers be referred to the Commission for Defence, Home Affairs and Prevention of Corruption, stating that it is the committee responsible. Do Members object to a draft law being passed on to the Commission? There is no objection. The draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Parliamentary Bureau proposes that the draft law “Amendment to the Law on the Financing of Political Organisations (Parties)” submitted by Member Tutina, Elksniņa, Agešina, Zuvėvs and Zemļinska be referred to the Commission of State Administration and Local Government, stating that it is the committee responsible. ‘ For” applied to speak Member Jānis Tutins.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-22-PT12-394-U2	Good morning! Dear Members and honourable Members, Dear Ministers, On 10 June 2010, the Saeima adopted amendments to the Law on the Financing of Political Organisations (Parties) in order to reduce party dependence and the risk of realisation of their interests, to reduce illegal party financing, as well as to increase party administrative capacity and thus solve problems identified in practice regarding party financing. The law provides that the party shall be financed under certain conditions from the state budget, as well as that the cases in which the funding is not granted or the payment thereof is suspended or suspended. The law establishes clearly the cases in which the Corruption Prevention and Combating Bureau takes a decision on the refusal to grant state budget financing and on the termination of the cost of financing of the state budget. The first paragraph of Section 7.3 of the Law lists three specific criteria for which the Bureau takes a decision on the refusal to grant state budget financing and these are as follows: the political organisation (party) has been punished for the pre-election of expenditure by more than 10 per cent, and the decision has entered into force; the political organisation (party) has been punished for transactions not specified in the annual report or the election revenue and expenditure declaration or for donations received (donations), the total amount of which exceeds 100 minimum monthly salaries, and the decision has entered into force; the political organisation (party) has been subject to a means of forced influence under the Criminal Law, and the court decision has entered into force. In turn, with respect to the adoption of a decision on suspension of the cost of financing of the state budget, if violation of Section 7.4 of the Law, which lays down general conditions for the use of state budget funding, no criteria have been established. Thus, in the event of a breach of the financing conditions of the budget, the Office is obliged to issue a compulsory administrative act and its discretion is minimised. Such a decision must also be taken by the Corruption Prevention and Combating Bureau in cases where the violation of a party is to be considered as a formal violation or is related to a different understanding of legal norms or where an infringement has been found about inappropriate use of state budget funding even for one euro. The law does not allow the Office to assess the harmful effects, proportionality or other circumstances caused by the violation. When assessing application of the law, the Office has also identified the problem and expressed its opinion that the applicable sanctions for violation of Section 7.4 of the Law may prove disproportionate to the seriousness of the violation. It is therefore necessary to clarify the third paragraph of Section 7.3 of the Law by establishing clear and understandable criteria to be taken into account when taking a decision on the suspension of financing of the state budget. Dear colleagues, In order to welcome Christmas, I call on you to support the referral of this draft law to the Commission. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-22-PT12-394-U3	Thank you. Do Members object to a draft law being passed on to the Commission? Members ask for a vote. Please call me! We will vote in favour of handing over the draft law “Amendment to the Law on the Financing of Political Organisations (Parties)” to the Commission of State Administration and Local Government, stating that it is the committee responsible! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 33, for - 13, for - 32. The draft law has not been passed on to the commission. The Saeima's Bureau proposes that the draft law on the Road Traffic Law, tabled by the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy, be referred to the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy, stating that it is the Commission responsible. Please turn on the microphone for Andrejs Judin.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-22-PT12-394-U4	Please determine the Legal Commission to be co-responsible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-22-PT12-394-U5	Do Members object to the definition of the co-responsible commission? Do Members object to the referral of the draft law to the commissions? There is no objection by Members. The draft law has been passed on to the commissions. The Bureau of the Saeima proposes that the Member Āboltiņa, Dalder, Adamovich, Lībiņa-Egnere, Ojārs Ērika Kalniņa and other draft laws submitted be referred to the Social and Labour Affairs Commission, stating that it is the committee responsible for maternity and sickness insurance. ‘ For” applied to speak Member Jānis Upenieks.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-22-PT12-394-U6	President of the Saeima! Dear colleagues, In the new year, I wish successful cooperation between the Ministry of Welfare and the Ministry of Finance. For some, to develop initiatives to ensure social security, higher pensions and benefits, and for others I wish to ensure the content of the mask and its abundance. I also wish everyone health and a little more determination and conviction about my decisions. Today, on behalf of the Group, I report that we are withdrawing signatures under these three draft laws. ( Independence: “A wise decision! Always need it!” ) Thank you. Merry Christmas!
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-22-PT12-394-U7	Thus, Members have withdrawn their signatures to draft laws “Amendment to the Law on Maternity and Sickness Insurance”, “Amendments to the Law on State Social Insurance” and “Amendment to the Law on Unemployment Insurance”. Thank you. The Saeima Presidium proposes that the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Veterinary Medicine” presented by the Cabinet of Ministers be referred to the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy, stating that it is the committee responsible. Do Members object to a draft law being passed on to the Commission? There is no objection by Members. The draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Parliamentary Bureau proposes that the draft law presented by the Cabinet of Ministers “Amendments to the Law on Alternative Investment Funds and Their Managers” be submitted to the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission, stating that it is the committee responsible. Do Members object to a draft law being passed on to the Commission? There is no objection. The draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Saeima Bureau proposes to refer the draft law “Amendments to the Criminal Law” presented by the Cabinet of Ministers to the Legal Commission, stating that it is the committee responsible. Do Members object to a draft law being passed on to the Commission? There is no objection. The draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Saeima Presidium proposes that the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Military Service” presented by the Cabinet of Ministers be referred to the Commission for Defence, Home Affairs and Corruption Prevention, stating that it is the commission responsible as well as the Legal Commission. Do Members object to the referral of the draft law to the commissions? There is no objection. The draft law has been passed on to the commissions. The Saeima Presidium proposes that the draft law presented by the Cabinet of Ministers “Amendments to the Law “On Procedure of Entry into Force and Application of Criminal Law” be referred to the Legal Commission, stating that it is the committee responsible. Do Members object to a draft law being passed on to the Commission? There is no objection. The draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Saeima Presidium proposes that the draft law “Amendments to the Archive Law” presented by the Cabinet of Ministers be referred to the Commission of the State Administration and Local Government, stating that it is the committee responsible. Do Members object to a draft law being passed on to the Commission? There is no objection. The draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Saeima Presidium proposes that the draft law “Amendment to the Law “On Accounting” presented by the Cabinet of Ministers be submitted to the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission, stating that it is the committee responsible. Do Members object to a draft law being passed on to the Commission? ( Interface from the drug: “No! ” ) There are no objections. The draft law has been passed on to the Commission. On own-initiative proposals submitted. On the agenda - draft decision “On the way forward of the collective application of 10 748 Latvian citizens “Pension free of tax”. The Commission of Mandates, Ethics and Applications has submitted a draft decision “On the way forward of the collective application of 10 748 Latvian citizens “Paid free of tax”. Do Members object to the inclusion of this own-initiative proposal on the agenda of today's sitting? There is no objection. The draft decision is therefore on the agenda of the sitting. Project “On admission of Mikhail Baryshnikov to Latvian citizenship for special merits for Latvia” Members Lībiņa-Egnere, Dauge, Mūrniece, Kūtris, Kleinberga, Urbanovičs, Āboltiņa, Skujiņš, Ilmārs Latkovskis, Silver, Bondars and Andrejs Klementjevs have submitted a draft decision “On the admission of Mikhail Baryshnikov to Latvian citizenship for special merits for Latvia”. In line with the parliamentary order, this own-initiative proposal is to be referred without debate to the Commission on Citizenship, Migration and Social Solidarity. On the granting of leave. For unpaid leave granted to the Member Atm Lejny on 15 December this year. The Saeima Bureau has received an application from Member Ata Lejiņš requesting him to be granted unpaid leave on 15 December of this year. The Saeima Bureau has granted leave and shall inform the Saeima thereof. For unpaid leave granted to Member Rihard Cole from 20 December to 22 December of this year. The Bureau of the Saeima has received an application from Mr Rihards Kola, Member, requesting him to be granted unpaid leave from 20 December to 22 December of this year. The Saeima Bureau has granted leave and shall inform the Saeima thereof. For unpaid leave granted to Ainars Mežulis on 22 December this year. The Saeima Bureau has received an application from Ainārs Mežulis, Member, requesting him to be granted unpaid leave on 22 December this year. The Saeima Bureau has granted leave and shall inform the Saeima thereof. For unpaid leave granted to Member Augusta Brigman from 20 December to 22 December of this year. The Bureau of the Saeima has received an application from Member Augusts Brigmanis requesting him to be granted unpaid leave from 20 December to 22 December of this year. The Saeima Bureau has granted leave and shall inform the Saeima thereof. Honourable Members! Members Āboltiņa, Adamovičs, Gaidis Berzins, Krauze and Agešins ask for an amendment to the agenda of the Saeima sitting and as third and fourth questions in the section “Conclusion, approval, appointment, dismissal or dismissal of officials, expression of trust or distrust” see draft decision “On approval of Jānis Neimanis as a Constitutional Court Judge” and draft decision “On approval of Arthur Kučs as a Constitutional Court Judge”. Are Members opposed to this amendment of the agenda? There is no objection. The agenda has been amended. Members Adamovičs, Āboltiņa, Smiltēns, Ainars Latkovskis and Loskutovs are asking to amend the agenda of the sitting as a first question under the section “Presidium reports” to see Members Inga Bites, Inguna Silverba, Valeria Agešina, Mārtiņš Šics, Jūlija Stepanenko, Gunāra Kūtra, Nikiforova, Arvīds Plapera, Rihards Melgiels and Boris Cilevičs, Minister of Education and Science Kārlis Šadurskis, “On the distribution of targeted grants”. Are Members opposed to this amendment of the agenda? There is no objection by Members. The agenda has been amended. For granting unpaid leave to Member Raivis Dzintars from 9 January to 13 January 2017. The Saeima Bureau has received an application from Member Rajvis Dzintars requesting to grant him unpaid leave from 9 January to 13 January 2017. We must vote in favour of granting leave. Please call me! We will vote for granting unpaid leave to Member Raivis Dzintars from 9 January 2017 to 13 January 2017! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 84, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Consequently, unpaid leave is granted. The order of business - Members' requests. Inga Bites, Inguna Silverba, Valeria Agešina, Mārtiņš Šica, Julia Stepanenko, Gunāra Kūtra, Nikitas Nikiforova, Arvīda Platopera, Rihards Melgailis and Boris Cilevičs, Minister of Education and Science Kārlis Šadurskis, “On the distribution of targeted grants”. On behalf of the Commission of Petitions - Member Inguna Riena.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-22-PT12-394-U8	Good morning, honourable colleagues! Inga Bite, Inguna Silverba, Valeria Agešina, and other colleagues' requests to the Minister of Education and Science, Kārlis Šadurskis, have been examined by the request board. On behalf of the petitioners, the Members of the Commission heard Inga Biti, also heard Minister of Education and Science Kārlis Šadurskis and the President of the Latvian Education and Science Workers' Union Inga Vanags. It is likely that the applicants will be informed of the nature and content, but the majority of the members of the Commission, having heard everything, were against. More specifically, by eight votes against three, the request was rejected. I therefore call on you, on behalf of the Commission, to reject this request.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-22-PT12-394-U9	Thank you. Let us start a debate. Name to Member Juris Villums.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-22-PT12-394-U10	Very honourable Speaker of the Saeima! Ladies and gentlemen! Today, we will probably talk about such a fundamental matter as political responsibility on several occasions, because we will have to see two more requests for two ministers to qualify for office. But this is a little different. Members of three political groups, opposition party, signed the request in response to the invitation of the Latvian Education and Science Workers Trade Union and provided information that it is necessary to evaluate the decisions taken at the Ministry of Education and Science. I would remind you that the 2016 budget provided EUR 9 million for the introduction of Members... the reform of teachers' salaries, not Members'. However, on September 29, 2016, in the extraordinary meeting of the Cabinet of Ministers, a draft decision was taken, which intended to use these nine million instead of the original purpose... to be precise, not all nine million, but around EUR 1.7 million. The Minister also explained in the Commission of Request that these funds have nevertheless been used for a valuable and good purpose, namely maintenance of boarding schools. However, the Members wanted to understand how decisions were made in the Ministry on sufficiently large amounts, in this case by 1.7 million. In addition, 17,385 people working in the education sector from 697 educational institutions have signed this request to assess the situation at the Ministry. In the request commission, the Minister tried to say that no one really is responsible for this, and this idea was born in some negotiations (probably within the ministry). Moreover, when we look at this draft decision, which was directed towards the Cabinet of Ministers, we see that the Minister himself has not even signed it, it has been signed by Mr Reira in his place. This, of course, does not relieve Mr Shadurski of his responsibility, and that is why I said at the very beginning about this essential matter - political responsibility. If a minister cannot, let us say so, arrange for work in his ministry, he cannot show the person or official responsible for taking the decision, then I have to conclude that the minister himself is responsible for this. There is also a second part of the request. If, to say so, the train has already left and we can no longer change anything there, the signatories to the request ask the Minister at least to apologize. ( By the way, lately it is quite a popular activity on the part of Unity - apologies.) Neither did the Minister. On behalf of myself and, as I said, on behalf of the three political groups, I am calling for support for this request, because it essentially calls for the determination of responsibility and for action to be taken... at least make an apologies. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-22-PT12-394-U11	Thank you. I closed the debate. Does the rapporteur want to add something on behalf of the Commission? No, no. Please call me! We will vote for the Member Inga Bite, Inguna Silver, Valeria Agešina, Mārtiņš Šics, Jūlija Stepanenko, Gunāra Kūtra, Nikitas Nikiforova, Arvīda Platopera, Rihards Melgailis and Boris Cilevičs, Minister of Education and Science Kārlis Šadurskis "On the distribution of the target grant"! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 34, for - 49, for - 2. The request is rejected. The next item is "Review of draft decisions". On the agenda - draft decision “On extension of the time limit for the participation of Latvian National Armed Forces soldiers in the operation led by the North Atlantic Treaty Organisation in Afghanistan”. On behalf of the Cabinet of Ministers - Minister of Defence Raimonds Bergmanis.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-22-PT12-394-U12	President-in-Office of the Saeima, very much. Honourable Members! The Ministry of Defence has submitted to the Saeima for approval a draft decision on the extension of the participation of the National Armed Forces in NATO operation Resolute Support Mission in Afghanistan. The security and political situation in Afghanistan remains very fragile, and it is therefore clear that international efforts to develop Afghan national security capabilities are critical for the stabilisation of the Afghan country and the region as a whole. I can also confirm this from my experience when I visited our contingent in Mazareshaaraf at the beginning of November and became acquainted with the security situation in the country as a whole. The commitment to continue the contribution of the NAF to the strengthening of the Afghan military capabilities is determined by the declaration approved at the NATO Summit in Warsaw on 9 July 2016 that the Alliance is continuing the training operation Resolute Support Mission in Afghanistan after 2016. In addition, on 13 July this year Order No.386 “On Supporting Afghan National Security Forces after 2017” was approved by the Cabinet of Ministers, which confirms the payment of annual contributions to the special trust fund for three years (from 2018 to 2020) with annual contributions in the amount of $500,000. In this way, Latvia confirmed its readiness to provide political and financial support for the development of Afghan security forces in the coming years. From the point of view of consistency and military planning, it is necessary to confirm Latvia's readiness to continue its participation in the capacity development of Afghanistan also with military contribution, by granting the mandate of the Saeima to continue the participation of the National Armed Forces soldiers in the Resolute Support Mission operation. The involvement of NBS in the operation is planned for the current amount by sending to Afghanistan up to 30 military contingents every six months. It should be stressed that the primary tasks of the mission are to provide training and advice to local security forces for the development of these capabilities in order to ensure consistent state participation in the Resolite Support Mission, in line with the progress achieved in the operation, while respecting the planning deadlines for NATO multinational operations. The deadline extension should be set by 31 December 2020. The Ministry of Defence will ensure participation in the operation according to the allocated state budget funds. In this way Latvia will continue to contribute to the Alliance by demonstrating itself as a reliable member of the international coalition. It should be noted here that during my recent visit to Afghanistan in early November, I had the opportunity to see how high our partners appreciate the professional abilities and motivation of Latvian soldiers. This is also confirmed by the offers made by the partner countries to complement Latvia with high-ranking advisory positions, which would allow our National Armed Forces to gain the highest level of practical cooperation experience with NATO partners in the area of operation. In conclusion, I would like to emphasise once again that, following the terrorist attack in November on the German consulate in Mazareshaaraf, both my colleague, Foreign Minister Edgars Rinkēvičs, and I have personally received the words of gratitude from the high German officials for the operational and professional actions of our soldiers in counteracting the effects of the attack. In the light of all this, I ask you, honourable Members, to support the draft decision of the Saeima on the continuation of the participation of the soldiers of the National Armed Forces in the NATO operation Resolute Support Mission in Afghanistan. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-22-PT12-394-U13	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote for the draft decision “On extension of the deadline for the participation of Latvian National Armed Forces soldiers in the operation led by the North Atlantic Treaty Organisation in Afghanistan”! Please vote mode! Please get the result! It's not about - 80, it's against and refrains from - it's not. The decision has been taken. The next item on the agenda - Election, approval, appointment, dismissal or dismissal of officials, expression of trust or distrust. On the agenda - draft decision on the release of Lieutenant General Raimonds Graubes from the position of Commander of the National Armed Forces of the Republic of Latvia. On behalf of the Commission for Defence, Home Affairs and Anti-Corruption - Member Ainars Latkovskis.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-22-PT12-394-U14	Colleagues! According to the Law on National Armed Forces, the commander of NBS is both approved and dismissed by the Saeima on a proposal from the President of Latvia. On 5 December this year, the Commission prepared a draft decision on the removal of the NBS Commander from office with effect from 27 January of the following year, following a proposal by the President of Latvia, and respecting the request by Lieutenant General Raimonds Graube to release him from his active service before the end of his term of office. On behalf of the Commission, I thank the NBS Commander for his significant contribution to the development of the National Armed Forces and a long-standing self-defence service. On behalf of the Commission, I call on Lt-Gen Raimonds Graubi to be released from the position of Commander of the National Armed Forces of the Republic of Latvia.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-22-PT12-394-U15	Please call me! We will vote for the draft decision on the release of Lieutenant General Raimonds Graubes from the office of Commander of the National Armed Forces of the Republic of Latvia! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 87, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The decision has been taken. Thank you Lt-Gen Raimonds Graube for good service for Latvia! (Applause) Dear colleagues, Members Vucanas, Silver, Āboltiņa, Putra and Debtor are asking to amend the agenda of the sitting and to move items 9 and 10 - draft decision on the approval of Mārtiņš Kazakas as a member of the Board of Fiscal Discipline and draft decision on the approval of Morten Hansen as a member of the Board of Fiscal Discipline - before the agenda item 5 - draft decision on the expression of distrust to the Minister for Welfare Janis Reiras. Are Members opposed to this amendment of the agenda? There is no objection. The agenda has been amended. On the agenda - draft decision “On approval of Major General Leonīds Kalniņš as Commander of the National Armed Forces of the Republic of Latvia”. On behalf of the Commission for Defence, Home Affairs and Anti-Corruption - Member Ainars Latkovskis.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-22-PT12-394-U16	Colleagues! The Saeima received a President's proposal to approve Major General Leonid Kalniņa as Commander of the National Armed Forces. The Commission examined the above-mentioned President's proposal at its meeting on 5 December this year, heard the Major General's vision of the development of the National Armed Forces over the next four years and unanimously decided to support the draft decision of the Saeima "On the approval of Major General Leonida Kalniņš as Commander of the National Armed Forces of the Republic of Latvia". The date of the change of the commanders was determined January 27, 2017. On behalf of the Commission, I call on you to approve Major General Leonidas as Commander of the National Armed Forces.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-22-PT12-394-U17	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote for the draft decision “On approval of Major General Leonida Kalniņa as Commander of the National Armed Forces of the Republic of Latvia”! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 88, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. Decision adopted. Congratulations to Major General Leonid Kalniņa on his new position! (Applause) On the agenda - draft decision “On approval of Jānis Neimanis as a judge of the Constitutional Court”. On behalf of the Legal Commission, Mr Valery Agešin, Member.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-22-PT12-394-U18	Dear colleagues, In its meeting of 12 December of this year, the Presidium of the Saeima decided to hand over to the Legal Commission material on the candidate for the position of a judge of the Constitutional Court – the judge Janis Neimani. The draft decision “On approval of Jānis Neimanis as a judge of the Constitutional Court” was reviewed at the sitting of the Legal Commission of the Saeima on 21 December of this year. Members of the Commission have unanimously supported the draft decision. On behalf of the Saeima Legal Commission, I call on Janis Neimanis to approve as a judge of the Constitutional Court. The judge Jānis Neimanis takes office in accordance with the procedure laid down in the Law on the Constitutional Court.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-22-PT12-394-U19	Thank you. Let us start a debate. Name to Member Juris Villums.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-22-PT12-394-U20	Ladies and gentlemen! It's very short. Accidentally yesterday I learned that Mr. Neimanis was the reporting judge at the Department of Administrative Cases of the Senate of the Supreme Court in 2009 for a case relating to the Latgalian language. And then it was decided that, in the opinion of this relevant institution, a document drawn up in the Latgalian language was drawn up in a foreign language. This decision was very much quoted, very many times also criticised, and quite such a broad consensus was found error. Here too, the Saeima... Mrs. Apple, as you can see, she applied to debate... In fact, God’s Word says: “You must not be afraid of anything. ” — Depp. S. Apple: “Who... Can't you do that?Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, You will now determine who is allowed to apply and what is not?Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, “) this decision, which, as I said, was found to be an error. That is why I am calling for your attention and attention from other people, civil servants and local government officials to be drawn to this decision, because Mr Neimanis admitted yesterday in our negotiations in the political group that it was indeed a mistake. I respect this ability of Mr. Neimanis to admit his mistakes, therefore I will vote in favour of the approval of Mr. Jānis Neimanis as a judge of the Constitutional Court. And I call on other colleagues, as well as Mr Shadursky, to take an example from Mr Neimanis and to be able to recognise their mistakes. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. A.Kimiņš: “Good!” ) Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-22-PT12-394-U21	Thank you. Name of Member Solvita Āboltiņš.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-22-PT12-394-U22	Good morning, colleagues! Now we have a new practice. Now it will determine who will be allowed to apply for the debate and what will not. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. A. Kaimiņš: “Solvita, talk about the matter!” ) But I would like to talk about John Neiman. Both as the Head of the Subcommittee on Justice Policy and as a person who has long been confronted with issues related to improving our judicial system. I will not be very many, I will read John Neimanis' motivation letter, for I assume that most of you have not done so. ‘ In the work of the judge, I am addressing complicated cases. The process of resolving such issues is of greatest satisfaction. I like to work methodologically, successively and logically, revealing the principles of the legal system and including legal philosophic arguments in the solution. The judicial service shall require responsible and independent action. I am aware that the cases that have been adjudicated go beyond their individual limits and that arguments become part of the rights, affect public life and the development of rights. I appreciate my country, my country's democratic structure and its constitutional values. I have been in state service since the end of studies and in the service of a judge of the Supreme Court for less than nine years. This gives me an unmeasurable opportunity to serve in strengthening my country through law." I call for support for a candidate who is determined to strengthen his country through the law.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-22-PT12-394-U23	Thank you. I closed the debate. Is there anything to add on behalf of the Commission? None. Please call me! We will vote for the draft decision “On approval of Jānis Neimanis as a Constitutional Court Judge”! Please vote mode! Please get the result! It's not about - 83, it's against and refrains from - it's not. The decision has been taken. Congratulations to John Neiman. (Applause) On the agenda - draft decision “On approval of Arthur Kučas as a judge of the Constitutional Court”. On behalf of the Legal Commission, Mr Valery Agešin, Member.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-22-PT12-394-U24	At the meeting of the Saeima on 12 December 2016 the Council decided to refer to the Legal Commission the decision on the minutes of the sitting of 6 December 2016 “On the candidate for the position of a judge of the Constitutional Court, Artūra Kuču”. At the meeting of the Legal Commission of the Saeima on 21 December this year, the draft decision “On the approval of Arthur Kučs as a judge of the Constitutional Court” was reviewed. Members of the Commission have unanimously supported the draft decision. On behalf of the Saeima Legal Commission, I call on Artis Kučs to approve as a judge of the Constitutional Court. Judge Arthur Kučs takes office in accordance with the procedure laid down by the Constitutional Court Law.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-22-PT12-394-U25	Thank you. Let us start a debate. Name to Member Alexander Kirštein.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-22-PT12-394-U26	Dear President, Honourable Members! Well, there's been a little mistake here. Obviously neither the Cabinet of Ministers nor the Commission have become familiar with the previous activities of the respected candidate. Trusting both the commission and the advisors, we usually vote here for judges, especially without going into their previous activities, and then wonder when a judge, for example... He doesn't take a bribe, but now he's embezzlemented as if he's giving a bribe to another, or all kinds of miracles are happening... And in this case I think: what is the attitude of a candidate for the position of a judge of the Constitutional Court, for example, against the constitutional acts of Latvia that we have adopted? Interesting to look at the Declaration on the Occupation of Latvia and I read the wonders: “The USSR leadership purposefully flooded hundreds of thousands of migrants in Latvia and tried to destroy the Latvian people’s identity. As a result of this policy, Latvia’s share of the basic income decreased from 77 percent to 52 percent.” It turns out that Mr. Kučs, working at the Human Rights Institute of the Faculty of Law of the University of Latvia, deserves to be diligently writing expert reports to various courts on issues such as, let's say, the Occupants, the necessity of repatriation, as well as some other issues. I wrote out a few precepts from these experts. Examples include: Ingmārs Līdaka, the Saeima Member, was interviewed by journalist Ilze Liepa, and the interview was published under the title “Latvians must be Hosts in their Country”. For this interview Kučs has given an expert opinion to the court, because prosecutor Garanča had initiated criminal proceedings. ( I would like to tell you immediately that both at the lowest instance and when the case was appealed to the regional court, the prosecutor Garanča lost his indictment and was forced to leave work in the prosecutor’s office and is now probably earning bread as a lawyer.) What does Mr. Couch write there? He writes that in the interviewer's comment... that Latvians die: “We are too little in the territory assigned to us, because we are burdened by the excessive weight of the occupations, which has disrupted the overall harmony. Occupants with a mass will not be pressed. They too are rooted, resisting, and multiplying. In the capital city of Riga, there are only 30 percent of Latvians, and this is a catastrophicly few. There is a need for intervention." So Cuch... A, and there is another saying: “Okupantus Latvians consider themselves as external enemies of the Latvian people, the land and the state.” Mr. Kučs writes: “These statements are against Latvians and other representatives of the former ethnic groups of the USSR, last defined as the external enemies of the Latvian people (For example: “If Latvians fail to achieve the repatriation of the occupations to Russia, on all four sides, the Latvian people will be destroyed.” ), as opposed to representatives of Latvian and other former USSR ethnic groups. These sentences call for limitations on the rights and equality before the law of Russia and other representatives of former USSR ethnic groups who arrived in Latvia after 17 June 1940 and until 21 August 1991 and the right to choose their place of residence outside their ethnic range.” It has to be said that these articles did not call into question any rights because, for example, both constitutional acts... The declaration on the occupation of Latvia states that the Saeima of the Republic of Latvia invites the countries of the world to help Latvia eliminate the consequences of occupation and to support the efforts of those who wish to return from Latvia to their ethnic homeland. The second declaration, entitled “Declaration of the condemnation of the totalitarian Communist occupation regime of the Union of the Soviet Socialist Republic in Latvia”, states that the Cabinet of Ministers should conclude a special agreement between the Republic of Latvia and the Russian Federation, which will establish mutual obligations to cover material expenses for the displaced persons and their families, which will move to their historical homeland. Yes, I also have an expert interview report here. You know that accused persons have the right to ask experts questions. It has, of course, been 10 years ago, and we can say that all this is outdated... But Mr. Kučs writes that these articles contain a call for distrust, aimed at causing national hatred, distrust, and so on, and so on. The last one. What is Mr. Kuč's attitude towards multilingualism? When we adopted the General Convention on the Protection of National Minorities, or the so-called Convention on Minorities, there was a reservation that, in accordance with historical circumstances, in places where Latvians are in minority, we still use Latvian as a national language, and then Mr Kučs believed that it should be (Interest: “Time!” ) to allow multilingualism in any case.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-22-PT12-394-U27	Mr Kirštein, your debate is over.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-22-PT12-394-U28	I could, of course, continue, but I am calling for this, in this case, not to vote in favour of this candidate, because the Constitutional Court is weakened. It has already voted for the fact that Abren is not part of Latvia and there is no need for a referendum on this matter. The second vote will obviously be “in favour” of the fact that there was no occupation in Latvia. And so we will come to the third vote that Latvia is...
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-22-PT12-394-U29	Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-22-PT12-394-U30	... has unlawfully withdrawn from the Russian Empire. Thank you. I call for no support.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-22-PT12-394-U31	Name of Member Inese Lībiņš-Egner.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-22-PT12-394-U32	Dear colleagues, It's really sad. It's really sad! A week ago, in my opinion, Member Ilze Viņķelė climbed into this platform and promised all of us that, at every homophobic speech by Alexander Kirštein, he would climb into the platform, and I could assure myself, for my part, that at every such speech, where really high professionals from the area I represent - from the academic environment in law, I would climb. Mr. Kučs is a highly valued specialist on the issue of hate speech. These quotations, which Mr Kirštein mentioned, were from the so-called Garda newspaper - with various calls, without an individual assessment, simply categorising people in white and black. Mr Kučs as a highly qualified specialist on hate speech has explained the essence of Latvian law, the fact that in the Constitution the issue of each person is assessed differently. We do not make collective responsibility premisses for that or another category of people, we do not fuel hatred, and I think that every specialist in the field of human rights who has undertaken to act precisely in relation to the elimination of hate speech has a great benefit for Latvia during this very difficult period of time. I would really be very honored if we strengthened the Constitutional Court today in the Saeima with a new judge of the Constitutional Court... not only young people, but also knowledge on the issue of hate speech. Constitutional courts now in Europe, colleagues, are those that hold the backbone of democracy in the countries affected by populism. I very much hope that Latvia will not survive this. But I very much hope that Latvia will experience the fact that members of the Saeima vote with their spine and do not trust that or any other attempt at populist provocation. I call for support for this candidate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-22-PT12-394-U33	The name of Member Ilze Viņķelis.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-22-PT12-394-U34	Dear colleagues, Dear colleagues, Today we have the opportunity to supplement the Constitutional Court with our vote by a judge who is able to distinguish very accurately and professionally the interpretation of historical facts from emotions and hate speech. I hope this trend is also on the way to the Saeima, and I also hope that we may learn some lessons. Mr Kirstein has obviously chosen his way, and there are people who do not change it. Mr Kirštein, to vote with his spine, I call on all the others to vote with their heads. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-22-PT12-394-U35	Name to Member Gunaras Kūtris.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-22-PT12-394-U36	Ladies and gentlemen, I fully agree with what Mrs Viņķele said, and part of what I wanted to say, she also said, namely, the attitude that the lawyer should be able to weigh the matter, put aside emotional or hate speech, put everything on the shelves and say: that is, that is, that is, it is. But at the same time I will take the opportunity to say that it is not necessary to expand society, it is not necessary to make false facts known to the public, especially if the Constitutional Court is violated. The work of the Constitutional Court is not weakened, it is one of the highest powers among Latvian institutions compared to the Saeima and the Government. I very much hope that the power of the Saeima would be as great. Secondly. I would very much like to emphasise that new judges will also look at cases from a legal point of view, but will not look from a political point of view, because some would like the opinions of the Constitutional Court to be based on political conviction. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. I.Ribena and J.Dombrava intersades.) The Court is not a political institution. The Court must assess the legal factor. And the third factor. The judgment of the Constitutional Court legally very precisely records the fact of occupation. It is reinforced by a court judgment. So please don't say unsubstantiated insults! Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-22-PT12-394-U37	Name to Member Ringold Balodim.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-22-PT12-394-U38	Good afternoon, dear colleagues! With regard to ethical rules, I think it is quite clearly stated in the parliamentary order roll that Members should not be involved in self-targeted performance. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. A.Kimiņš: “paragraph 6! Paragraph 6 is that!’ ) Yes, Mr. Neighbours even knows from his head, apparently his text is particularly attractive. Colleagues! It is about the fact that, of course, in any country - in any country! - Judges of the Supreme Court, especially judges of the Constitutional Court, have always been the subject of such discussions. Colleagues, always in other countries are also discussing these judges! I really regret that a highly qualified specialist, Mr Kuč, whom I also respect very much, we have to go out here in this way before being approved. I do not know exactly where Mr. Kučs is going (it seems to me that it is the place of Kaspar Baloža), but I remember that in the past, when considering Kaspars Balodi, who has now served for 10 years, there were a wide range of insinations, including that the Constitution does not seem to be good enough, and so on. Colleagues, let's not get out of context something that, in my opinion, was not correctly interpreted! Mrs Lībiņa-Egnere described this situation very well, which was linked to Mr Garda. Of course, I have known Mr. Kuč for over 15 years. We're in one promotion board right now. He has been the head of the Cathedral for many years, and I have no reason to doubt about his national plantation or knowledge. I call on: we will support this honorable candidate - Doctor of Law of Associate Professors, Artis Kučs - for the position of judge of the Constitutional Court and we will finish the self-developing! Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-22-PT12-394-U39	The name of the Member, Martin Bondar. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. A.Kimiņš: “paragraph 6! Martin, point 6’. ) Council Regulation (EC) No 1257/96 of 20 June 1996 concerning humanitarian aid (OJ L 163, 2.7.1996, p. 1).
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-22-PT12-394-U40	Madam President, Dear colleagues and respected colleagues! I am pleased that this debate is taking place here today. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. J. Šulcs: Debate! ) Debate, yes. Mr. Schulz, thank you for pointing out again. I am sinning on this. Every official elected should pass through a very careful professional evaluation sieve. Yes, colleagues! Whenever we vote for candidates, we should have a debate before that both on the personality of the candidate, on the professional achievements and on the various aspects in which the individual could contribute to the institution where he or she goes to work. That is why this debate is not bad, and it is not reprehensible and it is not necessary to panic that it is happening here. I support the candidacy of Mr Arthur Kučs for the office of a judge of the Constitutional Court, but at the same time I believe that for each judge - not only as judges of the Constitutional Court, but also as other judges! - there should be such a debate. Because it is often that we vote but do not debate, often we appoint people for life as a judge (Dep. V.Spolitis: “For 10 years!” ) and we hope to expect some good results from them, but in fact, some of them may not be suitable to receive a lifetime mandate from us. And that's serious. This is very serious! That is why I would not condemn colleagues for having debated them. We can condemn what they are saying in the debate and overturn these arguments, but we cannot condemn the fact that such a debate... the following debate is taking place: I therefore call on my colleagues to support Mr Kuč's candidacy, but in the future too, to debate the officials we appoint, because that is serious. Otherwise, we can come out like some of the ministers sitting on my right and whose mission we are asking for today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-22-PT12-394-U41	Name to Member Sergey Dolgopolov.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-22-PT12-394-U42	Dear colleagues, I sincerely thank the Saeima's Mandate, Ethics and Application Commission, which started legalising certain words because it seems that Idiotism really has no limits, and I think it needs this kind of debate as well. I invite you to support the candidate for the position of judge of the Constitutional Court, Artūra Kuču. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-22-PT12-394-U43	Name to Member Alexander Kirštein, for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-22-PT12-394-U44	Dear President, Honourable Members! I am not questioning the professionalism of Mr Kučs and would be willing to recommend to their human rights office, not to the Constitutional Court. I also do not understand the previous speakers who said they were fictional quotes. I have an official expert interview report here, which I can introduce to Mrs Lībiņa-Egnere. I also do not understand the accusations of homophobia. One connection to today's debate with homophobia. But I want to quote one other thing. Today “Latvian News” published the results of the central examination of the Latvian language. From the 28 last municipal schools, 21 schools have a Russian teaching language. Calling Zemgale Secondary School in Daugavpils... The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. S. Āboltiņa: “What about the Constitutional Court?Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, “ It has a connection with the Constitution. Listen, please! In Demene, the director of the school was unable to answer in Latvian. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. V.Spolitis: “It is not a question of the Constitutional Court!” ) See previous expertise and also recommendations... As I said, the recommendations made by expert Mr. Kuč that there is no need for a reservation on the use of the state language in the so-called minority convention for the places where Russian-speaking people mostly live... We see that 25 years after the restoration of Latvia's independence, even school directors are not able to answer questions in Latvian. So a person who does not focus on the sad situation with the consequences of occupation is obviously more suitable for the human rights office than for the Constitutional Court. And if Mrs. Viņķele doubts and comes here to talk after me, as she promised, it should be understood, however, how much loyalty is important if the director is not able to express himself in Latvian and a third of the children go to the monument of Pārdaugava on 9 May. This shows how distressed we are. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-22-PT12-394-U45	The name is Mr. Wallary Ageshin.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-22-PT12-394-U46	I would like to expose the lies that have been made here. I believe that Mr Kirštein lied at the beginning of his speech to all Members of the Saeima's Legal Commission. Dear Saeima, I assure you that all the Members of the Legal Commission of the Saeima are familiar with all the draft decisions and the materials attached to them. Especially when it comes to judges. I therefore call for the vote in favour. Moreover, almost every judge in our commission is in discussion, there is an opportunity to express his point of view, so I think there is no basis for developing and continuing this debate here. The candidate is very respected, and all Members of the Legal Commission are carefully reading draft decisions and accompanying documents. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-22-PT12-394-U47	Thank you. I closed the debate. Please call me! We will vote for the draft decision “On approval of Arthur Kučas as a judge of the Constitutional Court”! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 75, for - 5, for - 2. The decision has been taken. Congratulations to Artis Kučs with approval for the position of judge of the Constitutional Court! (Applause) Thank you. On the agenda - draft decision “On approval of Mārtiņš Kazaks as a member of the Board of Fiscal Discipline”. Member of the Commission for Budget and Finance (Tax) Jānis Vucāns.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-22-PT12-394-U48	Dear colleagues and honourable colleagues! Since 2014 in Latvia, the institution that monitors financial discipline in the context of the budget and which is therefore a partner of both the Ministry of Finance and the Saeima on these issues is the Board of Fiscal Discipline. A part of the members of that Board shall be approved on a proposal from at least 10 Members of the Saeima. The first composition of the Board was defined from 2014 onwards for a period of three years, with the result that some members of the Board of Fiscal Discipline terminate their mandate at the end of this year. The budget and financial (tax) commission from the Saeima Bureau received applications signed by 11 Members on candidates for the post of member of the Board of Fiscal Discipline, both Mr Mārtiņš Kazak (for his candidacy we are currently discussing) and Mr Hansen (for his approval, the next item on the agenda and the next vote). At the meeting of the Budget and Finance (Tax) Commission on 21 December, we had a very serious professional discussion about what aspects of fiscal discipline have been observed in Latvia so far and what should be done in the future. In this discussion, the Commission decided that apparently this discussion, which was yesterday, should be continued in its wider composition, as well as verified that Mārtiņš Kazaks fully complies with the requirements set for the member of the Board of Fiscal Discipline according to his professional qualities and knowledge, and decided to ask the Saeima to support the approval of Mārtiņš Kazaks as a member of the Board of Fiscal Discipline for six years - from 1 January 2017. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-22-PT12-394-U49	Thank you. Let us start a debate. The name of the Member, Martin Bondar.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-22-PT12-394-U50	Colleagues! I support both the candidacy of Mārtiņš Kazaks and the candidacy of Morten Hansen as a member of the Fiscal Discipline Council. The only wish for both gentlemen is the following. In this debate, which Mr Vucana spoke about, both Mr Presidents said that fiscal discipline in Latvia is all right: Latvia follows the guidance of the European Commission and meets all the best European standards in the area of fiscal discipline. You know, I meet people in Latvia and I can tell you openly – people have the word “discipline” and the words “finances in Latvia”, “public finances” don’t go together, especially after the chaos created during and after the adoption of the 2017 budget. And that is why I would like to be much more active and open to both gentlemen, talking to those in power about fiscal and financial discipline, about those issues that concern the financial sector in Latvia. I hope that both Mr. Kazak and Mr. Hansen will be able to be strong enough, and that in their professional activities they will be firm against those in power, because it happens that everything on paper is fine, but why not exactly in real life in the financial sector in Latvia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-22-PT12-394-U51	Thank you. I closed the debate. Does the rapporteur want to add something? No, no. Please call me! We will vote for the draft decision “On approval of Mārtiņš Kazaks as a member of the Board of Fiscal Discipline”! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 79, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Decision adopted. Congratulations to Mārtiņš Kazaks! On the agenda - draft decision on the approval of Morten Hansen as a member of the Board of Fiscal Discipline. Member of the Commission for Budget and Finance (Tax) Jānis Vucāns.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-22-PT12-394-U52	Colleagues! As I said before, at the Commission meeting yesterday, the Commission also decided on the candidacy of Morten Hansen, which had also been nominated by 11 Members of the Saeima. The Commission decided to ask the Saeima to approve Mr Morten Hansen as a member of the Board of Fiscal Discipline for a period of six years from 1 January 2017. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-22-PT12-394-U53	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote on the draft decision on the approval of Morten Hansen as a member of the Board of Fiscal Discipline. Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 77, for - no, for - 1. The decision has been taken. Congratulations to Morten Hansen for approval as a member of the Fiscal Discipline Council! On the agenda - draft decision on distrust to the Minister for Welfare Janis Reirs. On behalf of the applicants, Member Jūlija Stepanenko.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-22-PT12-394-U54	Dear colleagues, January 20, very recently, two days ago... I am sorry: in December, we gathered for an extraordinary sitting to jointly correct the errors made by the coalition in both the 2016 and 2017 budgets. Those who followed events were witnesses of the despair that this policy has brought to our small and medium-sized enterprises. People lose their jobs and livelihoods, and if you think that you can now rest with a calm heart, you are wrong. Because people are deeply disappointed at the work of the government and the Saeima. The situation is unstable because of the chaos that has been created, and entrepreneurs have been driven into fear and uncertainty, because it cannot be stopped so quickly by pushing the wind from the mountain. Recent efforts do not stop the despair of those who are forced to find a new job or have closed their companies, nor do they restore confidence in the fact that Latvia can safely plan its business and not be afraid of the conditions of the forsminior in the form of decisions of the Saeima and the Government. No, no! At the 20th December session of the Saeima there was no team work for the people. It was a struggle by two coalition forces for how better to milk your flock - coming from the right or from the left. As we can see, this struggle only ended at this sitting of the Saeima. But let's talk about the main heroes of this yew! In particular, Mr Reira has laid the foundations, so to say, he has prepared a recipe for this quail and has continued to cook it as well as a minister of prosperity. Thus, Mr Reira's responsibility for what is happening is even double, and it is only logical today to bring Mrs Reizniece-Ozola's responsibility to justice, first and foremost, John Reira. Mr Reira was the Minister for Finance until 11 February this year. Now we are concluding 2016, having lived with this budget prepared by Mr Reira and with Mr Reira's gift of prosperity. And here we have to think about whether Mr Reira, as former Minister for Finance, has failed to act and the lack of initiative has been badness or blind self-confidence in living in a coalition comfort zone that is freed from reality. For example, the only option that would help to heat our economy is a pointless missed. I am referring to the acquisition of European Union funds. The Ministry of Finance shall perform the functions of the managing authority for the training of European Union funds, and four departments shall be responsible for this work. But neither the four departments nor the monitoring committee set up by Mr Reira have been able to carry out its work in such a way that the fund acquisition in Latvia has been excellent. How valuable is the World Bank study on the tax system in Latvia commissioned by Mr Reira's budget, which was ironically the result of the remaining taxpayers' forum, which took place a few weeks after the adoption of the dull budget? And will we really take into account the recommendations made by the World Bank to us? It is understandable that you, Mr Reira, choose not to rely on your vision, which you may not have at all, but to use only the letter and table in your work. This is demonstrated by your speech to the Saeima, presenting the 2016 budget, which quotes the template phrases of the Doing Business annual study. I quote: “In comparison with Estonia and Lithuania, Latvia has better access to credit and simpler tax arrangements. For the development of entrepreneurship, predictability and transparency in tax policy, which the government has also ensured... “ That’s it! Compared to Estonia, we are all right and even better. And maybe that's why Latvia's competitiveness index has just dropped during you as a finance minister, and so many entrepreneurs are turning to Estonia, and Latvia hosts discussion clubs on how to reach and ahead Estonia. If the World Bank were now recommending cutting pensions as in 2010, you would certainly listen blindly to that, without seeing the reality. However, something makes you change your mind, and that is the strategy set out by your party. If the party had promised to reduce personal income tax before the elections, but when it came to power, it decided to forget about that promise, then you too, despite your promises, change your position and find a formal excuse for not doing so. Such a specific inconsistency is also evident in your future work, leading the Ministry of Welfare, especially on the issue of shifting income from social security contributions to healthcare. On 10 February this year, under the heading "Mortumon Panorama", you, the then future Minister for Welfare, explained that it is necessary to achieve a partial shift of social contributions to healthcare, as is also in line with your party's programme. However, just a few months later, on 8 August, you announced publicly that you no longer support the transfer of funds to healthcare; you stated that the Ministry of Welfare had previously spoken against the transfer of income from social insurance contributions to healthcare. Half a year after you left the Minister for Finance, you are saying to the public calmly that your proposal to combat the shadow economy is to raise the minimum monthly wage, because it will accordingly increase the amount of tax due, leaving intact the wage problem of the envelopes, which you have not resolved as a Minister for Finance. You are as technically addressing the problems of the shadow economy as you are technically reducing unemployment in Latvia. So now, for example, when your Ministry closed the Department of the State Employment Agency in Uzputa, the unemployed in this region will be forced to drive 50 kilometres to Liepaja and unemployment will automatically decrease in Uzputa. As Minister for Welfare, you are happy to announce the entry into force next year of the innovation provided for in your budget - social contributions from the minimum wage. This will no longer allow people to work part-time. Perhaps in your passion for reality you have imagined entrepreneurs as cunning swams, who defraud the country and the workers by employing people in half-time work. But maybe don't know about the daily life of young mothers, the farm workers, the caretakers and the creative professions, as well as the people in the regions. They have been deprived of the chance to survive! Your primary responsibility as Minister for Welfare is that you did not go into the problem that you created as Minister for Finance yourself, and you did not even read the government declaration, the 97th of which makes it clear and clear that you, as Minister for Welfare, urgently had to correct the mistake and do exactly the opposite of what you are still doing. Point 97 of the Government Declaration reads: "Let us assess the promotion of flexible forms of employment (part-time employment, teleworking) through socially responsible entrepreneurship." So it's a part-time job. Your task was to comply with the government declaration and to read it again because, with regard to the area of prosperity, it contained many other good and interesting things that you have not even experienced. Obviously, you still have not understood the confusion that you have created, and you do not feel responsible for the fate of the people that you have destroyed by your decisions. People as Excel table growth as the World Bank's number. In your passion for reality, you remind a man who, falling from the roof of a high-rise building, shouts: “So far, everything is good!” The financial and welfare policy that you put at risk the security of our country as a matter of urgency. We are losing people who leave; prosperity is falling. We are at risk of getting to a mass mess, and this is very dangerous in this geopolitical situation. And that's just because you consciously or unconsciously make decisions based on the assumption that all people are wealthy mistakes. You, Mr Reira, as the main fighter of domestic violence, who will enter history by signing the Istanbul Convention alone, as well as by fiscal chaos, are realising economic violence against your people. Mr. Reira, will you be a hero and be able to take responsibility for what has happened? Will you be able to come out of your comfort zone and understand the true nature of things? Will you accept the blame in this chaos and, with respect, will you derision? I call on you to do this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-22-PT12-394-U55	Let us start a debate. Name to Member Artus Neminis.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-22-PT12-394-U56	“It is precisely because Jānis is so simple, loving and careful, that the original organisation of our factory’s youth company has nominated him as the delegate of the XXIII Congress of the Latvian Lenin Communist Youth Union. We listened with great interest and pride to his presentation. Of course, now that John is already a delegate to the XX Congress of the Union's Communist Youth Union, our hopes have been met, and there is great joy in him.” Ladies and gentlemen! John Reirs is a Communist. Good morning! As long as former Communists rule in our country, they will be sitting in government like this... John, you're a former Communist! Like Brigmanis, who has taken leave and who is not today. Who has said to everyone: “Yes, I am a Communist.” It was! And there are all the witnesses to that. As long as this happens in this country, nothing will change here! While Piebalgs, the Head of Unity, who is exactly the same former Communist... Nothing will change here! And it's not about something that's done, not done, you're a former Communist. Go, please, in holy rest. Get out of here! Go work in the private sector and so on. You're a former Communist! Bastard! Amen! And it's with each one of here. Tell me that's not true! Get up in the podium and say that what I read here is a lie - at what convention you attended and how you climbed up your career ladder, just like Brigman did. Demission! Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-22-PT12-394-U57	Name of Member Inga Bite.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-22-PT12-394-U58	Dear colleagues, Mr. Reira! If we do not make urgent changes, the socio-economic disaster at the beginning of next year is threatening - this is what our colleague Jānis Reira drew up and obeyed without a debate with the changes introduced by the law on entrepreneurs, Dana Reizniece-Ozola, the current Minister of Finance, has just said. Namely, in 2015, you as the Minister of Finance planned a socio-economic disaster in Latvia, which would have been realised in the beginning of 2017, but hopefully will not be implemented. And I have to say, just because the indignation of society and business was finally expressed so loud that even the coalition of Latvia could hear it. Depressions towards entrepreneurs and people who want to act legally in Latvia are hidden behind pseudo-cares about the future and social guarantees of Latvian citizens. When I hear these words from the mouth of you and other coalition politicians, I think of the saying attributed to Queen Maria Antuanete of France: “If they don’t have bread to eat, let them eat cakes!” Rephrasing, I will say, “If they don’t have money today, pay taxes and save their pension tomorrow!” It may be that care about social guarantees of Latvian people sounds noble, but let's only remember that taxes paid today are not accumulated for our benefits and pensions, but are paid to pensioners today. So, in fact, the absurd idea of a tax on unearned money is not a concern for the people of the future, but there is simply a desire to complement today's budget. There is no doubt that this is also important, but it should not be done in the manner of the Latvian folk necks, collecting additional classes and not pretending to know about the life of the people today and whether people have something to put on the table today and whether they have something to feed their children. However, it seems to you, Mr Reira, that the policy pursued by the neck is quite good, because we have neither heard of nor received any initiative from you that would involve inviting the people of Latvia to return to Latvia, nor any initiative aimed at taxing the people of Latvia in Latvia, not in Estonia, Finland or any other country. Your only achievement in the field of demographic improvement is to add 15 euro to the budget of four children's families. The above shows that Jānis Reirs, neither as a Minister of Finance in the past, nor as Minister of Welfare at present, has not taken care of and does not care for the state's social budget in the long term, but is thinking only of maximum extortion of people today. After you, Mr. Raere, even the floodwaters! Perhaps it has been excellent for you to act as Minister for Welfare, and that would allow us to forget everything that has happened when you were Minister for Finance? The government declaration has already been mentioned by my colleague Jūlija Stepanenko... On November 23, you climbed the hall and said that four and a half million were earmarked for deinstitutionalisation in the 2017 budget. That's wonderful! Then why does your Ministry come to the Saeima and say that we can keep small children away from children from 2019? Where will these four million remain in 2017, if infants and children under three years of age are to stay in childcare facilities, where no one personally cares for them and assumes personal responsibility? In your time, the policy of seniors, which was launched during the previous Minister's, was completed, but when you and your Ministry were repeatedly contacted, you have not shown any acceptance and a desire to discuss it with the seniors in the face of their eyes. Apparently, you had nothing to say to the elders. Colleagues, political responsibility in Latvia so far has almost always been just an empty sound, even more so if during the period between the input of the quail and the moment when others thought it, they have succeeded in replacing the chairs or posts. However, the chair does not change a person or change his responsibility. Colleagues, you have the opportunity today to take political responsibility - empty sounds to fill with content. The foundation for this is that the socio-economic disaster will probably still happen, because the correction of errors is never as good as preventing errors. I ask for political responsibility from the ministers of this government. Thank you. (Applause)
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-22-PT12-394-U59	Thank you. Mr. Zarins, will you have enough two minutes for the debate? We've got... The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. I.Zariņš: “Why two?Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Four!’ ) All right, you'll get it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-22-PT12-394-U60	Good afternoon, everybody! Today we are discussing the resignation of the Minister for Welfare. It is strange to see that no coalition Member has applied for a debate to defend the Minister. Does that mean that you agree with what is being said here today on the part of those asking for the mission? Maybe that's why you're acting on the principle: for a mischievous - either good or nothing. Why do I have reason to believe that, unfortunately, Mr. Reira has a role to play in the past?... not today. The foundation is what you yourself said very recently in the debate when we spoke about this attempt to demolish this legendary blue tax. Then, Mr. Smilten, you came here with pictures and told us that Latvia's social budget is not sustainable. And that's why, today, you're all silent about it! Because you know there's a ripped big, big soap. In the future Latvia will be expected to have great soaps, and you will need some sin, and then you will be able to put all of them to. If that is not the case, if I am wrong, I would very much like the Minister for Welfare to come here now and to assure me that I am wrong and that Mr Smiltēna has also spoken falsely, and that the social budget of Latvia is sustainable; that those who are paying taxes fairly today can count on a pension to the extent that the country has promised it, and that this budget will indeed bear all the challenges that await us in the future. I call on you to come and say it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-22-PT12-394-U61	Thank you. Mr Viļuma, will you enter the debate in two minutes? Then we will continue the debate after the break. Please call me! Please check-in mode for Members! Dear colleagues, As every year, a traditional Christmas creative workshop will take place at the Saeima House, where we will be together with young people of Valmiera SOS children's village. I invite everyone to the Saeima House! Name Gunaras Kūtris, member of the Saeima Secretary, to read the results of the registration as soon as they have been prepared.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-22-PT12-394-U62	Dear colleagues, Currently not registered: Jānis Adamsons, Augusts Brigmanis, Boriss Cilevičs, Lolita Čigāne, Raivis Dzintars, Ojārs Ēriks Kalniņš, Rihards Kols, Inese Laizāne, Romanas Mežeckis, Ainārs Mežulis, Juris Vectirāns and Mihails Zemļinskis.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-22-PT12-394-U63	Thank you. Interruption until 11 a.m. ( Interruption)
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-22-PT12-394-U64	Honourable Members, let us continue the Saeima sitting! On the agenda - draft decision on distrust to the Minister for Welfare Janis Reirs. We are continuing the debate. Name to Member Juris Villums.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-22-PT12-394-U65	Very honourable Speaker of the Saeima! Ladies and gentlemen! I just want to remind you briefly of what we debated before the break. Of course, on the request from Mr Reira for his resignation. And I would like to point out once again that Mrs Jūlija Stepanenko stressed that the content of the government declaration contains a number of points relating to welfare and regional development. In this regard, I must add that, for example, in Latgale region 40 percent - 40 percent! - the population is at risk of poverty. And I took a big break, my colleagues, to hear you hear it, because it also shows a lack of activity by the Ministry of Welfare or, rather, a lack of activity. It is also important to note what Mr. Neighbour said about the ghost of communism. Of course, we can smile a little about it, because probably some connection with the power of the past that was in Latvia has been for all of us. I was an october, too. “ Ooo! You were an october?Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, “ I think Mr. Neighbour was also an octobrene. But, of course, I do not deny that the idea of Communists, of Communist activists, should be assessed. By the way, a member of the Board of the National Association has just pointed out in social ambition that he supports this idea expressed by the village, so that I allow the National Association to support the resignation of Mr Reira. Another thing I think is very important, also in relation to the regions. Mrs Betes has already said and reminded you that it is difficult for people to understand the actions of both the ministry and the entire government: people are obliged to think about tomorrow, to think about their social guarantees for them to be in retirement or in case of illness, but at the same time it is not understood that people are already having difficulty paying all their bills. Indeed, this comparison with bread and cakes is very significant in my view. Mr. Zarins, I would remind you, called on at least one of the coalition members to come and try at least someone. I.Zariņš intermediates.) Dismisses these arguments, as the parliamentary debate and debate contain this principle that they speak and speak for and against them. More recently, I had the opportunity to have a debate in a club where Latvian youth are debating about and against various issues, and indeed it was a pleasure to hear it. I call on all of you (in this case, members of the coalition also): leave and listen to how young people, students, can argue their views. You should be able to argue why you still support Mr Reira's stay. And finally. Mr Kučinski said that this government would work as a team; that no one in this government would try, so to say, to put the blame on our shoulders and put it on the shoulders of another minister or another ministry. In my opinion, we can see exactly the opposite in this case: there is a fight between the Ministry of Welfare and the Ministry of Finance. One ministry seems to take care of social guarantees for citizens, but at the same time the other ministry takes care of achieving budget figures. Once again, I must remind you of what I said about political responsibility before speaking about Mr Šadurskis: that is the essential thing that we still cannot see in Latvia's politics. The Head of Government, Mr Kučinska, has repeatedly said that he takes responsibility for the chaos created in connection with tax policy 2011. ... 2017 - Forgive me, budget. Now we're trying to save everything we can. If a politician says he takes responsibility, then he also wants to see some action, so that they are not just such slogans and once again just empty apologies. Colleagues! I call once again on Mr Reira to vote in favour of... on the expression of distrust to Mr Reira.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-22-PT12-394-U66	The name of the Member, Andrejs Clementyev.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-22-PT12-394-U67	Good morning, honourable Members! Yes, we talked a lot about taxes in December, and there was a new news that taxes might be raised. Yesterday, however, information appeared that Latvia spends the smallest part of GDP on social assistance, social security. Romanians, Bulgarians already pay more of their GDP. It does not matter how much we pay taxes; above all, how much we spend on social security. You can always threaten, show and tell us that the system is not sustainable, but it is a mirror of today that we need to accept and do something. I know that Reir will not leave the minister today. We are realists. The coalition has made a decision, discipline is, no one is swinging this government. In the previous crisis, when we talked about taxes, about MUN and so on, nothing came to us, and even today, the conversation between ministers shows that they have only come here to sit down and talk to each other about perhaps New Year's parties, perhaps about travel, where to go next year, but not discussing what we are talking about here. They're not interested in what we're talking about here. Yes, we can defraud and shame them... Julija Stepanenko was a very good speech in the debate. She summed up everything there; it can be listened to as a reporter, then study in the ministry and see the mistakes she had listed, but there will still be no result. They will not improve their communication with Parliament. I think, let's take... A working group was set up within the Commission for Social and Labour Affairs, which works on amendments to the law “On State Pensions”. And I would very much like to have known that sad figure about Latvia as the country with the lowest level of care for social security, and to have an opportunity for the Social and Labour Affairs Commission to include corrections in the budget. Clearly, we need to improve indexation. We need to talk about the real possibility of raising a pension for those people who have a great length of work, but without the Ministry of Finance and without the Ministry of Welfare, we will not be able to do it, so it is more a request from Parliament and from the opposition: let us work so that, in December then, you do not overturn us once again, that we did not present something, that we did not improve something. Together with you, we are responsible for the fact that only 40.5 per cent of GDP is allocated to social programmes in Latvia. Please do this and give us the opportunity to do this. We have three four projects that do not cost the public budget and the social budget expensive and that will help people, and that is the main thing. And let us put an end to our pensioners still paying tax from EUR 235. This is a bad practice. I think we are the only people in the world who continue to tax poor pensioners almost from scratch. People won't live with such a pension, but we're still trying to take something off them. That collective submission has been submitted to the Commission of Mandates, Ethics and Application, and will be forwarded by the Commission to the Commission of Social and Labour Affairs. However, we also need support from the Ministry of Finance. Because you understand that if we continue to talk only about future plans and do not talk about how we will live today and how pensioners will live tomorrow, we will not be going to be anywhere else with some promises. And no rating will save us. Today, the SACCAN Group will support the demand for distrust. And there is a request that Reir change his communication with the Commission so that he appears more often in the Commission on Social and Labour Affairs. We're allies, we're not enemies. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. A.Kamiņš: “He doesn’t listen! He didn’t hear you!” ) Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-22-PT12-394-U68	I closed the debate. Please call me! We will vote for the draft decision “For distrust to the Minister for Welfare Janis Reiras”! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, No decision has been taken. On the agenda - draft decision “On distrust for the Minister of Finance Dana Reizniece-Ozola”. Member Mārtiņš Bondars on behalf of the applicants.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-22-PT12-394-U69	Miracles do not seem to be taking place in this Parliament for Christmas. Miracles are taking place in this Parliament on other occasions. Unfortunately, Mr Reira's depression was not supported. But, Minister, we are asking for your resignation for three reasons. First, because of the chaos created. Secondly, because of non-professional behaviour. And, thirdly, because of the deceptiveness of the public and the failure to keep promises. Each of these reasons is, in principle, sufficient for the Prime Minister to ask for the demission of Dana Reizniece-Ozola already for each of these points. If I were Prime Minister, I would definitely have done so and Dana Reizniece-Ozola would no longer be a minister. I do not know what Mr Kučinski is for his warm feelings towards this minister - why does he close his eyes to all the absences we have experienced? But in view of all these three reasons on our agenda - chaos, non-professional action and public deception - Dana Reizniece-Ozola must not continue to perform its duties. It cannot, because it causes damage to Latvia and serious damage. That's chaos talking about. During the last three months, there have been no days when I either personally met someone or received a phone call or e-mail from an entrepreneur, from an employee who is economically active and who would not have said to me: “I must either stop my economic activity as a whole or stop being an entrepreneur in Latvia and register in another country or lay off employees.” And that's very serious! Because there is a loss both for people who lose their jobs and for entrepreneurs because they have extra expenses to register for work in another country and for society as a whole, because we do not tax the money that we might have to bear. Minister, you said that this is a budget for the fulfillment of the promises. I do not remember the day on which you promised Latvian society that there would be chaos. I don't remember that day! That is why this is not a budget for the fulfillment of promises. This is the chaos budget. This is chaos. The fact that entrepreneurs are fleeing Latvia proves this very clearly. Entrepreneurs don't come, investments from Latvia flow out. Look at the statistics! These are very, very serious statistics! It shows that Latvia loses its investments, Latvia loses its economic potential. And this is due to the activities of the Minister for Finance. For non-professionality. You all remember recent events related to the appointment of the new Director General of the State Revenue Service. It took more than half a year before the Minister of Finance Dana Reizniece-Ozola realized how to decide how to choose the candidate for the post of Head of State Revenue Service. I understand that, of course, there are some positions in which you can learn. But the position of the Minister of Finance is not the position in which to learn! The position of the Minister for Finance is where we need to understand what we are doing and make decisions. By choosing Mrs. Koļego, you have demonstrated that you do not understand what people can be in the post of Director General of the State Revenue Service, what challenges are to the State Revenue Service and what would be necessary for a professional in this position. But if you have already chosen Mrs Kolegova and if you have already gone so convincingly to the government and offered this candidacy, you have sold it to the public, you have sold it to the social partners, saying that it is the best possible candidate, then I do not understand one thing: where are the hundreds of millions that Mrs Kolegova has talked about with Mr Artus Village, who are going past the budget cashier. Where are they? If you already knew that and the reason for your choice was that she understands, she knows what to do, then obviously you supported it all. Three or four months have passed, but I can't see those hundreds of millions. She talked about 500 million and about what your United Nations colleagues are covering and somehow forming all these schemes, say, the roof. You've done nothing as a minister. Either you don't have one, or you're a non-professional. The second section on the issue of non-professionality relates to the arguments you used to justify changing the current tax regime for micro-enterprises. You said that it distorts competition and that micro-enterprises are engaged in tax optimisation. You know, it's true! I completely agree with you. There can be no more logical. Just what you did last week... No, this week? You said: continue to distort competition, continue to optimise taxes, but this will cost you 15 percent instead of nine. No step, no step! - in the direction of prevention of distortion (that is, it is true), no step towards elimination of optimisation. The current unprofessionality! And finally, about the tax changes that you are planning for the future. Most Members of this Parliament have promised that there will be no change in taxation when they put forward their election candidacy. And tax changes are possible only on one condition: if politicians receive the following mandate - change the tax system. ( Independence: “It’s too late! ”) ) This Parliament has not received such a mandate. Therefore, Minister, there is no reason for you to get into society and to say that from next year or from next year there will be a new tax system. This can only be done after the next elections, which will take place on 6 October 2018. Such a change must not take place more quickly, because this House does not have such a mandate. It just doesn't! And if you think you can do whatever you do, go to Mr Vejonis, call for Parliament to be fired and then you can change the tax system with a new mandate. The lost promises. The Greens and Farmers’ Union programme, which everyone can find on the website cvk.lv, clearly and lightly states: “Let us stand against the increase in the tax on micro-enterprises.” Minister! Your signature is below the following words: "Let us oppose the increase in the tax on micro-enterprises." And you have been the one who, on the contrary, is in favour of increasing. You have broken this promise. A drop in policy under normal circumstances is an essential reason for you to step out of office. It could also, of course, be said that this programme states: "Let us provide entrepreneurs with a stable and predictable tax system." Of course, you also say this in each of your interviews and you have also signed it. Only the tax system that you are ruling over is neither predictable nor stable. It's chaotic and, to put it gently, it's the kind from which entrepreneurs just get away and get away. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. E.Putra: “Numbers in the studio! Talk to the numbers!” ) On misleading the public. ( Internouncing call.) Mr Putra, you have already ripped up the quail and you are now still trying to keep on speaking. ( Internouncing call.) I would advise you to obey. On September 23, 2014, before the elections, Minister Aiga Pelāne gave an interview to Latvijas Radio and said very smart and correct words: “One of the most important factors is tax stability.” That's right. That's absolutely right! I completely agree with you. But, speaking in this way before the elections, you are misleading the public that you stand up for tax stability. It does not say: “I, Dana Reizniece-Ozola, am in favour of tax stability.” No, it's not written there. But by saying that, you are misleading the public by saying that you are about tax stability. I can still quote you from the same interview: "At present, it is difficult to talk about tax increases, because the level of income for households is so low that it would be difficult to pay more taxes." Is it then that, in these months or these two years when you were in government and you were in government, the amount of household income has increased so much that you can now raise taxes? Well, it's not! Well, it's not like that! I continue to quote how you mislead the public: “If we now increase the tax on micro-enterprises, we will get a boom effect again. If we raise the rate to 15," (that is what we have done) "one part of honest taxpayers will go out into the shadow economy. That is why our programme - the Greens/Farmers' Union programme - contains a point where we insist that the tax on micro-enterprises is left at the current level. Tax revenues need to be better planned. The tax is not always higher and the revenue is higher." Minister! You said all this before the elections. How I would like to go back to Dan Reindeer-Ozol, who was before the elections and who was so understanding of tax policy and the economy! Where's Dana left? Where is she? Why has she changed her mind? Why is that not known to us, the public? Why not? Is there again some kind of backstage business that we don't know about, or is something going on behind the door that is unknown to the public? At the moment, it is said: yes, we are about 1.7 percent for protection. And what happens if gross domestic product does not grow to that level and the budget will have to change in 2017? Imagine such a situation. You're going to cut security costs? You will tell the Canadians: “You know, do not send 700 soldiers, send 600! We don't have so much money." This is what you did already this year, with the actual change in defence funding of 24 million (as opposed to what you had promised in 2015). I remember what you said at the meeting of the Committee on Budgets and Finance (Tax) - the chess moves are not taken back. Do you really think this is a chess? No, it's very serious! It is a question of Latvia's defence. It depends on the ability to believe in you and the government in which you are a minister. Looking at your current activities is impossible to believe in you. And it is also impossible to believe your government. Colleagues and colleagues! I call on you, in the light of the above arguments, to release Dana Reizniecie-Ozola, because I think that these arguments are entirely sufficient for the Minister to resign himself so that the Prime Minister should be released, and if they are unable to do so themselves, then we in Parliament should make such a decision. I call on you to prove that Dana Reizniece-Ozola has not bought you with parliamentary quotas. I call on you to vote in favour of her rejection, to prove that you are an independent parliament, not a parliament that can be repelled by a few tens of millions so much that you are ready to support chaotic, non-professional, unpredictable, unforeseeable ministers who do not hold promises and who do not do so. Thank you for your attention. I hope - I still hope! - to your common sense this year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-22-PT12-394-U70	Let us start a debate. Name of Minister for Finance Dana Reizniece-Ozola.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-22-PT12-394-U71	President-in-Office of the Saeima. Dear Members of the Saeima! Resurrection! When I joined the Minister for Finance in February this year, it was clear that there are many difficult issues on the table of the Minister for Finance. The State Revenue Service was severely affected by the reputational crisis, conflicts between politicians and business organisations, European fund programmes were also stuck, and rapid steps had to be taken to combat the shadow economy. And all this at a time when there were Russian sanctions, as well as pessimism and stagnation in Europe, which did not really give hope for the rapid economic development of Latvia. After relatively strong growth last year, when the Latvian economy was able to demonstrate good resilience to external shocks, economic growth slowed to 1.4 percent this year; it is the indicator of the first three quarters of the year. Two years ago, I had just as many difficult questions on the table of the Minister for Economic Affairs. The solution also required bold steps not only in opening the gas market, but also in the development of the electricity and construction sector, and, to a large extent, thanks to them, in the study of 2017 by the World Bank Doing Business, in 190 countries, Latvia ranks in the very high 14th place, which is the historically highest achievement of our country. For the work done this year. On European Union funds. The launch of the 2014-2020 EU Fund programming period, after two years of relatively slow progress on the issue, has achieved a really significant pace. This was achieved by changing the role of the Ministry of Finance - from the fund to the advisor and support of the fund. This year, under the direction of the Ministry of Finance, it has been made 2.5 times more than in the last two years together. The second half of 2016 marked the next phase – faster project selection and project implementation. Project contracts have been concluded for almost a third of the total EU funding available for the programming period (€4.4 billion), so that the next year can indeed be seen as a saturated phase of project implementation that will benefit specific sectors and also economic development in general. A total of 96 project proposals have now been selected for a total amount of more than EUR 3 billion. This represents almost 70 percent of the EU funds available to Latvia in this period, and the programmes launched cover the whole spectrum of planned priorities, from social protection and employment to support for entrepreneurs and scientists. It was one of the priorities when I took up the Minister of Finance and I must say that I am satisfied with the work of the Ministry of Finance and the government in general. Latvia has reached the third place in the EU this year after receiving interim payments. I think it is also a very good indicator. The fight against the shadow economy. The main focus of the 2017 budget was the fight against the shadow economy. Further dialogue with social and cooperation partners, as well as other public authorities, has led to the adoption of a work plan to curb the shadow economy and not only the adoption, but also the start, of the implementation of the targets set out in the plan. The most important thing in this plan is that many of the measures have been offered by the sectors themselves, it is the initiative of the entrepreneurs themselves, in which we have listened and which we have supported. For example, already this year, we have managed to find a solution for the cereals sector, and this has produced results. In this sector, fraud with value added tax schemes was previously very widespread. When assessing data on taxable persons from 1 July of this year and comparing them with data for the previous period, we concluded that the amount of refundable VAT had fallen significantly by more than EUR 10 million. These are the concrete measures that have been taken this year. At least a few million are already there, Mr Bondara. With the support of the Saeima - and indeed thank you for this - at least 20 of the measures included in the plan will be implemented next year, which will reduce the shadow economy in the taxi sector, construction, reduce the risk of fraud with value added tax, strengthen the regulation of cash movements and transactions in the electronic environment. Thank you for the fact that many draft laws to combat the shadow economy have been supported not only by coalition partners but also by the opposition. The framework for money laundering and terrorist financing has been improved by reinforcing the sanctions of credit institutions for offences in this area. Such a system of sanctions shall act as a deterrent by effectively deterring credit institutions from engaging in the financing of criminally acquired funds and terrorism. In order to arrange the system and prevent the use of the Latvian financial sector for criminal purposes, as well as to make the exchange of information between financial market participants faster, law enforcement authorities have established a legal basis for the establishment of an account register in which it is planned to include information about the real beneficiaries of transactions conducted at Latvian credit institutions. The law will come into force on 1 July next year, and it is a great step towards putting our financial sector in order, which is also one of the security issues of the country. We have developed a strategy for the development of the financial sector, which I think will also be supported by the government shortly. About the State Revenue Service. Everyone remembers, I think, the crisis of reputation and credibility that the State Revenue Service faced at the beginning of this year, and I think that it is the pressure of society and the changes that have been made that have resulted. This year, in 11 months, the rate of tax revenue growth was 7.2 percent. This has significantly exceeded GDP growth in actual prices, which in the nine months of 2016 only increased by 1.8 percent compared to the corresponding period of the previous year. How can we assess these data? Compared to the macroeconomic forecasts for the previous year, real data show lower growth rates this year; both the producer of GDP growth, the increase in the wage fund and consumption are projected, and thus tax revenues should be substantially lower. It is indicatively estimated that the revenue from taxes on the lower macroeconomic base should fall by around EUR 50 million. And what is the reality? The revenue of the general budget for the 11 months of this year is €7.29 billion, representing 100.8 per cent of the planned revenue. We are not taking less, we are taking more than planned, and this means that the efficiency of the State Revenue Service has improved significantly already in these few months. There is, of course, much more to be done before us. It is necessary to complete the ongoing work jointly with the State Revenue Service, thinking, for example, about the merger of the Customs police and the Financial Police. The new head of SRS Cīrule will also have the task of improving work with clients, making the State Revenue Service a truly customer-oriented organisation. Tax administration costs will also have to be reduced and a faster reduction in the shadow economy will have to be achieved. On the budget. Budgeting for 2017 was significantly different from previous years, as all sectoral expenditure was reviewed very carefully, making it more efficient to use the allocated funds. The result of the budget review: an additional EUR 60 million has been found to be allocated to joint initiatives and priority sectoral measures - health and education, external and internal security. I can promise that the review of budgetary expenditure will be a regular practice in the future. The priorities of the state budget for 2017 are security (we are fulfilling our commitments towards our international partners), as well as reforms in the area of health and education, and I am very pleased that the government has been able to agree on operational priorities in a collegial and truly constructive manner, in addition to being able to not only agree but also consistently implement them. This year, for the first time, the government has also decided to set up a medium-term reserve for fiscal collateral, as a safety cushion in the event of possible external shocks. And we did all this in close cooperation with our partners. I hope that the intensive joint efforts and open negotiations have slightly increased our mutual trust. On the micro-enterprises tax regime. We have started work on the tax strategy and it will continue until spring next year. We follow the principle that it is better to discuss and argue before a decision is taken than it is. If we do not make any changes, then it must be a conscious decision, and we will agree on it. If there are any changes, then they will be the company of which not only entrepreneurs, but society as a whole! - support. We are working on the tax system to make it fairer and more competitive for our businesses. We are working on changes that can only be made by agreeing with everyone and not by imposing directives. And recent events are painful, but good teaching. We still need to learn to measure nine times before we turn, we need to learn to debate and, as I said, to argue before we take a decision, not then. The idea of social security is very important. I have always supported it. However, last year, when we decided on minimum social contributions and their implementation, we obviously did not intend everything; in order to do a good thing, we also created a problem. It is true that the offer was not fully balanced and threatened many people’s work and income. Last year, when this decision was taken, I was an economic minister, and I must admit that our analysis was obviously not deep enough and the ministry's voice was not loud enough in the process of introducing these tax changes. But the good news is that when we see the importance of the problem together, we are able not to pretend that it is not, but to listen to people and act, even if it is not popular. Yes, late, yes, in large disputes, but in the end, taking a decision which is more favourable for small businesses and those working there, at the same time represents a major step in the direction of social guarantees. What's next? On the foundations. In order to ensure the availability of EU funds for Latvia, sufficient funding for Latvia's development in the next programming period (after 2020), we have already started to work actively in lobbying with the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and the Ministry of Agriculture. Supporting the health sector. In the medium term, it is possible to derogate from the budgetary balance objective, thereby enabling additional resources to be directed towards health reforms to up to 0.5 percent of GDP by 2019, but without which additional resources must, of course, also be sought and agreed upon by the government. The next year's budget. The intention is to continue working on the review of the ministries' budget, to change the practice of the new policy initiatives so that they are indeed new policy initiatives, not current ministerial budgetary requests - one that is either a significant development of the economy or a contribution to achieving the objectives set out in the government declaration. The Ministry of Finance also wants and I think there can be good support for many of the other government's joint tasks. Not a dictator, but a support and helper. And whatever your decision today, honourable Members, ladies and gentlemen, there are many tasks ahead of the Ministry of Finance that will not be possible without great determination and courage... (without fear of becoming a unpopular minister), and most importantly, without all your support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-22-PT12-394-U72	Thank you to the Minister for Finance. Name to Member Valdis Kalnozols.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-22-PT12-394-U73	Hello, brothers and sisters! (Laughter) Member Zarins said none of the positions wants to say that. I want to. Any experienced and knowledgeable manager, organizer, will say that the system is first needed. A system that encourages public administration to work for the well-being of citizens and the state. Second. There is not only how Members take care of their own homes and those of the soul, but there are also good words. And one of these sayings is that successful people talk about ideas, failure talk about people. We spend better time on improving this system, so that they work for the well-being of citizens and the state. We have sent out ideas to improve the system, but I have received no proposal, opinion, criticism or idea from the opposition. So why are you talking about these people, but you don't want to talk about ideas how to improve this system? First we arrange the system in public administration so that it is motivated to work for the well-being of citizens and the state, so that the employees of public administration are motivated to work, that they are truly experienced and knowledgeable organizers, and then we spend our time talking about those who speak in public administration... The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. A.Bērzins: “For or against?Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, “) working people.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-22-PT12-394-U74	Name to Member Artus Neminis.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-22-PT12-394-U75	I think Aivars Lembergs is the biggest disaster in Latvia at the moment. I really think so. It's real. And, by the way, he's also a former Communist. Dana Reizniece-Ozola, you represent a heavy, especially serious crime accused persons named Aivars Lembergs, who currently doesn't know about something as if he's managing and actually managing Ventspils City Council. And here's the question for VARAM Minister. But that's not the subject. You are from the “Latvia and Ventspils” or “Latvia and Aivarm” party? What is the name of the party you represent? ( Interface: “Prepare before speaking! ” ) Council Regulation (EC) No 1257/96 of 20 June 1996 concerning humanitarian aid (OJ L 163, 2.7.1996, p. 1).
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-22-PT12-394-U76	Don't talk to the grass! Continue the debate.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-22-PT12-394-U77	You represent the “Latvia and Ventspils” party? It's Aivars Lembergs party accused of serious crimes. You are Minister for Finance. The Head of the Budget and Finance (tax) Commission of the Saeima, in turn, is from the same person – Aivars Lembergs – party “Latvia and Ventspils”. I think that what you did on November 23 when you gave these Members' quotas of 27 million is a crime against the Latvian people. You stole the Latvian State Treasury. About 10 million went directly to this man who was accused of serious crimes, Aivars Lembergs, for making them a mess... so that you, the coalition, can accept this budget at all. In my opinion, if you had not given these 10 or more million to Lemberg, the budget would not have been adopted. You know very well that this is the case. That is why, Mrs Reizniece-Ozola, it is your responsibility, because you are the Minister of Finance in Latvia and not in Ventspils. Mr. Wuzan, that is also your responsibility. However, since you cannot make a request for a resignation today, it is addressed to Mrs Reizniece-Ozola. In turn, you, Mrs Reizniece-Ozola, have really promised, as the opposition said, that there will be no increase in taxes, but you have raised them. It's not good to do that! Last week you were at the Chamber of Commerce and Industry of Latvia's Annual Ball, didn't you? And these people, these entrepreneurs, looked at you and expected you to apologie them for all the horrors, for their madness, for the plagues of taxes. But you came, representing yourself and your husband, as an honorary guest, and left the impression of a very shameless man. So I think (Interface: Artus, for ideas, not people!) ) that these Members' quotas, which have been shared with your name... The fact that Kučinski has not said a firm no, is his thing. But right now we're looking at your case, and that's your responsibility. If you have worked together - both Vucāns and Reizniece-Ozola - you have, in my opinion, robbed the Latvian people of EUR 27 million, and I therefore absolutely believe that you have to resign. You have to go, even though you are not a Communist.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-22-PT12-394-U78	Name to Member Ivars Zarins.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-22-PT12-394-U79	During the discussion on the Demission of the Minister for Welfare, I called on the Minister for Welfare to come here and tell the Latvian people that it has no reason to worry - those who are paying taxes today will then be able to receive the pension promised by the state. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. H.Abu Mary: “You have already abolished that law! Did you forget?Oh, no, no, no, “ But the Minister for Welfare did not come to the table. It didn't! This means that he has demonstrated what his party member Mr. Smilten said: that the social budget of Latvia is not sustainable. This is very serious. This is very serious! Are the coalition partners at all aware of how serious our situation is today and of the consequences for us? And why is that? This is the result of your success story: the current demographic situation and the level of economic productivity. You have taken this country to it! And that's why it's critically important in this situation whether we... to put it more correctly, is it reasonable for those who now run the country to see how we can build our own economic situation? If we are talking about the responsibility of the Ministry of Finance, I must say that first of all I see three things that are important, or three questions, to which we must have a clear answer. First thing. Does the Minister for Finance have a vision of how to sort out our business environment with regard to tax policy so that tax policy can be growth-friendly and, above all, clear and stable? There must be a clear, clear vision of how to achieve this, and a concrete action plan on how to do so. The second thing. The functioning of the SRS should be arranged. What we have all experienced and what we have heard publicly, and what we see, gives the impression that the SRS is working, not to combat the shadow economy, but to cover it. A bright example of this was a meeting with the Head of the State Revenue Service of Estonia when he visited here and told about his experience of how they were working. And the way they do it is largely thanks to the IT solutions that are available to them and through which they are able to track the development of this shadow economy and already combat it in a preventive manner. It turned out that the State Revenue Service of Latvia also had similar IT systems, as a high SRS official claimed, and even better than Estonians. Colleagues, but then the question is: why can Estonians do this, but we cannot? Perhaps these IT systems serve not national interests, but to cover what is happening in the shadow economy, and are used to allow someone to make a very good profit with it illegally? The declarations of the officials of the State Revenue Service shall be suspicious of this fact. The question is, where have you been all these years? Why is all this allowed? Why is there still uncertainty? And the third thing, which I think is very important, and where we see again, everything begins to burn in hell's flames, is to learn the European Structural Funds. Will we be able to learn them successfully, and most importantly, in accordance with the interests of the state of Latvia, so that we can get to the maximum and finally stand on our own feet? Because, as we can see, unfortunately, the situation at the moment is that without the European Structural Funds, our country's development is not taking place, which is once again a very strong sign of how sadly the country has been led. The question is, how are we going to live on? Does the Minister for Finance see how we can get out of this pit? I'd like to hear that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-22-PT12-394-U80	Name of Member Inguna Silver.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-22-PT12-394-U81	Dear colleagues, Minister! We took a very careful look at the decision that was taken today, and then I will tell you what decision we made in the group. I want to talk about two things. A lot of chaos has been created. And this first chaos was created in a very important institution - the State Revenue Service - starting with loud statements, discrediting in many places people who work there, actually also in the eyes of the public, the institution. I am not saying that everything is perfect, but there too, very many certainly do not fulfil their job duties in a conscious, honest and so on, but when creating chaos, it is also the responsibility of how chaos goes out of it. It is promised that this institution will be a pilot institution in applying the correct wage system to motivate employees. I very much hope that this will happen. I will only tell one story out of many dozens of true stories that I know about small entrepreneurs. The story is about an entrepreneur who has established his business in the late 1980s, and throughout these years she has successfully developed it, a small business where five people are currently working. Two State Revenue Service inspectors came to this entrepreneur in December and spent four hours there. They discovered that the businessman's accounting of 200 euros has been accounted for twice. After that, this entrepreneur went to the State Revenue Service with the accounting officer and spent two hours talking there. The State Revenue Service then returned to this entrepreneur and spent several hours in her company again. After that, the businessman must again go to the State Revenue Service to hear the commission, which will decide on the penalty applicable to her. The businessman said to me: “I am ready to pay this penalty.” But now calculate how much does the administration of this State Revenue Service pay in relation to this small businessman? How much is each official's hour spent to establish that EUR 200 in accounting is twice accounted for? I am a hundred percent convinced that the accounting officer who keeps this businessman's accounts for the annual balance sheet would have noticed this error and corrected it. It's not evil, it's not like hiding business or hiding profit there, or something like that. It simply has two different positions listed the same money. I was also asked by this entrepreneur whether there was any possibility to go to the State Revenue Service management. I helped her find contacts on the website. I do not know - I have not asked in the last few days - whether she has received proof that she can go to the negotiations because she really was interested in why so much state resources should be spent on such an activity. But I'll tell you why it's done. You can be proud of the fact that there is a huge fight against the shadow economy, but its fight is with the wrong slogan, with the wrong motivation in the State Revenue Service, because one of the basic criteria of evaluation of the State Revenue Service employees is the fines imposed. In particular, it is much easier for officials of the State Revenue Service to go to small entrepreneurs, find some mess in their small accounts and continually punish them - instead of helping these people and giving them information to understand. A large number of these entrepreneurs have made a mistake because of their negligence, and there is no abuse behind it. By doing so, you discredit yourself in the eyes of the public. I very much call on you to finally change the principles according to which the work of the employees of the State Revenue Service is assessed when introducing the new wage system and motivation system in the State Revenue Service. There can't be such a system: the more you're fined, the higher the bonus you get. No, no! In my opinion, the system must be as follows: the more you administer in the region, region or city where you are responsible for tax collection, the more entrepreneurs have increased and the turnover of entrepreneurs has increased, the more it shows that you, as a tax inspector, have really provided the necessary support and stimulated them; it shows that people have an environment in which they are able to pay taxes in good faith and develop their business. And the second thing. About chaos in tax policy like that. 300 thousand euros have been spent ordering a study from the World Bank. We are looking forward very much to the next three and four months for a serious document, which will finally explain with arguments the whole tax policy and will understand what life is expected in the coming years for the national economy and social policy. And my last wish. Please, Minister, remove from your speeches their text for 60 million saved! You know very well that it's a lie. There is no savings of 60 million! Most of these funds are simply cash flow optimisation. These are the funds that would not have been spent because they had been spent before or... they would never be spent. My great request: Please stop repeating this paragraph in your speeches. “From the heart to Latvia” will not participate in the vote today (Interface: “Op! Why?Oh, no, no, no, It is because we believe (Dep. A.Kamiņš: “I will vote for you!” ) that today's sitting is a meeting where some will receive a gift - a post where you can further build your professional career - but some will receive hiccups. But these hiccups - a simple release from office - would be too little condemnation. In our view, the chaos created must be arranged and demonstrated in the next three months. We will follow this very closely. It would be easy to sit in the chair and not to answer for what has been done so far. We want a real result for this work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-22-PT12-394-U82	Name of Member Inga Bite.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-22-PT12-394-U83	Dear colleagues, And I am referring in particular to you, Mr. Nanosol! I am here to answer you. You said we should talk about ideas. So now I call on you to look closely at the parliamentary agendas, the draft laws included on these agendas and, in particular, the proposals put forward for these draft laws. For almost every sitting of the Saeima, especially on 23 November, when the budget was examined, and on 20 December, when the errors in the budget were corrected, you will find concrete ideas, concrete proposals from the Group of the Regions of Latvia. However, it must be said that most of these ideas here in the Saeima are rejected from the coalition Members without discussion from the Saeima Tribunal. They are you who do not want to discuss ideas, and they are us who offer these ideas. But you can correct this error today, because already on today's agenda you will find several proposals from the Association of the Regions of Latvia, which you will be able to discuss and decide here not as a voting machine, but with your head and conscience. Thank you. (Applause)
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-22-PT12-394-U84	The name of the Member, Andrejs Elksniņš.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-22-PT12-394-U85	Dear Chairman of the Saeima. Dear colleagues, This is indeed one of the rare times when, unfortunately, we see that the coalition Members do not come and debate at all the required demission of ministers. Nor do I intend to come today until I saw that the only two brave people in the coalition, regardless of the content of the request for a commission, are the Minister of Finance, Mrs Reizniece, and Brother Valdis. There are no other brave people on your led coalition. None! It is not because you are not all guilty of what your coalition has done here for years. For years! In 2011, you had a coalition of the rule of law, today you do not know any coalition, and so you will continue to milk the poor people of Latvia. Let us go back, for example, to 2009, when the social budget accumulated EUR 1.3 billion. In 2012 and 2013, the savings in the social budget - 350 million euros. These are real figures, that is reality. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. E.Putra: How much is the social budget today? ) Now it's 550. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. E.Putra: “650!” ) Super! In other words, each year until 2014 the savings in the social budget decreased. And it was in the circumstances when the government continued to blow up the civil servants' bureaucratic apparatus and continued to beat the state of Latvia at the expense of several economic projects, at the expense of Citadele, at the expense of stolen savings banks, robberies, scrap metal for the army, at the expense of the destroyed buildings of the SRS, breaking trains, e-school and other e-projects. Everything was measured in millions. I asked Chalovsky today how much the eHealth project cost. He answered me: 400-450 thousand. Three people could do it in two years. Look at how much public administration you have spent on these projects! Where is individual responsibility for each of these things? Come on, tell me! None of you come. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. E.Smilten intermediate call sign.) Spool... Smilten, listen to me! Did Spolitis repay the money spent by the anti-corruption commission? - Did he pay it back? Where is individual responsibility? Listen, don't talk to me now! Where is the responsibility of the Heads of Government? Let Dombrovskis come. Call Dombrovskis here! Let Mrs. Straujuma come! To tell us how the country has been run since 2009! Let your respective commission leaders come and talk about all these problems that have arisen. Where is the Head of Government today? ( The box “In Holiday! ”) ) This is the responsibility of the Head of Government. There is no Head of Government in this sitting. Where is the President of Latvia? Everyone said it's my responsibility, I'm responsible, I'm responsible for something there... Next year, 20,000 micro-enterprises will close. That's it. Nobody is responsible. In front of the television cameras, today everyone in the mouth of the water sits, quiet. And you... You don't have anything to say. I understand why you're not coming. Because you're just ashamed. And at such moments, I really feel sorry... I am sorry at such moments that we are not, for example, in China. ( Milestones.) Take prevention after... a couple would put on the wall, and we would start building roads, start building factories, and everything would be in order. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. E.Putra: “This is North Korea, Elksny!” ) We should have growth! ( Milestones.) The issue of the social budget was not discussed in this year's and last year's budget as regards micro-enterprises tax. It is a 2015 issue - a question for the Straujuma Government. When she spoke at the meeting of the Cabinet of Ministers on 22 September 2015 about the need to introduce a minimum state social insurance contribution for micro-enterprises, then none of the ministers of the government opposed this issue. By the way, the only one who spoke about the possible conditions for the reform that you were implementing was Mrs Reizniece-Ozola. The only one in this framework! But where's the responsible man, Reir? That's it! He's already stuck! The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. S. Aboltiņa: “But you defend Dan, if?” ) He was voted for, and he has the foot that is now going on here and that his responsibility is now actually shifted to the next one - the ministers whose speech contained in principle all the problems that she has left on her table, which has been successfully removed from it. In 2015, you planned that the revenue of the special state social insurance budget will increase by 57 million euros in 2017, and in 2018 by 97 million euros. Where are the promises? None. Riga - Riga! This year, 86 million euros were transferred into the municipal financial equalisation fund, and 91 million euros will be transferred next year. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. I. Viņķelis: “You could not mention Riga!” ) There were times... Many of you still remember those times... Well, you're already Communist and October side here... you remember those times when funding from the state budget and funding from Riga, for example, was the same. For the moment, the municipalities that you run - your coalition, the municipalities - are largely supported by Riga through the equalization fund. Come to debate, apply! Oh, how many brave ones have already appeared! ( Milestones.) Yeah? Come on! Meanwhile, the whole country has really entered this whole framework, apologies, ass. Really! The word literally! You are afraid to call words literally. ‘ Idiot” - it's normal, it's allowed, you've legalized it. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. I. Viņķelis: “Disable the microphone!” ) will be the next word to be legalized. Therefore, honourable colleagues, if someone from this government is to leave, then the entire government must go, not its individual ministers.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-22-PT12-394-U86	Name to Member Ingmars Lydak.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-22-PT12-394-U87	Hello, dear colleagues! Now it looks like the whole month has been flushed again. Do I want to be as in China? Well, sometime... Following the speech by Mr Elksniņš - yes, because in China, as I know, the opposition has a good lighthouse, and those that, as Mr Elksniņš mentioned, are placed there on the wall - these are usually those who are trying to be in opposition. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. A.Kimiņš: “What is this nightmare?Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, “) Well, at the moment we are hearing the opinion of the opposition in a very good manner, and the opposition calls on the finance ministers to report to the Saeima. And, look at the question of why the position Members come here so little to debate, I would answer: because, at this point in time, I am absolutely convinced, it is completely pointless to debate because, for example, one person who also signed up to this distrust to Ms Dana Reizniece-Ozola, all her really in-depth speaking time... And also Mr. Kaimiņš, where did he stay? The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. A.Kamiņš: “Here! Here! I'm here!” ) (a.k.a. During her speech, October Wiulum was very enthusiastic about various cartoons. And that's... The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. A.Kaimiņš: “The topic is talking, Līka! On the subject!’ ), it is the opposition's attitude towards the Minister. In this case, I am talking about the subject, because I am talking about the attitude of the Minister. In my opinion, the Minister of Finance has enough tasks to do his job, not to make a pointless attempt to talk about public finances to Octobrė Viļams. That's one. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. A.Kimiņš: “How much money went to you?Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, ( 2) Second. Of course, thank God that Mrs. Dana Reizniece-Ozola has not been in the party. At least in a Communist party, no. In this regard, I would like such a little anecdotes. Mr. Zarins lived without anecdotes this time. Well, then I'll tell you anecdotes about the outgoing minister. The outgoing minister left three letters to his successor in the drawer, on condition that it will be difficult to open. Well, it's hard. The Minister opens the first letter, it says, “Everything heaps on me.” Okay, it's been all over for a while. It's hard again. A second letter is opened: “Soli. Soly! Soly! Step!” Okay. Sola. After some time it also does not pass through, opens the third letter and it says: “Write three letters.” This finance minister even the first letter, at least publicly, has not opened up; his predecessors have not been criticised, and they do not have excessive gas on top of what they may deserve, perhaps not. The second letter, too, has not been opened and has not been meaningfully promised what cannot be done. And so to ask now to write the third letter should not be. Let us wish the Minister, who really works with gambling. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-22-PT12-394-U88	Name to Member Carl Sergeant.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-22-PT12-394-U89	Good morning, colleagues! First of all, I will comment very briefly on Mr Elksniņš' speech. He had to work long and long to list all the places where governments had made mistakes. It is easier for the Riga City Council, because it can be named in two words – “Riga Traffic” – and everything, let's say, has come together. And it should also be careful to keep water in the mouth, because it can also be nano-water, and we already do not know what the consequences are. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. A.Kamiņš: “On the subject, please!” ) Talking about ( Dep. A.Kamiņš: “Theme!” ), and the request for a deed. Let us answer the question: who a politician is more constructive - or who, when making a wrong decision, even seeing that he has no good results, continues to hold on to it despite its consequences, or who has the courage to admit his mistakes as quickly as possible and to correct them in good time. When the tax on micro-enterprises was introduced years ago, could anyone expect that today there would be a situation where thousands of builders would be micro-entrepreneurs, thousands of taxists, and even public stock companies, would have such processes that everyone would become micro-entrepreneurs. Of course, no one could predict that. It was all well thought, and perhaps it was necessary, then, two years ago, to listen to the words of Unity. I have no doubt about that at all. But at the moment we still do not know what the proportion of micro-enterprises really is. Which one is in the end? Are they really honest entrepreneurs or are these tax optimists? And that is why I believe that the leadership of the Ministry of Finance must remain in place at the moment, they must deal with it by May, as we understand, and we need to find out what these proportions are, what theoretical financial flows are, and then we need to come up with some new decisions in this regard. Mr Bondara, you used to run a bank. What if you, for example, said in the bank: “Well, for us now for four years the percentage of deposit will be five.” The next bank would put six percent, another bank would put seven. But you've only been five for four years. Only five! What about your bank in that situation? I think that, just as the country must respond to tax changes in the neighbouring countries, the economic situation must be reacted to. You can't say that before the elections, 'We won't change!' - nor do they change for four years, regardless of any situation. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. M.Bondars from the drug: “What happened in a neighbouring country? Tell me! What happened to the neighbouring economy, Mr. Sergeant?’ ) Mr Bondara, am I speaking now? You were here already. No, I just wish you...
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-22-PT12-394-U90	Keep the debate, Mr. Sergeant.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-22-PT12-394-U91	You're still quite a young man. I allow you to be in a position perhaps you will be in a position, you will be in a government, you may even be a minister, and I would like you not to let journalists get out of this speech you say in the Saeima, and I would not ask you: ‘Mr Bondara, when were you true - when were in an opposition, or when were you in a position?’ Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-22-PT12-394-U92	Name to Member Armand Kraus.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-22-PT12-394-U93	President. Colleagues! I would like to talk about what the Minister for Finance has done (Dep. M.Bondars: “You’re a specialist about bees, not finance!” ), but there is no point, because I know that you will not listen. You, those who have signed this request for deployment, did not listen to the public either. And a good example is when representatives of micro-enterprises stood outside the Saeima building. Then you, the signatories, told us, “Hear!” When we listened, you said, “No, it’s bad that you listened!” There's been chaos. My recommendation is also this time: to listen to what the organisations said by the employers said by the professional organisations about the work of the Minister of Finance. And the Employers' Confederation of Latvia has not submitted to the depression of Jānis Reira and Dana Reizniece-Ozola. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. M.Bondars: “The 2017 budget was also supported!” ) The farmers’ organisations have also said no. And here I would like to quote what they say about work. You didn't listen to me, you didn't listen to my colleagues, but maybe you'll still listen to organisations that represent thousands - more than 10,000! - the farmer, the employer. What do farmers say? ‘ We believe that the work started with the finance minister Dana Reizniecie-Ozola is constructive. A number of issues have been discussed: reduced and reverse VAT, corporate tax, seasonal workers' salaries and other issues. We are pleased that the Ministry of Finance is prepared to launch a discussion on the non-taxation of reinvested profits with corporate income tax. This is particularly important for farmers when they buy agricultural land." That's what a big organization says, the Farmers' Saeima. What does the Cooperation Council of Agricultural Organisations say? ‘ In particular, we want to highlight the Minister's significant contribution to combating the shadow economy in the agricultural sector. The rapid and effective introduction of reverse VAT, the application of value added tax to transactions in cereals already this year has produced visible results by eliminating fraudulent transactions in cereals from the sector,” the farmers emphasised. Well then, honourable petitioners, think also about what has been done! You don't see that, I understand. But think and vote differently than you will. I call you, although I do not believe you. Now it's Christmas time, it's such a quiet time, and the only madness was perhaps in supermarkets - shopping fever. Now I see that some colleagues are encouraging Christmas crazy here, too, in the Saeima. Thank you. And a happy holiday! ( Independence: “You too! ”) ) Council Regulation (EC) No 1257/96 of 20 June 1996 concerning humanitarian aid (OJ L 163, 2.7.1996, p. 1).
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-22-PT12-394-U94	The name of Member Ilze Viņķelis.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-22-PT12-394-U95	Colleagues! No matter how much we have a heart and no matter what is going to go to the municipal elections, I think what is going on in the discussions today shows that we are going beyond any boundaries (let's not talk about Christmas time)... Even though they have deafened, the boundaries of the political environment of Latvia. If a lawyer, Member, our colleague, the potential candidate for the mayor of Daugavpils, the new star of the Social Democratic Party, can call from the troupe to use, as a method of improving the quality of political decisions, the attachment to the wall, which clearly means shooting what it means, then obviously Mr Elksniņš has either a very strange understanding of ethics or not, or it is already a matter of more serious expertise. Such discussions shall not be permitted. Colleagues, please keep some framework. It is a shock to society, it is a direct or indirect call for violence. I do not envy Daugavpils's thought if you succeed in being elected to it, Mr. Elksniņš. (Applause)
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-22-PT12-394-U96	The name of the Member, Martin Schic.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-22-PT12-394-U97	For one thing, thank you to the Minister for Finance for getting up at all! Thank you. But at the time, on the day of the foam cooking night, when you turned out to be a deaf, I don't know if it was a pretend that you don't hear anything, or maybe there were ear swabs, because you only counted the poem that was prepared. Even today you have heard nothing of what you were asked for: lies, promises, brothers, good faith, and so on. There was no answer to the questions raised. And that is why I will remind you again of what you personally have signed, namely, by signing the medium-term budget of the Republic of Latvia for 2017, 2018 and 2019. I say this as an example of what brothers give you to sign and how they can. You wrote that the draft legal act complies with the international obligations of the Republic of Latvia. The budget of the Republic of Latvia - repayments to international investors, loans, commitments to NATO and so on. You have literally signed on the same page: “The project does not affect these areas.” Activities in international missions are not affected, are not affected by commitments to the European Union... You have signed it! How can we believe in such papers?Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Next example: In the section in which you wrote at that time that the question of legislation and enforcement is not relevant. There is no word in this budget, for example, about the fact that no planned and statutory interest was allocated to science. Then it would have been clear and clear in the package: this year we are suspending the operation of this law on the allocation of funding. This law sets out the money that cannot provide Latvian Chernobylers with rehabilitation, which is provided for in the law – each year they have the right to receive it. They are now getting every four years. Then come with the project and put it together with the package: “We, Dana Reizniece-Ozola and other members of the government, will not comply with this law this year.” The same applies to persons who have been unduly repressed. This most affected group of Latvian people will also receive nothing... rather than getting nothing, it is postponed two or three times instead of a guaranteed term. Well, let's be right in such things! Another thing, for example, in the same document that you have signed, which your officials (and probably their bonus) have siege you to sign, but you have not read that the draft legislation will not affect the institutional system and its structure. So there will be no reorganisation of the SRS. You say, there will be. Then you write that it won't be. And there are many examples of this in that document. So there's a second thing I came to the platform. I was asked to say this on behalf of 30 thousand Latvian doctors - about the disrespect for it and about the lies that were against Latvian doctors. When you came with a budget portfolio to the Saeima and they... there was an attractive action - “Green Death” or “Green Excavated” campaign, and they accompanied you all this way, and there were experienced doctors on the streets of the streets who saved the old heads... But you didn't tell them any word, you didn't discuss; and when they had written, you also lied. And you don't know how to apologize. And these are the things that the Latvian medical community is very insulted about now: there is no budget, and you have not even apologized personally. I believe that just because of these two examples, you deserve to fall into dishonor and leave this post. I will vote in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-22-PT12-394-U98	Name to Member Sergey Dolgopolov.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-22-PT12-394-U99	Dear colleagues, This debate does not mean that one or the other minister meets or does not match his or her position... Nor is it about it - the Cabinet of Ministers works well or badly. What we have been talking about today is proof that we are going through a deep parliamentary crisis. Today, Mr Līdaka said that, here, the minister is a busy man and he has nothing to spend, to be here in the Saeima, to meet with Members, to debate with Members. Well, that's because it's being shot across the strip in a bid, because while living in a parliamentary republic, one of the most important responsibilities of any minister is to explain what is intended, not in the meetings of the coalition council, but in all political groups, including coalition party groups. We have created an interesting structure that is not mentioned in any of the legislative acts, called the Coalition Council, and the decisions of the Coalition Council are mandatory for coalition groups. They are often not understandable to the opposition, because the fact that opposition opinions may be ignored is common and common to us. Whether the opposition is large or small, thinkful or not, it unites different people. But we have unfortunately developed this practice, and so today we are faced with what we have sown ourselves and who have grown on our favorable soils, and then we begin to be right, to explain, to talk about calls for violence and other folly. It seems to me that, today, however, it would be time to think about the fact that we are a parliamentary republic and every minister, regardless of the party he represents in the government, is obliged to keep in touch with all 100 Members, not only because they are 100 smart heads, but also because their heads become smarter so that the decisions taken by the Saeima and the ruling coalition are understandable to the general public, starting with the fronts of society. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. A.Bērzins: “That’s right! Absolutely agree!’ ) Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-22-PT12-394-U100	The name to the Member Atm Lejny.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-22-PT12-394-U101	Dear colleagues, I'll be very brief. ( Intercretion: “You’re already short! ” ) It is very unpleasant that such a saying was made in this hall - about applying to the wall. Have we forgotten our history? In Latvia, many people were attached to the wall, and our own people did it in 1919 - the red strife with Stučka at the forefront, which returned to Latvia in 1919! They were very popular, but they lost popularity extremely quickly with their brutality and applying to the wall. Those settlers who remained in Latvia - they fought for Latvia's independence and did not return... But those who returned to Russia were all put on the wall by Stalin in 1937. So I begged you never to repeat this expression again in this hall. And, Mr. Elksniņš, you will still answer for this, you will see, with your conscience. I also call for an end to these negotiations. I will support the stay of Ms Dana Reizniece-Ozola as Minister for Finance because it is difficult to recognise and correct errors. And I respect that.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-22-PT12-394-U102	Thank you. The name is Mr. Janis Wuzan.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-22-PT12-394-U103	Dear colleagues, Today, we are discussing a request from the government led by Maris Kučinskis for a second ministerial resignation. I think it's my duty today to climb the platform, not because Member Kaimiņš mentioned my name in his speech in relation to Ventspils, the city where I live and whose development I have invested... I've dedicated my life to the last 18 years. And not at the request of Aivars Lembergs or any other person, but at the request of Māra Kučinskis I moved from the Education, Science and Culture Commission to the Budget and Finance (Tax) Commission. And the main reason I climbed the three is that we are talking about the work of Dana Reizniece-Ozola as Minister of Finance, and Dana is just as long - 18 years old - since she became first-time students. And in all these years, I have had the opportunity to see both her success, which has been many, and the ability to see these mistakes, to correct these mistakes, and not to be ashamed to admit that it has happened. I would also like to mention that during this period, Dana has been able to take responsibility very many times in situations where there has not been a clear solution to do so. There is also now a situation that we have reached here, in the Saeima, with regard to the sitting that was two days ago, with regard to the decisions taken on 20 December. For, honourable colleagues, if I ask you whether one of you has a clear vision of how we should guide the issue of social contributions (Dep. M.Bondar: “Yes! Yes! And! There is a clear vision!” ) to solve its problems, whether anyone has a clear vision of what the micro-enterprises tax regime should be (Dep. M.Bondar: “And! You just don’t hear their vision!” ) or for a regime that would take place instead, we would discuss these things in a completely different way today. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. I.Zariņš: “Where have you been with these questions before?Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, “ I respect Dan for the fact that she does not fear to take responsibility in such situations. A clear vision for dealing with such issues calls for a discussion. Discussion with both the Saeima, the Saeima Commission, the social partners and those Latvians who we probably did not listen to when we decided on the relevant issues in the budget package... This is the way that we are going together, and Dana has shown today by her speech that she is ready to go. I therefore call on her to refrain from supporting her request for resignation and to allow her, as Minister for Finance, to move these things forward. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-22-PT12-394-U104	Thank you. I closed the debate. Please call me! We will vote for the draft decision “For distrusting the Minister for Finance Dana Reizniece-Ozola”! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, No decision has been taken. Please call me! Please check-in mode for Members! Honourable Members! All Members and members of the Saeima are invited to the traditional Christmas celebration in the Red Hall. Name for reading the registration results to Gunars Kūtris, member of the Saeima Secretary, as soon as the registration results have been prepared.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-22-PT12-394-U105	Dear colleagues, Currently not registered: Jānis Adamsons, Augusts Brigmanis, Boriss Cilevičs, Lolita Čigāne, Raivis Dzintars, Ojārs Ēriks Kalniņš, Rihards Kols, Inese Laizāne, Romanas Mežeckis, Ainārs Mežulis, Zenta Tretjaka... Yes, John Trupovnieks... And, John Urbanovich... Yes, Juris Vectirāns and Mihail Zemlinskis.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-22-PT12-394-U106	Thank you. Interruption until 13.30 a.m. ( Interruption)
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-22-PT12-394-U107	Honourable Members! I invite you to take seats in Saeima's meeting room! We're continuing the Saeima sitting. On the agenda - draft decision “On approval of Andra Berzins as Deputy Head of the Latvian Delegation of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe”. Please call me! We will vote on the draft decision “On the approval of Andra Berzins as Deputy Head of the Latvian Delegation of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe”! The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. A.Clementyev: “Where is he?Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, What does he look like?” ) Please vote mode! Please get the result! There's no one for - 60, against and abstaining. Decision adopted. (Applause) Depp. A.Bērzins: “ Flowers! Where are the flowers?Oh, no, no, no, ) On the agenda – draft decision on the approval of Erlen Ernstson as a district (city) court judge. On behalf of the Legal Commission, Mr Valery Agešin, Member.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-22-PT12-394-U108	At the meeting of the Legal Commission of the Saeima on 21 December this year, the draft decision ‘On the approval of Erlen Ernstson as a district (city) court judge’ was considered. The members of the Commission have unanimously supported that draft decision, following an inquiry by a judge and other officials present. On behalf of the Legal Commission of the Saeima, I call on Erlen Ernstson to approve the judge of the district (city) court without any limitation of his term of office.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-22-PT12-394-U109	Thank you. Let us start a debate. Name to Member Valdis Kalnozols.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-22-PT12-394-U110	I wanted to talk about this for a long time, but then I decided: the intolerant will not understand... The system of motivation in the law enforcement system needs to be improved, so that the best and most experienced lawyers from the law enforcement system would like to be judges. According to the employees of the system, life is smart. For criminal cases to be heard by judges who have many years of experience in investigative work and the best criminals lawyers. For family and child matters to be handled by wise and experienced judges with a psychologist’s education, as is the case in America. To ensure that our systems of law enforcement, court decisions should not depend on the complexity of people's undervalue, mutual knowledge or insult to life and do not affect judges' decisions. Let's think about it. I have a great request. How objective can a judge who receives 10 times less than a common lawyer participating in a hearing be? If we are talking about a particular judge, he is the same as what we approved at the previous Saeima sitting. It's a judge, a lawyer theoretician. His CV does not appear any case that he has any practice, knowledge, experience in practical fields. That is why I do not really recommend that you relate to our judicial system. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-22-PT12-394-U111	Name of Member Solvita Āboltiņš.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-22-PT12-394-U112	I'm going to try to do it without diagnosis... What society evidently expects of us is a professional job. Maybe we shouldn't talk... I will allow in Russian - the nee chital, the ivy of the monk (I have not read it, but I have an opinion on it) - by referring it to this view of the judicial system. And just as the people of our work and our professional profession are deciding both on how we are debating here and on the proposals we are putting forward, as well as on how to act outside the borders of this parliament, just as there is a professional system in which judges are adopted and approved. I would like to remind you that this barrier has also been discussed for 25 years, and a person who is less than 25 years of age cannot become a judge, just as a Constitutional Judge cannot become a person who is less than 40 years of age, and just as before he becomes a judge, there is a very long and complicated process, and this particular judge really is currently looking at Maxim's case. And I think you should let this man work. There is no doubt in the judicial self-governing institutions that have assessed his compliance, nor in the Legal Commission. It was not for nothing that the rapporteur stressed that we unanimously supported this judge to continue his professional work. And together, however, we will be a little more professional than we will be heading around... or from their personal bad experiences in making their own decisions.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-22-PT12-394-U113	I closed the debate. What would the rapporteur say? I don't want to. Please call me! We will vote on the draft decision on the approval of Erlen Ernstson as a district (city) court judge! Please vote mode! Please get the result! It's not about - 70, it's against and abstains. The decision has been taken. The next item is "Provision of draft legislation". On the agenda - draft law “Amendments to Law “On Real Estate Tax”, second reading. The draft law has been declared urgent. On behalf of the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission... The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. I.Zariņš: “ Are you two?Oh, no, no, no, no, no, What is happening to you here?” ) The rapporteur, Mr Putra, is here.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-22-PT12-394-U114	Hello, honourable Members! See the draft law “Amendments to Law “On Real Estate Tax”, second reading. For the second reading, we have received six proposals from the Commission. Proposal No 1. Proposal by the Legal Bureau The Commission is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-22-PT12-394-U115	Let us start a debate. Name to Member Igor Pimenov.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-22-PT12-394-U116	Hello, honourable Members and honourable Members! 1 and 2. - The proposals put forward by the Legal Bureau of the Saeima - are to be seen together. I confirm that the examination of the draft law in the commission was full of doubts and reflections, perhaps because at the same time there was an epic of micro-enterprises tax, which kept us under stress, so there was little notice in the Saeima about the letter of the Latvian Municipal Union, which warns that new regulation, taxation of real estate tax, creates productive soil for fraudulent projects, allowing to avoid payment of real estate tax. The purpose of this draft law is to ensure compliance of norms of the law “On Real Estate Tax” with amendments of the Civil Law, which by January 1 of next year introduces a new institution of law – the right of construction. The owner of the building right shall be called the owner of the building right. Building rights shall be granted for a fixed period, which may not be less than 10 years. The amendments to the Civil Law aim to establish a legal framework for those cases where it is more economically advantageous to acquire land-building rights than to acquire land for the purpose of building it. 1 and 2. - Proposals by the Legal Bureau aimed at introducing into the Law “On Real Special Tax” the regulation of taxation that would strengthen the application of amendments to the Civil Law. However, let us take a closer look at the functioning of the Institute for Building Rights. The right of construction shall provide an opportunity for the right of construction to build a building on land belonging to another person. After the expiry of the right of construction, the built-in building under the Civil Law will immediately become the property of the land owner, because at the same time, by strengthening the right of construction, it is strengthened that, at the end of the right of construction, the right of ownership of the land owner will be transferred. The question - who owns the building when it is built, but the building right is not yet over? At first reading, it is assumed that the owner of the land and the owner of the land is considered to be the owner of the building and that the real estate tax on the building is paid by the owner of the land. But now Proposals 1 and 2 amends what was decided at first reading and states that the owner of the building is the one who built the building, thus the right to build it, and the tax is paid by him. What's going on? In accordance with the current procedure, the new owner may be registered in the land register after the previous owner has paid the real estate tax debt. But the transfer of property rights from the right to build to the land owner in accordance with the new norms of the Civil Law, which will enter into force from 1 January, does not provide as a mandatory precondition for such obligation of the right to build – to pay the debt. Is it possible to recover the debt from the building right? It's very hard. It may be done in such a way that the only asset which is owned by the right-holder of the building, the legal person, is the right to build. And after the right of construction is finished and the building becomes the property of the owner of the land, no one will buy this right of construction, and no one will be able to recover from the former right of construction. The specificity of the right of construction is that the duration of the right of construction may be short - 10 years. Here is the word that, in my view, makes the new order very attractive for tax evasion! The ability of a legal entity to fulfil its financial obligations is well felt by commercial banks. Imagine, gentlemen, please! The commercial bank grants credit to the real estate, also gives credit to the lease agreement if the building is entered in the name of the lessee. But will the bank lend to the legal entity against the building right and against the one that can end in 10 years' time? I don't think so. Therefore, I believe that the concerns expressed by the Latvian Municipal Union about the possibility of tax evasion are justified. I want to ask to give me one more minute to finish my speech.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-22-PT12-394-U117	Do Members have objections? So keep going!
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-22-PT12-394-U118	Thank you. I'll go on. Thank you. I would like to quote a letter from the Latvian Union of Municipalities, which emphasises that this new possibility undermines... quote: ‘... undermines public confidence in the fairness of taxation, as no natural person who currently owns an individual dwelling or an apartment will be able to apply this scheme.” This is a rare case where the proposal of the Saeima's Legal Bureau needs to be rejected. Vote against Proposals 1 and 2 for the entry into force of the norms supported at first reading, which ensure that the real estate tax on the building right is paid by the owner of the land transferred to the building. Thus, proposals 1 and 2 are against. I think that this will be both pragmatically correct and will ensure that our tax system is correct, as well as guaranteeing that fraudulent schemes with real estate tax will not be possible. However, the new rules create such soil, but I want this source not to be open to fraud under any circumstances. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-22-PT12-394-U119	The name of the Member Immant Debtor.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-22-PT12-394-U120	Hello, colleagues! Since I was rapporteur for this first-reading bill, I think that I will also have to report to the second one, but now it happened that, partly on behalf of the Commission, I will, if I may say so, tell myself what really happened in the Commission, because Mr Putra may not have explained in detail. In general, we have taken a peculiar path with this draft law. At the beginning of October, we adopted it at first reading and identified urgency. The only purpose, when opening this law “On Real Estate Tax”, was to implement the right of construction as a new institute, which comes into force on 1 January and has been incorporated into the Civil Law and several other laws. When I was also reporting at first reading, I said that there were legal contradictions referred to by the Legal Bureau, and an opinion was also sought from the Legal Commission, which referred to this contradiction. Therefore, the draft law was included for consideration in the previous two Thursdays as well and it was abolished twice. In the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission, we have seen this again and have voted on the previous four main decisions of the Legal Commission... Proposals by the Legal Bureau that change this obligation, i.e. who is the real estate tax payer. At first reading, as Mr Pimenova said, it was incorporated that the payer was the owner of the land. Now, in line with the understanding of the Civil Law, the right of construction as owner also assumes these obligations regarding the payment of taxes. The Commission had extensive discussions on this subject in view of possible fraud. No one knows if that might or may not be the case. An example of Estonia was invoked when assessing these risks in relative terms. There for 13 years this institution has been operating, and these risks have not been observed, but in order to eliminate this problem in full, a decision was made within the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission that we instruct the Cabinet of Ministers, the ministries responsible - the Ministry of Finance and the Ministry of Justice - to evaluate all these aspects by 1 April, within three months, and to come up with a report on how we have to incorporate additional norms into the law so that it is not really the case that, as the building rights are approaching, this right does not make any contributions for real estate, and in the end no one is responsible for it, no one will pay for it. So that's the task. In my opinion, we had previously found an optimal solution so that this law was not directly contrary to civil law. The Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission had recommended that Article 2, paragraph 2.1 be ruled out at all, so that it did not rule out that the owner of the plot of land transferred for construction... the owner of the land is considered to be the right of construction. Well, that compromise was not accepted. As a result, I will now abstain myself from voting, but the Commission has decided to support this conceptually different regulation as set out in the proposal of the Legal Bureau. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-22-PT12-394-U121	Name to Member Sergey Dolgopolov.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-22-PT12-394-U122	Dear colleagues, Three things. The first case is that there is too much urgency when it comes to taxation. When it comes to taxation, however, we need to emphasise and weigh all the benefits and disadvantages. The second thing. When the Civil Law introduced a new terminology of the right to build, it had one very sacred goal – to avoid the creation of shared property in the future. The aim is very good, but it is also about paying taxes and everything else. And if the proposed but, thank God, the unsupported amendment to the Legal Commission... Forgiveness, in a commission that has looked at this bill... If it were accepted, it would lead us to have two arrangements for paying the same tax. For today, let us say, in the case of shared property, owners of apartments, whose house is located on land owned by another person, pay real estate tax for their property independently, they pay for themselves. In this case, the situation is the opposite: the owner of the land does. Two different approaches! And the third thing. If we are talking about control opportunities on the part of municipalities, I would like to remind you that already today all construction processes are divided into several stages and each of them has appropriate procedures that control municipal building boards and construction inspections. Thus, if there is no reconciliation between the two bases - the financial institution base and the building boards base - then what Mr. Pimenova, who has just spoken about, can really happen. If its bases are matched, then there is a risk, but this is minimal. I call on you to support the proposal from the Legal Bureau. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-22-PT12-394-U123	The name of Member Silvia Symph.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-22-PT12-394-U124	Hello, colleagues! Again - urgent and only two readings see the bill! Once again, with such amendments, we can create a problem in normal operation and then correct mistakes once again, because the proposals submitted to the second reading by the Parliamentary Legal Office change conceptually the substance of the draft law supported at first reading and encourage the building built on the basis of the right of construction to determine the right owner of the building, not the land owner, as is provided for in the first reading draft law. The most significant difference of the new institution of law - building rights - from the provisions of the Civil Law, which have allowed the construction of new buildings on the basis of a lease agreement to be carried out on a foreign basis, is that after the termination of the right of construction the newly built building will automatically become the property of the owner of land and will no longer be owned by the right of construction; moreover, the transfer of property rights will be automatically strengthened in the land register. It is the automatic transfer of property rights into the ownership of the land owner that if the real estate tax on the building is paid not by the land owner but by the building right, it will create an enticing and opportunity not to pay the real estate tax at the end of the period. Because in cases, if the right-holder of the building (the company, the legal person) is the only asset belonging to it, the right-holder of the building will appear, which after a few years will end (and then the building will automatically become the right-holder of the building - the land owner's property), no one will buy this right of the building and no tax can be charged at the auction. The current regulation excluded the possibility to avoid payment of real estate tax, as the new owner's land register can only be registered after payment of the tax debt. Reasoned dissatisfied with such a procedure was expressed by municipalities, because real estate tax together with part of personal income tax amounts to municipal budget revenue. We already know how much value added tax there are problems in the country. These amendments will now also allow this option to be introduced into the real estate tax system. So far, tax evasion has practically been impossible, because the only way it can happen is insolvency, but then the property itself is lost. The proposals of the legal bureau show that SIA can be wound up, but real estate tax debts will have to be written off, and the building will automatically become the property of the land owner on the specified date. Please do not support the possibility of avoiding payment of real estate tax during the final phase of the building right. Let us not introduce into the law norms that already provide for possibilities to chart in order to avoid payment of real estate tax. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-22-PT12-394-U125	I closed the debate. Will the rapporteur add a note on behalf of the Commission? No, no. Please call me! We will vote in favour of 1. - The legal office's proposal! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 56, for - 16, for - 4. The proposal is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-22-PT12-394-U126	2. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. The Commission has received support.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-22-PT12-394-U127	Members had asked for a vote. Please call me! We will vote in favour of 2. - The legal office's proposal! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 56, for - 15, for - 3. The proposal is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-22-PT12-394-U128	3. - a proposal from Members Bondar and Mārtiņš Schics. There has been no support from the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-22-PT12-394-U129	Let us start a debate. The name of the Member, Martin Schic.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-22-PT12-394-U130	Colleagues! Real estate tax in Latvia has increased by an average of 25 to 30 times over the last 20 years (Dep. I. Viņķelis: “Break?Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. “) and continue to grow. This is the subject of a study and publications by the leading experts of the Unity in this matter last year. Go on. Members of the Board of Mandates, Ethics and Applications of the Saeima and invited specialists have also pointed out the unacceptable situation that, regardless of the owners of the land house, their property is rapidly becoming more expensive due to large transactions in the immediate vicinity and many are also intolerant to taxes. There are glaring examples and, in my opinion, it is not normal for indigenous people to pay three and even four months' pensions for real estate. This is the case with discrimination against these indigenous people who have long lived in their own properties, and in fact it is a genocide against the long-term indigenous people. This leads to the situation that many Latvian citizens have to leave their homes, because they are unable to pay this increased and regularly growing real estate tax for the pension or income they receive. Neither pensioners nor the ancient Latvians are forever dairy cows in their property, and they should not be taxed with additional taxes in each case and every time the Ministry of Finance receives new charges. We therefore came with a proposal to calculate the real estate tax from the cadastral value of the object of real estate tax at the time of the change of owner and only when the real estate - the tax object - is registered in the land register. The next proposal is that this proposal could enter into force on 1 January and would establish the credibility and continuity of the Latvian tax system. Colleagues, please vote in favour of this proposal!
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-22-PT12-394-U131	I closed the debate. Will the rapporteur add a note on behalf of the Commission?
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-22-PT12-394-U132	This proposal was examined by the Commission. There was no aid due to the existence of several risks. And the opinion was based on the fact that municipalities already have several instruments to deal with this real estate issue as such... This proposal was not supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-22-PT12-394-U133	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 3. - the proposal tabled by Members Bondar and Schic! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For -7, for -44, for -17. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-22-PT12-394-U134	4. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Supported by changing the numbering of the following articles accordingly.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-22-PT12-394-U135	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-22-PT12-394-U136	5. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-22-PT12-394-U137	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-22-PT12-394-U138	6, closing - the proposal of Members Mārtiņš Bondaras and Mārtiņš Šics. There has been no support from the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-22-PT12-394-U139	Members ask for a vote, but this proposal relates to those who have been rejected and cannot be voted on in the opinion of the Legal Bureau.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-22-PT12-394-U140	Colleagues! We have examined all the proposals. I call for support to be given to the draft law at second, final, reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-22-PT12-394-U141	Please call me! We will vote for the support of the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Real Estate Tax” in the second, final, reading! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 58, for - 1, for - 14. The law has been passed. On the agenda - draft law “Amendments to the Law “On the Bank of Latvia”, third reading. On behalf of the Commission for Budget and Finance (Tax) - Member Jānis Trupovnieks.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-22-PT12-394-U142	Hello! The Budget and Finance (Tax) Commission has examined the draft law “Amendments to the Law “On the Bank of Latvia””. One proposal has been received for the third reading, and it comes from Ms Inguna Silverba. There is no support in the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-22-PT12-394-U143	Let us start a debate. Name of Member Inguna Silver.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-22-PT12-394-U144	Dear colleagues, Why did I submit this proposal? In my opinion, the principle that exists for the approval of many officials in office is a limited time limit. And it has its own basis, because for professional career and professional expression there is a limited time limit within which a person can work fully productively and creatively in a particular position. The proposal presented does not mean that a member of the Board working in the Bank of Latvia, for example, will only spend 12 years in office; if he has successfully done so, he will be able to spend another 12 years as Vice-President of the Board and for another 12 years as President of the Bank. Thus, 36 creative years are possible in the Bank of Latvia even for a board member, who is just starting work. Why was this proposal rejected? This was rejected first of all, I think, because there was such an absolutely weak argument that we should be aligned with the central bank. We are so weak that we cannot reconcile this proposal with the central bank? Well, yeah, that's how it works. And the other. There were also arguments from the Bank of Latvia that these people are so indispensable; that if they do not work as council members or, for example, other officials mentioned here, they will still be provided with work in the Bank of Latvia because they are indispensable. And that means that Latvijas Banka will pay to those members of the board who have been recruited to their seat and those who have been working there before. I think that's another absurd once again. Because if the Saeima confirms the office of officials, then it also assesses their ability. And sometime before they first became members of the council or vice-presidents or presidents, they were in no way closely related to the Bank of Latvia. And another argument raised by my colleagues in the Committee on Budgets and Finance (Tax) is that we are already in the Saeima. So if we have to approve the officials here for the third, fourth or fifth time, as we have already done here, we can reject this official. You see, in my opinion, this limited time limit tells a man: your professional expression has a limited time in which you can do it fully. And the problem of Latvia as a country is that we do not know how to use those professionals, those people who have worked in senior positions. We do not create a system in which these people are valued and used for both their international reputation and their knowledge and experience, but leave these people to their fate to decide for themselves how to build their professional careers. This is not the case in many countries. In many countries, what has been invested in people and their experience is being used successfully. I believe that we need to think about how those high professionals who have worked in these positions should be used as a successful resource for strengthening national reputation, national programmes and contacts. Please support my proposal. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. A.Kamiņš: “We support you!” ) Council Regulation (EC) No 1257/96 of 20 June 1996 concerning humanitarian aid (OJ L 163, 2.7.1996, p. 1).
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-22-PT12-394-U145	Name to Member Alexander Kirštein.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-22-PT12-394-U146	Dear President, Honourable Members! This is a difficult moment... I agree with Mrs Silver, and I have to admit with a hard heart that the Bank of Latvia is full of talent. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. S. Āboltiņa: “Parliament also!” ) When we asked the representative of the Bank of Latvia why, for example, people should be elected for the third term after two years, i.e. for 18 years ( remember Leonīds Iljiči Brežņevs), then the board of directors... Council representative (Dep. A.Kamiņš: “We don’t remember! But we have Brigman!” ) said, above all, that the president or the member of the bank council should be familiar with the macro-economics. It turns out that others don't know. For example, if we wish a new President of the Bank, we cannot find anyone from either the board or the board, because they do not know the macro-economics. Only one person knows. I wanted to show you one table that bothered me. So here are the Eurostat figures for the third quarter this year, for the fourth is not yet available. Latvia is here at the bottom with a 0.7 percent increase in the third quarter ( versus the previous year). The euro area is below the European Union average, and those countries that draw the European Union's economy, how do you think they are? It is Poland, Great Britain and Sweden. Countries outside the euro area. So, thinking about the tasks of the officials of the Bank of Latvia, I concluded that one of the main tasks now, without the printing of medals, is bluffing, that the euro area is a successful project, despite statistics, that we do not define its policies, just fiscal!” ) Explain why things are quite the opposite of what has been promised. The Latvian economy developed until 2008, if we look at it, three four times faster. In 2002 and 2003, GDP growth was between six and seven per cent. Then increased to eight, to 10 and to 13 per cent in 2006. ( Interface: “It’s called a real estate bubble! ” ) If we reject this overheating, but look at a time when there was no lats attached to the euro, our development rates were above five. But there was another thing during the crisis. When the Parex Bank crash started, €600 million of national taxpayers' money was paid to foreign residents, mainly Russian and Kazakh citizens. And the representatives of the Bank of Latvia were among those who told the government at that time that these 600 million should be returned to the citizens of Russia and Kazakhstan, otherwise the development of the Latvian economy would be threatened. The failed business model of the private company was paid by the public, which led us to borrow 4.5 billion from the International Monetary Fund and to a total of public debt of 40 percent of gross domestic product. If someone thinks that he could not act differently from the Bank of Latvia, then unlike Latvia, Iceland allowed the banking system to collapse, judges the Prime Minister of the State and - what horrors! - put their bank management in prison for causing the crisis. Iceland has overcome the crisis much more successfully than Latvia, according to the economic research centre Bruegel. Experience with the collapse of the Icelandic banking system shows that allowing banks that have an erroneous business model to break down is the best solution. Bruegel economists point out that during the crisis Iceland has suffered the least, Latvia the most, and the Bank of Latvia was recognised as the worst in the European Union. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. S. Āboltiņa: “But you were in the People’s Party at that time, and you were abetting the economy!” ) I therefore think that we have a few people who are under the leadership of the Bank of Latvia, they continue to deny that Margaret Tečere was not right when she said that the euro area needed a common currency, but national currencies, which vary according to the economic situation... to this central management. The bank's management must make it clear that Nobel Prize winner Paul Krugman was not right when he pointed out the catastrophic model of Latvia's economic development in a crisis situation. And the last one. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. A.Kimiņš: “Kirštein, come home!” ) After the average salary, more precisely, after the most low wages received - two thirds of the average - we are again in the first place in Europe as a result of this economic situation. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. A.Kamiņš: “Time! Time!” ) And the last sentence I have is that. If the euro area collapses, we need, however, people who understand that national currency and monetary policy are the only weapons for economic development, for the protection of the internal market and for increasing consumption. That's why we won't let him sit for 18 years. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-22-PT12-394-U147	The name of the Member is Going to Spolitis.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-22-PT12-394-U148	Very short. Thank you, Mr Kirštein, for this comment, but just there was so much stupid and so many bluffs and wrong facts in one bucket! The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. I.Rīklana “Then quotes the right facts!” ) The language is very simple. There is a difference between monetary and fiscal policy. Let's start with it. You are currently responsible for the management of the Bank of Latvia. Please let us start with the real economy, so with the government, with the parliament. So, returning to 2008... or before 2008... Please, let us ask those who provoked that crisis! The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. A.Kamiņš: “The money is returned! Give it back!” ) So let us not mix bananas with onions in this case, please. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-22-PT12-394-U149	I closed the debate. Will the rapporteur add a note on behalf of the Commission?
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-22-PT12-394-U150	Dear colleagues, Whether or not there is a time term right to hold a post, the parliament has both an opportunity, rights and an obligation to appoint the President of the Bank of Latvia, to support or not support a member of the council. I call on you to support the Commission's view and not to support this proposal. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. G.Kūrris: “Yes! Support!” ; dep. J. Viļums: “Let’s listen to John! Let's support it!" ) Council Regulation (EC) No 1257/96 of 20 June 1996 concerning humanitarian aid (OJ L 163, 2.7.1996, p. 1).
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-22-PT12-394-U151	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 1. - Member Silver's proposal! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 15, for - 55, for - 3. The proposal is not supported. The Commission is asking to support the draft law at third, final, reading. Please call me! We will vote for the support of the draft law “Amendments to the Law “On the Bank of Latvia” in the third, final reading! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 78, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The law has been passed. On the agenda - draft law “Amendment to the Law on Vocational Education”, third reading. On behalf of the Commission for Education, Culture and Science - Member Valdis Skujiņš.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-22-PT12-394-U152	Dear Chairman of the Saeima. Dear colleagues, The Commission for Education, Culture and Science examined the amendment to the Law on Vocational Education and Training. One proposal has been received for the third reading and was supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-22-PT12-394-U153	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-22-PT12-394-U154	All the proposals have therefore been examined. Please support the draft law at third, final, final reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-22-PT12-394-U155	Please call me! We will vote for the support of the draft law on vocational education in the third, final, reading! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 76, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The law has been passed. On the agenda - draft law “Amendment to the Law “On Taxes and Fees”, third reading. On behalf of the Commission for Budget and Finance (Tax) - Member Ivan Ribakov.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-22-PT12-394-U156	Dear Saeima! We work with the draft law “Amendment to the Law on Taxes and Fees” (No.147/Lp12), prepared for third reading. A total of five proposals have been received. 1. - the proposal by Mr Asheraden, Member of the Prime Minister for Economic Affairs. Partially supported, included 2. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-22-PT12-394-U157	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-22-PT12-394-U158	2. - a proposal from the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-22-PT12-394-U159	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-22-PT12-394-U160	3. - the proposal by Mr Asheraden, Member of the Prime Minister for Economic Affairs. Not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-22-PT12-394-U161	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-22-PT12-394-U162	4. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Supported and included 5. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-22-PT12-394-U163	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-22-PT12-394-U164	And 5. - a proposal from the committee responsible. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-22-PT12-394-U165	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-22-PT12-394-U166	Therefore, please support the draft law at third, final, reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-22-PT12-394-U167	Please call me! We will vote for the support of the draft law “Amendment to the Law on Taxes and Fees” in the third, final, reading! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 79, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The law has been passed. On the agenda - draft law “Amendments to the Law on Security Activities”, third reading. On behalf of the Commission for Defence, Home Affairs and Anti-Corruption - Member Kārlis Krēsliņš.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-22-PT12-394-U168	Dear colleagues, Three proposals: 1. is a proposal from the Commission. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-22-PT12-394-U169	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-22-PT12-394-U170	Proposal 2: The Commission is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-22-PT12-394-U171	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-22-PT12-394-U172	3. - Commission proposal. The Commission is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-22-PT12-394-U173	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-22-PT12-394-U174	Please support the draft law at third reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-22-PT12-394-U175	Please call me! We will vote in favour of supporting the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Security Activities” in the third, final, reading! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 78, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The law has been passed. On the agenda - draft law “Amendments to the Law on Diplomatic and Consular Service”, third reading. On behalf of the Commission on Foreign Affairs, Member Sergey Potapkins.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-22-PT12-394-U176	Draft law ‘Amendments to the Law on Diplomatic and Consular Service’. No proposals were received. The draft law was approved and supported by the Commission. Please support me.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-22-PT12-394-U177	Please call me! We will vote in favour of the third, final, reading of the draft law on Amendments to the Law on Diplomatic and Consular Service! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 76, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The law has been passed. On the agenda - draft law “Amendments to the insolvency law”, third reading. On behalf of the Legal Commission - Member Inese Lībiņa-Egnere.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-22-PT12-394-U178	Dear colleagues, For the third, final, reading, the Legal Commission has examined all the proposals received for the draft law “Amendments to the insolvency law”, most of which are of a technical nature, and therefore I will not report in more detail on them. 1. - the proposal of the Minister of Justice Dzintars Rasnačs. Technically. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-22-PT12-394-U179	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-22-PT12-394-U180	2. - a proposal of technical nature of the Minister of Justice Dzintars Rasnačs. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-22-PT12-394-U181	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-22-PT12-394-U182	3. - the proposal from Members Inguna Silver and Gunar Kühr. Not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-22-PT12-394-U183	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-22-PT12-394-U184	4. - a proposal of technical nature of the Minister of Justice Dzintars Rasnačs. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-22-PT12-394-U185	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-22-PT12-394-U186	5. - the proposal of the Minister of Justice Dzintars Rasnačs. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-22-PT12-394-U187	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-22-PT12-394-U188	6. - the proposal of the Minister of Justice Dzintars Rasnačs specifies the amount of information to be included in the electronic insolvency monitoring system. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-22-PT12-394-U189	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-22-PT12-394-U190	7. - a proposal by a legal office of a technical nature. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-22-PT12-394-U191	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-22-PT12-394-U192	8 / 8 - a proposal of technical nature of the Minister of Justice Dzintars Rasnačs. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-22-PT12-394-U193	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-22-PT12-394-U194	9. - the proposal of the Minister of Justice Dzintars Rasnačs. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-22-PT12-394-U195	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-22-PT12-394-U196	10............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - the proposal of the Minister of Justice Dzintars Rasnačs. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-22-PT12-394-U197	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-22-PT12-394-U198	11. - The proposal of the Minister of Justice Dzintars Rasnačs provides for setting restrictions similar to those of the administrator in insolvency proceedings in a situation of conflict of interest. The Commission is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-22-PT12-394-U199	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-22-PT12-394-U200	12. - the proposal of the Minister of Justice Dzintars Rasnačs specifies in which cases the court of the supervising persons in the legal protection proceedings shall cancel on the application of the Director of the Insolvency Administration. This is supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-22-PT12-394-U201	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-22-PT12-394-U202	13. - the proposal of the Minister of Justice Dzintars Rasnačs. Partially supported, included 14. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-22-PT12-394-U203	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-22-PT12-394-U204	14............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - The Legal Commission's proposal to ensure that the guardian of legal protection proceedings ensures that it is reachable at the address of the place of practice by using the published contact information, as well as to provide the insolvency administrator with access to the place of practice registered in the insolvency register in Latvia and the location of the debtor - the legal person. The Commission has supported this.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-22-PT12-394-U205	The proposal is supported by Members.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-22-PT12-394-U206	15............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - the proposal of the Minister of Justice Dzintars Rasnačs. Supported. ( The drug has increased noise. The head of the sitting shall be knocked down by means of a hammer.)
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-22-PT12-394-U207	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-22-PT12-394-U208	16. - the proposal of the Minister of Justice Dzintars Rasnačs. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-22-PT12-394-U209	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-22-PT12-394-U210	17. - the proposal of the Minister of Justice Dzintars Rasnačs. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-22-PT12-394-U211	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-22-PT12-394-U212	18. - the proposal of the Minister of Justice Dzintars Rasnačs. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-22-PT12-394-U213	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-22-PT12-394-U214	19. - the proposal of the Minister of Justice Dzintars Rasnačs. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-22-PT12-394-U215	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-22-PT12-394-U216	20............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - the proposal from Members Inguna Silver and Gunar Kühr. Not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-22-PT12-394-U217	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-22-PT12-394-U218	21............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - the proposal from Members Inguna Silver and Gunar Kühr. Not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-22-PT12-394-U219	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-22-PT12-394-U220	22. - the proposal of the Minister of Justice Dzintars Rasnačs. Partially supported, included 23. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-22-PT12-394-U221	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-22-PT12-394-U222	23............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - a proposal from the Legal Commission providing that the administrator whose activities have been suspended in the course of an ongoing qualification It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-22-PT12-394-U223	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-22-PT12-394-U224	24. - a proposal from the Minister of Justice Dzintars Rasnačs specifying the cases in which the administrator is to be removed from office. The Commission is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-22-PT12-394-U225	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-22-PT12-394-U226	25. - the proposal of the Minister of Justice Rasnačs. Also supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-22-PT12-394-U227	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-22-PT12-394-U228	26. - the proposal of the Minister of Justice Rasnačs. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-22-PT12-394-U229	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-22-PT12-394-U230	27. - a proposal by the Minister of Justice Dzintars Rasnačs specifying that the administrator may not assume the duties of an administrator in a particular insolvency proceedings if he ‘ decided on the debtor’s claim in another insolvency proceedings of a legal person or in insolvency proceedings of a natural person within the last two years prior to his appointment in a particular insolvency proceedings in which the administrator carries out the duties of an administrator of insolvency proceedings’. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-22-PT12-394-U231	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-22-PT12-394-U232	28. - a proposal from the Legal Office which is of a technical nature. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-22-PT12-394-U233	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-22-PT12-394-U234	29. - the proposal of the Minister of Justice Rasnačs, which provides for the right of the administrator to submit a complaint to the Director of the Insolvency Administration within certain cases and time limits concerning the conduct of the official of the administration. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-22-PT12-394-U235	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-22-PT12-394-U236	30. - the proposal by Member Inga Betes. Not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-22-PT12-394-U237	Let us start a debate. Name of Member Inga Bite.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-22-PT12-394-U238	Dear colleagues, I would just like to remind you briefly of the substance of the proposal, because we have already spoken on this subject here in this Chamber. In particular, if the administrator has caused damage, the case must go to the court of general jurisdiction first, as is currently the case in the version approved by the Legal Commission. This means that there is a need for someone to make such an application, to prove and to claim damages... Well, obviously it's happening in court over several years... And after the judgment has come into effect, this judgment comes into the disciplinary committee of inquiry, which can then decide what sanctions should be imposed on the administrator. Dear colleagues, We will not solve the problems of the administrator in this way. My proposal provides that there is no need to wait for a court judgment. In particular, if it is suspected that the administrator has caused damage, the disciplinary committee may immediately examine the case, examine all documents and, if it is established that the loss has indeed occurred, impose an appropriate penalty on the administrator. And there is no need to worry about the fact that the administrator's rights will be violated because, of course, the administrator has the opportunity to appeal against the decision of the disciplinary committee and then the insolvency administration. The only question is: does this administrator continue to work, continue to cause damage and then possibly be punished? Is it first removed from the system field and then, if it has been erroneously, can return to this system? I ask not to prolong the process disproportionately long, for several years, and to support my proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-22-PT12-394-U239	I closed the debate. Will the rapporteur add a note on behalf of the Commission?
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-22-PT12-394-U240	We also debated a great deal in the Commission on a proposal of a similar nature before the draft law at second reading was discussed at the Saeima sitting. We discussed this proposal at the third reading, we also asked for an opinion on all the parties invited, but the final committee's decision is not to support it.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-22-PT12-394-U241	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote for 30. - Mrs Betes's proposal! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 8, for - 56, for - 2. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-22-PT12-394-U242	31. - the proposal from Members Inguna Silver and Gunar Kühr. Not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-22-PT12-394-U243	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-22-PT12-394-U244	32. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-22-PT12-394-U245	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-22-PT12-394-U246	33. - the proposal of the Minister of Justice Rasnačs, which provides that the disciplinary committee of inquiry shall take a decision within one month of initiating disciplinary proceedings. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-22-PT12-394-U247	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-22-PT12-394-U248	34. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-22-PT12-394-U249	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-22-PT12-394-U250	35. - the proposal of the Minister of Justice Dzintars Rasnačs. Partially supported, included 36. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-22-PT12-394-U251	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-22-PT12-394-U252	36. - the proposal of the responsible, Legal, Commission. The procedure by which the person supervising the legal protection process submits information to the insolvency administration on his education and qualifications shall be specified. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-22-PT12-394-U253	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-22-PT12-394-U254	37. - the proposal of the Minister of Justice Rasnačs. The rights of the person supervising the legal protection proceedings shall be determined. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-22-PT12-394-U255	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-22-PT12-394-U256	38. - the proposal of the Minister of Justice Dzintars Rasnačs. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-22-PT12-394-U257	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-22-PT12-394-U258	39. - a proposal of a technical nature of the legal office. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-22-PT12-394-U259	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-22-PT12-394-U260	40. - the proposal of the Minister of Justice Dzintars Rasnačs. Partially supported, included 41. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-22-PT12-394-U261	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-22-PT12-394-U262	41. - The legal commission's proposal. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-22-PT12-394-U263	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-22-PT12-394-U264	42. - the proposal from Members Inguna Silver and Gunar Kühr. Not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-22-PT12-394-U265	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-22-PT12-394-U266	43. - the proposal from Members Inguna Silver and Gunar Kühr. Partially supported, included 45. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-22-PT12-394-U267	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-22-PT12-394-U268	44. - the proposal of the Minister of Justice Dzintars Rasnačs. Partially supported, included 45. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-22-PT12-394-U269	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-22-PT12-394-U270	45. - The legal commission's proposal. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-22-PT12-394-U271	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-22-PT12-394-U272	46. - a proposal of a editorial nature of the legal office. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-22-PT12-394-U273	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-22-PT12-394-U274	47. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-22-PT12-394-U275	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-22-PT12-394-U276	48. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-22-PT12-394-U277	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-22-PT12-394-U278	49. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-22-PT12-394-U279	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-22-PT12-394-U280	50. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-22-PT12-394-U281	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-22-PT12-394-U282	51. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-22-PT12-394-U283	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-22-PT12-394-U284	52. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-22-PT12-394-U285	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-22-PT12-394-U286	53. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-22-PT12-394-U287	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-22-PT12-394-U288	54. - the proposal of the Minister of Justice Dzintars Rasnačs. Provision shall be made for the insolvency administration to receive from the Penal Register the information necessary for it to carry out its statutory tasks. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-22-PT12-394-U289	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-22-PT12-394-U290	55. - a proposal of a technical nature by the Minister of Justice. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-22-PT12-394-U291	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-22-PT12-394-U292	56. - The legal commission's proposal - and many of the future proposals also clarify the provisions concerning the entry into force and transitional period of the new legal framework. The proposal is supported by the Commission 56.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-22-PT12-394-U293	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-22-PT12-394-U294	57. - the proposal of the Minister of Justice Dzintars Rasnačs. Partially supported, included 58. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-22-PT12-394-U295	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-22-PT12-394-U296	58. - The legal commission's proposal. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-22-PT12-394-U297	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-22-PT12-394-U298	59. - The legal commission's proposal. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-22-PT12-394-U299	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-22-PT12-394-U300	60. - The legal commission's proposal. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-22-PT12-394-U301	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-22-PT12-394-U302	61. - the proposal of the Minister of Justice Dzintars Rasnačs. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-22-PT12-394-U303	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-22-PT12-394-U304	62. - a proposal of a technical nature of the legal office. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-22-PT12-394-U305	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-22-PT12-394-U306	63. - The legal commission's proposal. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-22-PT12-394-U307	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-22-PT12-394-U308	64. - The legal commission's proposal. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-22-PT12-394-U309	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-22-PT12-394-U310	65. - the proposal of the Minister of Justice Dzintars Rasnačs. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-22-PT12-394-U311	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-22-PT12-394-U312	66. - the proposal from Members Inguna Silver and Gunar Kühr. Not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-22-PT12-394-U313	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-22-PT12-394-U314	67. - the technical proposal of the Minister of Justice Dzintars Rasnačs. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-22-PT12-394-U315	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-22-PT12-394-U316	68. - the proposal of the Minister of Justice Dzintars Rasnačs. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-22-PT12-394-U317	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-22-PT12-394-U318	69. - the proposal of the Minister of Justice Dzintars Rasnačs. It is envisaged that the documents certifying the continuation of the studies should be submitted to the insolvency administration, as it is intended to ensure the implementation of the function of review of the qualifications of administrators in the future. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-22-PT12-394-U319	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-22-PT12-394-U320	And finally 70. - The legal commission's proposal. The period of entry into force of the law shall be specified, stating that it shall enter into force on the day following that of its promulgation. The Commission is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-22-PT12-394-U321	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-22-PT12-394-U322	Consequently, all proposals for the third reading have been examined. I call for support to be given to the draft law at third, final, reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-22-PT12-394-U323	Please call me! We will vote in favour of the third, final, reading of the draft law on “Amendments to the insolvency law! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. The law has been passed.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-22-PT12-394-U324	Thank you very much to all those involved for their work.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-22-PT12-394-U325	On the agenda - draft law “On the status of participant of the 1991 barricades”, first reading. On behalf of the Commission for Social and Labour Affairs - Member Romualds Ražuks.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-22-PT12-394-U326	President-in-Office. Colleagues! In its meeting, the Commission of Social and Labour Affairs has examined draft law No.482/Lp12 “On the status of a member of the 1991 barricades” and has decided to reject it and to draft alternative draft law No.773/Lp12, which we are currently viewing at the Saeima sitting. The need for an alternative draft law was determined by two reasons: the unequal attitude of society towards the original project, and the fiscal impact on the social budget and the basic budget foreseen in the rejected draft law. The Commission has addressed these shortcomings and the alternative draft legislation that we are now looking at does not provide social guarantees for members of the barricades. Who would then need this draft law? - you may have a question. This is necessary in order to ensure equal treatment for members of barricades who have received various awards, so that they are all equal. The draft law also encourages municipalities to decide, as far as possible, on the provision of support to members of barricades. Of course, if there is a different attitude of society in the future and if there is political will and financial opportunities, future generations of Saeima will have the opportunity to return to this issue if there is such a need. The draft law is thus drawn up in an alternative version, examined and supported by the Commission on Social and Labour Affairs. On behalf of the Commission, I call for support for the draft law at first reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-22-PT12-394-U327	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote for support for the first reading of the draft law “On the status of a member of the 1991 barricades”! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 68, against and refrains - not. The draft law at first reading has been supported. Please set a deadline for the submission of the proposals for second reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-22-PT12-394-U328	January 20, 2017.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-22-PT12-394-U329	Thank you. Proposals should be submitted by 20 January 2017. On the agenda: draft law on the law on European political parties and European political foundations, first reading. On behalf of the National Administration and Municipal Commission - Member Juris Šulcs. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. A.Latkovsky: “Short!” ) Council Regulation (EC) No 1257/96 of 20 June 1996 concerning humanitarian aid (OJ L 163, 2.7.1996, p. 1).
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-22-PT12-394-U330	President-in-Office of the Saeima. Colleagues! The Commission of State Administration and Local Government has examined the draft law “Law on European Political Parties and European Political Foundations” submitted by the Cabinet of Ministers, which has been drafted by the Ministry of Justice, and has decided to support the said draft law and to direct it to the Saeima at first reading. The nature of the draft law. This law will establish the legal basis for the activities of European political parties and European political foundations in Latvia if a European political party or political foundation has decided to choose Latvia as its seat, that is, their central administration in our country. Of course, this law would work insofar as Regulation No 1141/2014 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 22 October 2014 on the status and funding of European political parties and European political foundations does not provide otherwise. The Regulation shall enter into force and apply from 1 January 2017. This means that there should also be a national legal framework for the application of the Regulation in Latvia. The explanatory memorandum to the draft law sets out in detail the objectives of the regulation and its application, as well as the responsibilities of the authorities monitoring the operation, so I will not be able to do so. It can only be added that when preparing draft laws for consideration by the Saeima, the Commission of the State Administration and Local Government has asked the Office for Prevention and Combating Corruption, Administration of Citizenship and Migration Affairs, the Security Police, the Central Electoral Commission and the Constitutional Protection Office to give an opinion on the drafting of the relevant draft law. And all these institutions consider it useful to divide the principles of action of European political parties and European political foundations within the territory of Latvia into a separate law in order not to amend more than ten other laws and regulations. On behalf of the Commission of Public Administration and Local Government, please support the draft law on the law on European political parties and European political foundations at first reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-22-PT12-394-U331	Thank you. Please call me! Let us vote in favour of the first reading of the draft law on the law on European political parties and European political foundations! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 81, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. Draft legislation supported at first reading. Please set a deadline for the submission of the proposals for second reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-22-PT12-394-U332	So for the second reading, please submit proposals by 20 January 2017.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-22-PT12-394-U333	Thank you. Proposals should be submitted by 20 January 2017. On the agenda - draft law “Amendment to the Law on Subsidized Electricity Tax”, first reading. On behalf of the Commission on Budget and Finance (Tax) - Member Vilnis Ķirsis.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-22-PT12-394-U334	Madam President, very much. Colleagues! Technical amendment specifying the exact date by which an invoice must be submitted by an electricity producer to the public trader. It was a request of the State Audit Office, and this draft law also ensures it. I call on the Commission to support it at first reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-22-PT12-394-U335	Please call me! We will vote for support for the first reading of the draft law “Amendment to the Law on Subsidised Electricity Tax! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 81, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. The draft law at first reading has been supported. Please set a deadline for the submission of the proposals for second reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-22-PT12-394-U336	January 9, 2017.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-22-PT12-394-U337	Thank you. Proposals should be submitted by 9 January 2017. On the agenda - draft law “Amendments to the Law of the State Audit Office”, second reading. On behalf of the National Administration and Municipal Commission, Member Sergej Dolgopolovs.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-22-PT12-394-U338	Dear colleagues, On 10 March 2016, the Saeima approved amendments to the State Audit Office Law at first reading. During this period several expert groups have been consulted. Consultation with employees of several state administration institutions and municipalities, with non-governmental organisations. The question was also discussed at the commission meetings. And today you have been put forward for the second reading with 31 proposals and amendments. 1. - A proposal from the Commission of Public Administration and Local Government. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-22-PT12-394-U339	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-22-PT12-394-U340	2. - A proposal from the Commission of Public Administration and Local Government. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-22-PT12-394-U341	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-22-PT12-394-U342	3. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-22-PT12-394-U343	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-22-PT12-394-U344	4. - a proposal from the committee responsible. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-22-PT12-394-U345	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-22-PT12-394-U346	5. - a proposal from the committee responsible. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-22-PT12-394-U347	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-22-PT12-394-U348	6. - a proposal from the committee responsible. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-22-PT12-394-U349	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-22-PT12-394-U350	7. - A proposal from the Commission of Public Administration and Local Government. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-22-PT12-394-U351	Members ask for a vote. Please call me! We will vote in favour of 7. - Proposal submitted by the Commission of Public Administration and Local Government! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 51, for - 18, for - 2. The proposal is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-22-PT12-394-U352	8 / 8 - a proposal from the committee responsible. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-22-PT12-394-U353	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-22-PT12-394-U354	9. - a proposal from the committee responsible. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-22-PT12-394-U355	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-22-PT12-394-U356	10............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - Commission proposal. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-22-PT12-394-U357	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-22-PT12-394-U358	11. - a proposal from the committee responsible. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-22-PT12-394-U359	Members ask for a vote. Please call me! We will vote in favour of 11. - Proposal submitted by the Commission of Public Administration and Local Government! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 54, for - 18, for - 1. The proposal is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-22-PT12-394-U360	12. - the motion by Member Dolgopolov is not supported. I withdrew it.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-22-PT12-394-U361	Therefore, Proposal No 12 has been withdrawn.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-22-PT12-394-U362	13. - a proposal from the committee responsible. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-22-PT12-394-U363	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-22-PT12-394-U364	14............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - A proposal from the Commission of Public Administration and Local Government. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-22-PT12-394-U365	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-22-PT12-394-U366	15............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - Member Silver's proposal. Not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-22-PT12-394-U367	So proposal 15 has been withdrawn.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-22-PT12-394-U368	Is it undone? Thank you. 16. - A proposal from the Commission of Public Administration and Local Government. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-22-PT12-394-U369	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-22-PT12-394-U370	17. - the unsupported proposal of the Member, Dolgopolov. It's being withdrawn.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-22-PT12-394-U371	The proposal is therefore withdrawn.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-22-PT12-394-U372	18. - A proposal from the Commission of Public Administration and Local Government. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-22-PT12-394-U373	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-22-PT12-394-U374	19. - a proposal from the committee responsible. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-22-PT12-394-U375	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-22-PT12-394-U376	20............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - Member Silver's proposal. Not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-22-PT12-394-U377	The proposal has therefore been withdrawn.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-22-PT12-394-U378	21............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - The offer from Member Dambe. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-22-PT12-394-U379	Let us start a debate. Name to Member Artus Neminis.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-22-PT12-394-U380	I know everyone's tired. Better still! Let us now make important decisions for the country. Dambe from the ZZS, please be so kind and after the rest of us who have applied today to talk about this - Amendment 21, collect your ideas and come here to the table and tell us why you have made such a proposal at all. This bill, in turn, is... Whereas with beard - long, long, long and old, old, old. In fact, Mr Dambes has proposed to exclude Article 14 of the draft law, which provides for the addition of a new chapter - Chapter XIV: ‘If the audit finds that there is unlawful treatment of funds or assets, the audit department shall, after the decision approving the audit report has entered into force, submit a proposal to the State Audit Council to decide to make good the damage caused by the unlawful conduct, indicating the amount of the damage caused by each person and the grounds for recovering the damage from the person concerned.’ And now, Members of the Saeima, this is the case. If so, let's... How is private business? (There's no operator here... ( Intercretion: “Sorry! ”) ) Let's say, I don't know if there's any private business here. I know that most of you have not been in private business, but that's nothing.) The subject of this is: if you are in private business and if you cause some damage to your employer, then you have to pay them; either take your salary off, or in some other way, but they are reimbursed. No one is responsible for anything in the state administration. I have the honour of being on the Commission for Public Expenditure and Audit, and we see these regular State Audit Office reports on verified units on Tuesdays and Wednesdays, and I have some cases coming to my mind. First. We're trying to catch... for about eight and nine months. from Loginova, who is the Freeport Manager... Let's try something... The State Audit Office has found that there are 20 million... Somewhere, not here, not there... Somewhere they've gone in the wrong place. The State Audit Office has established: yes and yes, it is not correct. What's Loginov doing? Loginov says: “Thanks to the State Audit Office, but... Well, we don't believe you. So we're going to do this thing: we're going to take the cantor of Deloitte Latvia's auditors and we're going to check our own free port." It costs around €105 000. That is the case. Second case. The State Audit Office has caught... Five thousand in some way... officials, apologies... If I'm not mistaken, 500-- No, five million of the money had been misused. Five million! And in three years, round five thousand euros were returned. Officials were punished, 17 of three different ministries. They had been aroused on a kind of restaurant... any Ministry of Status there or any institution, but no one is responsible for anything. This draft decision, Mr Dambes, is vital that people who have no responsibility are not employed in public administration. It is not normal for you to say to the media: “Who will then want to go to those municipalities to work if he has some responsibility? That's not what it pays! Who will then go there?” What are these arguments? They do not hold back any criticism at all! It will simply take, and in this way it will also optimise, this public administration. That's it. There's nothing so much to work there for everyone... If you still don't want to take responsibility... Come then and tell me! What is it about plague if you can imagine that an official has no responsibility at all?Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. You get down here! Get out on the street, walk and talk to people! This is not a normal proposal. Consequently, honourable colleagues, I will ask you not to support 21. - Member Dambe's proposal. After me, Mrs Silver, who is the former Auditor General, will come here and speak, perhaps with legal words from the twilight of how that mechanism works. But be so kind, please... I know that Mrs. Krumina will support you in your office as Auditor General, right? I've heard it. People tell me. You will. But you cannot imagine how happy Mrs. Krumina will be if you do not support this Dambe proposal! She'll be terrifyingly happy. ( I don’t need any extra time.) State control needs to be given greater powers. They do a very good job, but they only have a point of recommendation. They can only recommend it. Their name is not a law.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-22-PT12-394-U381	Mr President, your debate is over.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-22-PT12-394-U382	Did you understand what to do? ( The box “Yes! ”) ) Need not be supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-22-PT12-394-U383	Name of Member Inguna Silver.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-22-PT12-394-U384	These amendments to the Law on the State Audit Office are in fact to be divided into two parts. One of the amendments that we have already made technically clear in advance is essentially the alignment and withdrawal of obsolete rules, but the substance is precisely this new chapter. And why is this new chapter? Because the public is finally waiting for responsibility from those officials who are not held accountable at the moment when both the misuse of funds and the waste of funds are found. We are very interested, which at last will be its responsible officer, for example, for the last case, which is already in the Supreme Court proceedings, for 600 thousand euros, which the state will have to repay to the company for the construction of the museum, where commitments were made, which were beyond the mandate to take them. I can name a lot of cases, of course, but this is the norm so that, at last, society can see that there are those responsible. And as you see from the norm set out, the State Audit Office does not start any recovery by itself. There's a whole procedure here. Initially, the audited entity itself evaluates the responsibility of the official, then the higher institution evaluates the responsibility of the official and submits its reasoned application to the State Audit Office. A healthy procedure is foreseen. If neither the audited entity nor its higher institution takes any action to legitimately address the responsible official for the losses incurred by the State, only then the State Audit Office intervenes. That provision is, in fact, more such a deterrent measure. What does that mean? If the entities to be audited and the responsible officials know that, after their failure to act, the State Audit Office may also intervene in proceedings, it will motivate the employees of these institutions to carry out this assessment themselves better and apply a penalty appropriate to the loss suffered or to bring actions in court, if the losses have to be recovered from the responsible official. Therefore, I believe that today's vote on this proposal is a vote on whether you want to show that the Saeima wants to introduce responsibility, that the Saeima has finally heard what the public needs for years: when will anyone finally answer for how taxpayers' money is spent? I therefore ask you not to support this proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-22-PT12-394-U385	Name to Member Janis Dombrava.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-22-PT12-394-U386	Dear Saeima! We wonder why people view the Saeima’s work as meaningless, incomprehensible, and also too expensive. These amendments, which had been prepared by the State Audit Office, were submitted to the Saeima in September 2015. The Saeima then voted in favour of these amendments. In March 2016, these amendments were reviewed at first reading, conceptually examined, and the Saeima supported these amendments, which are indeed the most important chapter of Chapter XIV, which provides: if the audit detects unlawful conduct of funds or property, the perpetrators can be held liable. The emphasis is on unlawful acts, not careless acts, unthinking acts! If a person has acted illegally, misappropriation of funds, then there is simply a need to create a more dynamic mechanism to recover them. I understand the motivation of Mr Dambes. The Latvian Municipal Union has certainly called for these amendments to be presented. There are many different municipalities. The Union of Greens/Farmers is represented by a large number of municipalities. But I do not really understand why the Unity, which usually also very actively points to the failure of the Riga City Council, is wasting financial resources... Indeed, it would create a much more dynamic mechanism to recover from “Riga Transport” officials the funds they have illegally wasted. Dynamically, you don't think it's necessary. I do not really understand why this is happening now - at second reading. It would be all right and I would understand if, at the moment when the State Audit Office brought these amendments to the Saeima more than a year ago, the majority of the Saeima would have said: “No, we cannot accept these amendments!” The responsible authorities would then not spend their time and financial resources to improve these amendments. But all this has happened, and now, in second reading, this chapter, the most important chapter, is simply thrown out! I do not understand why this is the case. I call on you not to support 21. - Mr Dambe's proposal, leaving the original version.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-22-PT12-394-U387	Name to Member Sergey Dolgopolov.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-22-PT12-394-U388	Dear colleagues, I did say in the very beginning that work on these amendments took place for nine months. The proposed regulation is nothing new. The current version of the State Audit Office Law provides for the procedure of recovery, also provides for institutions which deal with it. And so the question arises as to the proposed new version whether it is necessary to duplicate these functions by acknowledging that the prosecutor's office, courts, investigations work badly and do not ensure recovery of losses and that it is necessary to supplement the scope of these institutions with the State Audit Office, for which this function had not been registered until now in the law, or to try to solve this issue in other ways. That is why its discussions were long enough and serious enough. However, the Commission decided that this offer would not solve such problems as the compensation or coverage of the State guarantees provided to the Liepaja Metalurgs, or the remuneration or recovery of the... will not solve the question, let us say, of the sale of Citadele and other cases where the State has indeed suffered significant losses. Therefore, in support of this proposal, we have also agreed with the State Audit Office that we will continue our work. And here are the two roads that were talked about. The first way would be if we were to create a special chapter at the Prosecutor's Office, which would only deal with the examination of the opinions of the State Audit Office, including the initiation of recovery proceedings, or think about how to extend the functions of the State Audit Office to the extent that it is in one other European Union country, where the State Audit Office also performs judicial functions at the same time, as it was, by the way, in the Republic of Latvia before 1940. That is why this partial solution, too, is not supported by the Commission, and I also call for support for the Dambe proposal by the Member.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-22-PT12-394-U389	The table shows, however, that this is supported by the Commission. The name to Member Artus Neimins, for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-22-PT12-394-U390	Mr. Dambes! There's a green pot for you in front of your nose. Force it, please! Come and explain why you have such a proposal. Seriously! For taxpayers who are also watching us live today, come and explain, please, your proposal. Because even the dog is clear about what it is about. The need to demand responsibility from officials. On the other hand, the Commission led by Mr Dolgopolova has a Member Valainis who is not only a Member but also an Association of the Great Cities of Latvia... How do you have that job there?
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-22-PT12-394-U391	Continue the debate. Don't talk to the grass!
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-22-PT12-394-U392	The executive officer of the association of big cities, something like that. The lobbies of the major municipalities, in short, who sits... The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. V.Dambe applies for a debate.) Mr. Dambes, thank you. Who sits in this commission and has, in principle, decimated this event because it really is very disadvantageous for the large municipalities because they already have those officials. I don't know, but I... I'm thinking about those Christmas miracles. I have said so much about the Unity that maybe I will say the last time: now get and do not support this Dambe proposal! That would be nice if you did. And, Mr. Dambe, come here! Tell me! I want to hear it. Really. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-22-PT12-394-U393	The name is Walter Dambem.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-22-PT12-394-U394	Dear Chairman of the Saeima. Honourable Members! Indeed, I have been working for many years in the state administration, in the municipality, and I have also worked for an organization with 99 percent of farming... owned by the State Audit Office and where reports were drawn up. I have answered the questions of the State Audit Office and I am quite clear about the substance of my proposal. We live in a parliamentary republic, we have a public parliament, and every Member, including you, Mr Kaimiņa, has the right to submit proposals, go to commissions and defend them. The Commission has legitimately elected Members who decide whether or not to support these proposals. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. A.Kimiņš: “Don’t make excuses! Just justify the proposal!’ ) And I also have the right to speak from this platform as you do. And you won't tell me how long to talk about, and you won't call on the table. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. A.Kamiņš: “You have arrived!” ) The Speaker of the Saeima shall do so. Mr. Village, we have been in this Commission - the Commission on Public Expenditure and Audit - for many years, and you are as good as me and Mr. Berzins, and all the other members of the Commission know how much the State Audit Office has taken a decision on the punishment. And the prosecutor's office has the right to investigate and punish. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. A.Kaimiņš: “Tell about the matter! For the proposal!’ ) And if the prosecutor’s office or court does not perform its tasks, we will not impose on municipalities and others (Dep. A.Kimiņš: “Of course! Of course!’ ) institutions in addition to repressive institutions! Let's not stay! Please support my proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-22-PT12-394-U395	Name to Member Sergey Dolgopolov, for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-22-PT12-394-U396	It is a pity that Member Artuss Kaimiņš listens only to himself and sees himself on the table, because this is about arguments and not about emotions, and about all kinds of things, which unfortunately still sound from the platform. Dear colleagues, With regard to this proposal, I said one thing that seems very understandable to me - that this recovery is taking place today; it is not about creating a new mechanism to do what has already been recorded in the law; that all this has been thought out for a long time. And if we really want not to in words, but in works we want to improve the work of the State Audit Office, which is really necessary, because it affects the quality of public administration, the quality of municipal work... This is an extremely important work. But when we think about how we can improve our work, we need to keep to the limits of reason. They shall be used within reasonable limits. Thank you. I call once again for support for the proposal by my colleague, Dambes. Why am I doing this? Because we started a debate on this - whether or not to support it. I have therefore also motivated this call to support the colleague's proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-22-PT12-394-U397	I closed the debate. Please call me! We will vote in favour of 21. - The offer from the Member Dambes! Please vote mode! Please get the result! - About - 37 (Deep. S.Dolgopolovs: “I regrettably didn’t work the apparatus!” ), to - 33, abstain - 7. The proposal is not supported. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. A.Kamiņš: “Christmas miracle! Oh, my God! Very good! Well, that's very good!' ) Council Regulation (EC) No 1257/96 of 20 June 1996 concerning humanitarian aid (OJ L 163, 2.7.1996, p. 1).
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-22-PT12-394-U398	Can I continue?
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-22-PT12-394-U399	Let's go.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-22-PT12-394-U400	Proposal No 22 and subsequent proposals... Proposal 22 shall not be supported by the Commission and shall not be put to the vote.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-22-PT12-394-U401	Members... ( Milestones.)
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-22-PT12-394-U402	Dear colleagues,
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-22-PT12-394-U403	Members ask for a vote.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-22-PT12-394-U404	Dear colleagues, 22. - the proposal by the Legal Bureau - supplementary and amending Chapter 14, on which Members have just voted, excluding this chapter from the draft law. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. I.Properator: “You are mixing something, Mr Dolgopolov!” ) Council Regulation (EC) No 1257/96 of 20 June 1996 concerning humanitarian aid (OJ L 163, 2.7.1996, p. 1).
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-22-PT12-394-U405	Not excluded. None. Not disabled! It's contrary to what you said! The proposal was not supported and therefore the next proposals are to be put to the vote. ( Milestones.) Members are therefore asking for a vote on the 22nd motion. Please call me! We will vote in favour of 22. - The legal office's proposal! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 30, for - 37, for - 1. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-22-PT12-394-U406	23............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-22-PT12-394-U407	Members ask for a vote. Please call me! We will vote in favour 23. - The legal office's proposal! Please vote mode! The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. A.Kamiņš: “About!” “About!” Concentrate! ‘ For it!’ “; dep. I. Viņķele: “Tuks shut up!” ) Please see the result. On - 28, against - 45, refraining from - 1. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-22-PT12-394-U408	24. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Hasn't received any support.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-22-PT12-394-U409	Members ask for a vote. Please call me! We will vote in favour of 24. - The legal office's proposal! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 30, for - 40, for - 1. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-22-PT12-394-U410	25. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Hasn't received any support.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-22-PT12-394-U411	Members ask for a vote. Please call me! We will vote in favour of 25. - The legal office's proposal! Please vote mode! Please get the result! On - 32, against - 39, refraining from - 1. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-22-PT12-394-U412	26. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-22-PT12-394-U413	Members want to vote. Please call me! To be put to the vote on 26. - The legal office's proposal! Please vote mode! Please get the result! On - 32, against - 39, refraining from - 1. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-22-PT12-394-U414	27. - Dolgopolov's proposal. Hasn't received any support.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-22-PT12-394-U415	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-22-PT12-394-U416	28. - Dolgopolov's proposal. Not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-22-PT12-394-U417	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-22-PT12-394-U418	29. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-22-PT12-394-U419	Members ask for a vote. Please call me! We will vote in favour of 29. - The legal office's proposal! Please vote mode! Please get the result! On - 32, against - 42, refraining from - 1. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-22-PT12-394-U420	30. - a proposal from the committee responsible. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-22-PT12-394-U421	Members are in favour. Do Members want a vote? Members want a vote. Please call me! We will vote for 30. - Proposal submitted by the Commission of Public Administration and Local Government! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 43, for - 30, for - 1. The proposal is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-22-PT12-394-U422	31. - a proposal from the committee responsible. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-22-PT12-394-U423	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-22-PT12-394-U424	All the proposals have therefore been examined. Please support the draft law at second reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-22-PT12-394-U425	Please call me! We will vote in favour of the second reading of the draft law “Amendments to the Law of the State Audit Office”! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 78, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The draft law at second reading has been supported. Please set a deadline for the third reading of the proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-22-PT12-394-U426	The deadline for submitting proposals is January 15, 2017.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-22-PT12-394-U427	Thank you. Proposals should be submitted by 15 January 2017. Honourable Members! Members Smilten, Rasmanis, Cilinskis, Zarins and Kleinberg are asking to continue the Saeima sitting without interruption until all items on the agenda are examined. Do Members have objections? There is no objection. So let's keep the sitting open. On the agenda - draft law “Amendments to the Law on the Control of Business Support”, second reading. On behalf of the Commission for Budget and Finance (Tax) - Member Inguna Silverba.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-22-PT12-394-U428	Dear colleagues, Before we start to consider amendments to the Law on the Control of Aid for Business at Second Reading, I would like to inform you that, when preparing this draft for second reading, the Commission requested both the Ministry of Finance and the Ministry of Justice to give an opinion on how the draft law complies with the principle of proportionality, since, as a matter of principle, the draft law is that, in those business companies in which the aid for business activities has been granted, State resources have been invested, the underlying obligations are only fulfilled after the State aid has been fully paid for. I will not tell you in detail, but we in the Commission have verified that in these in-depth opinions the ministries have given their opinion that this principle of proportionality is respected and that the legitimate aim is also achieved because the benefit of society is probably greater than the loss suffered by individual persons and it is unacceptable that the State aid granted is directed to cover the liabilities of other, subordinate, creditors. Five proposals have been received. 1. is a proposal from the Legal Office and is supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-22-PT12-394-U429	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-22-PT12-394-U430	2. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. This is also technical. The Commission is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-22-PT12-394-U431	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-22-PT12-394-U432	3. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. The Commission is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-22-PT12-394-U433	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-22-PT12-394-U434	4. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. The Commission is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-22-PT12-394-U435	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-22-PT12-394-U436	And 5. - a proposal from the committee responsible. This is also supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-22-PT12-394-U437	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-22-PT12-394-U438	Please support the draft law at second reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-22-PT12-394-U439	Please call me! We will vote in favour of the second reading of the draft law “Amendments to the Law on the Control of Business Aid”! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 73, against and refrains. The draft law at second reading has been supported. Please set a deadline for the third reading of the proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-22-PT12-394-U440	Proposals for the third reading should be submitted by 12 January 2017.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-22-PT12-394-U441	I'm sorry until 12. ... Is that so? Thank you. So the deadline for submitting proposals is 12 January 2017. On the agenda - draft law on public service procurement, second reading. On behalf of the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy - Member Romanas Naudiņš.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-22-PT12-394-U442	Dear colleagues, The Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy has examined and prepared for consideration by the Saeima at the second reading of the draft law “Public Service Providers Procurement Law”. 77 proposals have been received by the Commission. Proposal No 1 - Proposal by the Legal Bureau Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-22-PT12-394-U443	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-22-PT12-394-U444	2. - a proposal from the Minister for Finance. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-22-PT12-394-U445	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-22-PT12-394-U446	3. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Partly supported, included in proposal 4.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-22-PT12-394-U447	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-22-PT12-394-U448	4. - a proposal from the Minister for Finance. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-22-PT12-394-U449	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-22-PT12-394-U450	5. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-22-PT12-394-U451	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-22-PT12-394-U452	6. - a proposal from the Minister for Finance. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-22-PT12-394-U453	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-22-PT12-394-U454	7. - a proposal from the Minister for Finance. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-22-PT12-394-U455	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-22-PT12-394-U456	8 / 8 - a proposal from the Minister for Finance. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-22-PT12-394-U457	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-22-PT12-394-U458	9. - a proposal from the Minister for Finance. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-22-PT12-394-U459	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-22-PT12-394-U460	10............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - a proposal from the Minister for Finance. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-22-PT12-394-U461	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-22-PT12-394-U462	11. - a proposal from the Minister for Finance. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-22-PT12-394-U463	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-22-PT12-394-U464	12. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-22-PT12-394-U465	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-22-PT12-394-U466	13. - a proposal from the Minister for Finance. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-22-PT12-394-U467	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-22-PT12-394-U468	14............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - a proposal from the Minister for Finance. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-22-PT12-394-U469	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-22-PT12-394-U470	15............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - a proposal from the Minister for Finance. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-22-PT12-394-U471	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-22-PT12-394-U472	16. - a proposal from the Minister for Finance. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-22-PT12-394-U473	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-22-PT12-394-U474	17. - a proposal from the Minister for Finance. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-22-PT12-394-U475	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-22-PT12-394-U476	18. - a proposal from the Minister for Finance. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-22-PT12-394-U477	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-22-PT12-394-U478	19. - a proposal from the Minister for Finance. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-22-PT12-394-U479	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-22-PT12-394-U480	20............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - a proposal from the Minister for Finance. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-22-PT12-394-U481	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-22-PT12-394-U482	21............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - a proposal from the Minister for Finance. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-22-PT12-394-U483	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-22-PT12-394-U484	22. - a proposal from the Minister for Finance. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-22-PT12-394-U485	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-22-PT12-394-U486	23............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - a proposal from the Minister for Finance. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-22-PT12-394-U487	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-22-PT12-394-U488	24. - a proposal from the Minister for Finance. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-22-PT12-394-U489	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-22-PT12-394-U490	25. - are supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-22-PT12-394-U491	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-22-PT12-394-U492	Proposal by the committee responsible Proposals 26 have been partly supported and incorporated into proposals 25 and 27.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-22-PT12-394-U493	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-22-PT12-394-U494	27. - a proposal from the committee responsible. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-22-PT12-394-U495	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-22-PT12-394-U496	28. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-22-PT12-394-U497	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-22-PT12-394-U498	29. - a proposal from the Minister for Finance. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-22-PT12-394-U499	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-22-PT12-394-U500	30. - a proposal from the Minister for Finance. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-22-PT12-394-U501	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-22-PT12-394-U502	31. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-22-PT12-394-U503	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-22-PT12-394-U504	32. - a proposal from the Minister for Finance. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-22-PT12-394-U505	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-22-PT12-394-U506	33. - a proposal from the Minister for Finance. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-22-PT12-394-U507	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-22-PT12-394-U508	34. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Partly supported by proposal 35.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-22-PT12-394-U509	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-22-PT12-394-U510	35. - a proposal from the Minister for Finance. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-22-PT12-394-U511	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-22-PT12-394-U512	36. - a proposal from the Minister for Finance. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-22-PT12-394-U513	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-22-PT12-394-U514	37. - a proposal from the Minister for Finance. Partly supported, included in proposal 38.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-22-PT12-394-U515	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-22-PT12-394-U516	38. - a proposal from the committee responsible. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-22-PT12-394-U517	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-22-PT12-394-U518	39. - a proposal from the Minister for Finance. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-22-PT12-394-U519	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-22-PT12-394-U520	40. - a proposal from the Minister for Finance. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-22-PT12-394-U521	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-22-PT12-394-U522	41. - a proposal from the Minister for Finance. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-22-PT12-394-U523	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-22-PT12-394-U524	42. - a proposal from the Minister for Finance. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-22-PT12-394-U525	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-22-PT12-394-U526	43. - a proposal from the Minister for Finance. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-22-PT12-394-U527	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-22-PT12-394-U528	44. - a proposal from the Minister for Finance. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-22-PT12-394-U529	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-22-PT12-394-U530	45. - a proposal from the Minister for Finance. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-22-PT12-394-U531	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-22-PT12-394-U532	46. - a proposal from the Minister for Finance. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-22-PT12-394-U533	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-22-PT12-394-U534	47. - a proposal from the Minister for Finance. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-22-PT12-394-U535	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-22-PT12-394-U536	48. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-22-PT12-394-U537	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-22-PT12-394-U538	49. - a proposal from the Minister for Finance. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-22-PT12-394-U539	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-22-PT12-394-U540	50. - a proposal from the Minister for Finance. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-22-PT12-394-U541	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-22-PT12-394-U542	51. - partially supported and included 52. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-22-PT12-394-U543	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-22-PT12-394-U544	52. - a proposal from the committee responsible. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-22-PT12-394-U545	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-22-PT12-394-U546	53. - a proposal from the Minister for Finance. Partly supported, included in proposal 54.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-22-PT12-394-U547	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-22-PT12-394-U548	54. - a proposal from the committee responsible. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-22-PT12-394-U549	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-22-PT12-394-U550	55. - partially supported, included in 56. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-22-PT12-394-U551	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-22-PT12-394-U552	56. - a proposal from the committee responsible. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-22-PT12-394-U553	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-22-PT12-394-U554	57. - a proposal from the Minister for Finance. Partly supported, included 58. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-22-PT12-394-U555	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-22-PT12-394-U556	58. - a proposal from the committee responsible. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-22-PT12-394-U557	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-22-PT12-394-U558	59. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-22-PT12-394-U559	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-22-PT12-394-U560	60. - a proposal from the Minister for Finance. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-22-PT12-394-U561	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-22-PT12-394-U562	61. - a proposal from the Minister for Finance. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-22-PT12-394-U563	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-22-PT12-394-U564	62. - a proposal from the Minister for Finance. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-22-PT12-394-U565	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-22-PT12-394-U566	63. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-22-PT12-394-U567	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-22-PT12-394-U568	64. - a proposal from the Minister for Finance. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-22-PT12-394-U569	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-22-PT12-394-U570	65. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-22-PT12-394-U571	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-22-PT12-394-U572	66. - a proposal from the Minister for Finance. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-22-PT12-394-U573	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-22-PT12-394-U574	67. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-22-PT12-394-U575	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-22-PT12-394-U576	68. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-22-PT12-394-U577	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-22-PT12-394-U578	69. - a proposal from the committee responsible. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-22-PT12-394-U579	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-22-PT12-394-U580	70. - a proposal from the committee responsible. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-22-PT12-394-U581	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-22-PT12-394-U582	71. - a proposal from the Minister for Finance. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-22-PT12-394-U583	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-22-PT12-394-U584	72. - a proposal from the Minister for Finance. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-22-PT12-394-U585	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-22-PT12-394-U586	73. - a proposal from the Minister for Finance. Partially supported, included 74. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-22-PT12-394-U587	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-22-PT12-394-U588	74. - a proposal from the committee responsible. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-22-PT12-394-U589	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-22-PT12-394-U590	75. - a proposal from the committee responsible. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-22-PT12-394-U591	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-22-PT12-394-U592	76. - a proposal from the Minister for Finance. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-22-PT12-394-U593	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-22-PT12-394-U594	And 77 is the proposal of the Legal Office, which is also supported. All the proposals, colleagues, have therefore been examined. Please support the draft law at second reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-22-PT12-394-U595	Members agree on the 77th proposal. Please call me! We will vote in favour of the second reading of the draft law on public service contracts! Please vote mode! Please get the result! It's not about - 83, it's against and refrains from - it's not. The draft law at second reading has been supported. Please set a deadline for the third reading of the proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-22-PT12-394-U596	Proposals should be submitted by 5 January 2017.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-22-PT12-394-U597	Thank you. Proposals should be submitted by 5 January 2017. The next item on the agenda... ( The drug has increased noise. The head of the sitting shall be knocked down by means of a hammer.) Agenda item: Review of own-initiative proposals On the agenda - draft decision “On the way forward of the collective application of 10 748 Latvian citizens “Pension free of tax”. Member Vitaly Orlov on behalf of the Commission for Mandates, Ethics and Applications.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-22-PT12-394-U598	Thank you, Presidium. Honourable Members! On 21 October 2016, the Saeima received a collective application “Paid free of tax” from 10 748 Latvian citizens. On the basis of the first paragraph of Section 131.5 of the Saeima Rules of Procedure roll, on November 16, 2016 the Saeima Mandate, Ethics and Application Commission listened to the representative of the application, who justified the proposal made in the application – to abolish personal income tax on the first-tier pensions paid by the state and to implement the relevant norms from 2020 until 2045. Taking into account that this issue lies within the scope of issues to be discussed by the Social and Labour Affairs Commission of the Saeima, after discussions with the Chairman of the Social and Labour Affairs Commission of the Saeima and the Chairman of the Budget and Finance (tax) Commission of the Saeima, a proposal arose to set up a working group and to submit the implementation of this decision to the Social and Labour Affairs Commission, which, together with the Budget and Financial (tax) Commission, will evaluate and draft amendments to the relevant laws by 31 December 2017, in order to implement the principle that pensions paid by the State at the first level should not be subject to personal income tax on the basis of the collective application of 10 748 Latvian citizens “Dispension Free of Tax”. I invite you to support the draft decision.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-22-PT12-394-U599	Let us start a debate. Name to Member Artus Neminis.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-22-PT12-394-U600	I am very happy that the Saeima has supported the 10,748 Latvian citizens' proposal, but I would very much like us to reduce the deadline for this proposal, which must be made within one year and two weeks from this date, so that it can be done, let us accept it until 28 February 2017, say, at 17.00, not until 31 December 2017. In my opinion, for a very long time, this deadline is for these commissions... I'd ask... also the word ‘to’... If we set a lower deadline - until February 28, it would be much more useful for those Latvian citizens who have signed this application. My proposal is to reduce this deadline. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-22-PT12-394-U601	I closed the debate. We are voting on the draft decision, not on any oral proposals. Please call me! We will vote for the draft decision “On the way forward of the collective application of 10 748 Latvian citizens “Pension without tax””! Please vote mode! Please get the result! It's not about - 86, it's against and refrains from - it's not. The decision has been taken. Dear colleagues, The agenda of the sitting has been examined. I would like to inform you about the answers to Members' questions. Member Zarina, Artūra Rubika, Agešina, Tutina and Raimonds Rubika question to the Minister for Finance Dana Reizniece-Ozola “On action to detect violations in the area of state revenue”. The written reply received shall be granted to the applicants. For the member Zarina, Artūra Rubika, Agešina, Tutina and Pimenova question to the Minister for Health Anda Čakša “On the progress of implementation of the new project of P.Stradiņa Clinical University Hospital and its relevance to public interests”. The written responses received are not satisfactory, but they do not want to ask further oral questions. Member Elksniņa, Urbanovich, Agešin, Zemlinska and Potapkinas Minister of Defence Raimonds Bergmanis on mechanization of the National Armed Forces. The written replies received are not satisfactory, but Members do not wish to ask further oral questions. On the question of Member Elksniņa, Potapkina, Agešina, Urbanoviča and Ribakova, Minister of Health Anda Chakša “On the implementation of the e-health project”. The written reply received shall be granted to the applicants. Member Elksniņa, Urbanoviča, Orlova, Potapkina and Raimonds Rubika question to the Minister of Finance Dana Reizniece-Ozola “On State Revenue Service”. The written reply received shall be granted to the applicants. On the question of Member Zarina, Tutina, Agešina, Ribakova and Potapkinas, Minister of Environmental Protection and Regional Development Kaspars Gerhards, about the application of the future e-health system project. The written reply received shall be granted to the applicants. On the question of Member Zarina, Tutina, Agešina, Ribakova and Potapakinas, Minister of Environmental Protection and Regional Development Kaspars Gerhardas, about verification of the functionality of the eHealth system. The written reply received shall be granted to the applicants. For the Member Zarina, Potapakina, Agešina, Tutina and Ribakova question to the Minister of Health Anda Chakša “On successful implementation of the first and second stages of the e-health project”. The written replies received shall not be satisfied. The Minister informs that no oral answer can be given. Member Zarina, Ribakova, Agešina, Tutina and Potapakina question to the Minister for Health Anda Chakša “On the implementation of the next round of the eHealth system”. The written replies received shall not be satisfied. The Minister informs that no oral answer can be given. On the question of Member Zariņa, Orlova, Agešina, Tutina and Raimonds Rubika, Minister of Finance Dana Reizniece-Ozola “On the validity of financial motivation for the staff of the Treasury”. The written reply received shall be granted to the applicants. Member Zarina, Raimonds Rubika, Agešina, Urbanovich and Orlova question to Prime Minister Maris Kučinskis about the proper implementation of the eHealth system. The question was referred to the Minister for Health. The written replies received shall not be satisfied. The Minister informs that no oral answer can be given. A question has been put to Members. Members Zarins, Arturs Rubiks, Agešins, Tutins, Ribakovs have submitted the question “On possible illegal decisions in the healthcare sector”, which we submit to the Prime Minister. Please call me! Please check-in mode for Members! Name for the announcement to the Secretary of the Saeima, Andrejs Klementyev.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-22-PT12-394-U602	I invite group leaders to the White Hall for five minutes. Very fast. One question is about the analytical service. And then we can celebrate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-22-PT12-394-U603	Thank you. Name for reading the results of the registration to Gunārs Kūtris, member of the Saeima Secretary.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-22-PT12-394-U604	Dear colleagues, Not registered: Jānis Adamsons, Augusts Brigmanis, Boriss Cilevičs, Lolita Čigāne, Raivis Dzintars, Ojārs Ēriks Kalniņš, Rihards Kols, Inese Laizāne, Romanas Mežeckis, Ainārs Mežulis, Juris Vectirāns and Mihails Zemļinskis.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-22-PT12-394-U605	Thank you. I'm closing the sitting.
