ParlaMint-LV_2016-01-14-PT12-338-U1	Good morning, dear colleagues! I invite you to take your seats in the Chamber. Let's start the meeting of the Saeima on January 14. Before we start to discuss the agenda of the sitting, proposals for amendments to it shall be examined. The Education, Culture and Science Commission is asking to amend the agenda of the meeting and to include the draft decision on the extension of the deadline for the submission of proposals to the second reading of the draft law on the Intangible Cultural Heritage Law (No.332/Lp12) until February 29, 2016. Are Members opposed to this amendment of the agenda? There is no objection. The agenda has been amended. The Legal Commission asks to amend the agenda of the sitting and to include the draft decision “On the dismissal of Vladislava Čerrapa from the position of judge of Jēkabpils district court”. Are Members opposed to this amendment of the agenda? There is no objection. The agenda has been amended. Members Liepiņš, Viļums, Ruks, Šics, Bite and Kleinberg are asked to amend the agenda of the sitting and to include the draft law “Amendments to the Asylum Law”. Are Members opposed to this amendment of the agenda? There is no objection. The agenda has been amended. The next item is the Bureau's reports on draft laws submitted. The Presidium of the Saeima proposes that the draft law “Amendments to the Law “Law on Elections of the City Council and the District Council of the Republic” presented by the Member Ķirša, Jansons, Viļuma, Šulca, Šadurska, Adamoviča, Chiganas, Kaimiņa, Boķis and Kūtra be referred to the National Administration and Municipal Commission, stating that it is a committee responsible. ‘ Against” has applied to speak to Member Valery Agešins.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-01-14-PT12-338-U2	Good morning, dear colleagues! The local government is clearly the local authority of citizens living in a given territory, who operate in that territory and work for the benefit of local people. The local government is considered to be the basis of a democratic system. It is a power that the local population is elected for its own interests. The Law on Election of the City Council and the Regional Council of the Republic shall provide for the possibility to elect an appropriate voter who is related to the respective municipality, has declared his place of residence therein or who owns real estate in its territory. Thus, these voters pay the municipality both personal income tax and real estate tax, thus participating in the budget formation of the municipality and enabling the municipality to develop. It is these voters who have the right to choose who is in the local government and who will use the taxes they pay. Granting the right to elect a dominion to people who have worked in the territory of the municipality for at least the last four months, as the authors of the draft law wish, this principle would be destroyed because the dominion would be elected by citizens who do not participate in the budget of the municipality. At the same time, it should be noted that the draft law does not provide for a solution to prevent such voters from voting twice because the elections are organised on the basis of a register of voters drawn up according to their declared place of residence. I call for the 'no' vote on this revolutionary turn. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-01-14-PT12-338-U3	“About” applied to speak Member Vilnis Ķirsis.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-01-14-PT12-338-U4	President-in-Office. Colleagues! Good morning! First of all, I would like to congratulate everyone in the new year. I wish that good work rich! Democracy is something that cannot exist without the active participation of society. If we look at the dynamics of our municipal elections, we can see that in recent years it has been very downward: 62 percent of the voters participated in the municipal elections in 2001, whereas in 2013 it was only 46 percent. And, from the point of view of various experts, at a time when the voter's activity has fallen below 50 percent, an alarm must be called, because logically, there is a question of the legitimacy of the elected power. Why? Why fall in voter activity? There are several reasons for this. There is now a general apathy of voters in Europe, but there is also a whole block of things that the legislator can influence, namely to make it easier for voters to enter the polling station. According to sociological surveys in Latvia, those people who do not participate in elections have pointed out, as the main reason, that their declared place of residence and their actual place of residence are different, that is to say, they are just far from their own district on the day of elections and simply do not go voting. Why would they not be able to redeclaration? Because - unlike the original principle that the declared place of residence is simply a point where the country can meet its own population - this situation has grown up in a variety of things, such as the so-called school rows, kindergarten rows; as well as the calculation of the public utility payments is based on the number of declared persons. And even a thing like an OCTA insurance... ( The head of the sitting was knocked down with a hammer.) For example, for Rigars OCTA insurance is more expensive because there is more traffic in Riga and therefore more possibility to get into the road accident. Finally, it must also be stressed that when renting an apartment, the owner often even enters into a lease agreement that tenants may not declare there. And so, as a result of all this, there are people who are losing out on our democracy. There is also another very specific thing that I noticed when I studied this issue, and Latvia is the only country in which I managed to find such a speciality. In particular, three groups of persons can stand as candidates for municipal elections: those who have declared themselves, those who own property and those who work in a particular municipality. However, only two categories may be put to the vote: those who have declared or those who own property. In particular, the right to vote is narrower than the right to stand as a candidate, which, from the point of view of general practice, does not happen anywhere. The Saeima elections are an example. Candidates may be from 21 years of age, but voting may be from 18 years of age. All of us know that Mrs Tatjana Ždanoka is allowed to vote in the parliamentary elections, but not to stand as a candidate. So these rights - the right to stand - are narrower than the right to vote. The draft law provides for unification of these rights, i.e. that people working in this municipality may also participate in municipal elections. Of course, it will not drive up activity indicators in the sky, but perhaps it will at least help to halt this drop. And if we look at the practices adopted in other countries, for example, Poland made exactly the following amendments two years ago. They even went further: in Poland, municipal elections are open to any person who has some connection with a particular municipality. You can take a rental invoice and prove that you have this connection or, for example, you learn or work. At the moment, however, a common trend in Europe is to make it easier, to remove various obstacles to voting. What Mr Ageshin said about paying taxes. In a way, then, you are offering to return to the Middle Ages when, for example, only traders, bankers or owners of rich lands could vote in Venice. It is your logic that pensioners or unemployed people should also be deprived of the right to vote. You have also mentioned the vote in various places. Well technically, you can also vote at the moment if you own the property. If you own property all over Latvia, then how it is now ensured... Is that so? Something ensures that you don't vote in all municipalities right now. I therefore call on colleagues to support the draft law. In the course of its development, several other things have been identified that my colleagues have pointed out, so this draft law on the platform could be used to discuss it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-01-14-PT12-338-U5	Thank you. So one Member has said 'no', the other one has said 'yes'. We have to vote. Please call me! We will vote in favour of handing over the draft law “Amendments to the Law “Law on Elections of City Council and District Council of the Republic” to the Commission of State Administration and Local Government, stating that it is the committee responsible! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 46, for - 35, for - 1. Draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Council of the Saeima proposes that the draft law “Amendment to the Law on the Markets in Financial Instruments” presented by the Cabinet of Ministers be referred to the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission, stating that it is responsible to the Commission. Do Members have objections? There is no objection. Draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Parliamentary Bureau proposes that the draft law “Amendment to the Law on Investment Administration Companies” presented by the Cabinet of Ministers be referred to the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission, stating that it is the committee responsible. Do Members have objections? There is no objection. Draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Saeima Presidium proposes that the draft law “Amendments to the Law on the Movement of Explosives for Civil Purposes” presented by the Cabinet be referred to the Commission for Defence, Home Affairs and Prevention of Corruption, stating that it is the committee responsible. Do Members have objections? There is no objection. Draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Saeima Presidium proposes that the draft law “Amendment to the Law on State Funded Pensions” presented by the Cabinet of Ministers be referred to the Commission of Social and Labour Affairs, stating that it is the committee responsible. Turn on, please, the microphone for Shadurskis!
ParlaMint-LV_2016-01-14-PT12-338-U6	Dear colleagues, In view of the fact that this draft law is linked to a single package with a previous and next draft law, I call for the change of the commission responsible and for the transfer of this draft law to the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission as the responsible one only. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-01-14-PT12-338-U7	Thank you. Thus, there is a proposal to transfer the draft law on the State Funded Pensions Act to the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission. Do Members have objections? There is no objection by Members. Draft law has been passed on to the Commission. ( The head of the sitting was knocked down with a hammer.) The Saeima Presidium proposes that the draft law presented by the Cabinet of Ministers “Amendment to the Law “On Private Pension Funds”” be submitted to the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission, stating that it is the committee responsible. Do Members have objections? There is no objection by Members. Draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Saeima Presidium proposes that the draft law presented by the Cabinet of Ministers “Amendments to the Law on Corporate Income Tax” be submitted to the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission, stating that it is the committee responsible. Do Members have objections? There is no objection by Members. Draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Saeima Presidium proposes that the draft law presented by the Cabinet of Ministers “Amendments to the Law on the Office for Prevention and Combating Corruption” be referred to the Commission for Defence, Home Affairs and Prevention of Corruption, stating that it is the committee responsible. Do Members have objections? There is no objection. Draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Council of the Saeima proposes that the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Protection Zones” presented by the Cabinet of Ministers be referred to the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy, stating that it is the committee responsible. Do Members have objections? There is no objection by Members. The draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Saeima Bureau proposes that the draft law on amendments to the parliamentary roll of order presented by the Legal Commission be referred to the Legal Commission, stating that it is the committee responsible. Do Members have objections? Members ask for a vote. Please call me! We will vote in favour of handing over the draft law “Amendments to the parliamentary order roll” to the Legal Commission, according to which it is the committee responsible! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 66, no, 17, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, So the draft law has been passed on to the commission. The Saeima Presidium proposes that the draft law “Law on the Movement of Tobacco Products, Plant Smoking Products, Electronic Smoking Devices and Their Liquids” presented by the Cabinet of Ministers be referred to the Social and Labour Affairs Commission, stating that it is the committee responsible. Do Members have objections? There is no objection by Members. Draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Saeima Presidium proposes that the draft law “Amendments to the Law “On Police” presented by the Cabinet of Ministers be referred to the Commission for Defence, Home Affairs and Prevention of Corruption, stating that it is the committee responsible. Do Members have objections? There is no objection. The draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Saeima Presidium proposes that the draft law “Amendment to the Law on Detention Procedures” presented by the Cabinet of Ministers be referred to the Commission for Defence, Home Affairs and Prevention of Corruption, stating that it is the committee responsible. Do Members have objections? There is no objection by Members. The draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Saeima Presidium proposes that the draft law presented by the Cabinet of Ministers “Amendment to the Code of Conduct of Penalties of Latvia” be referred to the Commission for Defence, Home Affairs and Prevention of Corruption, stating that it is the committee responsible. Do Members have objections? There is no objection by Members. The draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Saeima Presidium proposes that the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Detaining Persons” presented by the Cabinet be referred to the Commission for Defence, Home Affairs and Prevention of Corruption, stating that it is the committee responsible. Do Members have objections? There is no objection. The draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Saeima Presidium proposes that the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Education” presented by the Cabinet of Ministers be referred to the Education, Culture and Science Commission, stating that it is the committee responsible. Do Members have objections? There is no objection. The draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Saeima Bureau proposes that the Member Liepiņa, Viļuma, Ruka, Šice, Bite and Kleinberg’s draft law “Amendments to the Asylum Law” be referred to the Commission for Human Rights and Public Affairs, stating that it is the committee responsible. ‘ About” Ms Inga Bite, Member, has applied to speak.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-01-14-PT12-338-U8	Dear colleagues, Imagine that you have, with your good heart, given your right hand, given your home to a pregnant woman in your family, and this pregnant woman spits in a plate and walks in your bed with dirty feet. This situation would probably not be acceptable. The rules that exist in your home should be observed by the person you have invited to visit. European events have taught us something recently, and one of the lessons is that, unfortunately, not all the hardships that we are receiving are prepared to comply with our rules. The law on asylum, which will enter into force in the coming days, provides that a person can only be expelled from the country if he or she has committed a particularly serious crime. However, less serious and serious crimes are not included here. For example, a particularly serious crime is not like committing personal injury, torture, nor is it about abduction, removal of human tissues and organs. It is also not an invitation to violently defeat the state of Latvia, it is not a blasphemy of the national symbol, nor is it a crime against the natural environment. We offer to supplement the Asylum Law by providing that persons who have committed any criminal offence in the territory of the Republic of Latvia and have been convicted thereof should be expelled from the State. We offer to learn from the mistakes of others by not allowing ourselves, and therefore we ask the Commission to examine this draft law as a matter of urgency, because, although we are all... or at least a coalition is busy with government formation and division of positions, but we have just heard in news that the first refugees could come to Latvia already in February. Therefore, this issue has to be dealt with as a matter of urgency, so that when the first difficult days arrive in Latvia, our legal situation will be in order. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-01-14-PT12-338-U9	Thank you. Do Members object to a draft law being passed on to the Commission? There is no objection. So the draft law has been passed on to the commission. The next item is entitled ‘On the granting of leave’. ‘ For unpaid leave granted to Member Ringolds Balodim on 17 December 2015.’ The Saeima Bureau informs that it has received an application from Member Ringolds Baloža requesting unpaid leave on 17 December 2015. The Saeima Bureau has granted leave and shall inform the Saeima thereof. ‘ For unpaid leave granted to Member Imants Indebtor from 11 January to 14 January 2016.’ The Saeima Bureau informs that an application from Member Imants Debtor with a request to grant unpaid leave from 11 January to 14 January 2016 has been received. The Saeima Bureau has granted leave and shall inform the Saeima thereof. ‘ For unpaid leave granted to Member Ivars Zarins on 13 and 14 January 2016.’ The Saeima Bureau informed that an application for unpaid leave had been received from Member Ivars Zariņš on 13 and 14 January 2016. The Saeima Bureau has granted leave and shall inform the Saeima thereof. The next item on the agenda - Election, appointment, dismissal or dismissal of officials, expression of trust or distrust. On the agenda - draft decision “On the dismissal of Vladislava Čerrapa from the position of judge of Jēkabpils district court”. On behalf of the Legal Commission, Mr Valery Agešin, Member.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-01-14-PT12-338-U10	Dear colleagues, At the meeting of the Legal Commission of the Saeima on 13 January this year, the draft decision “On the release of Vladislava Čerrapa from the position of judge of Jēkabpils district court” was reviewed. Members of the Commission have unanimously supported the draft decision. On behalf of the Saeima Legal Commission, I invite Vladislava Čerrapa to be released from the position of judge of Jēkabpils district court due to health condition from January 14, 2016.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-01-14-PT12-338-U11	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote for the draft decision “On the dismissal of Vladislava Čerrapa from the position of judge of Jēkabpils district court”! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 84, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The decision has been taken. Colleagues, Legal Commission requests that the agenda of the sitting be amended and that the draft law on amendments to the parliamentary roll of order be examined at first reading without re-examination by the committee responsible. Do Members have objections? There is no objection by Members. The agenda has been amended. The next item is "Provision of draft legislation". On the agenda - draft law “Amendments to the Code of Administrative Violations of Latvia” (No 397/Lp12), first reading. Member of the Legal Commission Gaidis Berzins.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-01-14-PT12-338-U12	Good morning, honourable Speaker of the Saeima! Dear colleagues, We see the draft law “Amendments to the Latvian Administrative Violations Code”. The draft law provides for the imposition of educational measures on minors. The Commission examined the draft law in question and endorsed it for first reading. Therefore, on behalf of the Commission, I ask you to support the draft law at first reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-01-14-PT12-338-U13	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote for support for the first reading of the draft law “Amendments to the Latvian Administrative Violations Code” (No 397/Lp12)! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 84, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The draft law at first reading has been supported. Please set a deadline for the second reading of the proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-01-14-PT12-338-U14	The deadline for submitting proposals is 26 January this year.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-01-14-PT12-338-U15	Thank you. The proposals should therefore be submitted by 26 January this year. On the agenda - draft law “Amendments to the Code of Administrative Violations of Latvia” (No 341/Lp12), first reading. Member Guntis Kalniņš on behalf of the Legal Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-01-14-PT12-338-U16	Madam President of the Saeima. Honourable Members! In its first reading of January 13, the Legal Commission examined draft law No.341/Lp12 - “Amendments to the Latvian Administrative Violations Code”. The proposal to amend the law and supplement the code with Article 51.4 was submitted by the Minister of Agriculture Jānis Dūklavs. This Article lays down the responsibility for not using the agricultural land purchased for agricultural purposes. The proposal was evaluated and supported by the Legal Commission. I ask Members to support the draft law at first reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-01-14-PT12-338-U17	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote for support for the first reading of the draft law “Amendments to the Latvian Administrative Violations Code” (No 341/Lp12)! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 78, for - 1, for - 4. The draft law at first reading has been supported. Please set a deadline for the second reading of the proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-01-14-PT12-338-U18	For the second reading, the deadline for the submission of proposals is 26 January.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-01-14-PT12-338-U19	Thank you. The proposals should therefore be submitted by 26 January this year. On the agenda - draft law “Amendments to the Law on Operational Activities”, second reading. On behalf of the Commission for Defence, Home Affairs and Anti-Corruption - Member Aleksejs Loskutovs.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-01-14-PT12-338-U20	Good morning! Draft Act ‘Amendments to the Act on Operational Activities’. Seven proposals have been received and the legal office of the Saeima has done the most. 1. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. The Commission was supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-01-14-PT12-338-U21	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-01-14-PT12-338-U22	2. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. It is also supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-01-14-PT12-338-U23	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-01-14-PT12-338-U24	3. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. The Commission is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-01-14-PT12-338-U25	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-01-14-PT12-338-U26	4. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. The Commission is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-01-14-PT12-338-U27	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-01-14-PT12-338-U28	5. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. The Commission is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-01-14-PT12-338-U29	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-01-14-PT12-338-U30	6. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. The Commission is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-01-14-PT12-338-U31	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-01-14-PT12-338-U32	And seven. - a proposal from the Commission on Defence, Home Affairs and Anti-Corruption. Please support this too.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-01-14-PT12-338-U33	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-01-14-PT12-338-U34	All the proposals have therefore been examined. I call for support for the draft law at second reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-01-14-PT12-338-U35	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote in favour of the second reading of the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Operational Activities”! Please vote mode! Please get the result! It's not about - 85, it's against and abstains. The draft law at second reading has been supported. Please set a deadline for the third reading of the proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-01-14-PT12-338-U36	Thank you for your support. Deadline for submission of proposals - 1 February.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-01-14-PT12-338-U37	Thank you. The proposals should therefore be submitted by 1 February this year. On the agenda - draft law “Amendment to the Constitution of the Republic of Latvia”. Colleagues! For this issue on the agenda to be dealt with in accordance with the Constitution, it is necessary that there is a quorum in the sitting. So there must be at least two thirds of all Members in the sitting. Therefore, before starting to examine this draft law, it is necessary to register in order to establish the existence of a quorum. Please call me! Please check-in mode for Members! Please get the result! So 90 Members have registered in the Chamber, and we can move on to the question. On the agenda - draft law “Amendment to the Constitution of the Republic of Latvia”, second reading. On behalf of the Legal Commission - Member Inese Lībiņa-Egnere.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-01-14-PT12-338-U38	Dear colleagues, In the Legal Commission, despite the fact that no new proposals were received for amendment to the Constitution of the Republic of Latvia, we debated very much precisely about the abolition of administrative immunity, its timeliness and the possible consequences that might arise. Therefore, on behalf of the Commission, I would like to report to you again here (and I am also asked by the Commission) so that all Members have a clear idea of what we are amending precisely, namely, that we are amending Article 30 of the Satversme only by giving up the administrative immunity of the general Member. However, as all invited experts in constitutional law have emphasised, this amendment does not affect cases in which a Member could be subject to administrative arrest for certain types of administrative offences. In these cases, and I would also like to see the legislator's will reflected here in the verbatim report of the Saeima sitting that the question of administrative arrest is determined by Article 29 of the Satversme, namely: “A member of the Saeima may not be arrested, to be searched, without otherwise restricting his personal freedom if the Saeima does not agree.” As a result, already at the moment Section 29 of the Satversme explicitly states that neither Members should be allowed to be detained, nor to impose an administrative penalty, administrative arrest related to restrictions on personal freedom, without the consent of the Saeima. Therefore, honourable colleagues, I call for support to the amendment to the Constitution of the Republic of Latvia, by which we amend Article 30 of the Satversme by refusing administrative general immunity.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-01-14-PT12-338-U39	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote in favour of the second reading of the draft law “Amendment to the Constitution of the Republic of Latvia”! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 67, for - 21, for - 2. The draft law at second reading has been supported. Please set a deadline for the third reading of the proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-01-14-PT12-338-U40	Please set the deadline for submitting the proposals on 1 February this year.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-01-14-PT12-338-U41	Thank you. The proposals should therefore be submitted by 1 February this year. On the agenda - draft law “Amendments to the law “On forced application of educational measures to children”, second reading. On behalf of the Commission for Human Rights and Public Affairs - Member Inese Laizāne.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-01-14-PT12-338-U42	Dear Chairman of the Saeima. Dear colleagues, The Commission for Human Rights and Public Affairs has examined the draft law “Amendments to the law on the application of educational measures to children”. Two proposals were received for the second reading. 1. is the proposal of the Minister of Justice Dzintars Rasnačs. Partially supported, included 2. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-01-14-PT12-338-U43	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-01-14-PT12-338-U44	2. is a proposal from the committee responsible. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-01-14-PT12-338-U45	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-01-14-PT12-338-U46	All the proposals have therefore been examined. Please support the draft law at second reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-01-14-PT12-338-U47	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote for support for the second reading of the draft law “Amendments to the law on the application of educational measures to children”! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 87, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The draft law at second reading has been supported. Please set a deadline for the third reading of the proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-01-14-PT12-338-U48	The deadline for submitting proposals is 12 February this year.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-01-14-PT12-338-U49	Thank you. The proposals should therefore be submitted by 12 February this year. On the agenda: Draft law on amendments to the electoral law of the European Parliament, second reading. On behalf of the National Administration and Municipal Commission - Member Juris Šulcs.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-01-14-PT12-338-U50	Dear President of the Saeima. Colleagues! The National Administration and Municipal Commission has looked at the draft law “Amendments to the Election Law of the European Parliament”. And there is one proposal that has been developed and supported by the Commission of Public Administration and Local Government.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-01-14-PT12-338-U51	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-01-14-PT12-338-U52	So no more proposals exist and there is a request to support the draft legislation at second reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-01-14-PT12-338-U53	Please call me! Let us vote in favour of the second reading of the draft law on Amendments to the Law on Elections to the European Parliament! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For -63, for -6, for -21. The draft law at second reading has been supported. Please set a deadline for the third reading of the proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-01-14-PT12-338-U54	Deadline for submission of proposals - February 1, 2016.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-01-14-PT12-338-U55	Thank you. The proposals should therefore be submitted by 1 February this year. On the agenda - Draft Law Amending the Law on Political Parties, second reading. On behalf of the National Administration and Municipal Commission - Member Juris Šulcs.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-01-14-PT12-338-U56	The Commission has examined the draft law "Amendment to the Law on Political Parties" and no new proposals have been received for the second reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-01-14-PT12-338-U57	And the Commission calls for support at second reading?
ParlaMint-LV_2016-01-14-PT12-338-U58	The Commission calls for support.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-01-14-PT12-338-U59	Please call me! We will vote in favour of the second reading of the draft law on the amendment to the Law on Political Parties! Please vote mode! Voting mode! Please get the result! For - 70, for - no, for - 21. So the draft law at second reading is supported. Please set a deadline for the third reading of the proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-01-14-PT12-338-U60	Please submit your proposals by 1 February 2016.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-01-14-PT12-338-U61	Thank you. Proposals are due by 1 February this year. On the agenda - draft law “Amendments to the Saeima Election Law”, second reading. On behalf of the National Administration and Municipal Commission - Member Juris Šulcs.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-01-14-PT12-338-U62	The Commission has worked on the draft law on Amendments to the Saeima Election Law, preparing it for second reading, and seven proposals have been received. Proposal 1 - Proposal from the Commission of State Administration and Local Government. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-01-14-PT12-338-U63	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-01-14-PT12-338-U64	2. - Dombrava's proposal. Not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-01-14-PT12-338-U65	Let us start a debate. Name to Member Ringold Balodim.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-01-14-PT12-338-U66	Hello, honourable Members! I would like to talk first and foremost about the amendments which restrict the development of democracy in Latvia, and also about Mr Dombrava's proposal, which further restricts it. So it's about 500 members - 500 signatures that are actually needed before... before we can start the electoral process at all. The Law on Political Parties states that 200 members are required, and the current amendments increase the number of members of those parties who wish to participate in the election process. And, of course, participation in the electoral process and acquisition of power are the most important, the most important goal for the establishment of political organisations in general. Can we say that really this goal, which is stated in the annotation... And, in essence, the argument indicates that, in view of the conclusions of the working group set up by the former President of Latvia Andris Bērziņš, increasing the number of people could, in fact, make it more difficult for the parties that have so far been successfully functioning... I think it is about what Mr Berzins's working group concluded that it is necessary to strengthen the existence of major parties. Basically, these amendments, which increase the number... provides for 500 members, as well as a restriction that the party must be registered for a whole year before the elections, will mean that the three plus one party that is currently in the Saeima will be legitimised in this way, namely the three parties of the coalition and the SASCAN. The other parties will, to a large extent, be excluded from political participation. If we look at progress, compare the length of governments of first and second times of independence, we can, of course, notice that there is a certain trend: the excess of some governments, which is more stable. But I have to understand that we are working longer now. Moreover, it must also be understood that, above all, the aim of the parties is to obtain a representative of the people in the Saeima so that a government can be formed at a later stage. In essence, the aim of the Saeima is to adopt laws and establish a stable executive power. Will this objective be achieved? I deeply doubt it. Mr Chersch initially well formulated this trend, which he spoke about. He said to remove various obstacles. And these proposals also remove these obstacles - those parties that could be competitors for these three plus one party. If we are talking about examples, about the weddings that might arise on the limitation of the years, then a good example is now Mrs. Viņķele's six, which reminds me of the name of Olstein's six... by name only. If, suddenly, they were to function successfully in the framework of the Unity, let us say, until the election year and then really cut them apart and exclude them from the party, then it would in fact not be possible for this group of Mrs Viņķele to actually register the party to participate in elections or to express its views. I think that these specific amendments link democracy. Mr Dombrava's proposals, which refer to the fact that every signature, confirmed by an sworn notary, must be two months before the list of candidates is submitted and that each voter may sign a list of candidates for one name only, are further restricted. This means that democracy is not only bound up, but also chained. I would like to remind you - and this is a quote from legal literature - that where civil society is well organised and independent from public intervention, regulatory mediator, arbitrator, conflict is the rule. In our case, the law is like a social engineering model to defend those already in power. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-01-14-PT12-338-U67	Thank you. Name to Member Janis Dombrava.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-01-14-PT12-338-U68	Very honourable Speaker of the Saeima! Dear Members of the Saeima! With this proposal, we could say that there is a desire to reduce restraint and waste of public resources by organising parliamentary elections. We remember the precedents that have been in the Saeima elections when a list of candidates with one candidate for 100 seats in the Saeima is being submitted. Of course, this list of candidates obtains the support of only a few hundred voters, but public resources are being used even to draw up the list of candidates. At the beginning of the 1990s, a security fee of a thousand lats was introduced in order to split up serious applications for the Saeima elections from minor ones, which was a small but dissenting element at that time. All these years, this security charge has not been changed. The chairman of the Central Electoral Commission said that, if we wanted to stick to the concept of a security charge as a connecting element, then, given the inflation and rise in the standard of living that has taken place this year, the security charge should be at least EUR 20 000, so that the party can apply for its list of candidates for the Saeima elections. We do not want to strengthen the power of money in politics, so we have proposed a model that exists in many European countries. In particular, a certain number of signatures must be collected. In this case, it is proposed to establish a very small number of signatures - only 500 voters, members and supporters, who should sign to show support for the party in question. Other countries are required to collect as many as several thousand notarised signatures. It also goes really hand in hand with the President's initiative for at least 500 members in each party. As we know, there are also shortcomings at the moment with the register of political parties: if a party can show that it has 500 or 1000 members who have ever been, the Register of Enterprises does not, at the moment, examine whether these party members are active members and whether each particular member of that party does not belong to another two, three or four other parties. The register of companies does not even check whether the members of the designated party are alive! It is therefore proposed to make sure, in a very specific way, before the parliamentary elections, that a political party is able to collect the support of at least 500 voters - signatures that can be demonstrated. As a result, there would be a patchwork of small lots that are unable to collect the support of up to 500 voters. If they want to collect at least 50 000 votes in the Saeima elections to get into the Saeima, then 500 signatures can be collected. It would also allow greater involvement of party members, supporters who would be entrusted with the responsibility for collecting these signatures, and it would also create greater responsibility for voters who would have expressed their support for the list of the parties in question. We therefore call for support for this proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-01-14-PT12-338-U69	We are continuing the debate. Name to Member Sergey Dolgopolov.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-01-14-PT12-338-U70	Hello, dear colleagues! It has to be said that the substance of this proposal is not an innovation. There are a variety of practices. This practice exists in several countries. But, from a point of view, I also remember all the discussions that have taken place in previous years. By the way, the National Association (in another composition) also proposed to increase the number of starters for any party to 800 “shots”. What do we want from that? Either we want each party to transform into something like a PSAP with millions of members over time, or we think, however, that the parties must be sufficiently democratic, but at the same time, the most important thing is to get the voter's support through voting, participation in elections. I represent one of the largest parties in Latvia and, to be honest, we are also concerned that this type of proposal - to increase the number of members of the party to 500 people - reduces the chances of creating new parties. The process of party formation in Latvia has not yet been completed, and it is still very far from the end of this process. Why should people be prevented from building new political forces with all the consequences? The only proposal that I really believe is worthy of consideration is the censorship that every party wishing to participate in elections to the Saeima and to the European Parliament must have a period of existence of one year. This is logical because, in principle, it would perhaps try to eliminate its possibilities that one party appears only to... Well, I will call today the Reform Party once again, which was created only for the purpose of starting elections, and which then disappeared without a message, without any consequences, even without a footstep in history. I think it is perhaps the only proposal that really is worth... That's worth looking at. But, with regard to the collection of signatures, in our circumstances it does not multiply, it does not increase the opportunities for people to participate in the electoral process, because it increases the voter's own election process and therefore makes it more unattractive than it has been before. I call for this proposal not to be supported. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-01-14-PT12-338-U71	Thank you. Name to Member Ringold Balodim, for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-01-14-PT12-338-U72	I really wouldn't have been on the ladder without the Register of Enterprises being barred. Mr. Dombrava says he doesn't check the dead. Indeed, in 2008, when I started my work, I ensured this connection with the administration of citizenship and migration matters. Whatever, but the register finds the dead! They are not automatically recorded in this database, they cannot be registered. What would I say? Indeed, what Mr Dolgopolov said is true: in fact, these amendments do not increase democracy but increase the power of money. Yeah, let's be honest! - it all requires money, it drives us once again to exclude the people from referendums, to limit the opportunities for it to participate in elections. This undermines democracy even more. I would like to point out that I actually climbed into the three, knowing that I knew! - the fact that, of course, the amendments will be adopted if the big parties who are now trying to share the pie of power agree on this. I have spoken with a number of European human rights experts, one of whom was Egil Levit. It is absolutely clear that these amendments will not pass the examination of both the European Court of Human Rights and the Constitutional Court, because they disproportionately restrict democracy and are aimed at realizing the existing coalition. And what Andris Bērziņš did... No, he, a man, had to do something. He suffered. He created a task force, made something there. And in principle, those serious amendments, if we talk about state power, are either to increase the functions of the President of Latvia, or to increase the role of the Prime Minister, and the rest is only in the dark of touch when looking for a black cat. Thank you. Do not support me, please!
ParlaMint-LV_2016-01-14-PT12-338-U73	I closed the debate. On behalf of the Commission, does the rapporteur want to add something?
ParlaMint-LV_2016-01-14-PT12-338-U74	Yes, I can only inform you that indeed a number of working groups and the Commission also looked at these proposals and also the proposal presented by Jānis Dombrava and considered that it would not be useful to support it at this moment, as the "grid" in this law is already known. Firstly, there should be no fewer than 500 members in the political party; secondly, the issue of small political parties has also been resolved: there should be an association of political parties with 500 members (may be 200 founding members). And thirdly, the Register of Enterprises controls what needs to be submitted. Therefore, this amendment to Article 12 proposed by Mr Dombrava was not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-01-14-PT12-338-U75	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote in favour of 2. - Member Dombravas's proposal! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For -14, for -53, for -22. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-01-14-PT12-338-U76	3. - Member Curra's proposal. Neither was it supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-01-14-PT12-338-U77	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-01-14-PT12-338-U78	4. - Member Curra's proposal. Neither was it supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-01-14-PT12-338-U79	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-01-14-PT12-338-U80	5. - Member Curra's proposal. Neither was it supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-01-14-PT12-338-U81	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-01-14-PT12-338-U82	6. - Member Curra's proposal. Neither was it supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-01-14-PT12-338-U83	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-01-14-PT12-338-U84	7. - Member Curra's proposal. Not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-01-14-PT12-338-U85	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-01-14-PT12-338-U86	Please approve the draft law at second reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-01-14-PT12-338-U87	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote in favour of the second reading of the draft law on Amendments to the Saeima Election Law! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 59, for - 6, for - 22. The draft law at second reading has been supported. Please set a deadline for the third reading of the proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-01-14-PT12-338-U88	Proposals for the third reading should be submitted by 1 February 2016.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-01-14-PT12-338-U89	Thank you. So the proposals are due by 1 February this year. The next item is the draft law on amendments to the parliamentary order roll, first reading. On behalf of the Legal Commission - Member Inese Lībiņa-Egnere.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-01-14-PT12-338-U90	Dear colleagues, This draft law is closely related to the draft amendments to the Satversme which have just been approved at second reading. And that is, if we change the Constitution by providing that, in future, this general administrative immunity will no longer apply to Members, then, of course, we must also put in order our internal procedures, which are set by the parliamentary roll of order. In the Legal Commission for the first reading, a really very conceptual proposal was made on the most important necessary amendments, but in the Legal Commission, we also discussed what has already been said here from the parliamentary tribunal: if it is not possible for the Saeima to vote on the administrative punishment of Members, what is the extent to which the public will find out about it? And that is why, in the light of what was said at the meeting of the Commission, on behalf of the Legal Commission, I am asking you to consider - within the framework of this draft law - how we will inform the public in the future of the facts of Members' administrative irregularities. And for the decision-making, the commission christened a number of questions and invited Members to reflect on them, so that's what you are told about today. What decisions would be made to the public - those that are to be taken in connection with an administrative offence or those that have already entered into force? How would the information be made available to the public - from the Saeima website (in electronic form) or by reporting to the Saeima sitting? To whom information would be sent - Saeima as an institution or Saeima Mandate, ethics and application commission? And there are also various possible links to the code of ethics of Saeima Members... These are issues on which the Legal Commission will definitely continue to work in preparing the text for second and third reading, but at the moment, on behalf of the Legal Commission, I call on you to confirm that this general amendment is necessary and to support the draft law at first reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-01-14-PT12-338-U91	Thank you. Please call me! Let us vote in favour of the first-reading vote on the draft law on Amendments to the Parliamentary Rule of Procedure. Please vote mode! Please get the result! No. - 63, no. - 21, no. The draft law at first reading has been supported. Please set a deadline for the second reading of the proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-01-14-PT12-338-U92	The Legal Commission shall request the determination of 1 February of this year.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-01-14-PT12-338-U93	Thank you. The proposals should therefore be submitted by 1 February this year. The next item is "Review of draft decisions". On the agenda - draft decision “On the participation of Latvian National Armed Forces soldiers in the United Nations Mission in Mali (MINUSMA)”. Let us start a debate. Name: Minister of Defence Raimonds Bergman.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-01-14-PT12-338-U94	President-in-Office of the Saeima, very much. Honourable Members! The Ministry of Defence has submitted to the Saeima for approval two draft decisions providing for the involvement of the National Armed Forces in the new international operations - the UN-led Comprehensive Stabilisation Mission in Mali (MINUSMA) and the anti-terrorism and anti-terrorism-led operation in Iraq. It should be stressed immediately that the participation of our soldiers in these operations does not involve their involvement in combat activities. In both cases they will be training - missions. After the tragic terrorists that have taken place in France, Denmark and right here in the European border, Tunisia, Egypt, Mali, Lebanon and elsewhere, we cannot afford to stand aside or wait. Our allies call for support to safeguard European integrity and national security. The internal conflicts of the Middle East and African countries, the proliferation of terrorism at the borders of Europe – all this has a direct impact on Latvia's security situation. Over the last year, we have seen the reality of the threat posed by extremism and terrorism, which has already claimed the lives of hundreds of innocent people in Europe. Unfortunately, the terrorists do not end. This is also confirmed by the tragedy that occurred a few days ago in Istanbul. And you have already read this morning that there is a continuation: there are also terrorists in Jakarta, Indonesia, and there is another terrorist in Turkey. This is the moment when we can contribute to the joint efforts of allies and the UN to stabilise the situation at European borders, in North Africa and in the Middle East region. Furthermore, the involvement of NBS in the UN mission MINUSMA should be seen as a direct response to the request for assistance from France in response to the events of 13 November in Paris and the activation of the French-European mutual assistance clause. The participation of NBS in the MINUSMA mission should also be seen as a contribution of Latvia to ease the burden of French operations in Africa. It is important to note that the participation of NBS soldiers in the MINUSMA mission will be the first involvement of Latvia in the UN mission, providing direct support to UN peacekeeping and peacekeeping efforts. In addition, we will participate in the mission with a critical intelligence capability that ensures the effectiveness of the mission. The primary objective of MINUSMA is to stabilise the situation and ensure security in the territory of Mali, while at the same time focusing on the protection of the civilian population and supporting the development of Malian state security structures, as well as to monitor and support the implementation of the peace agreement. NBS participation in MINUSMA is planned from February 2016 with the involvement of one to three soldiers. The NBS contingent is included in the Netherlands-led intelligence headquarters in the Malian capital of Bamako. This unit is a completely new capability element of the UN mission, a mission history that provides full spectrum intelligence training. As regards the involvement of NBS in the activities of the international coalition against Da’esh in Iraq, it should be noted that this step is a natural continuation of Latvia's actions resulting from the requests for support made by our partners. Already in autumn 2014, Latvia officially expressed its support for the activities of the international coalition, thus our cooperation partners already considered Latvia as one of the coalition member states. One of the main lines of action of the international coalition is the training of Iraqi security forces, as it is clear that the government's armed forces will play a crucial role in the effective fight against Da'esh. Our soldiers will be involved in training the Iraqi security forces. They will not engage in war. The Latvian entity will be integrated into the Danish contingent, which also means comprehensive support from Danish partners in maintaining NBS soldiers in Iraq. The Government of Iraq has already received official approval of its support for the involvement of Latvian military experts in the training of Iraqi security forces. The formalities are currently under way to ensure the proper legal status of the NBS troops in Iraq. At the same time, given the security risks associated with the participation of NBS in the coalition, restrictions will be imposed on the presence of our soldiers in the area of operation. Our soldiers will not carry out any activities that will not be directly linked to the training process of the Iraqi security forces and will not move across the country outside the permanent base. Aware of the fact that the development of Iraqi military capabilities will require continued coalition support, the draft decision submitted to the Saeima provides for the appointment of a training team of up to 10 soldiers during the period until 1 February 2018. The first rotation of soldiers for six months is planned by the end of January - early February. Participation in both international operations is foreseen by the Ministry of Defence within the framework of the pre-planned budget. In addition, through such military contributions, the NSBS will strengthen practical links with allies and UN bodies. Our soldiers will gain further experience in dealing with security issues in crisis areas. In the light of these considerations, I ask you, honourable Members, to support the draft decision of the Saeima on the involvement of the National Armed Forces in the UN-led mission in Mali (MINUSMA) and the international coalition against Da'esh in Iraq. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-01-14-PT12-338-U95	Thank you to the Minister for Defence. No one has ever signed up to the debate. I closed the debate. Please call me! We will vote for the draft decision on the participation of Latvian National Armed Forces soldiers in the United Nations Mission in Mali (MINUSMA)! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 81, for - no, for - 1. The decision has been taken. On the agenda - draft decision on the participation of soldiers of the Latvian National Armed Forces in the military operation of the ISIS/ Da’esh international coalition in Iraq. Please call me! We will vote for the draft decision “On the participation of the soldiers of the National Armed Forces of Latvia in the military operation of the ISIS/ Da’esh international coalition in Iraq”! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 78, for - no, for - 1. The decision has been taken. On the agenda - draft decision “On extension of the deadline for the submission of proposals for the second reading of the draft law “Law on Intangible Cultural Heritage” (No.332/Lp12) until February 29, 2016”. On behalf of the Commission for Education, Culture and Science - Member Inguna Rībena.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-01-14-PT12-338-U96	Dear colleagues, The Commission for Education, Culture and Science has received a letter from the Minister for Culture, Dace Melbārde, requesting that the deadline for submitting proposals be extended for the draft law on Intangible Cultural Heritage. Due to the huge number of proposals received to evaluate them, discuss them and then, at such a qualitative level, say, bring them before you, it has been supported by the Education, Culture and Science Commission, and I ask you to support the extension of the deadline until 29 February 2016.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-01-14-PT12-338-U97	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote on the draft decision on the extension of the deadline for the submission of proposals to the second reading of the draft law “Law on Intangible Cultural Heritage” (No.332/Lp12) until February 29, 2016! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. Consequently, a decision has been taken. The agenda of the sitting has been examined and we must register. Please call me! Please check-in mode for Members! Thank you. While the results of the registration are being prepared, let us listen to the statements. The name of Member Lolita Chigan.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-01-14-PT12-338-U98	Dear Members of the Commission on European Affairs. The meeting of the Committee on European Affairs will take place today at 12.30 a.m. in the Red Chamber. So tomorrow there will be no sitting, because tomorrow's sitting is postponed to today, as many of you have wanted. See you!
ParlaMint-LV_2016-01-14-PT12-338-U99	Thank you. The name is Mr. Janis Wuzan.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-01-14-PT12-338-U100	Dear colleagues, First of all, on behalf of the Presidium of the Baltic Assembly and on behalf of the Latvian delegation of the Baltic Assembly, I would like to thank all those who took an active part in the campaign for collecting donations for Ukrainian children to Christmas. Indeed, the response was very great, and we, the Latvian delegation of the Baltic Assembly, have received a lot of thanks from Ukraine. The other thing. I invite you all to the opening of the exhibition today at 10.30 at the Saeima lobby. This exhibition is linked to the fact that Latvia has become the Presidency of the Baltic Assembly this year and that this year is also the 25th anniversary of the Baltic Assembly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-01-14-PT12-338-U101	Thank you. Dear colleagues, please pay attention. On January 9, our colleague Ringold Balodis celebrated his 50th birthday and we congratulate him. (Applause)
ParlaMint-LV_2016-01-14-PT12-338-U102	Dear colleagues, On 30 December, Ināra Mūrniece, the Speaker of the Saeima, celebrated the half-circle anniversary. Congratulations! (Applause)
ParlaMint-LV_2016-01-14-PT12-338-U103	Thank you. Name of the Secretary of the Saeima Gunaras Kūtris to read the results of the registration.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-01-14-PT12-338-U104	Hello, dear colleagues! Currently not registered: Andrejs Elksniņš, Janīna Kursīte-Pakule, Romanas Mežeckis... He is, Imants Debtor, Arvīds Platoper and Ivars Zarins.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-01-14-PT12-338-U105	Thank you. I'm closing the sitting.
