ParlaMint-LV_2016-09-22-PT12-375-U1	Good morning, honourable Members! I invite you to take seats in Saeima's meeting room. Let's start the sitting of the Saeima on 22 September. Before considering the agenda for a meeting approved by the Bureau, the amendments tabled should be considered. The Legal Commission asks for the draft decision “On the appointment of Anda Kraukle as a judge of a district (city) court” to be included on the agenda of the sitting. Are Members opposed to this amendment of the agenda? There is no objection by Members. The agenda has been amended. The Commission on Defence, Home Affairs and Prevention of Corruption is asking for the draft law “Amendments to the Law of the Republic of Latvia on Land Guards” to be included on the agenda of the sitting. Are Members opposed to this amendment of the agenda? There is no objection. The agenda has been amended. The next item is the Bureau's reports on draft laws submitted. The Saeima Bureau proposes that the member Andreja Klementyeva, Valeria Agešina, Ivana Ribakova, Jānis Tutina and Ivars Zariņš be referred to the Social and Labour Affairs Commission for draft law on retirement pensions for municipal police officers, stating that it is the committee responsible. ‘ For” applied to speak Member Andrejs Klementjevs.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-09-22-PT12-375-U2	Good morning, honourable Members! On the bill. On 13 September, the Commission for Social and Labour received a large letter from the Association of the Great Cities of Latvia signed by Executive Director V.Valainis. I think it's a member of the Saeima, right? The letter was accompanied by a draft law entitled “Law on the retirement pensions of municipal police officers” - with all the annotation, figures, such a very serious work. It came to the Commission with a request for consideration at the meeting of the draft law because it is fully supported by the association. I believe that this is necessary and important. The argument is very similar to that of the Group of the INTERPRETATION, which also believes that it is fair to the police and staff working in the municipality and guaranteeing our order. The arguments are that the police functions of the municipality are very similar to those of the State police, and they ask that the policemen of the municipality who have the same functions, one threats and one risks with the state police also pay according to the same principles. The argument, I say, is very good, and the chairman of the committee, Aija Barča, asked me to check that it was in line with my principles and with my draft law prepared by the SASCAN Group. I believe that many ideas are very similar. I agree with the commission president that this draft law should be directed if so many stakeholders - nine thousand who have signed these draft laws - submitted it to both the Mandates, ethics and application to the Commission, the Commission on Social and Labour Affairs and, I understand, to the association. In order to preserve the idea and in order not to give the ruling coalition the opportunity to reject my draft law without motivation and without reasoning, I am prepared to withdraw my signature on condition that the Social and Labour Commission will examine and direct this draft law, which was sent out by the association by the end of the year, and that this problem will not be ignored. For the following year we will not be able to prepare the bill until the third reading, but if this idea were relevant to 2018, we could guarantee the same social guarantees for the local police as policemen working in the State Police in 2018. I therefore submitted a request to the Saeima to withdraw my proposal. ( Interface: “Ooo! ” ) So we do not see this draft law, but the Commission on Social and Labour Affairs by the end of the year, as I understand from the President, promises to start this procedure and the draft law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-09-22-PT12-375-U3	Thank you. So the signature has been withdrawn and the draft law is not passed on to the commission. The Saeima Bureau proposes that the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Immigration” presented by the Cabinet of Ministers be referred to the Commission on Defence, Home Affairs and Prevention of Corruption, stating that it is the committee responsible. Do Members have objections? There is no objection by Members. The draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Presidium of the Saeima proposes to refer the draft law “Amendments to the Law of the Land Guard of the Republic of Latvia” to the Commission on Defence, Home Affairs and Prevention of Corruption, which states that it is the committee responsible. Do Members have objections? There is no objection by Members. The draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The next item is the report by the Saeima Bureau on the own-initiative proposal submitted. The commission of mandates, ethics and applications has submitted its own proposal – the draft decision “On the way forward of the collective application “On free meals in kindergartens” of 10 213 Latvian citizens”. Do Members object to the inclusion of this own-initiative proposal on the agenda of today's sitting? There is no objection by Members. The draft decision is therefore on the agenda of the sitting. The next item is entitled ‘On the granting of leave’. For unpaid leave granted to the Member Janis Krazas from 20 September to 22 September of this year. The Saeima Bureau has received an application from Member Jānis Klazdas requesting him to be granted unpaid leave from 20 September to 22 September of this year. The Saeima Bureau has granted leave and shall inform the Saeima thereof. The next item on the agenda - Election, approval, appointment, dismissal or dismissal of officials, expression of trust or distrust. On the agenda - draft decision “On the appointment of Anda Kraukle as a judge of a district (city) court”. On behalf of the Legal Commission, Mr Valery Agešin, Member.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-09-22-PT12-375-U4	Good morning, dear colleagues! The draft decision “On the appointment of Anda Kraukle as a judge of a district (city) court” was reviewed at the sitting of the Legal Commission of the Saeima on 20 September of this year. Members of the Commission have unanimously supported the draft decision. On behalf of the Saeima Legal Commission, I invite you to appoint Anda Kraukle (Sitting Manager knocks down with a hammer.) as a judge of a district (city) court.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-09-22-PT12-375-U5	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote for the draft decision on the appointment of Anda Kraukle as a district (city) court judge! Please vote mode! Please get the result! There's no one for - 86, against -1, abstaining. The decision has been taken. The next item is "Provision of draft legislation". On the agenda - Re-reading of the law “Amendments to the Code of the Sea”. On behalf of the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy, Member Edward Smilten.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-09-22-PT12-375-U6	Good morning, colleagues! We work with the law “Amendments to the Code of the Sea” that the President of Latvia has sent us back for rereading. All in all, the Commission had a big discussion about the sail... Either, the registration of sports yachts or the non-registration of sport yachts, and after these discussions, the Commission was more inclined to support the President of Latvia's position and for the time being excluded from the regulation, namely the renewal of the previous version. It was also agreed that by the end of the year the responsible ministry would come with a clearer vision of how to regulate these waterborne means of transport and their registration. There is therefore one proposal - the commission responsible - which has received support from the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-09-22-PT12-375-U7	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-09-22-PT12-375-U8	We have therefore examined all the proposals and call for support for the draft law.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-09-22-PT12-375-U9	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote for the adoption of the Law “Amendments to the Maritime Code” after re-reading! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 84, for - 1, for - 5. The law has been passed. On the agenda - draft law “Amendments to the Law “On Accounting”, third reading. On behalf of the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission, Mr Aleksandr Kirštein.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-09-22-PT12-375-U10	Hello, honourable President. Dear colleagues, Only one proposal - the Law Office's proposal - has been tabled to amend the Law on Accounting. The Commission has supported this. I call for support.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-09-22-PT12-375-U11	Members support the proposal. The Commission calls for support to be given to the draft law at third, final, reading. Please call me! We will vote for the support of the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Accounting” in the third, final, reading! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 94, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The law has been passed. On the agenda - draft law “Amendments to the Law “On State Social Insurance”, third reading. On behalf of the Commission for Social and Labour Affairs - Member Einārs Cilinskis.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-09-22-PT12-375-U12	President of the Saeima! Honourable Members! Five proposals have been received at third reading, mainly of a editorial nature. 1. - The proposal by Karina Korna, Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Welfare. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-09-22-PT12-375-U13	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-09-22-PT12-375-U14	The following proposals concern transitional provisions. 2. - The proposal of the Legal Bureau of the Saeima is supported and included in 3. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-09-22-PT12-375-U15	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-09-22-PT12-375-U16	The proposal is supported and included in 5. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-09-22-PT12-375-U17	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-09-22-PT12-375-U18	4. - The proposal by Karina Korna, Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Welfare. It has been supported and included 5. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-09-22-PT12-375-U19	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-09-22-PT12-375-U20	5. - Commission proposal. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-09-22-PT12-375-U21	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-09-22-PT12-375-U22	All the proposals have therefore been examined. On behalf of the Commission, please support the draft law at third, final, reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-09-22-PT12-375-U23	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote for the support of the draft law “Amendments to the Law on State Social Insurance” in the third, final reading! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 93, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The law has been passed. On the agenda - draft law “Amendment to the Law on State Civil Service”, first reading. On behalf of the National Administration and Municipal Commission, Member Sergej Dolgopolovs.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-09-22-PT12-375-U24	Hello, dear colleagues! The Cabinet of Ministers has decided to supplement the mandatory requirements for the candidate for the position of official with the twelfth requirement, which provides that the existence of an administrative penalty is also one of the obstacles to be taken into account when selecting candidates for the position of official. The Commission has examined this draft law, supported it at first reading and recommends that the Saeima do the same: to support the draft law on the amendment to the law on civil service at first reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-09-22-PT12-375-U25	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote in favour of the first reading of the draft law “Amendment to the Law on State Civil Service”! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. The draft law at first reading has been supported. Please set a deadline for the submission of the proposals for second reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-09-22-PT12-375-U26	The Commission proposes to set a deadline for the submission of proposals on 29 September this year.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-09-22-PT12-375-U27	Thank you. Proposals shall be submitted by 29 September of this year. On the agenda - draft law “Amendment to the Law on Remuneration of Officials and Employees of State and Municipal Institutions”, first reading. On behalf of the National Administration and Municipal Commission - Member Viktors Valainis.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-09-22-PT12-375-U28	Yes, good morning! The draft law drawn up by the Cabinet of Ministers has been received by the Commission. The aim of the project is to clarify the norms of the remuneration law in order to increase the amount of premiums for additional work. The limit of the total premium to be paid by the soldier for the performance of his additional duties and for the training of the soldier would be raised accordingly to 50 per cent, thus allowing the soldier to fulfil all the necessary tasks at the same time as to participate actively in the training process. The increase in the overall limit of the premium will eliminate inequality that certain soldiers are disproportionately limited in remuneration for additional duties performed, and the soldiers will thus be motivated to carry out both the assigned duties in educational work and, if necessary, additional duties. On behalf of the Commission, I call for support for the draft law at first reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-09-22-PT12-375-U29	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote for support for the first reading of the draft law “Amendment to the Law on Compensation of Officials and Employees of State and Local Government Institutions”! Please vote mode! Please get the result! It's not about - 92, it's against and refrains from - it's not. The draft law at first reading has been supported. Please set a deadline for the submission of the proposals for second reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-09-22-PT12-375-U30	Let us wait until September 29.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-09-22-PT12-375-U31	Thank you. Proposals shall be submitted by 29 September of this year. Honourable Members! The Committee on Defence, Home Affairs and the Prevention of Corruption is asking to make changes to the agenda of the Saeima sitting and to direct the draft law “Amendments to the Law of the Land Guard of the Republic of Latvia” to the first reading without re-examination by the committee responsible. Are Members opposed to this amendment of the agenda? There is no objection. The agenda has been amended. On the agenda - draft law “Amendment to the Law on State Administration Structure”, first reading. On behalf of the Commission of the State Administration and the Municipality, Member of the Commission of the Republic of Lithuania, Ms Nelli Kleinberga.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-09-22-PT12-375-U32	Good morning, dear colleagues! The amendment submitted by the Cabinet of Ministers provides for an exception to the provisions of Section 92(2) of the Law on State Administration Structure that the remuneration paid to officials of the institution shall be published each month on the institution's website on the Internet, indicating the name, position and amount of remuneration paid. In the view of the Ministry of Defence, in view of the current international geopolitical situation, it is necessary, for preventive purposes, to restrict the publication of information on the remuneration of the professional service soldiers of the National Armed Forces, as well as the remuneration of the landguards who, in accordance with an additional contract, perform duties of a long-term absent soldier or a vacant soldier in the National Armed Forces. The draft law in the committee has been discussed and supported for consideration at the Saeima sitting. Please support the draft law at first reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-09-22-PT12-375-U33	Let us start a debate. The name of the Member, John Adamson.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-09-22-PT12-375-U34	Highly honored Presidium! Dear colleagues, It is very interesting to hear that covering it with a geopolitical situation corrects the folly that has been allowed for at least ten years. Is this amendment necessary? Undoubtedly! As I said, ten years ago decisions were taken that are absurd in substance. But if we are talking about a specific amendment, which we also discussed yesterday in the Commission, then it must be said that this amendment, if it concerns only soldiers, must have a different wording and a completely different law - the law on the running of the military service. That would be logical. But if we are discussing the need to correct this stupidity, this mistake that has been made, including those policemen who are more at risk of corruption, customs, financial police or, in other words, representatives of force structures... Yes, then we can discuss the fact that this amendment must be in this law must be properly formulated. But there is another problem. Let us assume that we support this amendment in the way it is. But it does not state that when soldiers or other officials fill in their declarations, they are also published. I would like to remind you of the absurdities that we came to with the adoption of these amendments to the relevant legislation. And what did we get to? We came to see all the National Police, special... lists of security officers, lists of operational staff with official remuneration, as well as lists of agents. All this information was publicly available. Then we may arrange these rules so that the error that was made will finally be corrected. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-09-22-PT12-375-U35	Name to Member Sergey Dolgopolov.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-09-22-PT12-375-U36	Dear colleagues, Member Adamson is quite right. This is one striking example of the lobbying of certain ministries when amendments affecting several ministries or several restaurants are adopted in the Cabinet. There are countless examples of this. I'm sorry. When these issues were discussed within the Commission, the Commission, aware of the complexity of these issues, has offered the Saeima a rather long deadline for tabling proposals so that it can think and work on everything, and the rapporteur will also talk about it. But I am talking here about the fact that the Cabinet of Ministers should, however, more critically evaluate the proposals of individual ministries to amend certain laws. Because the impact of draft laws on other matters is extremely important. One example: Letters are already coming today following the amendments to the beautiful remuneration law that we have adopted. Already today, letters are coming about that, behold, one other service is much more important than the State Revenue Service, but with regard to these institutions there is no mention that there may be any changes to remuneration. I call for support to be given to this draft law at first reading, enabling it to be improved in the course of its examination. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-09-22-PT12-375-U37	Thank you. The name of the Member, Andrejs Elksniņš.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-09-22-PT12-375-U38	Dear colleagues, This pseudo-publicity about the publication of declarations by public officials has once been established by the New Time. But the essence is absolutely different. Well, let's assume that the remuneration paid to the soldiers of the professional service of the National Armed Forces is not published. We evaluate the draft law - right, wrong, correct, inadequate - and make proposals. But then the next part of the sentence - "and the remuneration paid to the landguards who, under an additional contract, perform the duties of a long-term absent soldier or a vacant soldier". I mean, the Earthguard has been temporarily taken to work somewhere. I recently read that Repše is now a landguard. So if he starts to perform some duties temporarily in the Ministry of Defence instead of a soldier, we will not see his salary, it will not be published. This conflict, which has emerged with the prior establishment of openness, but today's attempt to establish that certain categories are not to be published, is not acceptable.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-09-22-PT12-375-U39	I closed the debate. Does the rapporteur want to add something? No, no. Please call me! We will vote in favour of the first reading of the draft law “Amendment to the Law on State Administration Equipment”! Please vote mode! Please get the result! It's not about - 92, it's against and refrains from - it's not. The draft law at first reading has been supported. Please set a deadline for the second reading of the proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-09-22-PT12-375-U40	The deadline for the submission of proposals for second reading shall be 14 October of this year.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-09-22-PT12-375-U41	Thank you. Proposals are due by 14 October of this year. On the agenda - draft law “Amendments to the Law “On State Revenue Service”, first reading. On behalf of the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission, Member Laimdota Straujuma.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-09-22-PT12-375-U42	Hello, dear colleagues! Each of us understands that the smooth operation of the State Revenue Service is important for our economy. Today we will work with the draft law “Amendments to the Law “On State Revenue Service”” presented by the Cabinet of Ministers. The amendments provide for two main issues: firstly, to determine the responsibility of the Internal Security Section of the Financial Police Administration of the State Revenue Service to the Director General of the SRS and, secondly, to combine the Customs Police and the Financial Police. Currently, the SRS Financial Police carries out operational activities to detect and prevent criminal offences in the area of state revenue; investigations into criminal offences in the area of state revenue. The internal security part of its structure shall carry out operational activities to detect and prevent criminal offences detected in the activities of SRS officials and personnel. Head of the Internal Security Department is subordinate to the Director of the Financial Police Administration of the SRS as Head of the investigating authority. In accordance with the Law on Criminal Procedure and the Law on Operational Activities, it is not possible for the Director General of the SRS to directly control, monitor and manage the Internal Security Part. As I mentioned earlier, the submitted amendments to the Law “On State Revenue Service” provide: The internal security part will not be subject to the structure of the financial police administration of SRS, but will be directly subject to the Director General of SRS. The draft law provides that the Part of Internal Security is determined by the status of the investigative institution by making amendments to the Criminal Procedure Law and establishing tasks, duties and subordination to the Law “On State Revenue Service”. At the same time, the draft law provides that officials of the Internal Security Department shall retain the ranks and forms of service, as well as that the Director-General of the SRS shall determine the degree of service as the head of the investigative institution, and that the Director-General shall wear uniforms in the performance of his duties. The second major amendments provide for a combination of two SRS investigation institutions – the Financial Police and the Customs Police – thus optimising the number of investigating authorities in the SRS. ( The head of the sitting was knocked down with a hammer.) The Budget and Finance (Tax) Commission supported the amendments tabled on 13 September and decided to direct them to the Parliament at first reading. However, honourable colleagues, I would like to inform you that this law must also amend the Criminal Procedure Law, but the Legal Commission has not supported the relevant amendments to the Criminal Procedure Law. The request is therefore to be put to the vote. ( Merry laughter.)
ParlaMint-LV_2016-09-22-PT12-375-U43	Let us start a debate. The name of the Member, Martin Bondar.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-09-22-PT12-375-U44	Good morning, Madam President. Dear colleagues and honourable colleagues! Amendments to the Law “On State Revenue Service” are very clear evidence and proof that the Minister of Finance Dana Reizniece-Ozola does not know what to do with the State Revenue Service, or does not want to do anything to make significant changes to this institution. For eight months Latvian society was fed with promises from the government that the State Revenue Service will remain more friendly to citizens, more friendly to entrepreneurs, that we will start collecting taxes in Latvia as in Estonia and that more money will come into the country and there will be less fraud. The result of this is that we receive these “false” amendments to the Law “On State Revenue Service”: let’s put on the form for the Head of the State Revenue Service (Interview: “Yes!” ) and his alternates too! Let's give us a token, let's get out on the street, and let's get the tax payers! Hey, why don't we just write it in the law? For then, when you go to the market (Interface: “You need to!” ), we will certainly be able to show... point out those who rebel at the time of arrival of the State Revenue Service or the Food and Veterinary Service. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. A.Bērzins: “Stack is still needed!” ) This is definitely not a way for the State Revenue Service to become more friendly to state taxpayers! Nor is it a way for the State Revenue Service to be like Estonia, and it is not a way for the State Revenue Service to collect more taxes. ( Interface: ‘ Proposals? ’) ) I am absolutely sure of this! The second proposal that affects these changes is that part of Internal Security should be placed under the authority of the Financial Police under the authority of the Head of the State Revenue Service. What can you want from those 20 people who so far have tried to “production” something that has exactly been done in six criminal proceedings, on the background of all the scandals that have been in the State Revenue Service?Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. And now the change of subordination alone will create a miracle, and these people will start to "production" (Dep. M.Bondar's turning over the glass. Medicines cause noise.) ... These people will suddenly start to “production” of good criminal proceedings against those fraudulent employees of the State Revenue Service? These people will suddenly end one day with cross-accounting? Forget it! That won't happen! This should be done in a normal institution. Currently, however, the State Revenue Service demands and even fights for serious attention and for serious changes. Therefore, my proposal is to eliminate the internal security part in general for the next 3-4 years and to give this function back to another investigating body for operational action. It may be decided whether it is a KNAB (although KNAB does not kill anyone today) or any other institution. Finally, there is a proposal to unite the Financial Police and the Customs Police. I'm sorry! Colleagues, this is a question that should be decided by the next Director General of the State Revenue Service. If all experts, as well as your government ministers, are encouraging more powers - more powers! - to this Director-General, I can say this: if more powers are available, then let him decide the matter instead of spending our precious time on the things that need to be decided on by the person who will lead the institution! But when acting as proposed in the draft law, please do not expect significant changes in the State Revenue Service. And you know, by doing this, you fellow Members will once again be able to say that we wanted to be better, but it happened as always. Thank you. (Applause)
ParlaMint-LV_2016-09-22-PT12-375-U45	The name of the Member, Andrejs Judin.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-09-22-PT12-375-U46	Dear colleagues, I do not rule out the possibility that the draft law wanted to reform and improve something. But sometimes with good plans, the objectives are too little, it is also important that the performance is appropriate. What does the draft law offer us? We have two draft laws (the package also contains a draft law amending the criminal procedure). This draft law provides for the establishment of a new unit under the authority of the Director-General of the SRS and this unit will have the right to carry out operational activities. Amendments to the Criminal Procedure Act, on which we will discuss later, provide that the new institution will have the rights of the investigating authority. So what are we offering to do? Well, in simple terms, we are offered to create a small KNAB, which will be subject to the Director-General of the SRS. Of course, we are not enough with the big KNAB, we want each institution to have a tiny beak that can look after officials working in each individual ministry, institution. But it's not a reform! In this document, if we look at the bill, we can agree, the proposal to merge the Financial Police with the Customs police can be accepted. Yeah, you can do that! But it is important that everything offered by amendments to the law is in line with the objectives that have been defined. In the context of the progress of this draft law, account should be taken of the fact that the issue was addressed in the government on 14 June. If you look at the government's website, you will see that this document has no opinions, because it was quickly placed on the agenda and considered that the issue could be decided. On the other hand, the draft law on amendments to the criminal procedure is accompanied by an opinion. One opinion - from the Ministry of Justice. And what did the Ministry of Justice say? Well, in the very correct language, he said that we shouldn't do it! Yeah, they didn't say that. Well, they can't write it, but they write that in principle the issue has not been assessed, has not been debated and that the course is wrong, because we have a KNAB that can work with it. But it was not considered important. And the most embarrassing of me is the people who are leading this draft law to speak out loud about the reform, and all those who are pointing to the problems that are in this draft law are opponents of the reform. But shouldn't quality be? I think it is very important to have quality. I mentioned two things that the draft law provides for. Bring together two police forces - that can be supported. The second case is to grant the right to carry out operational activities. This cannot be supported. But there is also a third thing. The draft law emphasises that the Director-General of the SRS will have a form. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. M.Bondars: “Uniform!” ) And the argument tried to justify it, because really the question is important. And what do we read in the annotation? So to ensure... I'm sorry... No... It is said here that the Director-General of the SRS, when performing his duties, wears uniforms, as well as provides for the tax and customs police to maintain their level of service. So the director will have a form. But it's not the only... It goes on to say that it is very important to pay attention to new stitches, emblems, and tokens. This is an extremely important issue, it will help the SRS to work better - if there are beautiful stitches and tokens, it will help us. But most of all... It's comical, but... I listened, exactly how the proponents of the bill justified. When the question was asked: “Do you think it is important for the SRS to become such a police force as to form?” - Then the answer was, "Well, in principle, that director should not wear their form every day, but only in solemn events." Dear colleagues, this is not a reform! It's a simulation! I ask you not to support this draft law. (Applause)
ParlaMint-LV_2016-09-22-PT12-375-U47	The name of Member Ilze Viņķelis.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-09-22-PT12-375-U48	Good morning, colleagues! I would like to say that similar types of initiatives are not new. And here I will quote a testimony to you, namely: “You have to walk with me in well-sliding boots, keep your clothes in order, properly draw buttons, and look like a soldier, not a civilist band. It's quite surprising that none of you have a soldier coming in. Only one of my servants was looking at the strawberry, but he stole my parade mundier and sold it to the Jewish quarter.” That's what Lieutenant Lukash said to the good soldier, Shvesh. And here we are again. (Applause)
ParlaMint-LV_2016-09-22-PT12-375-U49	The name of the Member, John Adamson.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-09-22-PT12-375-U50	Highly honored Presidium! Dear colleagues, When we talk about this draft law, we see another chaos that lies with us, both in executive power and in part! - In the Saeima. What does this involve? With such a strong courage and necessity, we defended the need for the establishment of an Internal Security Office in the Ministry of the Interior. We made it for a couple of years. We made it. Well, it's starting to work. There would be no problem. But why do we not again want to delegate these functions to the institution that has already been created? Why do we build a new institution? For quality. You know, it's very interesting... Recently we criminalised so-called envelope salaries, and then the Ministry of Finance and the State Revenue Service called on people to report envelope salaries because they need to be combated so that the country can receive more taxes. As if these calls are normal and correct. But what is happening in reality? Former State Police Officer writes a letter to the Head of the Financial Police about the payment of salaries in envelopes in such and such a firm. Moreover, as a former State Police Officer, with all legal grounds: what, where, in invoices, banks... It's like it's clear. But again we get to the double, because the answer is unique: you know, it's not the competence of the Financial Police, it's the competence of the State Revenue Service, and we have to talk about taxes and duties. Let them do it! What circus are we making here?Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Is the quality of wearing uniforms or wearing clothes going to improve?
ParlaMint-LV_2016-09-22-PT12-375-U51	Name to Member Edgars Putras.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-09-22-PT12-375-U52	Good morning, colleagues! In fact, the question is probably not whether or not there is a uniform. This does not change the substance of the matter. ( The drug is noise. Depp. S. Aboltiņa: “But the annotation emphasizes the meaning of the uniform!” ) The substance of the case at present is one thing: the merger between the Customs and the Financial Police. Is it permissible for both police to work on the same thing without communicating with each other? Functions often overlap. Talking about the Internal Security Part. It is now subject to the Financial Police. The Financial Police has recently fallen rather sharply into the shadow of suspicion of unfair workers. So the part of internal security is probably subject to cheats. ( Intercretion: “Watch! ” ) Is this a normal situation? I don't think it is. I don't think it is. The question is, in fact, this. This is the first reading. So the proposals were made that part of the draft law could be supported, part not. But please! There will be a second reading, a deadline for the submission of proposals. Let's make proposals, let's discuss, let's talk. Why should this draft law be rejected at the moment? That is, in fact, what I wanted to say. Today's vote is in favour of whether we will take a step towards limiting smuggling, reducing VAT schemes, reducing unfair workers who have been "carried out" in the State Revenue Service. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. S. Aboltiņa: “This is not written in the annotation!” ) So, by voting against, you actually reject these reforms, think that this is a normal situation and society does not expect you to become a reliable institution in the eyes of the public, and people would be willing to pay taxes without debate, and they should not see stories where an employee has missed something again. Whether there is a direct or indirect connection, but we have lost a cigarette factory (Dep. A.Clementjevs: “Not for us, but for you!” ), at the expense of VAT schemes. Let's stop it! These reforms are aimed at limiting all of them. Let us vote in favour of this: being, or not being, smuggling, reducing the VAT scheme and the number of these unfair workers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-09-22-PT12-375-U53	Name to Member Andrejs Judin, for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-09-22-PT12-375-U54	I admit that Mr Putra had no time to get to know the letter from the President of Latvia, in which he explained the importance of every reading. We are voting on the concept at first reading. And here's the concept of three things. The first thing is to combine two police. That is something we support. The second is to set up an institution under the authority of the Director-General. We do not support this. And the third - forms. That's the concept. Talking about this bill. When I saw that there was no annotation, I contacted KNAB and asked them what they thought. What was the answer? The KNAB is not at all aware of this proposal, this draft law. They were not asked for an annotation. This is not necessary. As I understood from Mr Putra, he has information about criminals working somewhere in public institutions. Would you like to report KNAB? If you don't have information, it's another story. But if your words are not empty, you have the opportunity to act. Talking about the relevant model that is being offered to us. The Ministry of Justice indicated in a very correct manner that this institution, that office, will have an obligation to control activities of SRS employees and to check. The Director-General is one of the staff and his work must also be monitored. Remember, there was a director-general, Sonchik, who was sentenced... There are also cases. Question: "If we create an institution subordinate to the Director-General, do you think that it will be able to effectively control the Director-General's activities? ‘ Of course, it will be effective!’ I'm sorry, that won't be the case! Thank you. (Applause)
ParlaMint-LV_2016-09-22-PT12-375-U55	Name to Member Janis Urbanovich.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-09-22-PT12-375-U56	Dear Members, I am particularly appealing to you, the honourable and honorable coalition! For more than half a year there has been talk about criminals, about the influence of mafia in the State Revenue Service, and this is happening constantly, and it is done by those who run both a coalition and this institution. Remember how it was when it was driven... when the previous contest, which came out! And the reasons were given both by the Prime Minister, by the Minister of Finance and members of the coalition, by the senior officials of the state: how great the impression... and how guilty different criminal groups are of their absence. Today, we have also heard from Mr Putra about this great mafia power over his supervised institution, which he represents, the Ministry of Finance, and the State Revenue Service under its authority. Colleagues, dear, either acknowledge your incompetentness and give room for others to work here, or put materials on the table and prove that you speak a clear language and do not lie, and do not lie over the existing national facilities and its institutes! If you do not want to do this here, write in the usual way - anonymously - or in any other way report it to the relevant authorities. But if they do not trust you, my fellow Members, there is a clear language to speak and the public at large must say: "You know, we are totally bankrupt as a state power, we cannot do anything. And not only can we not, but we do not!” Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-09-22-PT12-375-U57	I closed the debate. Will the rapporteur add something on behalf of the Commission?
ParlaMint-LV_2016-09-22-PT12-375-U58	Dear Members, See, opinions are different, and I can only repeat: please vote!
ParlaMint-LV_2016-09-22-PT12-375-U59	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote for the support of the draft law “Amendments to the Law “On State Revenue Service” at first reading! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 40, against - 22, abstain - 29. The draft law at first reading is not supported. On the agenda - draft law on "Amendments to the Law on Social Services and Social Assistance", first reading. Member of the Commission for Social and Labour Affairs Mārtiņš Šics.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-09-22-PT12-375-U60	Dear colleagues, The current legal framework provides that social rehabilitation services after participation in international operations are available only to soldiers of the National Armed Forces and officials of the Ministry of the Interior system with special service degrees. However, such guarantees have not been established for civilian experts participating in international missions and operations. Currently, eight people participate in OSCE missions from Latvia, including Luhansk, Doņecka and other dangerous locations. ( The head of the sitting was knocked down with a hammer.) Civil experts shall perform their duties in the same way as soldiers in the event of an increased risk and risk. The draft law provides that social rehabilitation services will in future also be available to all civilian experts following their activities in international missions and operations. In addition, this draft law is part of a single package with appropriate amendments to the International Assistance Law. Please support at first reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-09-22-PT12-375-U61	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote in favour of the first reading of the draft law on social services and social assistance. Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 89, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. The draft law at first reading has been supported. Please set a deadline for the submission of the proposals for second reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-09-22-PT12-375-U62	The deadline for the submission of proposals for second reading is 30 September of this year.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-09-22-PT12-375-U63	Thank you. Proposals shall be submitted by 30 September of this year. Dear colleagues, As there are indications that our electronic system sometimes works with disruptions, there is a request to apply for a debate using green leaflets - this is possible. We're going on. On the agenda - draft law “Amendments to the Law on the Legal Force of Documents”, first reading. On behalf of the Legal Commission, Member Inga Bite.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-09-22-PT12-375-U64	Good morning, dear colleagues! This is one of the few draft laws that we are considering, the aim of which is only a direct and practical reduction of the administrative burden on citizens. In particular, the draft law provides that, in future, not only legal persons but also natural persons will be able to certify the derivatives of their documents themselves, and that they will be able to do so not only separately on each page of the document, but also, if necessary, to certify a set of derivatives of several documents. The Legal Commission supported this draft law. I also ask you to support this.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-09-22-PT12-375-U65	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote in favour of the first reading of the draft law on amendments to the Law on the Legal Force of Documents! Please vote mode! Please get the result! It's not about - 85, it's against and abstains. The draft law at first reading has been supported. Please set a deadline for the submission of the proposals for second reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-09-22-PT12-375-U66	The Commission proposes on 27 September.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-09-22-PT12-375-U67	Thank you. The draft legislation is due by 27 September this year.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-09-22-PT12-375-U68	Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-09-22-PT12-375-U69	On the agenda - draft law “Amendments to the Law on Real Estate State Cadastre”, first reading. Member of the Legal Commission Gaidis Berzins.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-09-22-PT12-375-U70	Dear Chairman of the Saeima. Dear colleagues, Both this and the next draft law are closely linked. These are related to implementation of the Institute of Building Rights in the Latvian legal system, which is foreseen by the 2015 amendments to the Civil Law, which enter into force on 1 January of next year. This draft law provides that when the building law is implemented, the right of construction is also a cadastre entity. This is a complement to the law in question. The Commission supported the draft law. On behalf of the Commission, please accept,
ParlaMint-LV_2016-09-22-PT12-375-U71	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote for support for the first reading of the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Real Estate State Cadastre”! Please vote mode! Please get the result! It's not about - 83, it's against and refrains from - it's not. The draft law at first reading has been supported. Please set a deadline for the submission of the proposals for second reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-09-22-PT12-375-U72	The Commission proposes on 27 September.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-09-22-PT12-375-U73	Thank you. Proposals are due by 27 September this year. On the agenda - draft law “Amendments to the Land Books Act”, first reading. Member of the Legal Commission Gaidis Berzins.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-09-22-PT12-375-U74	Colleagues! As I have already mentioned, both these draft laws - both amendments to the Land Register Law and amendments to the Real Estate State Cadastre Law - are related. These amendments to the Land Register Law provide for the procedure for the registration and deletion of building rights. There were discussions in the Commission. There may be clarifications regarding the need to notify, for example, the creditor that the building right is coming to an end. We will certainly work on this. The Commission supported the draft legislation at first reading. On behalf of the Commission, please support the draft law on amendments to the Land Books Act.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-09-22-PT12-375-U75	Please call me! We will vote in favour of the first reading of the draft law on amendments to the Land Books Act! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 87, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The draft law at first reading has been supported. Please set a deadline for the second reading of the proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-09-22-PT12-375-U76	For this draft law, the Commission also proposes setting a deadline for the submission of proposals on 27 September.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-09-22-PT12-375-U77	Thank you. Proposals are due by 27 September this year. On the agenda - draft law “Amendments to the Waste Management Act”, first reading. On behalf of the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy, Member Ingmārs Līdaka.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-09-22-PT12-375-U78	Hello, dear colleagues! So, to your attention, the draft law on "Amendments to the Waste Management Act". These amendments aim to reduce the cost of waste management in the long term, but in the short term... Well, this could be due to some changes, such as tariff formation, as this waste management tariff could in future also include sorting costs. This may also lead to an overall increase in the share of sorted waste in the waste stream. There are also a number of issues to be discussed here. One of them is one which has already been identified by the Commission and concerns the inclusion of the cost of scientific research in the tariff, but of course before the second reading we will also discuss this issue within the Commission. The committee responsible shall request approval of the draft law at first reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-09-22-PT12-375-U79	Please call me! We will vote in favour of the first reading of the draft law on "Amendments to the Law on Waste Management". Please vote mode! Please get the result! It's not about - 86, it's against and refrains from - it's not. The draft law at first reading has been supported. Please set a deadline for the submission of the proposals for second reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-09-22-PT12-375-U80	September 30th.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-09-22-PT12-375-U81	Thank you. Proposals shall be submitted by 30 September of this year. On the agenda - draft law “Amendment to the Law on Security Activities”, first reading. On behalf of the Commission for Defence, Home Affairs and Anti-Corruption - Member Kārlis Krēsliņš.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-09-22-PT12-375-U82	Dear colleagues, Draft law “Amendment to the Law on Security Activities”, first reading. The draft law is part of a legislative package, i.e. a single package with an amendment to the law “On Latvijas Banka” and relates to ensuring the physical security of the Bank of Latvia. Currently, the Defence Authority of the Bank of Latvia is registered and acts as an internal security service in accordance with the Law on Security Activities. However, the role and specifics of the Defence Authority exceed the functions of the internal security service regulated by the Law on Security Activities. The activities of the Defence Authority are also regulated by other external laws and regulations, which, by the way, establish exclusive rights in the field of movement of arms and special means, as well as special status in the field of state defence. The Defence Authority is in essence a part of the state defence sector, because according to Section 3, Paragraph 3 of the Law on the National Armed Forces during war or in an exceptional state, the Defence Authority is included in the composition of the National Armed Forces. In order to ensure the readiness of the Defence Authority to be part of the National Armed Forces at any time, the personnel of the Defence Administration shall be trained and trained in accordance with the requirements of professional military service, thus exceeding the level of skills required for security personnel. With these amendments to the Law, regulation of the activities of the Defence Authority of the Bank of Latvia is excluded from this Law by strengthening the main tasks, rights, requirements for persons employed, conditions of use of physical force, special means and weapons in the Law “On the Bank of Latvia”. On behalf of the Commission, I call for support for the draft law at first reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-09-22-PT12-375-U83	Let us start a debate. The name of the Member, John Adamson.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-09-22-PT12-375-U84	Dear Bureau! Dear colleagues, This draft law, as well as the draft law “Amendment to the Law “On the Bank of Latvia”, which we will look at a little later, proves again what chaos and lack of system prevail in our legislation and public administration as a whole. Mr Chair seems to be right - I stress - as if rightly - justified why these amendments have been made. Those who have been a little in contact with the army have been military people, well understand that in an exceptional situation or - don't give to God! - in case of war, the Defence Authority of the Bank of Latvia will continue to perform very similar functions to those it currently performs. The speculation that it will go to the NBS... Let's not discuss it! But why have these amendments been made? For a very simple reason. A year ago, there was a proposal that I had tabled, but which was not supported, that the Security Act should be divided into at least two parts, separate security services and security firms, because its specifics are absolutely different and the amount of work is different. Currently, it is proposed to make an exception that affects the activities of the Defence Board of the Bank of Latvia. Mr. Chair! A little clarification. The Defence Board deals not only with physical security, but also with object security, cash collection, transportation of money and so on. There's a fundamental problem here. Since a number of important decisions were made to amend the Law on the Security Activities, which provided for new arresters, new order and similar, the Bank of Latvia chose the easiest way. The Ministry of the Interior does not give up the rights that are delegated to it, and says: know that Latvijas Banka will protect whatever it wants. If you carefully read the amendment to the Law “On the Bank of Latvia” if the memory is not mentioned in Section 4.2.2, which will determine the procedure for the acquisition of firearms at the Bank of Latvia and which will determine the procedure for the use of firearms held by the Defence Authority. This right is not delegated to the Council of the Bank of Latvia. We can talk about how competent they are in the financial and economic sphere. I'm not an expert. I think that they are successfully dealing with the problem that they have to deal with. But why are financiers and economists interfering and trying to make decisions in areas where their competences are rather questionable? Why what is written in the law with blood - issue of weapons, issue of weapons permits, purchase of weapons... Why does the State Police refuse to continue this control? Where is the problem? Its problem is elementary chaos, misunderstanding, lack of system in the country as a whole. Next, applying for the exception, will be security services related to “Latvijas Pasts” and other state agencies such as “ Latvenergo” and similar and having similar problems. Why should all of this be done instead of a normal rule of law, divided into two parts - the law on the security services and the law on the security services. We would therefore remove a whole series of problems that exist at the moment. Colleagues, however, may let us descend to the sinful earth and start working in a normal, systematic way, rather than getting one or the other problem out of context. I call on you not to support this draft law, as well as the next draft law on the Bank of Latvia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-09-22-PT12-375-U85	Name to Member Kārlis Chair.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-09-22-PT12-375-U86	There were some issues that were also very close to me. It is true for Mr Adamson to see more in detail how, in an exceptional situation or in a war situation, there is such or another structure in order to better understand what collective protection, a national defence policy, is meant by everyone, but these issues are not covered by this law. They're in contact. I therefore call, in principle, for support for the decision taken by the Commission by a majority - to support this draft law at first reading. However, as regards national defence policy and the role of the different bodies, a separate discussion should be held.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-09-22-PT12-375-U87	The name of Member John Adamson, for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-09-22-PT12-375-U88	Colleagues! I could agree with what Mr Chair said, but there is one nuance that I forgot to mention. This is about the purchase of firearms. Open the relevant laws and see what they are like to be firearms! We delegate functions to the purchase of firearms without determining what these firearms are. It's a little California rifles, air rifles - all of this is included in firearms. Big-headed machine guns, small-scale cannons - these are all guns. What weapons are necessary for the Defence Board of the Bank of Latvia? As long as the current law norm was in force, the acquisition of these weapons was much less controlled or coordinated with the State Police. Do we need to delegate the right to take decisions on the use of weapons, to destroy any suspicious bystanders or to act like people whose primary competence is finance and the economy? Here we are once again faced with what our Bureau is sinning about. Well, why are these issues that are interrelated - the amendment of the Security Activities Law and the corresponding amendment to the Bank of Latvia Law - transferred to different commissions? I have no objections to the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission, but yet... Our commission does not propose amendments to the relevant laws affecting the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission. Why is this competence delegated to commissions with fewer experience on that or another issue? Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-09-22-PT12-375-U89	I closed the debate. Mr. Adamson! I have added that Members have the opportunity to ask for draft laws to be passed on to the commissions they want, and this is the vote of 100 Members of the Saeima on which draft laws are passed. Does the rapporteur wish to add something on behalf of the Commission?
ParlaMint-LV_2016-09-22-PT12-375-U90	No, I don't have anything to say. There is now a first reading and a second reading can be put forward for proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-09-22-PT12-375-U91	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote in favour of the first reading of the draft law “Amendment to the Law on Security Activities”! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 67, for - no, for - 23. The draft law at first reading has been supported. Please set a deadline for the submission of the proposals for second reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-09-22-PT12-375-U92	Request for proposals by 10 October.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-09-22-PT12-375-U93	Thank you. Proposals are due by 10 October of this year. On the agenda - Draft Law on National Security Act, first reading. On behalf of the Commission for Defence, Home Affairs and Anti-Corruption - Member Aleksejs Loskutovs.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-09-22-PT12-375-U94	Thank you, Presidium. Colleagues! Draft law ‘Amendments to the National Security Law’. The draft law was designed to limit the acquisition of military and combat experience of Latvian citizens and non-citizens abroad. Adopting this law will reduce the internal security risks of Latvia, which could be related to obtaining military and combat experience in third countries, which can be used contrary to Latvia's interests and in such a way as to oppose Latvia's national independence, sovereignty and territorial integrity. The draft law provides for a ban on the Latvian citizen to serve in foreign armed forces, internal troops, military organisation, intelligence or security service, police or the service of judicial institutions, with the exception of the services of international organisations and the armed forces of Latvia's allies. An exception will also be the case if a Latvian citizen performs a mandatory service in his/her country of nationality, with which a double citizenship has developed in accordance with the provisions of the Citizenship Law. In turn, non-citizens will not be allowed to serve abroad. Non-compliance with the ban will also include criminal liability, which is specified in the draft law "Amendment to Criminal Law" (No 638/Lp12), which we will also be looking at today at at first reading. On behalf of the Commission, I call for support for the first reading of the draft law on "Amendments to the Law on National Security".
ParlaMint-LV_2016-09-22-PT12-375-U95	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote in favour of the first reading of the draft law on "Amendments to the Law on National Security". Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. The draft law at first reading has been supported. Please set a deadline for the submission of the proposals for second reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-09-22-PT12-375-U96	Thank you for supporting the bill. The deadline for the submission of proposals for second reading is September 29.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-09-22-PT12-375-U97	Thank you. Proposals shall be submitted by 29 September of this year. On the agenda - draft law “Amendments to Criminal Procedure Law” (No 608/Lp12), first reading. On behalf of the Legal Commission, Member Andrejs Elksniņš.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-09-22-PT12-375-U98	Dear Chairman of the Saeima. Dear Members, We see amendments to the Criminal Procedure Law at first reading. These amendments are based on the previously rejected draft law on structural changes of the State Revenue Service. The draft law under consideration is in fact accompanying the previous draft law and essentially determines in criminal proceedings a new entity of operational activities, which would be subject to the Director General of the State Revenue Service. The draft law has not received any support from the Legal Commission in its assessment of this issue. On behalf of the Legal Commission, I call for that draft law not to be supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-09-22-PT12-375-U99	Thank you. Let us start a debate. Name to Member Alexander Kirštein.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-09-22-PT12-375-U100	Dear President, Honourable Members! When the Saeima rejected the draft law “Amendments to the Law “On State Revenue Service””, the entire elite of smugglers was breathed lightly, the bandit of Latgale was lightly breathed – the smugglers, the main supporters of the Agreement and the financiers. ( The ring of noise.) I do not understand why the Unity voted on this. What, then, this draft law... Oh! And I was surprised by Mr. Adamson, who just told me on television that there are terribly many organizations with operational functions in Latvia. Mr. Adamson said 12, I guess 15. And now he goes and votes against reducing the number of these organisations. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. J.Adamson: “Increased! Read the laws needed!” ) Mr Adamson voted against the merger of the Financial Police and the Customs Police. What, then, do these amendments intend to do? I hope that we will not make mistakes and support! Firstly, so far the Director-General of the SRS did not control the internal security unit under the financial police. So they also investigated the crimes committed by the financial police themselves. And we voted for not having to have this control now in the hands of the Director-General of the SRS rather than the Financial Police. ( The utterance: “Funny things! ”) ) Second. Why do we vote against the Naples Convention, which was adopted in 1997, which is compulsory for us, which provides that the Customs police have the right to finance, tax, and that these things must be brought together? Mr Judine, you must not have come to know this convention if you start talking so late about the bluke, about the emblems, about the forms in order to dampen this fight against banditism. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. V.Spolish intermediate call.) That's it! That is why I call on you not to embarrass with uniforms and stuff, but to unite the Customs and the Financial Police in order to work effectively and squander the seats and different seats already in the New Age... Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. ( Milestones.) We will vote and support this draft law! Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-09-22-PT12-375-U101	Name to Member Carl Sergeant.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-09-22-PT12-375-U102	Good morning, colleagues! Of course, I too, as a member of the Commission on Defence, Home Affairs and Anti-Corruption, would only be pleased to have one instead of two operational entities. That would, of course, only be a positive fact. Of course, we can talk about the fact that the amendments to the law proposed by the Ministry of Finance are perhaps not perfectly drowned to the end. We can say that we feel that these are not real reforms. Well, that could be the beginning of these reforms, but you should not already be prevented from submitting to the second reading a very large number of valid proposals that could change something in this case. It seems strange to me that today, in 2016, we are still talking about VAT schemes that, I am sorry, were introduced by the Ministry of Finance at such a sadly famous fuel company “Dinaz”. You know when it was? It was in 2001. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. G.Kūrris: “No! In the 1990s, Holland! They took over.” ) And these schemes are still working! Dana Reizniece-Ozola, who has only been in this ministry for eight months, has, of course, not yet been able to fully identify these octopus and, of course, we cannot want her to destroy what has grown there for the last 13 years in eight months. I remember, we also mentioned here Mr Sonchik, during which all this flourished. You know, Mr Sonchik has not been in this post since 2003, but we are still talking about these schemes here! And now I will allow you to read the names of all the finance ministers who have been in the ministerial post since 2000. So: Valdis Dombrovskis (2002-2004) (Interface: “Aye!” ), Oskars Spurdziņš ( 2004-2007).), Atis Slakteris ( 2007-2009).) (a.k.a. Well, let us not talk about this stage; these were, of course, times of stagnation, or black band, but the last ones. These are Einars Repše (2009-2010).), Andris Vilks (2010-2014.), Jānis Reirs ( 2014-2016.) (a.k.a. ( Intercretion: “Sorry! ” ) Where were your reforms, dear?Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no,
ParlaMint-LV_2016-09-22-PT12-375-U103	The name of the Member, Andrejs Judin.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-09-22-PT12-375-U104	I realized that some people seem to be able to submit a bill called the Law Against Evil, to record whatever, and those who will support will be fighters, but those who are against - well, they are enemies, they do not want any reform, no benefits. Colleagues! I will repeat to those who may not fully understand the substance of the draft law in question. It is proposed that under the authority of the Director-General of the SRS, under the authority of the authority - I hope everyone understands! - there will be a service which will have the right to work and carry out operational activities, investigative activities, and this service will also control the activities of the Director-General. Because, as you remember, the Director-General has the right, for example, to sign the instruments of settlement for a million unpaid tax, and so on. Is such an arrangement in line with our goals? Mr. Sergeant, do we really want the authority that controls the institution to be the authority that controls his actions? Is this efficiency? No, no. No way! I would like to emphasise once again: we support the good proposals contained in this draft law. And, for example, in the context of this draft law on Amendments to Criminal Procedure, there is no problem with drawing up and submitting an alternative draft law. We talked about this in the Legal Commission, and we intend to do so. Is the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission capable of doing the same? In other words, remove wrong, poor quality standards and submit a law that will contribute to achieving the objectives. I very much hope that you have the capacity and desire to do good things.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-09-22-PT12-375-U105	Name of Member Solvita Āboltiņš.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-09-22-PT12-375-U106	Yes, honourable colleagues! Closing this summer session, the President of Latvia, who comes from the Union of Greens and Farmers, invited us all to think about the quality of the legislative process. Two weeks ago, he held a seminar involving both foreign experts and our own experts to discuss the problems that we may be doing in our daily life. It has resulted in a letter that has been sent to Parliament, and the Speaker of the Saeima has signalled it to each of us. This is a question that you have heard from the tribunal here many times: “But we can support and then fix something.” The basic theme of both the President of Latvia's address from this workshop, closing the session, both in this seminar and in these letters, is that something is being improved here all the time. Read the Rules of Procedure, which states that it supports the draft law in a conceptual way at first reading. Conceptually, things can be agreed... can politically agree that we are undertaking reforms. And such an agreement is in the coalition that we are undertaking reforms. Because after the Minister of Finance has so unprofessionally “springed” the institution, he has tried to rotate something somewhere, insulting all the employees in the non-professionality, without sorting, not by applying any fault personally... Then, some people are enticed to the Prison Administration, which no one knows at all where to lay, who to work and whether they will come to work. All this mystical revolt... And I'm going to remind you, Mr. Sergeant, of any reforms. Yes, there were reforms, and this year's report on how tax collection has been successful shows that the reforms were in the right direction. We also agreed that the State Revenue Service should balance with these functions, but above all it should be a supporter of entrepreneurs. The government declaration, which we all supported, states that we want to see more money in our country to collect taxes so that we can meet all the needs. As a result, one institution has been "spoiled up" and for six months about everything that does not happen, we hear as the only argument: "CONJUNCTION resists reforms!" As Mr. Urbanovich said, thank you. That's it! Mr Putra, it is necessary to make an elementary distinction between what the legislator does, what the executive does and what the judiciary does. And if there are these mystical criminals, there is the judiciary that will deal with it. If it prepares a draft law on reforms, it must be dealt with by the executive and approved by the legislator. At the moment, an absolute legal brother has been presented, I will not be afraid of this word. And don't talk about a political unwillingness here. In the Legal Commission, the official was brave enough to say: “I was made to reconcile this politically.” As a lawyer and professional, I do not see any argument to support this draft law. None of the invited experts in the Legal Commission supported these amendments to the Criminal Procedure Law. There can be political agreement on the reforms, but there can be no political agreement on the amendment of procedural laws. If we politically accept amendments to the civil procedure, to the criminal procedure, then none of the powers will work anymore. These draft laws are to be submitted professionally, and they are also to be prepared professionally for consideration here in Parliament. You were here when we agreed on Monday. We agreed on Monday that a professionally prepared and expert-supported bill "Amendments to the Criminal Procedure Law" would be submitted and we will support it. We reaffirmed our support for these reforms. What did we hear yesterday? ‘ Whether or not!’ Again. What's to blame? ‘ UNIFORMITY is not politically desirable." Measure and show the public that political will. But what society expects of you is a professional job. Both the Minister of Finance, your Committee on Budgets and Finance (taxes) and the Legal Commission. And thanks to the Legal Commission, this bill was not supported by anyone at the Legal Commission. Nobody! Even the representatives of the FAO, after none of the experts supported it and said that it was a brother and what problems it could cause. This draft law was rejected in its entirety. If you can't work professionally, don't look for blame in any other policy! Once again, I have argued from this troupe: the Unity supports and will support reforms in the State Revenue Service, will act as a constructive coalition partner so that we can fulfil the tasks assigned by the government, especially those concerning both the fight against irregularities and the promotion of our prosperity. But we cannot support such draft laws. That is why UNITY will not support this draft law. (Applause)
ParlaMint-LV_2016-09-22-PT12-375-U107	The name of the Member, Andrejs Elksniņš.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-09-22-PT12-375-U108	Dear colleagues, You, representatives of the coalition, think about it: maybe you still find that coalition Treaty to be unnecessary? Perhaps you could review this and actually create a new coalition? ( Milestones.) We're open to offers, we can... There you go! But it's such a little derogation. Being is absolutely simple. And there is no obligation here, neither with the quality of legislation nor with the fact that the ZZS wants to reform in the State Revenue Service. The truth is harsh, and it could be described in the light of the following circumstances. Well, first of all, the Unity. Well, what kind of quality of legislation are you talking about? When comparing the quality of the legislation with last week's vote on amendments regarding remuneration to the General Director of the State Revenue Service... So you're all over the parliament... You gave the opposition 15 minutes to submit proposals and discussed the draft law in full one day. On what recommendations, quotes from the President of Latvia... In fact, even from the time of Birzins comes, nothing is new about what he offers there. What is the quality of the legislation that you are talking about in Parliament at all? You're a coalition. You wanted to adopt the draft law one day and you did it, and you don't care if the President of Latvia said it there or, I don't know, an expert, someone, the Chief Justice of the Supreme Court or the President of the Constitutional Court... You don't care! This is first and foremost. Second round. It is absolutely clear that you are responsible for what has happened over the past - at least eight-nine years - in the State Revenue Service, in the Ministry of Finance, in the Finance Police, in the Customs Criminal Administration and so on... regarding the grey economy, VAT schemes, tax collection rates, foreign investors' objections regarding investment in the Latvian economy... You are responsible! Well, say honestly: well, it's true! That's it! Prime Minister, Minister of Finance, all the representatives of the Unity who, respectively, have been dealing with it for years... And for years, the Unity has created a structure for “your people” in all public institutions - KNAB, the Financial Police, the Customs Criminal Administration, and so on. And indeed, if we already have all the octopus, as you have pointed it out again, Mr. Sergeant... that something covers some criminal cases there, case investigations... Where is the Prosecutor General, forgive me? Is he sleeping? Don't sleep.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-09-22-PT12-375-U109	Mr. Elksniņš, I invite you back to the subject! The draft law “Amendments to the Criminal Procedure Law” is on the agenda.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-09-22-PT12-375-U110	I'm sorry! But it's all linked. Why didn't we support... Is that so? You weren't at the sitting of the Legal Commission when we saw it.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-09-22-PT12-375-U111	Please debate the draft law. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. A.Kamiņš: “He is debating the bill!” ) Council Regulation (EC) No 1257/96 of 20 June 1996 concerning humanitarian aid (OJ L 163, 2.7.1996, p. 1).
ParlaMint-LV_2016-09-22-PT12-375-U112	Here we go! All this is in principle due to the absolute redistribution between the Greens/Farmers Union and the Unity. What do the fisheries want to do in this framework? They want to destroy the Unity’s corrupt system (Dep. A.Bērzins: “Aha!” ), in which the people of Unity worked - Borovik... What else... I've read a lot of publications that they don't do there: VAT schemes fall, steal, laupa... Everyone has tolerances - everyone has tolerances, by the way!... Discounts are issued either by the Security Police or by the Constitutional Protection Bureau. That's how they poor the people of Latvia! The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. J.Vectirāns: “Be Courageous!” ) The Union of Greens/Farmers does not like this. What does the Union of Greens/Farmers want to achieve with these amendments to the Criminal Procedure Law? External personnel and other management expenditure in support of the ‘Taxation and customs union’ policy area And what to do with the merged entity? Take your own! The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. A.Bērzins: “Vo, malacis!” ) Very welcome thing! ( Answer from the drug.) Why not? We're open! We're open! Open to not participate in the whole of this event, which you have in your fights, by chatting with each other and shaping each other, you have set a goal and try to involve the legislator in all of it. We are open to all of you to address these statements now at the Office of the Prosecutor General... Actually, he also listens... Charlie, are you listening? He can... He can hear! The Criminal Procedure Act sets out an obligation: they must respond to everything that is public. We don't even have to write a submission to them. You don't have to write according to the law! He hears what Elksniņš says, Sergeant, what Mrs. Apple... In fact, you should also look at this at the National Security Commission, which is a very serious issue... You should evaluate all this in those institutions, and then the Prosecutor General should come up with an opinion on whether or not corruption exists. Strelčenkok (as long as he is there) should also have an opinion: yes or no. The National Security Commission needs to find out: there is or is not all corruption there. And you must finally come to the conclusion of who will be the next Director-General, who will guide all of this - who will carry out the reorganisation, change and alarm. And when we get all the assessments in the Legal Commission that everything is right there, everyone agrees, everything is balanced, nowhere there is corruption, all of us will live long and happy and we will be able to vote. That is why, honourable colleagues, the group SAVES against you, the personal, just the personal! - the resolution of issues within the framework of both the first and second draft laws. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. S. Āboltiņa: “By the criminal procedure!” ) Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-09-22-PT12-375-U113	We are continuing the debate. Name to Member Edgars Putr... Dear colleagues, Members of the Saeima Gaidis Berzins, Edwards Smiltens, Raivis Dzintars, Augusts Brigmanis and Ivars Zarins ask for the sitting on 22 September to be held without interruption - until all items on the agenda are examined. Do Members have objections? There's no objection. We are continuing the debate. Name to Member Edgars Putras.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-09-22-PT12-375-U114	Colleagues! I think that the Union of Greens/Farmers and the Ministry of Finance are ready to do without personal insults. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. S. Āboltiņa: “The Ministry of Finance will offend?” ) And the message on our part is that we are ready for work and our goal is only one: fair and fair State Revenue Service and satisfied customers who are our taxpayers.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-09-22-PT12-375-U115	Name to Member Alexander Kirštein, for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-09-22-PT12-375-U116	Dear President, Honourable Members! Well, I'm sorry! I wanted to sit, but I hear foolishness, and I can't come. There's one lady who said that we shouldn't make political decisions. You see, political decisions are first made in any normal country and legal decisions are only then made. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. S. Aboltiņa: “Hear it!” ) There was an assembly of the Soviet People’s Members, where Medvedev, a former opposition to the Soviet system, said: “Latvians are good lawyers but weak politicians. They talk about legal documents everywhere and do not understand one thing: when a political decision is made, they give it to the lawyer so that he can write it beautifully on paper and fix it where it is needed.” The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. S.Absolute intermediates.) Let us not embarrass this case again and support this draft law so that lawyers can correct it for second and third reading! The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. A. Berzins: “Stop with corruption!” ) Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-09-22-PT12-375-U117	I closed the debate. Will the rapporteur add a note on behalf of the Commission? No, no. Please call me! We will vote in favour of the first reading of the draft law on amendments to the Criminal Procedure Law! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For -41, for -29, for -24, for -29, for -24. The draft law at first reading is not supported. On the agenda - draft law “On a limited liability company “Bulduri Secondary School of Gardening”, first reading. On behalf of the Commission for Education, Culture and Science - Member Askolds Kļaviņš.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-09-22-PT12-375-U118	Good afternoon, honourable colleagues and present! In its meeting of 14 September, the Commission for Education, Culture and Science examined draft law “On a Limited Liability Society “Bulduri Secondary School of Gardening” prepared by the Ministry of Education and Science. The draft law provides in essence that the Bulduri Secondary School of Gardening will be a capital company of a derived public person, where all the shares will be held by the Latvian University of Agriculture. In other words, from the Ministry of Education and Science, they will be placed under the Ministry of Agriculture. On behalf of the Commission, I ask you to support the draft law at first reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-09-22-PT12-375-U119	Let us start a debate. The name of the Member, Intt Dalder. Mr. Dalder, you don't want to debate? The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. I. Dalder: “No!” ) Thank you. The Commission is therefore asking for support to be given to the draft law at first reading. Please call me! We will vote in favour of the first reading of the draft law “On a Limited Liability Society “Bulduri Secondary School of Gardening”! Please vote mode! Please get the result! It's not about - 85, it's against and abstains. The draft law at first reading has been supported. Please set a deadline for the submission of the proposals for second reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-09-22-PT12-375-U120	Thank you for your support. The Commission proposes 13 October.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-09-22-PT12-375-U121	Thank you. Proposals are due by 13 October this year. On the agenda - Draft Law “Amendment to Criminal Law” (No 638/Lp12), first reading. On behalf of the Legal Commission, Mr Andrejs Judin.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-09-22-PT12-375-U122	Dear colleagues, We are working on draft law No.638/Lp12 - Amendment to the Criminal Law. The draft law provides for the addition of a new article - Article 95.1 - and the responsibility for the foreign military forces of Latvian citizens and non-citizens. The draft law was drawn up in the light of the amendments to the National Security Law, which we supported at first reading today, and the draft law was aimed at limiting it (Dep. J.Adamson: “Do not limit it, but criminalise it!” ) Latvian citizens and non-citizens are able to gain military experience in other countries. Please support! On behalf of the Commission, please support at first reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-09-22-PT12-375-U123	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote in favour of the first reading of the draft law on criminal law (No 638/Lp12). Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. The draft law at first reading has been supported. Please set a deadline for the submission of the proposals for second reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-09-22-PT12-375-U124	September 29th.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-09-22-PT12-375-U125	Thank you. Proposals shall be submitted by 29 September of this year. On the agenda - draft law amending the Criminal Law (No 629/Lp12), first reading. On behalf of the Legal Commission, Member Gunārs Kūtris.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-09-22-PT12-375-U126	Dear colleagues, This draft law is linked to six more draft laws. Two of them are being watched at the Saeima sitting today, and four of our colleagues in another committee are likely to move to the next Saeima sitting as well. These amendments to the criminal law involve a very thorough work of law-makers. It must be said that the Criminal Procedure Law incorporated the concept of criminally acquired property and its confiscation procedure ten years ago. Over time, it was often necessary to explain in practice to practitioners and practitioners that confiscation of property provided for in the Criminal Procedure Law should be assessed in accordance with the principle of substantive law, namely the Criminal Law principle on the most favourable status. The interpretation of procedural rules means that the rule in force at the time of entry into force applies. So these are typical substantive rules and must be the criminal law. Some five years ago, scientists carried out a study on the issue of confiscation in the Latvian Criminal Law and Criminal Procedure Law and concluded (in our annotation it is also stated), what kind of confiscation in Latvia can be applied. And once again he said that there is an additional penalty under the Criminal Law. One article states that in addition, it is possible to confiscate a tool for committing a crime. In criminal proceedings, however, there is provision for confiscation of physical evidence, including instrumentalities, plus confiscation of criminally acquired property. That is, different types of confiscation. This regulation of criminal law provides for a more precise form of confiscation of property, which explicitly transfers it from the Criminal Procedure Law to Criminal Law and defines more precisely what is the property acquired and how the court decides on the confiscation of this property when it is an obvious additional penalty when it is an obvious means of committing a crime and when it is an obvious property acquired by crime. Plus still important - perhaps theoretical, but essential! - a factor is that confiscation of the proceeds of crime is not, in principle, a penalty. Because if someone thinks that the stolen goods, the taking of the stolen machine, he's fined, then I'm sorry... However, this is one of the additional means of influencing. Fraud or stolen or misappropriation is not a punishment for this person; it is a normal withdrawal because he has no right to it. That is why, in my opinion, this confiscation regime is very correct in the case of criminal law. The Legal Commission has supported this, and I also call on colleagues to support this draft law.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-09-22-PT12-375-U127	Let us start a debate. The name of the Member, John Adamson.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-09-22-PT12-375-U128	Dear Bureau! Dear colleagues, The quality of the work, the quality of the draft laws, and so on, has been very much discussed in the last hour of this troubling. I agree with what Mr Kūtra, as rapporteur, said about this draft law, but let us return to the quality of our work. These are all the accompanying draft laws that Mr Curry spoke about. But the basic law, which will be reviewed by the Commission for Defence, Home Affairs and Prevention of Corruption on Tuesday, is the Law on the Execution of Confiscation of Criminal Property. No one knows — perhaps anyone is hoping — whether the commission will support the draft law or support it. Whether or not Parliament will then accept it. Tell me, what is it about work organisation? Why do we once again face the fact that the Saeima Presidium cannot normally hand over the legislative package to a single commission so that even all the other commissions are jointly responsible? You obviously... The quality of this work can only be admired. Who makes these decisions and where? In my view, the draft law, which the Commission will see next Tuesday, is more in line with the term “law on lobbying of bailiffs”, because it is lobbying one particular category. And ask yourself a question in the future, speaking and discussing this bill. Recently, EUR 50 million have been confiscated and allocated to the state budget from Ukraine. Even the presidents of countries are discussing this. And now, after this concept, which we must start to endorse today, it follows that the bailiff will be rewarded for not doing anything... receive compensation for the transfer of some amount of money from one invoice to another. Can't do this, touch it, see the draft laws that are in the same package! However, I call on the Bureau to review its practices and, when it comes to quality, first and foremost to extend this quality requirement to itself. I hope that there will be no need to change the membership of the Bureau.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-09-22-PT12-375-U129	I have added that draft laws are passed on to parliamentary commissions with the consent of all 100 Members of the Saeima. Each Member, including Mr Adamson (Dep. J. Adamson: “Mr. Adamson objected!” ) is entitled to submit its proposals, and then the Saeima shall vote in a democratic decision. We are continuing the debate. Name to Member Gunaras Kūtris.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-09-22-PT12-375-U130	Dear colleagues, I have applied in the debate because I have been working on this for 20 years and I know very well that the information you have been given in the debate was not really correct. First of all, it must be said that the specific amendment to the criminal law does not change with any words the situation as it currently stands with regard to enforcement. This is just about the confiscation system that has been in place so far, but which has been more legally correctly organised. In addition, if at present there is no law at all for the execution of its confiscation, but the usual procedures are used, as has been adopted, this amendment to the Criminal Law would not change the order of execution. Execution Order... Yeah, that's the draft law that's in the neighbourhood, my colleagues in the Commission, and that's going to be at the next week's viewing... This enforcement law - it will be new, and there are many new things that we can discuss. But when it comes to selling criminal goods, such as smuggling cargo, what service will be involved in auctioning this property? Who has specially trained staff and who has worked with it so far. And there has been no problem with it. Another case is with the seized cash in the accounts; if it is recognised as criminally acquired property, then we can say that really, in such a case, the bailiff would have nothing to do there. At the same time, there is also a parallel... another solution will be, but it is another draft law, because there is a question about it: if there is a victim and the criminal has only criminally acquired property that has been arrested - the frozen money in the account - then the victim has the right to compensation. And who's counting on how much to transfer to one or another? The State Revenue Service or the Ministry of Finance or the Treasury may discuss and record it inside. It's another thing with cash. But then it is necessary to recalculate the amount to be recovered from the guilty because the money from which the victim is compensated was criminally obtained. And with it, the criminal can't live. He will, irrespective of his means, have to transfer this amount to the Treasury, and this is a recovery process which, unfortunately, no other service takes this form. That is why I call once again on the debate and on the other Members... The amendments made to the criminal law sort out the existing system and do not affect the execution of the confiscation mentioned by Mr Adamson.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-09-22-PT12-375-U131	Thank you. I closed the debate. Does the rapporteur wish to add something else on behalf of the Commission? No, you don't. Please call me! We will vote in favour of the first reading of the draft law amending the Criminal Law (No 629/Lp12). Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 72, for - no, for - 23. The draft law at first reading has been supported. Please set a deadline for the submission of the proposals for second reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-09-22-PT12-375-U132	Request for proposals by 17 October of this year.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-09-22-PT12-375-U133	Thank you. Proposals are due by 17 October this year. On the agenda - draft law “Amendments to the Criminal Procedure Law” (No.630/Lp12), first reading. On behalf of the Legal Commission, Member Gunārs Kūtris.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-09-22-PT12-375-U134	Amendments to the Criminal Procedure Law are, in substance, related to the above-mentioned issue of confiscation of criminally acquired property. In other words, the rules governing this issue have been removed from the law and are being transposed... But the Criminal Procedure Law comes in addition to several positive things. First of all, Article 111.1, which regulates the rights and duties of the owner of the property violated in criminal proceedings, is very serious, because here the right of this person to participate in the proceedings and to protect his interests is explained more fully. Secondly, the criminal legal framework for the transfer of different decisions to enforcement has been improved here. It is a whole chapter, in a new version, which eliminates the mistakes that have been made in practice over a period of 10 years. The question of securing a solution to property issues, namely the imposition of arrests, removals and property valuations, is also clarified. On behalf of the Commission, I call for support for this draft law.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-09-22-PT12-375-U135	Let us start a debate. The name of the Member, Andrejs Elksniņš.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-09-22-PT12-375-U136	Dear colleagues, Those amendments relating to the legal aspects of confiscation of criminal property, in particular with regard to the amendment package in the Criminal Procedure Law, were not adopted unanimously by the Legal Commission, taking into account the criteria of Protocol No 1 to the European Convention on Human Rights concerning the right of the owner to protect the property belonging to him. I call on both the Ministry of Justice and perhaps the Legal Bureau of the Saeima to evaluate and come up with proposals on how we could improve regulation of this kind, the recognition of this type of property as criminalised, especially in the circumstances where the processes in which the property recognised as criminally acquired in previous years... not at all has been transferred to court, there have been no persons responsible for and guilty of criminal offences, but once, 10 years ago, this money was found to be criminally acquired and confiscated. In these circumstances, there is a risk that those persons whose ownership has been restricted for several years in such proceedings during the pre-trial investigation may, after inefficient investigation of the cases and in essence non-punitive of pre-criminal crimes, turn to the State in order to return the previously confiscated funds to a particular person.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-09-22-PT12-375-U137	I closed the debate. Does the rapporteur want to add something on behalf of the Commission? I don't want to. Please call me! We will vote in favour of the first reading of the draft law on amendments to the Criminal Procedure Law! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 68, for - no, for - 21. The draft law at first reading has been supported. Please set a deadline for the submission of the proposals for second reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-09-22-PT12-375-U138	Request for proposals by 17 October of this year.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-09-22-PT12-375-U139	Thank you. Proposals are due by 17 October this year. On the agenda - draft law “Amendments to Civil Procedure Law”, first reading. On behalf of the Legal Commission, Member Gunārs Kūtris.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-09-22-PT12-375-U140	Dear colleagues, This draft law is also related to the above-mentioned topic and deals with the issues in the Civil Procedure Law related to criminally acquired and not only criminally acquired... More precisely, if there are decisions in criminal matters concerning the recovery of property, those amendments clarify its enforcement, which until now was not, in substance, precisely provided for by the law. This also applies to situations where various issues of property recovery arise not only from a court judgment, but also from the prosecutor's sentence statement. In addition, the cases which have already been carried out by the bailiff have been clarified, which is also the case in that chapter. I agree with Mr Adamson that we can talk here about some perhaps an amendment to clarify for the second reading the place that could cause problems with criminally acquired property as a source of profits for the bailiff, but generally the issue of enforcement needs to be better regulated. This proposal is a better solution in civil proceedings already, and on behalf of the Legal Commission I call for support for this draft law.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-09-22-PT12-375-U141	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote in favour of the first reading of the draft law “Amendments to the Civil Procedure Law”! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 70, for - no, for - 19. The draft law at first reading has been supported. Please set a deadline for the submission of the proposals for second reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-09-22-PT12-375-U142	Request for proposals by 17 October of this year.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-09-22-PT12-375-U143	Thank you. Proposals are due by 17 October this year. On the agenda - draft law “Amendment to the Law “On the Bank of Latvia”, first reading. On behalf of the Commission for Budget and Finance (Tax) - Member Jānis Trupovnieks.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-09-22-PT12-375-U144	Honorable Bureau! Dear colleagues, The Budget and Finance (Tax) Commission has examined draft law No.627/Lp12 - Amendment to the Law “On the Bank of Latvia”. The draft law has been drafted by the Ministry of Finance. During its development, the Bank of Latvia has conducted consultations with officials of the Ministry of the Interior and the State Police. The draft law is designed to strengthen the core tasks and rights of the Bank of Latvia’s physical security and facility security in the external legislative act. This was not previously stipulated in the Law “On the Bank of Latvia”. Since the Defence Board of the Bank of Latvia is an armed unit of the Bank of Latvia, which is part of the National Armed Forces during an exceptional situation or war, the law sets out requirements for the employees of the Defence Board to comply with the standards of NBS. The draft law establishes the right of the Bank of Latvia to acquire, store and use firearms and appropriate ammunition in its activities. Consequently, the draft law lays down, in accordance with the basic tasks and specifics of the Defence Administration, appropriate rules for the use and use of weapons and special means, which are similar to the right of police officers to apply the firearm set out in the law “On Police”. At the same time work on this draft law needs to be done in amendments to the Law on Security Activities, stating that the Law on Security Activities does not apply to the Defence Administration of the Bank of Latvia, because its activities are governed by the special law – the Law “On the Bank of Latvia”. The implementation of the draft law is ensured by the Bank of Latvia, which will perform it within the framework of existing functions; no new institutions are created, no additional funding is required. The Commission calls for support to be given to the draft law at first reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-09-22-PT12-375-U145	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote for the first reading support of the draft law “Amendment to the Law “On the Bank of Latvia”! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 71, for - no, for - 19. The draft law at first reading has been supported. Please set a deadline for the submission of the proposals for second reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-09-22-PT12-375-U146	The deadline for submitting proposals is 10 October of this year.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-09-22-PT12-375-U147	Thank you. Proposals are due by 10 October of this year. On the agenda - draft law “Amendments to the Postal Law”, second reading. On behalf of the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy, Anrijs Matīss.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-09-22-PT12-375-U148	Madam President, Dear colleagues, The Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy examined and prepared for second reading the draft law “Amendments to the Postal Law” (No 561/Lp12). The Commission received a total of seven proposals. The proposal shall be from the Legal Office. Supported by the Commission. Seat in driver's seat. Members are in favour. The proposal also comes from the Legal Office. I've been supported by the Commission. Seat in driver's seat. Members are in favour. Proposal No 3 - The proposal of the Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Transport, Mr Tatars. This was also supported by the Commission. Seat in driver's seat. Members are in favour. 4. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. It was also supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-09-22-PT12-375-U149	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-09-22-PT12-375-U150	5. - The proposal by Mr Tatar, Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Transport. It was supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-09-22-PT12-375-U151	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-09-22-PT12-375-U152	6. - The proposal by Mr Tatar, Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Transport. The Commission was supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-09-22-PT12-375-U153	That is something that Members also support.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-09-22-PT12-375-U154	And finally 7. - The proposal by Mr Tatar, Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Transport. The Commission received support.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-09-22-PT12-375-U155	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-09-22-PT12-375-U156	I therefore call on the Commission to support the draft law at second reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-09-22-PT12-375-U157	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote in favour of the second reading of the draft law “Amendments to the Postal Law”! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 94, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The draft law at second reading has been supported. Please set a deadline for the third reading of the proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-09-22-PT12-375-U158	Yeah. Thank you for your support. Let us wait until 6 October this year.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-09-22-PT12-375-U159	Thank you. Proposals are due by 6 October this year. On the agenda - draft law “Amendments to the Law on Land Guard of the Republic of Latvia”, first reading. On behalf of the Commission for Defence, Home Affairs and Anti-Corruption - Member Veiko Spolitis.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-09-22-PT12-375-U160	Hello, colleagues! We work with the draft law “Amendments to the Law of the Republic of Latvia on Land Guard”. According to the explanatory memorandum of the draft law, the proposed amendments aim at ‘ensuring the full-cycle training of landguards, as well as the task assigned to the Landguard to provide the training of spare soldiers’, attracting more landguards performing the duties of qualified specialists (category C and D drivers, cooks and medical practitioners) and longer than currently foreseen by the law for 30 days per year. The draft law provides that in the professions specified by the Minister of Defence, the duties of qualified specialists in international or national military training or exercises could be performed for up to 90 days. I stress that from basic work or training on free time or in agreement with the employer. Students during summer holidays, retired soldiers who entered the Landguard, farm owners and unemployed people are expected to be more than 30 days in the performance of their duties. It is also planned to pay compensation for the aforementioned days of military training or exercises, but no additional funds from the state budget are required. The National Armed Forces will ensure the implementation of amendments to the law within the budget funds allocated to them, as the involvement of the national guards in training takes place in a planned manner and according to the funding granted in accordance with the annual plan of measures. It is planned that about 820 national guards will be involved in the execution of their service tasks for more than 30 days. Importantly, training is not planned for an uninterrupted period of 90 days, but will take place on average over a week. On behalf of the Commission for Defence, Home Affairs and Anti-Corruption, I am asking for support for this draft law at first reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-09-22-PT12-375-U161	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote for support for the first reading of the draft law “Amendments to the Law of the Republic of Latvia on Land Guards”! Please vote mode! Please get the result! It's not about - 92, it's against and refrains from - it's not. The draft law at first reading has been supported. Please set a deadline for the submission of the proposals for second reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-09-22-PT12-375-U162	The deadline for submitting proposals for second reading is 27 September 2016. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-09-22-PT12-375-U163	Thank you. Proposals are due by 27 September this year. The next item is "Harmonisation of own proposals". On the agenda - draft decision “On the way forward of the collective application “On free meals in kindergartens” of 10 213 Latvian citizens. Member Vitaly Orlov on behalf of the Commission for Mandates, Ethics and Applications.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-09-22-PT12-375-U164	Thank you, Presidium. Honourable Members! On June 3, 2016, the Saeima received a collective application from 10 213 Latvian citizens “On free meals in kindergartens”. On 5 July this year, the Commission heard a representative of the applicants who justified the proposal to make it easier for parents to put their children in a garden because it greatly increases expenditure on families with two or more children. The government has set holidays for children from grades 1 to 4, but not for kindergartens, but it should be borne in mind that education starts at pre-school level. At the end of the childcare allowance, parents have to return to work, and for families this is a critical moment because of the additional costs. Applicants made a request to the Saeima to grant a grant from the state budget to municipalities to ensure free catering in Latvian kindergartens. In their view, this should be done gradually, starting with funding for younger children and children from large families. They also mentioned that certain municipalities have introduced such a holiday. This, in turn, contributes to social inequality in Latvia, especially - families from different regions. Families move to the districts where this funding is located. The applicants argued that this issue should, however, be regulated at national level rather than at municipal level. In Latvia, the demographic situation should be such that families decide not only for the second, but also for the third and fourth children; therefore, the priorities of political parties should include improving the demographic situation. On 3 August 2016, the Commission heard experts’ views. The Latvian Municipal Union expressed a positive opinion on this issue, but expressed concerns about those children who live at home because they do not respect the principle of equality. The position of the government should be equal with regard to the feeding of such children throughout the country. The idea would be supported if the municipalities received public grants and if free meals would be provided for all pre-school children in all regions - also, of course, for those who do not visit kindergarten because of a lack of places. The Ombudsman explicitly expressed his support for this idea, as pre-school education is one of the levels of education. This is support specifically aimed at ensuring the needs of the child and which would significantly improve the material situation of families. Of course, the question of the availability of kindergartens should be addressed alongside this, because free meals in kindergartens would really increase the inequality between those who have available gardens and those who do not have access to them and whose parents are forced to pay for the care of the children. The Employers' Confederation of Latvia expressed its view that the idea of the application is good, but there are a number of other issues that should be reviewed in relation to support for children and parents. As one of them, the representative of the confederation mentioned the amount of maintenance for children under guardianship - now 45 euros per month - as well as insufficient support for parents with disabilities who have lost their capacity for work and for children who have lost their dependants, the lack of access to healthcare for children. The Ministry of Welfare pointed out that the application was, in substance, to be supported, but it has to be seen in relation to other issues as well as ensuring the availability of kindergartens for all children. Consequently, the Commission prepared and unanimously supported the draft decision “On further progress of the 10 213 Latvian citizens’ collective application “On free meals in kindergartens”” and decided to entrust the Cooperation Platform of the Center for the Coordination of Overseas “Demographic Affairs Centre” to the Ombudsman of the Republic of Latvia, the Ministry of Welfare, the Latvian Municipalities Union, the Latvian Employers’ Confederation, the Latvian Parent organisation Mumamuntetiem.lv and other opinions, to evaluate the possibility to ensure free meals of children at pre-school educational institutions and to provide information report to the Saeima and the Cabinet of Ministers by 1 March 2017. Please support the prepared draft decision.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-09-22-PT12-375-U165	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote for the draft decision “On the way forward of the 10 213 collective application for free meals in kindergartens”! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 96, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Decision adopted. Honourable Members! The agenda for the sitting of the Saeima has been examined, but I would like to inform you about the plenary sitting scheduled for today to answer Members' questions. Member Zariņa, Agešina, Arthur Rubika, Tutina and Ribakova question to the Minister for Economics Arvilas Asheraden “On the proposal of the Ministry of Economics to differentiate the OIC payment between different user groups”. The written replies received shall not be satisfied. The applicants do not want to ask additional oral questions but will submit them in writing. Mr Raimonds Bergmans, Minister of Defence of Elksniņš, Adamsons, Tretjaka, Zemļinskas and Zujevs, about the project of mechanization of the Latvian army. The written replies received shall not be satisfied. The Minister informs that due to a pre-planned regional visit, no oral answer can be given. On the question of Membership of the Minister for Finance Dana Reizniece-Ozola “On Development of the Draft Law on Public Procurement” (No 621/Lp12). A written reply has been received. Questioners do not want to ask additional questions. Member Elksniņa, Agešina, Potapkin, Adamson and Urbanovich question to Prime Minister Maris Kučinskis about mechanization of the National Armed Forces. The question was referred to Minister of Defence Raimonds Bergman. The written replies received shall not be satisfied. The Minister informs that due to a pre-planned regional visit, no oral answer can be given. Member Elksniņa, Adamson, Tretjaka, Zuvėv and Nikonovas Minister of Defence Raimonds Bergmans “On the mechanisation project of the Latvian army”. The written replies received shall not be satisfied. The Minister informs that due to a pre-planned regional visit, no oral answer can be given. As a result, today's replies to Members' questions are not open at 17.00. Questions have been put to Members. Members Silver, Stepanenko, Symfa, Balodis and Kaimiņš have tabled the question “On the position of Latvia in relation to the EU-US Transatlantic Trade and Investment Partnership Agreement” expressed by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. The question was referred to the Minister for Foreign Affairs, Edgars Rinkēvičs. Members Elksniņš, Agešins, Tutins, Tretjaka and Ribakovs submitted the question “On public administration contracts with legal service providers and media”. To answer the question, a Member of the Prime Minister for Economic Affairs shall be referred to Arvilas Asheradenas, Minister for Economic Affairs. Members Elksniņš, Agešins, Tutins, Tretjaka and Ribakovs submitted a question “On funding for Daugavpils Regional Hospital”. We give it to Anda Chakša, the Minister for Health. Members Elksniņš, Agešins, Tutins, Tretjaka and Ribakovs asked about projects financed by European Union funds in Daugavpils district. We give it to the Minister for Environmental Protection and Regional Development, Kaspars Gerhard. Members Elksniņš, Agešins, Tutins, Tretjaka and Ribakovs presented the question “On projects of Daugavpils Municipality Council funded by European Union funds”. Mr Kaspars Gerhard, Minister for Environmental Protection and Regional Development, is responsible for answering this question. Members Zarins, Agešins, Tretjaka, Raimonds Rubiks and Tutins presented the question “On the project to modernise diesel trains”. We give it to the Minister of Transport, Uldis Auglims. Members Zarins, Agešins, Tutins, Adamsons and Ribakovs raised the question ‘On the failure of the Ministry of Economics to submit its calculations concerning the proposal to differentiate the amount of OIC payments’. We give it to the Minister for Economic Affairs, Arvil Asheraden. The name of the question to the Member Ivars Zarins.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-09-22-PT12-375-U166	In order to address the concerns that the Ministry of Economics is preparing another unthinking or narrow business decision in the energy sector, which will once again be costly, we asked the Minister of Economics to submit calculations for the differentiation of his OICs. Unfortunately, the Ministry of Economics was unable to submit these calculations to us. We also asked for information on which companies will benefit most from this differentiation and on which companies to do so at the expense of which, and whether the Ministry of Economics is aware of the impact on these companies. We have not received this information either, but information on how this in principle will happen and that this differentiation of OIC will be analogous to the new tariff differentiation of the Distribution Network, which has already had a devastating impact on agricultural enterprises. We therefore ask these questions again and ask you to explain whether the Minister understands at all the consequences and in what sectors of the economy this new offer of differentiation of the OIC will entail. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-09-22-PT12-375-U167	Thank you. Members Zarins, Agešins, Tutins, Tretjaka and Ribakovs submitted the question “On planned railway electrification project”. We give it to the Minister of Transport, Uldis Auglims. Time to register the presence of Members. Please call me! Please check-in mode for Members! While the results of the registration are being prepared, I would like to inform you, my fellow Members, that on Tuesday, 27 September everyone is welcome to a meeting with our Olympics and the Paralympics. The event will take place at 13.00 in the Red Hall. Name for the statement to Member Vital Orlov.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-09-22-PT12-375-U168	Dear Members, Last Saturday, the Saeima Airing Team strongly won the Riga City Council team. I would like to name Members who not only promised but also came to rowing competitions. These are: Rihards Kols, Imants Debtor, Vilnis Ķirsis, Valdis Kalnozols, Askolds Kļaviņš, Andrejs Elksniņš, Vitalijs Orlovs and our famous medalist Ivans Klementjevs. Thank you, colleagues, for that. (Applause)
ParlaMint-LV_2016-09-22-PT12-375-U169	Thank you. Name of the Secretary of the Saeima Gunaras Kūtris to read the results of the registration.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-09-22-PT12-375-U170	Dear colleagues, Currently not registered: Boriss Cilevičs, Jānis Kžads, Inese Laizāne and Romanas Mežeckis.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-09-22-PT12-375-U171	Thank you. I'm closing the sitting.
