ParlaMint-LV_2016-05-04-PT12-361-U1	Good morning, Prime Minister. Honourable Members! Excellency! Welcome! On 4 May 2016, the Saeima opened its formal sitting dedicated to the 26th anniversary of the restoration of Independence of the Republic of Latvia.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-05-04-PT12-361-U2	Name of the holiday address to Ināra Mūrniece, Speaker of the Saeima of the Republic of Latvia.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-05-04-PT12-361-U3	Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council of Ministers. Dear Members of the Saeima! Excellency! Ladies and gentlemen! Dear people! May 4 is the day when we celebrate Latvia! 26 years ago thousands of people stood around the Saeima this day. Thousands of historical meetings here listened to radios at their homes, workplaces, and on the street. As it is emotionally reflected in the video devoted to the celebration of the White Tablecloth. The people were holding their breath and counting their voices. And then they – 138 Members who adopted the Declaration on the Re-establishment of Independence of the Republic of Latvia on 4 May – came out of the Saeima House. They were greeted with indescribable joy and joy. They were heroes of the people that day! Heroes, for they had fulfilled more than the everyday desire to live a little better. They had fulfilled a dream that seemed to have nearly gone away, but they felt sad in our hearts for 50 years. Pastor Edgars Bergs, editor of the newspaper Sunday Morning, describes the character of the hero of World War II as follows: “The hero lives the life of his people. The benefits of the people are his benefits, and the glory of the people is his glory. He knows what hinders the welfare of the people, which hurts the people. He is above his personal interests. A hero grows beyond the limits of his life.” It made these 138 people heroes that day – they realized that the 4th May vote exceeded their personal limits. Go beyond this time. And they did the job. On 4 May 1990 we de jure regained independent Latvia. The country, which was born to the ruins of World War I in 1918 and was able to grow into an excellent and successful state in various fields – economy, science, agriculture and culture. And on May 4 people wanted to believe that we will live in such a prosperous and rich Latvia after a few years. We did not yet know that the January barricades, the August boy, were expecting us, we did not know how hard the fight for the removal of the occupying troops would be. We were not fully aware of how much time we will have to spend to rebuild our legal system, economy, security, democracy. Now, 26 years later, have we grown up as an excellent and successful country? Politically, this has happened. We are in the European Union, an association of 28 countries, which is the world's largest economy. We are in the NATO North Atlantic Treaty Organisation, where the total number of Member States' soldiers exceeds three million. We have made excellent progress in culture, sport, pharmacy, information technology. We can name many areas where Latvia, as a country with two million inhabitants, has proved its excellence. New generations have grown in the restored Republic of Latvia. This is what young people say! Why is it best to raise children in Latvia? Because there are wonderful nature in Latvia, there are four beautiful seasons, high-quality food and opportunities for the future. But one of the main advantages of the new family is paid parental leave, which is one of the longest in the world. The benefits and mothers' salaries would be higher, but the young parents have a job. Indeed, since 2011, demographic indicators in our country have started to be a source of satisfaction. More children are born. After the number of newborns per mother, we are ahead of both Estonia and Lithuania. But there is still a lot to do here. A Centre for Demographic Affairs has recently been set up, which will focus on large families of children. A third child policy is crucial for the future of the country. Ladies and gentlemen! We love our country and are proud of our Latvia. She's the most beautiful and the best for us. Why, then, is there a sense of disappointment in some societies? Yes, not everyone in these 26 years has achieved the prosperity that was hoped for and which political parties promised their voters before the elections. And prosperity is needed so that every one of us can live well, with self-esteem and security for the present and for the future. To be able to fulfill your dreams. At the first session of the government led by Maris Kučinskis, less than three months ago, I said that people hope that there will be good changes, that the economy will flourish, that everyone will live better. People hope that during this government Latvia will become stronger and stronger. And the credit of trust is given to this government. The government is committed to working towards more money for families, health, education, security, strengthening its national identity. However, I would like to emphasise that the promise of prosperity will actually be fulfilled when we create a large and strong middle class in Latvia. It is the middle class that is the core of every strong country. We will also strengthen our loyalty to the country and our security through the conscious development of a broad middle class. The middle class treats the past with respect, and it has an important future. The middle class creates demand for quality education for its children and takes care of the quality of life of its parents. The Middle Level respects the laws, does not require an over-enriched public administration, and is significantly less involved in corruption or the shadow economy. What should our middle class be? This should be done by teachers, doctors, officials, farmers, small and medium-sized businesses. People with an initiative, values and a sense of inheritability of generations. How to strengthen and expand the middle class? When we find a practical answer to this question, then governments' action plans will be sufficient with a couple of pages. Then why does the middle class form so slowly in Latvia that draw us back? Why are there great inequalities? Recently, the media were surrounded by the news that due to corruption Latvia's losses, or the money that has not been obtained from the budget, could be about EUR 5 billion. Only a few people have read the explanation that these estimates of the study are based on citizens' subjective perceptions of the level of corruption in their own country. And according to the corruption perception index, Latvia takes the sad worst place. Citizens' feelings about what is happening in the country, including corruption, bureaucracy, the quality of politics, but sometimes simply about human attitude, are extremely important. These are feelings that affect patriotism, security capacity, economy, mutual trust and trust in the Latvian state. I therefore call for particular attention to be paid to small and medium-sized enterprises! Recently on social networks, a businessman's story about how easy it is to manage a small restaurant in Estonia and how burdensome it is – in Latvia. It would be a friendly gesture if the finance and economic ministers jointly wrote an open letter to the host and to the general public, explaining what we will do for our entrepreneurs and where their acceptance is needed. The positive news is that Latvia has great prospects of becoming an OECD member this year. We have worked and continue working to combat corruption more effectively in order to create a more favourable environment for entrepreneurs and investors. But there's still a lot to do here! But if this road map had not been called upon to follow the OECD, then we would have to figure it out for ourselves. Dear people! What are modern heroes? Today, there are hundreds and thousands of people in Latvia who are able to do something that goes beyond their personal interests, whose work brings benefits to their fellow people and Latvia every day. Such people are everywhere in Latvia. These are teachers who receive each year the Excellency Prize for working creatively, helping to achieve good learning outcomes for every student in the classroom. These are doctors who receive the annual medical awards and whose merits are determined solely by the popular vote. These are scientists from the Institute of Organic Synthesis who, despite their prior support for science, continue to develop high value-added businesses. Something very special is the willingness of people to donate – a kind of movement that has been created by society in recent years, with full self-organisation. It is a phenomenon that can be compared to the Baltic Way when we fall in our hands in the name of freedom. Today, people fall into their hands if they suffer from a serious illness and need financial support for their treatment. In a few days, this funding is being donated. And I very much want to mention a special event – one million euros of donations transferred to the Children's Hospital account by the Latvian company Micronet. One of its owners is Latvian businessman Arnis Riekstins, who performed this great work quietly, without publicity. And it is precisely because of the amazing solidarity of society that the opinion that we are waiting for specific reforms in the area of healthcare is more painful. Ladies and gentlemen! We rarely think of where those who did not vote remained at that time, on 4 May, after the vote on the Declaration of Independence. Those who appealed to the ideas of Communism threatened with unrest, called back to the wonderful Soviet Union, a formation created by a bloody terror. Against people, peoples, languages, values. Many of those who were not “for” at the time, on 4 May, and their ideological supporters continue to mourn after the Soviet regime, laugh at our mistakes, torpede our important decisions, question the fact of occupation, publish articles about a failed country, sow distrust for the future of Latvia. Our answer is love for Latvia, faith in the future of our country, honest work and constant care for security. In the area of security, we have experienced major changes since we regained our independence. The security of Latvia and the Baltic is on the NATO agenda. The United States is our strategic partner. We are part of the common security and defence policy in the European Union. We had no such allies in 1918, when Latvia was founded, nor in 1940, when Latvia was occupied, nor in 1945, when Latvia was left with the Yalta Treaty by the Soviet occupations. This is something that we can now regard as a cardinal change and we value the support of these countries in the West. Latvia itself is also fully aware of security challenges. In my recent visit to the United States and Canada, I was confident that we are doing our homework – we are increasing the national defence budget to two percent of gross domestic product by 2018. It has not only the support of the Saeima and the government, but also broad public support. Now Latvia, like other countries in the Baltic region, is waiting for a decision to be taken at the Warsaw Summit on the long-term and enhanced presence of NATO forces in the eastern flank of the Alliance. We also take greater care of internal security ourselves. Latgale Media Support Programme has been launched, the first stages of the eastern border have been built. Major amendments to the Criminal Law have been adopted. It is not easy for us to do so because sometimes we are too honest, hasty, or suspicious. However, one of the latest security challenges that we seem not to face ourselves is the huge wave of migration and Europe that has been flooded with refugees. Europe hardly remembers when there was such a huge influx of people, and so different cultural spaces. There was no ready-made policy for this. We are in solidarity with those countries of the European Union which, because of their geographical position, have to receive the highest number of refugees, and we will honour the promise made in the past to receive asylum seekers. However, we expect Europe to understand that the Baltic countries are the external borders of the European Union due to their geographical situation. Much work and funding remains to be invested in strengthening it. Dear people! Boundaries are important! At times, it is quite simple to know where people’s interests end and where personal benefits begin. We need to know what hinders the welfare of the people, which hurts the people. Just be able to grow a little above the limits of your life. Be prepared to do a job that can increase time. You should be able to be a little hero. For Latvia. Because as long as Latvia is in our heart, it will continue to exist. Let's get a white tablecloth on each other! Let's get a white tablecloth for Latvia! Let us celebrate Latvia and wish our country the life of the sun! God bless Latvia! (Applause) ( The national anthem of Latvia is being played.)
ParlaMint-LV_2016-05-04-PT12-361-U4	Sir, Excellency! Ladies and gentlemen! I invite you to spend more time and celebrate the celebration together! But I declare the official sitting of the Saeima closed.
