ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-01-PT12-389-U1	Good morning, honourable Members! I invite you to take seats in Saeima's meeting room. Let's start the sitting of the Saeima on December 1st! First of all, the Bureau's reports on draft laws submitted. The Parliamentary Bureau proposes that the draft law on the Law on the Movement of Alcohol Drinks presented by the Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy Commission be referred to the Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy Commission, stating that it is the Commission responsible. Do Members object to a draft law being passed on to the Commission? There is no objection by Members. Draft law has been passed on to the Commission. On the granting of leave. For unpaid leave granted to Member Veiko Spolitis on 17 November this year. The Saeima Bureau has received an application from Member Veiko Spotis requesting unpaid leave on 17 November this year. The Saeima Bureau has granted leave and shall inform the Saeima thereof. For unpaid leave granted to Member Ringold Balodis on 23 and 24 November this year. The Saeima Bureau has received an application from Member Ringolds Baloža to grant unpaid leave on 23 and 24 November this year. The Saeima Bureau has granted leave and shall inform the Saeima thereof. The next item is "Review of the report". Annual report by Prime Minister Māra Kučinska to the Saeima on the work done and planned by the Cabinet of Ministers. Annual report by Prime Minister Māra Kučinska to the Saeima on the work done and planned by the Cabinet of Ministers. Name to Prime Minister Maris Kučinskis.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-01-PT12-389-U2	Dear President of the Saeima. Dear Members, Honourable Members! I hope you all had the opportunity to get acquainted with the annual report on the work done and the future of the Cabinet of Ministers this year. This is a big document, so I do not want to repeat the text that you already have in a short form. I call on everything I say to be perceived as the Prime Minister's remarks on the sides of the government report. Following the priorities set out in the government declaration, I will start with economic development. When assessing the growth dynamics of the economy in 2016, we are faced with radically different valuations. On the one hand, there are positive statistics which show that Latvia's economic growth continues. It is not as rapid as predicted at the end of 2015, but it has not stopped, and growth is expected to continue in the coming years. A few days ago, several of the largest bank experts expressed their opinion that the wage supplement will accelerate in Latvia next year, and this is what I most directly relate to the decisions taken by the government and the state budget approved by the Saeima for 2017. Data from the latest Doing Business study of the World Bank show that Latvia has reached the historically highest position in the Doing Business Index. The only parameter in which we are lagging behind the European Union average is the termination of business, which is often insolvency proceedings. In the Global Competitiveness Index, which is based on data from business surveys, Latvia has slipped down, lagging behind the other two Baltic countries. The main problems, in the view of entrepreneurs, are tax rates and inefficient, bureaucratic public administration. These are clear guidelines for the direction in which the government must continue to work in close cooperation with all business and investor organisations. There are positive signals in the environment of both experts and entrepreneurs, and there are growing concerns about possible stagnation or even a wave of new crisis, which can affect Latvia as well. The alarm is based on uncertainty in the minds of people, worrying expectations of change in Europe and in the world. They relate to the Brexit, the results of the elections in the US, the potential wave of populism in the old Member States of the European Union, the local military conflicts in the world and their possible escalation, the refugee crisis and more and more, and more... "Uncertainty" is now the most common word as soon as someone starts to judge economic development. Of course, this does not make the work of the government easier, but it makes it necessary to focus more on things that are within the competence of the government and also the Saeima. The expectations and possible risks of global change do not remove the objectives defined in the government declaration. The main objective remains unchanged: sustainable national development and GDP growth of between 4 and 5 per cent per year must be ensured in the coming years. It will not be utopia if we carry out precisely the tasks defined in the government declaration and action plan. They are well known: creating a competitive or even excellent business environment, establishing a favourable investment climate, developing strategic investment directions and so on. I think you'll all agree that they've been heard many times and they've been tired of words. That's what we hear and forget. I will try to tell you what that means if you talk about it very specifically. In relation to Brexit, it has often been said that many companies established in the UK will be looking for other countries of residence within the European Union. So let's imagine one foreign investor who wants to register the company in Latvia. He must be able to register the company in Latvia by filling in all the formal documents in the e-environment in English, he must be sure that he will be able to complete all the financial statements of the company in English as well. The investor needs to know that he will be able to transfer all taxes to one account. Finally, he must not have any doubt that, in the event of insolvency, he and his property will be protected in accordance with the European Union's best standards. All the information about the company's activities in Latvia described above must be learned while sitting in his office chair in London, Liverpool or in another city where a Latvian may be playing at a football club. Of course, in your own language. Even with regard to the excellent business environment, why should we prevent entrepreneurs from paying taxes in other currencies, not just the euro? I can't see any problems here. I think it's not a secret for no one that at Helsinki Stockmann's supermarket the buyer can pay in cash, including in Russian rubles. Who is the winner? The buyer, the business and the Finnish State, i.e. its residents. We also need to think in this direction. It's not utopia. I am convinced that the existing administrative and intellectual resources of public authorities allow such models to be introduced in a relatively short time. Yes, some laws and regulations need to be changed. Yes, support from the Saeima is also needed. There is a need for political will to change the paradigm of public administration. Decisions and subsequent actions are needed. Hearthead and curved biography are not vices, gentlemen, if you have the courage to go ahead today! I'm sure you can do that. And that's what I'm saying to myself. In the context of economic development, I cannot mention a problem that is most directly linked to the education sector. It is a disproportion between the needs of the labour market in Latvia and specialists trained by educational institutions, as opposed to the lack of graduates in engineering sciences of great excess production of humanities and social sciences. Statistics also reveal that we have a huge number of young people entering the labour market without any professional skills, so without any competitiveness. There would obviously be a need for greater involvement of employers in the education process. Employers must be involved in planning the number of students and students in state-funded specialities. Employers should also participate in the development and learning process of curricula. It is necessary to break academic insularity and to put an end to a story in which the employer is ironically ridiculed by the results of the education system. I have to share, that's our common thing. This applies to all specialities, including social sciences. For demographics. A natural process that can be influenced by various instruments. For politicians too - with benefits, with social services, kindergartens, health care, quality of education, ultimately with the creation of a sense of security. Although modest, a whole series of steps have already been taken. It seems to me that it is very important to establish a relationship between an employer, a country and a potential young mother who refrains from becoming pregnant because she is afraid of losing her job. That is why I put the country in the middle. There are still no solutions and clear national protection. We have to look. On the other hand, the demographic situation in Latvia, like the tyran, has a direct impact on all policies. The shortage of labour, for example in construction, will become a real problem in the near future, as European funds are approaching. It will inevitably fall back on the opinion of the nationwide society to restrict the arrival of Gentiles in Latvia. However, it will be necessary to invite guest workers in the dictate of the labour market, because I am not sure that the largest Latvian construction companies foresee a significant increase in wages for local workers. It is just a small illustration of how demographic problems clash with the economy, education and national policies. My comments also relate to developments in the education sector. The first major step has been taken: the reform of teachers' salaries has been carried out. Yes, there was uncertainty, frustration, even protests, but once again they revealed a well-known case – maintaining the Latvian school network is inappropriately expensive in relation to the number of pupils, unable to ensure the quality of both modern requirements and the salary that is adequate for a good teacher. I'm sorry. The next step, too, is clear: the school network needs to be optimised. Let us be honest, the number of schools must be reduced! The ability of municipalities to cooperate is extremely important here, as everything focuses on financial relations. These are national interests, the interests of all taxpayers, there is no room for egoism here. We need to work together. Quality assurance at all levels of the system is an essential part of education policy. Any boy or girl to high school must have access to education that enables him or her to enter higher education. Any differences in quality of education at regional level are unacceptable. On health system reforms. The main direction is marked - the funding of the state compulsory health insurance system is planned in the long term with the aim of reaching the funding of EUR 1000 for each Latvian citizen during the year. I call on the Ministry of Health to evaluate the optimisation of the hospital network in Latvia and to do so in consultation with political and social partners. It is important that everyone is given a clear and timely explanation of the nature of the reform, the benefits and when they will be tangible. Without doing so, there is room for speculation and lobbying of various interests. I do not have any comments on the margins of two sectoral reports - culture and national security. It is difficult to add to the relevant sections of the general government report. The plans and descriptions of the measures envisaged are precise and very specific. I invite you to read them. I just have to say that national security, both internal and external, was one of the cornerstones of the creation of this coalition. The other was, and is, strengthening national identity and building a united society. We are a national conservative government that is aware of the need for reform and is on the road to reform. Finally, a few words about the issues that have touched a large part of Latvia's society in recent weeks. That is the minimum social levy and the tax on micro-enterprises. Both issues are inherited from the previous government. The first one. I have had several conversations with businessmen who employ quite a number of people who work only a few hours a month and who are paid for what they have done, which is significantly less than the minimum wage. It is clear that entrepreneurs are not prepared to pay social tax on the minimum wage for these workers because they risk losing their competitiveness because their services are more expensive. I'll find that some of them can go in the direction of shadow business. In order to prevent these risks and to respect the interests of both workers and workers, we are currently under pressure at Saeima committees. I am convinced that the result will be clear in the coming days and will satisfy the interests of all the parties involved. The issue of micro-enterprises tax is more complex as initially the good idea became an instrument for tax optimisation in the short term. The grain disappeared in the chaff. However, solutions are also sought here to preserve this business model in a transformed way. Finally, thank you to the Saeima for your support, thank you for your criticism. I think we can work together! I look forward to understanding and successful cooperation in the future. All together - for the benefit of the state and the people! Thank you. (Applause)
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-01-PT12-389-U3	Thank you to the Prime Minister. Let us start a debate. Name to Member Juris Villums.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-01-PT12-389-U4	Dear Chairman of the Saeima. Ladies and gentlemen! Thank you to the Prime Minister, especially for the last few sentences, for his commitment to regularising the issue of compulsory social security contributions. All in all, however, taking a look at this 53-page report and also listening to Mr Kučinski's speech here, from the tributary, I remember the years of study, when sometimes it has happened that you have to go to control or count, even though you are not very well prepared. And then the student tries to write, write, answer all questions and their page, as he says, describes from both sides. In the next lecture, when a teacher returns his work and tells him who has seven, who has eight, who has nine, the teacher would probably say about it: “Water! Clear, clear water! To be rewritten.’ Depp. S. Aboltiņa: “You talk about yourself?” ) I'm sorry, Mr. Kučinski, but it looks like you haven't had such a lesson in your study years. I understand that you did not write this report yourself, but only made a signature. However, I invite you to tell your employees that they write it better. Not counted!
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-01-PT12-389-U5	Name of Member Inguna Silver.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-01-PT12-389-U6	Dear colleagues, Mr. Prime Minister! I expected you today, Mr Prime Minister, to withdraw your report. This would be such a manly and courageous step, especially in the light of the recent drama, which was called the 2017 budget, because everything that is written in this report is mainly declaratory phrases, statements, political promises... Also, boasting about what has been done and planned looks rather deplorable. Because we have witnessed this drama, the 2017 budget, in which there was a clear disregard for society, and which actually runs counter to what is claimed in this report, that we have to look at the long term and think about tomorrow, even though the whole budget was a story about today with one basic motif - how to increase revenue rather than idea - what to make more effective, how to actually balance the size of public administration with the ability that entrepreneurs have to pay for this public administration today. The fact that this work is not systematic and results-oriented will be described by an example of the education system and what this report can read about the education system. First of all, you will not find anything about the child in this report, because it is simply forgotten by systemic words, phrases, mechanical events. No child. There is no answer to the question as to who the young person will be when he leaves school, how then he will be ready for the labour market. And this can be seen, because out of all the investments, the huge investments that have been made in vocational education (buildings, equipment, equipment), the result is already one: still today, vocational education cannot meet the needs of the labour market. Youth unemployment, however, remains a problem. What is happening in science, technology, engineering and mathematics professions? The European Union project on science has come to an end. What is the result? That's nice. Everyone is shocking about the results of the math exam. The first pilot project – the examination in science, chemistry and physics – also has devastating results. In the report and also in your speech, you said about the large number of children who fall out of the education system. What is the government doing? On the contrary, boarding boarding schools is being abolished, thereby further increasing the number of children who will complement low-skilled labour lines. The lines of the workforce that can't find a job today. Have you asked teachers what it means to work in a class with 30 children, some of whom have social problems? Is that how European Union money will help these children? No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, You are talking about innovation and an innovative economy, but what are you doing? You have to cut your wages precisely for those teachers who work with the most powerful children working at gymnasiums. What is the miracle offered? It is a project on competences financed by European Union funds. But again, it is a project that does not require a return and does not demand a result. So once again, we will have spent money on events, we will have paid experts, we will have written new teaching materials, but will we have a result? It won't be! Because this is not required. You know the fairy tale about the gangman and the devil. Ganuzen lies the devil, holding the bag through and putting the gold forth again and again. The same is true of how efforts are made to implement the national budget and policies. It's just a question: who's a fool in this case - is he holding the bag, or who's wearing their money in it? And another point. Neither the education system nor any other sector is a game with lego blocks: changing one block or another and building the house differently. In any one of these systems, there are regularities. This means that if some element of the system is made weaker, someone else needs to be strengthened. If something is changed, changes to the entire system need to be assessed. I believe that with the stick policy, neither innovation nor innovation can be developed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-01-PT12-389-U7	The name of the Member, John Adamson.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-01-PT12-389-U8	Highly honored Presidium! Dear colleagues, Mr. Prime Minister! It would be simpler to say two words about this report: ‘Seep, two!’ And then we all... We each go to our own side. In earlier times, it was a saying: “Five minutes of shame, and then everything stays old.” Mr. Prime Minister! I think... I have taken the view that you are probably the best Prime Minister, the Head of Government, in at least the last 10 years, but the quality of this report absolutely does not correspond to what is necessary. There are indeed empty phrases here, and none of these phrases can be seen. This report is the joint work of the members of the Cabinet of Ministers, but as far as I understand, foreign policy does not exist, I found nothing, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs does not exist as an institution. Obviously, the only foreign policy initiative is this: our eastern neighbour is guilty of all sins. There's no salary for teachers here? It's a fault! There's no water? It's a fault! A simple policy is over! And the Foreign Minister just thinks what to add to the black list -- some actors or some pastor... For safety. Prime Minister, the greatest mistake your Government makes is that you set priorities... three priorities - education, health and safety - but you and your subordinates mix priorities with tasks. If there is a priority, it does not just mean wage supplements, it also means development, the funds that are found for the introduction of new technologies into the security system. Wages supplement - very good! Unfortunately, we, too, have not returned in this area even in the pre-crisis period. But where is development? Buy cars, carry out army and rearming of border guards - very well! Or could it wait and think about newer technologies that would be much more efficient and faster? Perhaps we should think about reforms so that we can build our security forces more effectively and achieve better results through less investment. If our border guards are still guarding the border with practically the same methods as a hundred years ago - flying along the border with a dog and a machine - then we have to ask: where are we going? Where is this development? I have not heard any words about the need to negotiate the return of refugees (including our neighbours). Why are your subordinates not in Moscow or Minsk and not negotiating to readmit refugees? Many problems would be solved! I really... Your statement, too, was much better today than the whole of this report. Instead of you, I would have been a long-time vacation for those who produced this report and certainly would have referred to the report as such: it would not be ashamed for myself, nor for Parliament and the government.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-01-PT12-389-U9	Name to Member Ivars Zarins.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-01-PT12-389-U10	Hello, colleagues! Hello, Prime Minister! Hello, Minister! I would like to say to the Prime Minister that, in comparison with the other Prime Ministers, he listens more to the Saeima and comes here not only to tell us how well he is doing everything right and well, but also to try to listen to some extent (how much he can do). I will therefore talk about a couple of things that I think could be very important and which should be taken into account by the government if we really think about the sustainable development of the country. It is rightly noted, and finally understood, that the most important thing - what creates values for us here in the country, and who leads us to prosperity - is the knowledgeable and creative people. It really is a priority number one. It is a pleasure to see that the Prime Minister really is trying in this area and understands that knowledge is our future. The problem that awaits us in the future is also rightly pointed out. This is a huge challenge that we should think about in relation to future labour disproportions (which you are also showing in your report). Obviously, in the near future, they will be huge, simply dramatic for us. In the so-called applied sciences - STEM, as abbreviated to modern “Latvian” they are now called, they will be minus 16 thousand specialists, which we will lack. That is, realistically, the people we need to develop. If we look at the average professional level, then there will already be minus 30,000 specialists that we will lack. Where do I see a fundamental problem? At the moment, it is being dealt with with with with with the fact that, when we see this disproportion and the fact that there is a very low skilled workforce (there is a surplus), we are naively hoping that we will be able to reskill them. But it will not really be possible! If you talk to those who are engaged in employee re-training, further education... Now it must be understood that these people who have chosen to be low-skilled and have a lack of education have some objective reasons why this has happened. Of course, some of them simply did not have the opportunity to learn, but most of them are simply not motivated and they simply do not have this potential. This means that, in this way, we will not solve this issue. If we continue to sleep and watch - as we are doing now - we will end up with one huge problem: that our economy will simply not be able to develop further. Therefore, it is necessary to start thinking in good time about exporting education and start thinking in good time, perhaps also about smart immigration, so that we can get the people we need here. It is better to do this now so that we can lift our economy, make it more productive and we should have fewer immigrants than we will later realise that we need a huge number of people who will be able to produce something cheap and with little added value here. That will be a rather dramatic situation for our country. This must now start thinking about and finding these solutions. The second thing I can't pass is energy. We like to talk a lot and a lot about how important this area is. However, if this is really important, I call for the final development of my energy strategy. Why is this so important? Why is this necessary? Yeah, it's not! If you were now trying to ask the Minister for Economic Affairs... we have a report on the strategy, and that is a fundamental difference. This is a fundamental difference! The guidelines are not what I am talking about either. Why a strategy? The strategy is a document - perhaps even one that should be confirmed by the Saeima - that puts a clear, understandable framework, a sustainable framework: what we are going to do and where we are going. Because how is it now? In your report, you announced that the energy policy pursued by the government is aimed at strengthening the competitiveness of the economy. This is a simple statement that has no specific framework. Yes, some measures are indeed aimed at this. In addition, there was a whole series of other measures, which led us to come to this OIC story, which would not have been if we had a strategy in which we were to say what we are doing, what we are not doing and where we are going. That is why the strategy is so important. Why is it all the more important now, and why would it be the first task to be done in energy? Because our situation has changed in principle. When we started taking all these measures, there was a different situation. From the perspective of the European common energy market, Latvia... The Baltics were like an isolated island. Now it's no longer an isolated island, no! We have interconnections, we have the opportunity, even... Not only with regard to electricity, but also with regard to gas, alternatives are now possible, and this means that we have a fundamentally different view of how we can build further development of our energy with a view to safety - whether we need our capacities here, or whether we can rely to some extent on interconnections. For example, Lithuania, as far as I am aware, in its strategy... in general, it is going to change it in principle; perhaps even it is going to abandon the Ignalina nuclear power plant and rely on interconnectors to get cheaper electricity from Scandinavia. This is one example. The second principle is, of course, the liberalisation of the market. In the past, we dealt with the safety of the system based on the fact that we had monopolies that were licensed with some safety requirements that they were supposed to fulfil, whereas now it is a liberalised market. I'm sorry, you can take two more minutes... Is that so?
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-01-PT12-389-U11	Do Members have reservations if a Member brings together both times of debate?... ( The box “Let it speak! ”) ) Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-01-PT12-389-U12	So this is the second principle that should be taken into account. Perhaps it seems to someone that we are as if everything is clear and that there is no need for a strategy, and that we already understand that it is really indisputable that we have to think that energy is aimed at making the economy as competitive as possible. Then, in view of this setting, Latvenergo should also be the same as Latvenergo – that Latvenergo should strive to provide the society with the lowest possible cost of electricity. And it could be created. Even the same question about OIC. The OIC was made at the moment when Latvenergo was another strategic setting: that we need as much safety as possible, we need our own generating capacities. And so that we had gas TEC here and we could work for it, we put a big... capacity payments, which may not be needed at all, because Latvenergo could also work effectively, competitively in the market. More! If we compare the investments made in the TEC and how much we now pay for the OIC, then it can be seen that many million could be saved because they would not have to be paid. And so we could really make our economy more competitive. These are all the issues that should go through; there should be this view. And that's why the strategy is so important. The second important factor why a strategy is needed is a document on which investors can rely and start thinking about investment so that we can develop this sector here. I understand that perhaps there is such a naive dream that we will do everything ourselves, that we will also buy "Latvijas Gaze", this gas infrastructure, and let's roll it out itself, but this is probably not the most effective way. The most effective way is as follows: If we really want to see a safe and understandable energy environment here that really serves the competitiveness of the economy, it means creating a clear regulatory environment here. And that is the most important thing that we have to do, not the money that we then collect back from the whole of society, from the economy. That would be my call: these two things. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-01-PT12-389-U13	The name of Member Julia Stepanenko.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-01-PT12-389-U14	Can I combine the two speaking times? ( The box “Let it speak! ”) ) Council Regulation (EC) No 1257/96 of 20 June 1996 concerning humanitarian aid (OJ L 163, 2.7.1996, p. 1).
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-01-PT12-389-U15	So you want to combine the two times of the debate. Do Members have objections?... Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-01-PT12-389-U16	Thank you. Honourable Members! Sir, If Mrs Chicago does not object, I will read my text. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. L. Cigan: “It’s okay!” ) I will begin with what I have not found in this report. I have not found any information in it that the government, hiding behind closed doors, fighting the media, hiding the annex to the treaty, has taken a decision without unnecessary discussion on the conclusion of an ambitious, modern new generation of treaty - a trade agreement between the European Union and Canada, the so-called CETA -. No studies have been carried out in Latvia on its impact on the economy and no surveys have been carried out, because the Ministry of Foreign Affairs has no money, despite the fact that many European countries have had intense discussions and several countries have submitted their declarations and declarations - in total 38. None of them were submitted by Latvia, despite the concerns of farmers and the claims of non-governmental organisations. Seeing what happens to our entrepreneurs after the budget night and reading the farewell letter from the current SIA, it is not clear to me what CETA benefits small and medium-sized enterprises you are talking about if you have just started the process of full destruction for these companies. Dear Ministers, See the letters from businessmen! So that they are not just dry statistical figures, I call on everyone to write their farewell letter to politicians, no matter how difficult it is. Do it! Because they think that the locks in the micro-enterprises tax regime have been too wide for you and you all have rescheduled. Please accept, Mr Kučinski, that business in Latvia, which is still alive, exists in spite of, not thanks to, the work of your government. Therefore, the rapid rise of Latvia in the Doing Business rating looks like a laughter on the background of budget adoption on 23 November. But there is some explanation for this. Ratings do not reflect the reality, but model an artificial business algorithm based on different costs and requirements. It has little to do with real life... less connection than the competitiveness index. That is why I would very much like to read in this government report the reasons and a broader analysis of why, in your opinion (i quote from the index): "The problem areas that business people still face are tax rates and their regulatory policies, as well as inefficient government bureaucracy." What do you think, what place will Latvia have in this rating next year? On the subject of demographics, it is ridiculous to read that one of the measures to improve demographics is the position of the government in the field of the Istanbul Convention. We will have an ideological document that contrasts women's men and every man with historical guilt for women's suffering, but there is no document that would protect men from despair for not being able to feed their families again. It seems much more important for the government to introduce feminism ideology, but to join the Article of the European Social Charter, which guarantees families' income from work, does not stray. In Latvia, about 15 percent of cases when a worker has turned to the State Labour Inspectorate are related to unpaid wages, and with next year this percentage will increase. And when a man can't give his wife money for spending (Depp. A.Kamiņš: “Family to the husband!” ), you will call it economic violence and teach children to recognise it in schools. Perhaps this is why the Ministry of Education and Science is proposing to extend the school year, because the Istanbul Convention is not just an amendment to the Criminal Law and the Civil Procedure Act, it is a thorough introduction of an ideological programme in schools that will require funds and will be controlled by an international group of experts. I believe, Mr Kučinski, that you have started to account too early for what, in your opinion, the Cabinet of Ministers did in 2016. Your report does not relate to real achievements, because the fact that children continue to be born, for example, is not your merit at all. ( Merry laughter.) You cannot go on Christmas holidays with a calm heart until the government has come up with a way to correct your mistakes and save the well-being of families. It will not be saved by the Istanbul Convention or by the 14th place in the Doing Business rating. The welfare of the family will be saved by the fact that Dad will have a job and Mom will know that the child has enough money for winter boots. It's so simple. So please, Mr Kučinski, come back to the government house, call the ministers and start working! We will wait for your report until 1 March. It'd fix it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-01-PT12-389-U17	Name to Member John Ruck.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-01-PT12-389-U18	Dear President of the Saeima. Mr. Prime Minister! Dear colleagues, I would like to draw the Prime Minister's attention to several important issues, in my opinion, which concern the internal and external security chapter of the report, but which are not mentioned in the report either as work that has already been done or as work to be done. Strengthening national defence capabilities. I strongly agree with the report that “development of national self-defence capabilities and provision of allied presence in the region is essential for ensuring state defence” and Latvia “in order to ensure an increasing presence of allied forces in the region, improve host state support and continue work on the development of the National Armed Forces infrastructure by expanding the territory of the Adaži Land, improving the infrastructure of the Adaži Base and Lacuzil Land”. ( End quoted) It is positive that the report refers to the intention to work with local economic operators to realise these large-scale infrastructure facilities. On the other hand, nothing has been said about cooperation with municipalities in whose territories military landfills are located. In the district of Adazi alone, military landfill and bases in 2017 will have about 65 objects with an area under the buildings 72 thousand square meters, not including the necessary access roads and parking spaces. What are the consequences? What load will be placed on municipal infrastructure, street covers to ensure construction of objects of major importance for state defence and supply of building materials? What about congestion and other inconveniences? There is no analysis. The report also does not reflect how the Prime Minister sees and plans for further use and management of military facilities in cooperation with local governments. Will it be a unilateral dictatorship on the part of the Cabinet of Ministers, or will cooperation opportunities be agreed as an equal partner? In my view, it is very important that people living in local authorities are aware of the importance of the processes that are taking place in their immediate vicinity, so that they are prepared to endure inconvenience and understand the benefits for the sake of national security. I believe that the successful implementation of these infrastructure projects and the concept of national defence approved by the Saeima on 16 June this year and the implementation of the decisions taken at the NATO Summit in Warsaw are not only responsibility of the Ministry of Defence, but the entire responsibility of the Cabinet of Ministers and the agenda of Māra Kučinska as Prime Minister next year. Point 7.2 of the report - "Internal security". I will quote from the first paragraph: "Internal security issues such as terrorism, organised crime, illegal migration, smuggling and trafficking in human beings are becoming topical due to international and regional security risks." I have carefully read the text of point 7.2, but it has also found nothing about corruption risks (especially in state law enforcement institutions) that threaten internal security. Of course, it can be allowed that the Prime Minister's information centre may not know everything, but the Prime Minister, who is directly under the direct authority of the Office for the Prevention and Combating of Corruption, which is currently without a head, should remember all of this. If there are corruption cases in public administration structures, people do not trust public administration. And I think this is a serious threat to the internal security of the country.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-01-PT12-389-U19	The name of Member Silvia Symph.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-01-PT12-389-U20	Dear colleagues and honourable colleagues. Mr. Prime Minister! Minister! I looked forward to the first annual report by Prime Minister Maris Kučinska on the work done and planned by the Cabinet of Ministers, but I was disappointed because, unfortunately, in this socio-economic situation, I saw a long time from the analysis of the sharp problems and their solution to the documents on the basis of the document, the text's smoothing phrase and the broadening of statistical information. The comments during the report were already... the emphasis expected on the problems, but why is this not the basic report itself? The third chapter of the report entitled ‘Demography and social security’ was marked by a particular degree of smoothness and did not include the words ‘poor’ and ‘reducing inequalities’. But I think it's not only important for me to know how the government's work has affected Latvia's solution to this most acute problem, because social reality in our country is very harsh. This is pointed out by civil organisations, the Ombudsman, the institutions of the European Union. At the risk of poverty and social exclusion, 606% or 31 percent of the Latvian population, 37 percent of under-family families with at least one child, 34.5% of families with three or more children are exposed. 70 percent or 322 thousand pensioners receive pensions of no more than EUR 300. The difference between the income of the wealthiest and the poorest in all the countries of the European Union is greater than that of Bulgaria alone. The situation is particularly dramatic in Latgale, because almost 40 percent of the poor live in this region (for comparison, only 13 percent in Riga). The European Commission Staff Working Document “State Report 2016 - Latvia” states that in our country spending on social protection benefits from GDP is the lowest in the European Union and has little impact on poverty reduction. The minimum pension (as a percentage of average income) is the lowest in the European Union and does not provide protection against poverty. The risk of child poverty remains above the European Union average. These are circumstances that prevent the desired number of children from reaching the nation’s generation. The residents of Latvia refer to the following order of conditions: insufficient income, instability in income, unstable state (municipal) support policy, instability in work, inadequate housing, lack of stable partnerships, health problems. In my opinion, the government should also work much more and more complexly to ensure access to and adequacy of housing. We have hundreds of thousands of people who have no waterpipe, wet toilets, showers, or baths and who live under very tight conditions. The public housing policy, last defined too long ago, was not development-oriented. It had no connection with business, it did not support the construction of new residential houses and did not ensure the restoration of the degraded housing stock. It did not decide to increase the improvement of the housing stock. It was designed to justify the process of privatisation of apartments and did not address the development of the housing fund. In order to address the key prerequisites for the quality of life of young families (i.e. demographic problems) and other social groups - decent housing - it is not enough just to implement the Altum programme. A public housing policy that is in line with the current situation is needed, including addressing the accumulated problems.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-01-PT12-389-U21	Name to Member Igor Pimenov.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-01-PT12-389-U22	Good afternoon, Prime Minister. Hello, Mr. Asheraden! It is very pleasant that you and your two are now participating in our discussion, which, unfortunately, has turned into a debate on the new version of the next year's budget. I would not, however, like to repeat what I have said at first reading of the budget, but I would like to draw your attention to only two indicators. The first is the rate of growth of our gross domestic product. You named 4.5 percent, Mr. Kučinski, if I heard it right. Your opinion shows how deeply Latvian policy has been stagnated, however, within the limits we have been in for less than 30 years. However, our aim is to ensure a decent welfare for Latvia. And to reach European countries' levels of prosperity - average! - even during the life of this generation of Latvia, the country must double its income - double it! - in one generation. This growth would be achieved by an annual increase of seven per cent of gross domestic product for at least 20 consecutive years. Seven percent 20 years in a row! How can such a pace be achieved? In 2008, the World Bank produced a growth report which concludes that an increase of seven percentage points can be achieved if the total level of investment in the country (I quote) “is set at 30 per cent of gross domestic product, including private and public investment”. For Latvia in 2017, this would be about EUR 7.9 billion. But given that we still need to overcome the lack of investment in the private sector caused by the crisis, we probably need to invest even more next year. Where do you get this investment? These are private investments, they are funds of the European Structural Funds, as well as funds of the state budget of Latvia. The President of Latvijas Banka is constantly talking about private investment, pointing out that commercial bank accounts contain huge money, but commercial bank owners do not want to credit our economy because they simply do not see serious projects. It seems to have been concluded. I think investment in small projects depends on how convincing business plans are, but big money comes where the markets are. Investments, or investments, are made in large markets. Latvian market is shallow, so money doesn't come. On the Structural Funds. We well understand how serious this “cushion” has been for the Latvian economy in the last six years, but we cannot expect it to continue and always continue. Moreover, we must remember that there are restrictions: there is a specific profile for which Europe gives money and for which - it does not give. For what purpose? European Union funds do not give money to sectors that ensure the competitiveness of the country. In particular, they give money to infrastructure, education, renovation of facades (Thanks for that!) , for road renovation, but never gives to production. If we don't understand that, we'll always run on with our feet in the bag. The only saviour for our economy is the funds of the Latvian budget. I understand very well that we must not simply ensure this now - there are restrictions on the European Union. In fact, the policy of the European Commission is a trap (this opinion does not mean that I am a Eurosceptic, not at all!) , and this is a problem that has been identified across the euro area. And Latvia, as a Member State of the European Union, must take its own step to expand the possibilities of developing its economy by investing the country - public! - money in manufacturing. It's the main, and perhaps the only, recipe to raise our development to seven percent. And another indicator that I would like to remind you about is the external trade balance. Our current account is close to zero, but negative, but the external trade balance is very negative. In all the Member States of the European Union, the crisis began there - right there! - where there was a negative external trade balance. No European money will help us, and no European bank...
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-01-PT12-389-U23	Your speaking time...
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-01-PT12-389-U24	Thank you, I'm done. I'm coming to the end, President. ... will not help us if we do not do it for our own money. I simply call on the Prime Minister to act very courageously in his relations with the European Commission, and there will be success. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-01-PT12-389-U25	Name to Member Artus Neminis. Do Members have reservations that the Member is bringing together the two times of the debate? Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-01-PT12-389-U26	Hello, Mr. Prime Minister. Yesterday in the public media, I heard from you the following text: “We work here, we do here, we work here, we sweat, but then the Neighbours will come and tell you that everything is bad.” And now the neighbor has come and tell us what's bad. First thing. It's about tradition. Last time I saw you all in this room, we took the budget here for 20 hours. 20 hours away! On the question of why we do this - 20 hours, you told me yourself that these were traditions from the times of the Supreme Council. So, from the days of Communism! And you said that these traditions would be broken. Let's see what happens next year. But you are introducing a new tradition today. Today Vladimir Putin also reports to his constituents in Russia on what he has done. It's not funny. Please do not continue with this tradition. That's not good! And now, for your work, Mr. Kučinski! So I thank the government for the long-term poverty shown in the report, the high priorities, cynicism and indifference towards Latvian taxpayers. With such a government and with such thinking, we will continue to lose people who have no choice but to go to work abroad. We will continue to undermine small and medium-sized enterprises, which will not have the option of finding a solution to the grey economy. We will continue to undermine families that will not be helped by establishing housing and decent living conditions for the training of several children. The government-long poverty and the fundamental "Market for All" dimension of the neoliberal economy shown in the document ... Mr. Kučinski, that will not be the case! This neoliberal thinking over the last 25 years has led Latvia and the Latvian economy to collapse. The government is thinking about Latvia's economic development, solely on the basis of external factors. It believes that Latvia is an open economy whose development requires investment. The government is concerned about the development of the investment environment and foreign capital. It's kind of like investment has become less. The government believes that investment will inevitably lead to development. ‘ It will happen,” it repeats in its neoliberal faith. ‘ Development will come if it creates infrastructure." The government is ready to bring billions into irons and concrete, but does not pay attention to Latvia's main resource. And the main resource of Latvia is man. A parallel reality is created and maintained. The government tells us that the Doing Business rating proves that Latvia is the sixth best business environment in Europe. We were better than in Germany! The 2016 EU Justice Scoreboard shows that we have improved our justice system. What are you talking about? ( Interface: “It’s research! ” ) Ask taxpayers and they will tell you (or perhaps not too politely) about both the judicial system, the business environment and where you can put down your objective research and parallel reality. We see in the report the government's laziness and non-professionality regarding the planning and use of European funds' investments. A total of €4.5 billion is available. Payments have been made for EUR 177 million. The economy needs money which the government does not require to produce documents. Why such a delay? Because the government's priority, Mari, is not human, but development projects, Mari, from which you live - who, Mari? - People close to the political elite, Mary! To look at just one development project, which has been mentioned in your report on the past. Railway electrification. To achieve this, the Latvian taxpayer will pay about 900 million euros, while the EU co-financing will amount to 347 million, a total of approximately 1.2 billion euros. What the hell do we need this project? The cargo volumes will decrease and the bank estimates will continue to drop by as much as 30-50 percent. Invest this money in people, education, small and medium-sized enterprises! Don't let this money cover for people close to the elite if this project is implemented or changed. What do we see in the government's attitude towards taxpayers? A lot of small numbers. The fourth child benefit would be €50, which is a significant increase (currently €34). The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. L. Chigan intersacres.) Find someone to be proud of! The generation of the people. What is the word “regeneration” at all? The generation of the people. A total of EUR 19.9 million has been earmarked for the measures. We must weep, not be proud! Measures to combat the shadow economy are a terror for Latvian taxpayers, micro-enterprises... Nothing at all is said about government austerity measures. Nothing at all! Thank the government for the neoliberal thinking that foreign investment will save us, Mr Kučinski! Thank you for your love of concrete. Thank you for your love for the irons and not for the people! Thank you for the shadow terror against taxpayers! Thank you for nothing! ( Insects: “Applause! ”) ; “Where are the hairy ones?Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, “)
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-01-PT12-389-U27	Name to Member Janis Urbanovich.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-01-PT12-389-U28	President of the Saeima. Colleagues! Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council of Ministers. Since we have long been familiar, such courageous criticism could only lead to a smile, so I will try to criticise it in a friendly way. First of all, it is a pleasure that the Prime Minister does not hesitate to talk about his doubts, concerns, things that have not yet been decided on by the government. It only proves that there has not been something that often happens to our Prime Minister, even to Members - that when someone gets into a position, he immediately becomes smarter and knows everything, he has a ready answer to any question, and he believes it is a great shame to doubt about something and not to know anything. That's good. What is not so good is that you have long-standing doubts on the agenda of all the previous governments... In particular, the inconsistency of the education system, the failure to solve old problems are still, and the situation is only getting worse every year. Many laugh at the fact that the education system is not a problem for learners, but a welfare and social care programme for educators, and apparently there is a midway between these two critical points of view. And that's why I'd like to encourage, Marty, I'm sorry I'm saying that! - to the fact that you should still, you know, take a salt, because it's a good quality to be good for your ministers, for all the officials in the Cabinet of Ministers... just this limit goes to the end. I think that their friendship should be combined with control and encouragement, because otherwise, its consequences are those that we also saw in the budget - this enormous laurels, this kind of household work. The opposition says: “Well, wait for the micro-enterprises! You can't do that - destroy everything right away without creating anything in place!” - “No, what are you talking about? We have long been “pushing out” it! It will be so, and sit down at the wheels.” Now, when the budget is sealed at night, the President of Latvia, a colleague from the same party, says that, as it should be reviewed, but does not know how to do it. There is also loyalty to it. When one minister avengeed a teacher who thought that it was necessary to introduce a legal norm so that he could legitimately destroy his wrongdoer, the industry also wondered, the industry did not believe that this was possible. But now it is accepted, and now all letters to the President of Latvia are being written, submissions are being prepared to the Constitutional Court for the fact that it was wrong, it was hasty, something needs to be changed. And what will happen now? A page of a law that we from the budget package... will be sent. Let us pretend that this is not part of the budget package. We say, “Take it out, and let’s see three readings!” - “No, we need to put it in the budget!” Whether it is a tax on micro-enterprises or the loyalty of circular educators, it must certainly be urgent. And so on. And now again, what do we do? Let us pretend that the budget is not depreciated and the government is therefore not depreciated if President Vejonis admits that the budget is a brother and has been misaccepted? If even one article, which does not even have any figures, has been returned from the single budget package, the government has been gone! Well, I'm sorry! All lawyers are stylists, one school has gone: one is a prosecutor, the other is a lawyer. They fight with each other, even though they both understand that none of them is right. Trust in the fact that a office's lawyer is more right: that's stupid! ( I understand very well those in the room who have completed legal schools, so let us not pretend!) Now, what to do? Let us hope that it will also go quietly, that we will sort out what we shouldn't have allowed? My proposal to both the president and the Prime Minister is to put the budget right now, so that we go through the micro-enterprises issue, starting with zero, and also look at the pedagogic loyalty bed of Prokrust, outlined in Shadurski's style. Peacelessly pass through and resolve with the people in the industry. Micro company. Yeah, of course, there's a lot of humiliation there... I'm sorry, I won't go back, I promise if I could talk now... ( Interface: “Sustainable, safe! ”) ) Council Regulation (EC) No 1257/96 of 20 June 1996 concerning humanitarian aid (OJ L 163, 2.7.1996, p. 1).
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-01-PT12-389-U29	Yeah. Do Members have reservations when using the second time of the debate? ( The box “Let it speak! ”) ) There are therefore no objections.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-01-PT12-389-U30	Thank you. You see, businessmen are, of course, trying to adapt to our system of laws so that entities of the Latvian economy can remain. Not all entrepreneurs, especially in rural areas, are trying to cheat the country. They just want to be entrepreneurs. And if they say, “You know, you’ll be old once, and if you don’t pay enough social taxes for yourself or your contracted employees, then you’ll be unemployed.” What do these people do? ‘ Wait! We have long hoped for a decent pension in that country. Let us at least now earn a living for ourselves and our children! Give us an alternative, as you can do otherwise! We'll be happy to adapt." Don’t be because of those who know how to optimise - taxis or some construction entrepreneurs who “split” their big business in small, small... They do it, too, because they want to cheat and steal. They are simply unable to pay taxes, the amount we have imposed on them. The promised audit of these taxes on their compliance with reality is an acute need for us to do so by the government. I invite you not to wait for Christmas, start doing it now! There must be a public, public audit of the tax system and a solution so that it is not as it is now - the destroyed micro-enterprises will go either in line with benefits, either in the shadow, or they will register in Estonia, and this big process has already begun in Latgale. I would also like to talk about a subject on which colleagues have already spoken. I want to say something about working with investors. We have an absolutely absurd situation: we want investors to come here, but we do nothing. I believe that there must be an office that is subject to the Prime Minister, I do not know whether it brings together those superiors in every way, but it must work with every investor who invests or is willing to invest over a million euros. Everyone should work individually and look at what's wrong with him, go inside effectively, quickly and encourage other entrepreneurs. Thank you. (Applause)
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-01-PT12-389-U31	Mr Urbanovich, your two times of debate are over. Thank you. Name to Member Sergey Dolgopolov.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-01-PT12-389-U32	Dear colleagues, Sir, Naturally, a review in the past is extremely necessary - not only to assess whether the work of the Cabinet of Ministers was really a work or a imitation of it, but also to draw some conclusions. Don't make a mistake on someone who doesn't work. Naturally, every work implies that errors can be made, but the work cannot consist only of corrections. I would like to draw attention to two things arising from what the report says, including the Prime Minister's "outside remarks". First. We talk a lot about business investors, about business development in Latvia. It seems that if we are aware that the goal of business is to make profits, the most difficult thing is not the bureaucratic obstacles, but any difficulties, how to achieve the desired solution, but the unstable tax policy. It cannot be that every year we change the rules of the game precisely in the key area of profit and taxation. That is why all the jockeys about micro-enterprises' taxes, residence permits, social contributions and so on are appearing. Entrepreneurs can get used to the most challenging rules of the game on one condition: if they are constant. Perhaps one should really think about identifying a certain moratorium on changes in tax policy, knowing that there should be gradual, consistent solutions in this area. Then it can provide some stability. The other thing I want to say. Today was mentioned about security matters. The Prime Minister has noted that, here, we do not even need to comment on external and internal security matters, but it seems to me that the trends that have appeared in the area of internal security should really be commented on here. It seems to me that attempts to drive public opinion into kitchens (as in the past) or social networks are a priority. There are attempts to fight not for values, for ideas, but for thoughts. Fight to restrict freedom of expression, to combat otherwise minded people, whether they are of internal or external origin. It's a dead end. I think it would be much more important if the so-called political elite were to be hindered from trying to reconcile society in some way, trying to eject a pledge between different groups of society and different sections of society. This is much more important, because here, precisely from the political elite, as we call it, there is the greatest danger in internal security matters. And finally. I think you said very well that we should take courageous steps. Undoubtedly! But any bold step must also be a wise step, and I also call for it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-01-PT12-389-U33	The name of the Member, Martin Bondar.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-01-PT12-389-U34	Madam President of the Saeima. Mr. Prime Minister! Dear colleagues and honourable colleagues. There is a very symbolic situation: the Prime Minister is now alone in the Chamber. When the budget was split, there were absolutely all the ministers here who wanted something... to get something from its division. Now the Prime Minister has left one here, even though he came with Mr Asheraden. Mr. Poor Asheraden has let himself go. He went away, listening to everything he said about the economy! It's symbolic. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. S. Aboltiņa: “You asked why he left?” ) Second. I would like to say exactly as you said when you start your speech. You have said that these will be the Prime Minister's remarks; you will not talk about what is written in that report. Neither will I start with what I intended to say to you. I can tell you first what I'm talking about. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. L. Žigāne: “You don’t have to walk behind!” ) When I asked the coalition Members: “Are you not going to say anything about your Prime Minister - about you, the coalition, the Prime Minister?” - Then one of the sentences they say is: “Blessed is either good or nothing.” The other thing that others say is, “Well, what he's piped!” The third thing people say: “Marim has nowhere to grow.” ( I simply refer to those notes that come from the backstages.) But for you, for you as an economy. You have written your report as an economyman, and I would like to say that the people who wrote it for you have done a bad job because you are learning... teach this report to write much simpler and people more easily, and you know very well that the economy is based on three very simple things: people, capital and technology. What, then, should this report be about people? People should be that there are people in Latvia who are trying to work, giving work to others to feed their families to feed themselves. There are people who have found their use in world industries where they have achieved excellence, and I can mention culture, such as Andris Nelson, in the modelling of sports such as Kristaps Porzinģis, such as Karlina Cauni. And not just! And so on, and so on! And the third, yes, these are the entrepreneurs you write about, who export and innovate. That's right! That's right! Just what about those people who try to feed their families, give work to others and feed themselves? They are expected to raise taxes, cost increases, they are expected to have to let people go, and they are expected to have to close down their businesses. This is the result of the work of your government. Secondly, when it comes to capital. Capital, by its very nature, needs three simple things. One is the legal environment. As regards the legal environment, I must say, Prime Minister, there has been no breakthrough in the last 10 months. The other is the whole bureaucratic, administrative apparatus. I must say, Prime Minister, that has not remained more friendly to business either. And finally, security. Indeed, some measures have been taken in the area of security. The necessary means have been put in place to meet or meet any criteria, at least formally, in this segment. But, as we said yesterday, there is a need for better coordination, and I think you are committed to doing so. Regarding the third aspect, any healthy economy has technologies, but it is well too early to talk about technologies in Latvia. We have stopped on very basic issues. We have stopped on issues that affect our people who are concerned with capital, who could stay here or go. And it goes. Therefore, it is better not to talk about technologies at the moment. I have heard your speech and I have read the report. I hope that what you have said in your speech is even part of your dream and that part of this dream will also be realized. Good luck to you, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-01-PT12-389-U35	I closed the debate. Does the Prime Minister have anything to add after the debate?
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-01-PT12-389-U36	Honorable Saeima! Yes, I have to add. I also have comments about what I have heard. Firstly, I would like to thank all of you for the proposals that have been made, and also those who have spoken critically, with arguments. I assure you that I listen to everyone. I am not listening only to destruction and reports written by specific critics. But I really have to say that I am pleased with this debate. Thank you to the opposition. Some of the things that have been said here and that I'd like to tell you more about. Of course, the report - and I hope you are familiar with it - is, in a way, a great compromise between, as is generally described, everything and from all over the salt, and everyone wants to see himself going to the things that we have set out as priorities and which I have also highlighted in my speech today at the very beginning. I can't talk completely about everything and give up every single piece, promise and then get down. That is not why I have become Prime Minister. As far as ministers are concerned, no matter which political power they come from, we are a team, and I will stand behind every minister who is reforming, just as ministers will stand behind me. I am convinced of that. And we'll fight further. Today, I hoped that I should not call the entire Cabinet of Ministers for help. It has nothing to do with the budget, and one sentence on the budget, honourable Members: I do not take away my responsibility. Perhaps we all need to get to the head sometime in order to make the next time more intelligent. Let us therefore also focus on priorities in the future. For a long time. Another remark. Someone may be disappointed to think why it's not in here, why it's not done and it's already done. The length of time is not even eight months. The long term is the achievement of a result that is divided into stages. We can focus, say, on education. The development of the wage system is only the first stage for all further stories. The choice of the healthcare model and the first work started is already calling for new reservations... Someone will always be dissatisfied if you do something. It's only satisfied with you if you don't do anything, because there's no one to protest. It may exist for some time. One very big remark about vocational education and training. And one note about the boarding schools mentioned by Ingun Silver. No, boarding schools will be anywhere where they are needed and there will be no total wipe-out! But we have one question, one task: quality assurance. If we now looked at how it looks graphically, then we would see that we are growing... going not in parallel, but on every side... the number of people who have completed secondary education and who do not learn anything, who do not have either vocational or basic education to go to higher education and to study in the necessary specialities. And that scares me most. Vocational education. Our idea is not just for children! These educational institutions must become centres for re-training, and there are excellent facilities. Have you been to the new centres of competence? All this must be used! It teaches a profession if a person has not had the opportunity to learn and acquire a profession. These centers need to teach you all day on this machine so that you can get a job after that. GDP growth rates. Of course, we need to go faster if we want to live better. With regard to the current situation, there is one good news, one bad news. The good news is that we don’t have to put the ash on our head and say, “GDP is falling to us this year, and it’s all!” It falls only in construction, as we know well; it falls a little bit in transit and financial terms. It's growing in production, growing in processing... Exports in pieces or in terms of production also give rise. Let's go ahead and see what's going to happen next year! The bad news is that it shows, however, a great dependence on European funds. As it turns out, the European funds depend on our construction, the European funds depend on a huge number of non-governmental organisations, and also on a huge number of small companies that so exist. Perhaps this is a good experience at the moment - to survive a phase in which the European funds are not as large as they could be next year. Give, God, that we may have something to learn, and that we may be workers in building organizations! Because without European funds... One of the major shortcomings that the Saeima will obviously have to address is now emerging. We have to work together. Three years have passed since the tragedy in Zolitude, and we all hope never again to prevent such buildings from building. However, we have complicated the process of documents, basically going to have safe and strong buildings, so that we cannot replace materials, so that the construction process is monitored. But now objective and subjective... but any investment clashes with huge bureaucracy and huge time to reach construction at all. And the last one. I would like to emphasise once again: thank you for your criticism. What we have to solve is the tax on micro-enterprises. And what we, the government, can only do together with the parliamentary committee - the Commission on Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy - with you all. We need to take on the allies of companies that were once, or were intended to be, such laws and that should not make living conditions worse and throw them out of the business environment. We need to bring together these like-minded people for whom we are working and create this model (also in the near future) and confirm by the middle of next summer, so that there is no uncertainty about what the future model will be. I cannot accept leaving everything old at the moment. Otherwise, I will not be able to respond to those people who, according to the calculations they now make, will receive pensions of EUR 35. And then they will stand again and ask where the country was at that time. I have met hairdressers who are forced to build micro-enterprises, with electricians who are climbing up the stables and who, it turns out, are also making micro-enterprises for the sole purpose of optimising taxation. That is something we cannot afford, and that is not what we will do! And the last one. Thank you again for today. I think we are a sufficiently small and compact country, and we do not have to divide this into such very different issues: there is a government here, there is a Saeima. I very much hope that future development will be our cooperation with all politicians. I would also like to involve Commission leaders more closely in the work of the government. Aija Barča first got to the cartoons and everything else... But she has also done a great job and is working with us. She works to create a law that does not harm people, so that people do not come to tell them about how the state has allowed them to be cheated by tax evasion. At the same time, the law would not destroy either business or the business environment around. So my call is: meet more often! ( The transcripts are: ‘ All right! ’) ; dep. M.Bondar: “Where?” ) Thank you. (Applause)
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-01-PT12-389-U37	I thank the Prime Minister for his report. We don't have to vote. The report has been examined. Honourable Members! It's time for a break. Please call me! Please check-in mode for Members! Dear colleagues, On November 27, our colleague Ilze Viņķele celebrated his birthday and we congratulate him! (Applause) Thank you. Name to Member Sergey Mirsky.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-01-PT12-389-U38	Dear colleagues, The next Wednesday, Dec.7, at 15.00, the meeting of the Members' Cooperation Group with the Russian Parliament will take place in the Red Hall with the Ambassador of Russia Aleksandras Vesņakovs. So on December 7 at 3 p.m. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-01-PT12-389-U39	Name for reading the results of the registration to Gunārs Kūtris, member of the Saeima Secretary.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-01-PT12-389-U40	Hello, colleagues! Today has not registered: Inga Bite, Inesis Boķis, Gundars Dauge... - Andrey Elksnins... yes, Inese Laizāne, Ilmārs Latkovskis, Inese Lībiņa-Egnere, Romanas Mežeckis, Arvīds Platopers, Edvins Šnore and Ivars Zarins.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-01-PT12-389-U41	Thank you. Interruption until 11 a.m. ( Interruption) ( Interruption)
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-01-PT12-389-U42	Ladies and gentlemen, I call for seats to be held in the Saeima's Chamber. We're going to keep the Saeima sitting. The Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy asks to make changes to the agenda of the meeting and to review the draft law “Amendments to the Law on the Movement of Alcohol Drinks” at first reading without re-examination by the responsible commission. Are Members opposed to this amendment of the agenda? There is no objection. The agenda has been amended. The next item is "Provision of draft legislation". On the agenda - draft law on Amendments to the Law on Electronic Media, second reading. The draft law has been declared urgent. On behalf of the Commission for Human Rights and Public Affairs, Mr Ritvars Jansons.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-01-PT12-389-U43	Hello! No proposals were received by the panel at the time the proposals were submitted. The commission responsible supported the progress of the draft law for the second, final, reading. On behalf of the Commission for Human Rights and Public Affairs, please support the draft law on Amendments to the Law on Electronic Media at second, final reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-01-PT12-389-U44	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote in favour of the second, final, reading of the draft law on "Amendments to the Law on Electronic Media". Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 48, for - 21, for - 5. The law is passed. On the agenda: Draft law on the International Assistance Act, third reading. Member Ojārs Ēriks Kalniņš on behalf of the Commission on Foreign Affairs.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-01-PT12-389-U45	Thank you, Presidium. Honourable Members! We work with document No 2763. The Foreign Affairs Commission has examined this draft law. We did not receive any proposals for the third reading. On behalf of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, I call for support for the third, final, reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-01-PT12-389-U46	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote in favour of the third, final, reading of the draft law on "Amendments to the Law on International Assistance". Please vote mode! Please get the result! On - 74, against and refrains - not. The law is passed.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-01-PT12-389-U47	Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-01-PT12-389-U48	On the agenda - draft law “Amendments to Law “On Real Estate Tax”, first reading. On behalf of the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission, Member Imants Debtor.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-01-PT12-389-U49	Hello, dear colleagues! Dear President of the Saeima. In its meeting of 4 October of this year, the Budget and Finance (Tax) Commission reviewed the draft law “Amendments to Law on Real Estate Tax” (No 615/Lp12) prior to the first reading. The draft law was submitted to the Saeima in a single package containing the draft law “Amendments to the Law on the State Cadastre of Real Estate” (No 616/Lp12) and “Amendments to the Law on Land Registers” ( No 617/Lp12). They have already been adopted at third reading and have also been announced. The aim of the draft law and all this package was to make the necessary changes in connection with amendments to the Civil Law, which provides for the introduction of a new institution of law - building rights in the Latvian legal system with effect from 1 January 2017. The right of construction shall provide for the possibility for a private person to build non-residential buildings or engineering structures on the land belonging to another person during the period of validity of the right. This law must also be amended in the context of the implementation of this Institute. This draft law provides for the payment of real estate tax on buildings or civil engineering built under the building right by the landowner. At the Commission's meeting, there were discussions on this draft law, due to the fact that it provides for yet conceptually different regulation than is currently provided for in the Civil Law. Therefore, the opinion of the Legal Commission on the compatibility of the regulatory framework in the draft law with the spirit of the new legal institute was also sought. The Legal Commission indicated that the above amendments to regulatory acts were highlighted by the right of construction as an independent right, which should in fact be considered as a separate property with all the rights and duties resulting from it, including the right of construction to pay real estate tax. The Latvian Municipal Union pointed out the problem of possible collection of real estate tax, but the solution must be found, and it will certainly be done. Although these contradictions have remained, the Budget and Finance (Tax) Commission decided to support this draft law at first reading. To the second reading, the Legal Bureau will draw up proposals for clarification of the provision. Since the harmonised rules must enter into force on 1 January, as I said, I call on the Commission to recognise the draft law as urgent and, of course, also to support its adoption at first reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-01-PT12-389-U50	Please call me! We will vote for the recognition of the draft law “Amendments to the Law “On Real Estate Tax”” as urgent! Please vote mode! Please get the result! -69, against -5, refrains - not. The draft law has been declared urgent. The Commission has also requested support at first reading. Please call me! We will vote for the support of the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Real Estate Tax” at first reading! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 76, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The draft law at first reading has been supported. Please set the deadline for the second reading of the proposals and the time for the session of the Saeima.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-01-PT12-389-U51	The deadline for the submission of proposals is 6 December of this year, and the final reading is 8 December. At the Commission's meeting, we agreed that other provisions would be called for not to be introduced in this law, because there are other draft laws open in relation to the real estate tax rate so that we can adopt this as soon as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-01-PT12-389-U52	Thank you. Time limit for the submission of proposals - 6 December of this year, consideration at the sitting of the Saeima - 8 December of this year. On the agenda: Draft law amending the Criminal Law, second reading. On behalf of the Legal Commission, Mr Andrejs Judin.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-01-PT12-389-U53	Dear colleagues, Draft law No 638 - Amendments to the Criminal Law is under consideration at second reading. One Member, Judine, received a proposal to amend Article 275 of the Criminal Law. When discussing the matter and hearing the expert’s opinion, the Legal Commission decided not to support this proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-01-PT12-389-U54	Let us start a debate. The name of the Member, Andrejs Judin.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-01-PT12-389-U55	I will not ask or invite you to vote because I respect the expert's opinion, but I think it is very important that the verbatim report retains the information relating to this amendment. In particular, Article 275 of the Criminal Law provides for responsibility for counterfeiting of a document and use of a false document. My proposal also provided for responsibility for the use of a counterfeit document derivative, for the counterfeiting of a derivative. During the debate, it was pointed out that if we now make a corresponding amendment, it will result in a doubt as to whether or not responsibility had been envisaged so far. The practitioners also pointed out that when dealing with criminal cases, they consider the derivative to be a form of document, i.e. the original, duplicate and derivative of the document. However, there is a contradiction between Articles 1 and 3 of the Document Law. In my opinion, the fact that the norm is correctly applied in practice and translated into an extended version of it gives rise to the hope that there will continue to be no problem with the application of the rule and that there will be no situation where, for example, a copy of the document is falsified, a infringer will be unduly relieved of responsibility. I therefore agree with the expert's opinion and do not call for a vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-01-PT12-389-U56	Thank you. So the vote on this proposal is not being asked, and Members support the opinion of the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-01-PT12-389-U57	There are no other proposals. On behalf of the Commission, please support the draft law at second reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-01-PT12-389-U58	Please call me! Let us vote in favour of the second reading of the draft law on criminal law. Please vote mode! Please get the result! It's not about - 80, it's against and refrains from - it's not. The draft law at second reading has been supported. Please set a deadline for the third reading of the proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-01-PT12-389-U59	6 December
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-01-PT12-389-U60	Thank you. Proposals are due by 6 December of this year. On the agenda - draft law “Amendments to the Law on the Prevention of Money Laundering and Financing of Terrorism”, second reading. On behalf of the Commission for Defence, Home Affairs and Anti-Corruption - Member Kārlis Sergeant.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-01-PT12-389-U61	Good morning, colleagues! In its meeting, the Commission for Defence, Home Affairs and Prevention of Corruption discussed draft law “Amendments to the Law on the Prevention of Money Laundering and Financing of Terrorism”. The second reading received one proposal, which only concerns the adjustment of the time of entry into force of this law, so the Commission has also supported it.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-01-PT12-389-U62	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-01-PT12-389-U63	I therefore ask you to vote in favour of the draft law as a whole.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-01-PT12-389-U64	Please call me! We will vote in favour of the second reading of the draft law “Amendments to the Law on the Prevention of Money Laundering and Financing of Terrorism”! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 65, for - 2 and for - 19. The draft law at second reading has been supported. Please set a deadline for the third reading of the proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-01-PT12-389-U65	December 15th.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-01-PT12-389-U66	Thank you. Proposals are due by 15 December of this year. On the agenda - draft law “Amendments to the Code of Conduct for Penalties of Latvia”, second reading. On behalf of the Commission for Defence, Home Affairs and Anti-Corruption - Member Kārlis Sergeant.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-01-PT12-389-U67	Yes, the draft laws have also been examined by the Commission at its meeting. Nine proposals have been received. I would add that this draft law is aimed at facilitating detention conditions in open prisons, so that prisoners can be more successful in their social rehabilitation and return to life. 1. - the proposal of the Minister of Justice Rasnačs. This is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-01-PT12-389-U68	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-01-PT12-389-U69	2. - a proposal from the Minister of Justice, Mr Rasnač. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-01-PT12-389-U70	Partially supported, included 3. - the Commission's proposal. Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-01-PT12-389-U71	Commission's proposal. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-01-PT12-389-U72	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-01-PT12-389-U73	4. - a proposal from the Minister of Justice. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-01-PT12-389-U74	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-01-PT12-389-U75	5. - a proposal from the Minister of Justice. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-01-PT12-389-U76	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-01-PT12-389-U77	6. - a proposal from the Minister of Justice. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-01-PT12-389-U78	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-01-PT12-389-U79	7. - a proposal from the Minister of Justice. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-01-PT12-389-U80	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-01-PT12-389-U81	8 / 8 - a proposal from the Minister of Justice. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-01-PT12-389-U82	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-01-PT12-389-U83	And nine. - The proposal from the Legal Bureau of the Saeima. This is also supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-01-PT12-389-U84	Members support the proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-01-PT12-389-U85	Please support the draft law as a whole.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-01-PT12-389-U86	Please call me! We will vote in favour of the second reading of the draft law on amendments to the Code of Conduct for Penalties of Latvia! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 66, for - no, for - 18. The draft law at second reading has been supported. Please set a deadline for the third reading of the proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-01-PT12-389-U87	Also December 15th.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-01-PT12-389-U88	Thank you. Proposals are due by 15 December of this year. On the agenda - draft law “Amendment to the Law on Vocational Education”, second reading. On behalf of the Commission for Education, Culture and Science - Member Valdis Skujiņš.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-01-PT12-389-U89	Dear Chairman of the Saeima. Colleagues! The Commission for Education, Culture and Science has examined the draft law “Amendment to the Law on Vocational Education” at second reading. One proposal has been received from the Legal Bureau, which the Commission has supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-01-PT12-389-U90	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-01-PT12-389-U91	All the proposals have therefore been examined. Please support the draft law “Amendment to the Law on Vocational Education” at second reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-01-PT12-389-U92	Please call me! We will vote in favour of the second reading of the draft law “Amendment to the Law on Vocational Education”! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 87, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The draft law at second reading has been supported. Please set the deadline for the third reading of the proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-01-PT12-389-U93	Thank you. Please submit your proposals for the third reading by 8 December.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-01-PT12-389-U94	Thank you. Proposals are due by 8 December of this year. On the agenda - draft law “Amendments to the Law on Registration of Civil Status Acts”, second reading. On behalf of the Legal Commission, Member Jūlija Stepanenko.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-01-PT12-389-U95	Dear colleagues, The Legal Commission of the Saeima continues to work on the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Registration of Civil Status Acts”. The Commission received 17 proposals for a second reading. 1. - the proposal of the Minister of Justice Dzintars Rasnačs, who is related to the entry of the foreigner's name and surname in the Latin alphabetic transliteration at his request. Not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-01-PT12-389-U96	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-01-PT12-389-U97	2. - the proposal of the Minister of Justice Dzintars Rasnačs. Partly supported and included 3. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-01-PT12-389-U98	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-01-PT12-389-U99	3. - a proposal from the Legal Commission relating to a certificate from the civil status record in the event of the death of a spouse. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-01-PT12-389-U100	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-01-PT12-389-U101	4. - the proposal by the Minister of Justice Dzintars Rasnačs on the notification of the deceased... the registration of the fact of death of the foreigner. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-01-PT12-389-U102	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-01-PT12-389-U103	5. - the proposal by Member Inga Betes. Not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-01-PT12-389-U104	Let us start a debate. Name to Member Juris Villums.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-01-PT12-389-U105	Ladies and gentlemen! This one. The proposal, proposal 5, and proposals 7 and 8 are the proposals of my colleague Inga Betes, and I will try briefly to tell you... ( The drug has increased noise. The head of the sitting shall be knocked down by means of a hammer.) Thank you. I will try to briefly talk about proposals 5, 7 and 8 tabled by my colleague Inga Bite. So that's the nature. Currently, if one of the spouses has chosen to change his or her surname or add his or her surname to the name of the other spouse, relevant information in the Population Register is recorded immediately, but the replacement of identity documents is not possible immediately - it takes some time. As a result, an earlier personal identification document issued to a person becomes invalid for travel, for example, but it takes time to receive a new document, as I said. In order to deal with the situation, my colleague Inga Bite has put forward proposals that provide two solutions for the spouses. First. At the same time as applying for marriage registration, apply also for the production of an identity document by paying the corresponding state fee. In such a case, the identity document shall be produced and served on the person on the date of the conclusion of the marriage, but in the event that the conclusion of the marriage for any reason is not effected, this failed document shall be destroyed. This is a person-friendly solution, but it needs to develop an additional cooperation mechanism between state and municipal institutions, the administration of citizenship and migration affairs and the family list departments. The second option provides for the possibility for spouses to choose the date on which changes to the Population Register are made. This date should not exceed 45 days from the date of the conclusion of the marriage, i.e. within 45 days. In this case, a change of the name in the Population Register would be delayed, allowing persons to retain their valid identity document, as I mentioned before, for example during a trip... and, if you return, complete all the formalities. I call for support for proposals 5, 7 and 8.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-01-PT12-389-U106	I closed the debate. Would the rapporteur have something to add on behalf of the Commission?
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-01-PT12-389-U107	No, not to be added. Unfortunately, the Commission has not supported this proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-01-PT12-389-U108	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 5. - Mrs Betes's proposal! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 25, for - 34, for - 16. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-01-PT12-389-U109	6. - the proposal of the Minister of Justice Dzintars Rasnačs, which is an explicit proposal related to nationality. There is no support in the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-01-PT12-389-U110	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-01-PT12-389-U111	7. - the proposal by Ms Inga Betes, which relates to proposal 5. There has been no support from the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-01-PT12-389-U112	Members ask for a vote. Please call me! We will vote in favour of 7. - Bees' proposal! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 23, for - 33, for - 17. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-01-PT12-389-U113	8 / 8 - the proposal by Member Inga Betes relating to the previous proposal. Not supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-01-PT12-389-U114	Members... asks for a vote. Please call me! We will vote in favour of 8. - Mrs Betes's proposal! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 22, for - 37, for - 18. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-01-PT12-389-U115	9. - clarification of the Minister of Justice Dzintars Rasnačs, which is related to nationality. Not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-01-PT12-389-U116	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-01-PT12-389-U117	10............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - the proposal of the Minister of Justice Dzintars Rasnačs. It has been partly supported and included 11. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-01-PT12-389-U118	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-01-PT12-389-U119	11. - a proposal from the Legal Commission relating to the competence of the family court. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-01-PT12-389-U120	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-01-PT12-389-U121	12. - the proposal of the Minister of Justice Dzintars Rasnačs, which relates to the responsibility of the institutions for notification of the deceased. Not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-01-PT12-389-U122	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-01-PT12-389-U123	13. - Clarifying proposal from the Legal Commission. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-01-PT12-389-U124	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-01-PT12-389-U125	14............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - clarification of the Minister of Justice Dzintars Rasnačs in relation to nationality. Not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-01-PT12-389-U126	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-01-PT12-389-U127	15............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - the proposal of the Minister of Justice Dzintars Rasnačs. Partially supported and included 16. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-01-PT12-389-U128	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-01-PT12-389-U129	16. - a proposal from the Legal Commission relating to the cancellation of unjustified entries in the register of civil status records which have been renewed or re-established. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-01-PT12-389-U130	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-01-PT12-389-U131	And finally 17. - the proposal of the Minister of Justice Dzintars Rasnačs, which relates to the responsibility of officials for the registration of a civil status act... the making of registrations. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-01-PT12-389-U132	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-01-PT12-389-U133	I therefore call on the Commission to support the draft law for second reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-01-PT12-389-U134	Please call me! We will vote in favour of the second reading of the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Registration of Civil Status Acts”! Please vote mode! Please get the result! It's not about - 86, it's against and refrains from - it's not. The draft law at second reading has been supported. Please set a deadline for the third reading of the proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-01-PT12-389-U135	Deadline for submission of proposals - January 9, 2017.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-01-PT12-389-U136	Thank you. Proposals should be submitted by 9 January 2017. On the agenda - draft law “Amendments to the Law on Diplomatic and Consular Service”, second reading. Member Ojārs Ēriks Kalniņš on behalf of the Commission on Foreign Affairs.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-01-PT12-389-U137	Good afternoon! We work with document No 2764. The Foreign Affairs Commission examined the draft law before the third reading. We received 16 proposals. 1. - The proposal from the Legal Bureau of the Saeima. The Commission supported this.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-01-PT12-389-U138	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-01-PT12-389-U139	2. - That's Mr Dombrava's proposal. He didn't support it.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-01-PT12-389-U140	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-01-PT12-389-U141	3. - That's Mr Dombrava's proposal. He didn't support it.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-01-PT12-389-U142	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-01-PT12-389-U143	4. - The proposal from the Legal Bureau of the Saeima. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-01-PT12-389-U144	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-01-PT12-389-U145	5. - The proposal from the Legal Bureau of the Saeima. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-01-PT12-389-U146	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-01-PT12-389-U147	6. - The proposal from the Legal Bureau of the Saeima. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-01-PT12-389-U148	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-01-PT12-389-U149	7. - The proposal from the Legal Bureau of the Saeima. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-01-PT12-389-U150	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-01-PT12-389-U151	8 / 8 - The proposal from the Legal Bureau of the Saeima. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-01-PT12-389-U152	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-01-PT12-389-U153	9. - The proposal from the Legal Bureau of the Saeima. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-01-PT12-389-U154	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-01-PT12-389-U155	10............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - That's Mr Dombrava's proposal. Not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-01-PT12-389-U156	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-01-PT12-389-U157	11. - The proposal from the Legal Bureau of the Saeima. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-01-PT12-389-U158	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-01-PT12-389-U159	12. - The proposal from the Legal Bureau of the Saeima. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-01-PT12-389-U160	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-01-PT12-389-U161	13. - John Dombrava's proposal. Some support has been given and included in proposal 15.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-01-PT12-389-U162	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-01-PT12-389-U163	14............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - The proposal from the Legal Bureau of the Saeima. Partly supported and also included in proposal 15.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-01-PT12-389-U164	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-01-PT12-389-U165	15............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - The Foreign Affairs Commission's proposal. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-01-PT12-389-U166	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-01-PT12-389-U167	And finally 16. - The proposal from the Legal Bureau of the Saeima. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-01-PT12-389-U168	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-01-PT12-389-U169	All the proposals have therefore been examined. On behalf of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, I call for support at second reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-01-PT12-389-U170	Please call me! We will vote in favour of the second reading of the draft law on Amendments to the Law on Diplomatic and Consular Service! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 84, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The draft law at second reading has been supported. Please set a deadline for the third reading of the proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-01-PT12-389-U171	Deadline for submission of proposals - 8 December.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-01-PT12-389-U172	Thank you. Proposals are due by 8 December of this year.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-01-PT12-389-U173	Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-01-PT12-389-U174	On the agenda - draft law “Amendments to the Law on the Movement of Alcohol Drinks”, first reading. On behalf of the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy, Member Armands Krauze.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-01-PT12-389-U175	Dear Chairman of the Saeima. Colleagues! The Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy works with the draft law “Amendments to the Law on the Movement of Alcohol Drinks”. This draft law has been strongly debated both by the Commission and by the Saeima at its meeting on the permissible volume of alcoholic beverages bottles, and this debate is still going on in the committee responsible, and these rules must also be agreed with the European Commission. Therefore, it is likely that the vote at third reading in the Saeima will fall short. Consequently, the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy has prepared a separate draft law which includes rules relating to small distilleries, i.e. small wine-makers, rules which should enter into force from 1 January in order not to harm our small producers of wine and alcoholic beverages producing beverages from their own products. So a separate draft law has been prepared by the Commission, and on behalf of the Commission I am asking for urgency to be established for this draft law.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-01-PT12-389-U176	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote for the urgent recognition of the draft law “Amendments to the Law on the Movement of Alcohol Drinks”! Please vote mode! Please get the result! It's not about - 80, it's against and refrains from - it's not. The draft law has been declared urgent.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-01-PT12-389-U177	On behalf of the Commission, I ask for support for the draft law at first reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-01-PT12-389-U178	Please call me! We will vote in favour of the first reading of the draft law “Amendments to the Law on the Movement of Alcohol Drinks”! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 84, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The draft law at first reading has been supported. Please set a time limit for the submission of proposals for the second reading and the time of the sitting of the Saeima.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-01-PT12-389-U179	Given that the draft law must enter into force on 1 January and Members have supported the draft law at first reading with no reservations, I call for support to be given to the draft law at second reading as well.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-01-PT12-389-U180	Are Members opposed to the second reading of the draft law? There is no objection. Please call me! We will vote in favour of the second, final reading of the draft law “Amendments to the Law on the Movement of Alcohol Drinks”! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 84, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The law has been passed.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-01-PT12-389-U181	Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-01-PT12-389-U182	The next item is "Review of the report". On the agenda - “Declaration of administratively punished Members between 14 June 2016 and 1 September 2016”. Member Vitaly Orlov on behalf of the Commission for Mandates, Ethics and Applications.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-01-PT12-389-U183	Thank you, Presidium. Honourable Members! On the basis of Paragraph 5 of Paragraph 1 of Article 179 of the Saeima Rules of Procedure, the Commission of Mandates, Ethics and Application shall provide information on administratively punished Members according to the data of the Penal Register during the period from 14 June 2016 until 1 September 2016. At the same time, the Commission provides information on Member Guntis Belēvičs about the period from 14 June to 16 June 2016. Member Askoldas Klavina - for the period from 16 June to 1 September 2016. Member Daini Liepiņa - for the period from 14 June 2016 to 1 August 2016. During those periods, the following Members shall be held liable for administrative liability. Richard Amy. A decision has been taken in the State Police Police Police Police Administration following the 14th part of Section 149.4 of the Latvian Administrative Violations Code (infringement of General Road Traffic Rules). A fine has been imposed. The Decision entered into force on 5 August. Andrejs Elksnins. A decision on the seventh part of Section 149.8 of the Code of Administrative Violations of Latvia (non-compliance with driving speed, distance and interval) has been taken in the Order Police Division of the State Police Administration of Latgale Region. A fine has been imposed. The Decision entered into force on 19 August. Andrey Judin. A decision has been taken in accordance with Section 149.8 (4) of the Code of Administrative Violations of Latvia (non-compliance with driving speed, distance and interval) of Section 149.8 of the Code of Administrative Violations of the State Police Riga Region Administration. Suitable warning. The Decision entered into force on 19 August. Lord Nanozol. The control part of the State Revenue Service Tax Control Agency adopted a decision following Section 159.9 (1) of the Latvian Administrative Violations Code (non-cooperation with an officer of the tax administration). A fine has been imposed. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. A.Kimiņš: “How much?” ) Decision entered into force on 23 June. John Crowd. A decision has been taken in the State Police Police Police Police Administration following the first paragraph of Section 149.24 of the Latvian Administrative Violations Code (infringement of technical condition of the vehicle and installation conditions). A fine has been imposed. The Decision entered into force on 23 June. Dainie Liepiņš. The decision of the State Police in Riga Regional Authority has been taken following the eighth part of Section 149.8 of the Latvian Administrative Violations Code (non-compliance with driving speed, distance and interval). A fine has been imposed. The Decision entered into force on 3 July. There's Spolitis. A decision has been taken in the Corruption Prevention and Combating Bureau following Article 166.28 of the Latvian Code of Administrative Violations (non-compliance with the procedure for the execution of restrictions on office reconciliation) and Article 166.30 of the Latvian Code of Administrative Violations (infringement of restrictions and prohibitions imposed on state officials). A fine has been imposed. The Decision entered into force on 11 August. Edwin Schnore. On the 7th of the Road Police Battalion of the State Police Department of Riga Region Administration, a decision was taken following the 12th part of Section 149.8 of the Code of Administrative Violations of Latvia (non-compliance with speed, distance and interval of driving). A fine has been imposed. The Decision entered into force on 15 August. Jānis Trupovnieks. A decision has been taken within the administration of the Vidzeme region of the State Police following the eighth part of Section 149.8 of the Latvian Administrative Violations Code (failure to drive speed, distance and interval). A fine has been imposed. The Decision entered into force on 19 July. John Tutins. A decision has been taken in the administration of Zemgale Region following the fourth part of Section 149.8 of the Latvian Administrative Violations Code (failure to drive speed, distance and interval). Suitable warning. The Decision entered into force on 5 July.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-01-PT12-389-U184	Thank you. The report is therefore considered to have been examined. The agenda of the sitting has been examined, but I would like to inform you about the answers to Members' questions. Member Elksniņa, Adamson, Potapkin, Nikiforov and Arthur Rubika Minister of Transport Uldis Augulis “On the project to modernise diesel trains”. The written reply received shall be granted to the applicants. Member of the Economic Minister for Silver, May, Baloža, Platoper and Cura's question to Arvil Asheraden about the sale of shares in AS “Grindek”. The written responses received are not satisfactory, but they do not want to ask further oral questions. On the question of Member Zariņa, Artūra Rubika, Agešina, Tutina and Ribakova to the Minister for Economics Arvilas Asheradens “On the need to include and direct the amendments to the State Budget Package 2017 in the Law on the Electricity Market, whose entry into force is foreseen only in 2018”. The written responses received are not satisfactory, but they do not want to ask further oral questions. So today's answers to Members' questions will not happen. Questions have been put to Members. Members of Silver, Kūtris, Šymfas, Meija and Balodis submitted the question “On the sale of shares of “Grindeks” AS”, which we submit to the Minister of Economics. Members Silverba, Kaimiņš, Bondars, Balodis and Kleinberga submitted the question “On the activities of the public administration service portal www.latvija.lv”, which we submit to the Minister of Environmental Protection and Regional Development. Please call me! Please check-in mode for Members! Name Member of the Saeima Gunars Kūtris to read the results of the registration as soon as they are prepared.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-01-PT12-389-U185	Dear colleagues, Not registered: Inga Bite, Inesis Boķis, Ints Dālderis, Andrejs Elksniņš, Inese Laizāne, Ilmārs Latkovskis, Inese Lībiņa-Egnere, Romanas Mežeckis, Arvīds Platopers, Edvins Šnore, Ivars Zariņš and Mihails Zemļinskis. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-12-01-PT12-389-U186	Thank you. I'm closing the sitting. I remind you that in five minutes, we will start the next sitting of the Saeima on December 1.
