ParlaMint-LV_2016-05-19-PT12-365-U1	Good morning, dear colleagues! I invite you to take seats in Saeima's meeting room. Let's start the sitting of the Saeima on 19 May 2016. Before considering the agenda for a meeting approved by the Bureau, the amendments tabled should be considered. The Commission on Human Rights and Public Affairs is asking to amend the agenda of the sitting and to include in it the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Electronic Media”. Are Members opposed to this amendment of the agenda? There is no objection by Members. The agenda has been amended. The budget and financial (tax) commission is asking to amend the agenda of the sitting - to exclude the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Credit Institutions” and to include it on the agenda of the sitting of the Saeima on 26 May this year. Are Members opposed to this amendment of the agenda? There is no objection by Members. The agenda has been amended. The draft law is excluded from the agenda of the sitting. The Legal Commission asks to amend the agenda of the sitting and to include in it the draft decision “On the dismissal of Laura Grudiņa from the post of member of the Council of the State Audit Office”. Are Members opposed to this amendment of the agenda? There is no objection. The agenda has been amended. The Legal Commission asks to amend the agenda of the sitting and to include in it the draft decision ‘On approval of Gita Zenfa as a judge of the Land Registers Division of the District (City) Court’. Are Members opposed to this amendment of the agenda? There is no objection by Members. The agenda has been amended. The Legal Commission asks to amend the agenda of the sitting and to include in it the draft decision ‘On the appointment of Ilonas Ozoliņas-Kļaviņas as a judge of a district (city) court’. Are Members opposed to this amendment of the agenda? There is no objection. The agenda has been amended. The Legal Commission asks to amend the agenda of the sitting and to include in it the draft decision ‘On the appointment of Vita Rūsiņa as a judge of a district (city) court’. Are Members opposed to this amendment of the agenda? There is no objection. The agenda has been amended. The Legal Commission is asking to amend the agenda of the sitting and to include in it the draft decision “On Dismissal of Iveta Berzins from the position of judge of Riga regional court”. Are Members opposed to this amendment of the agenda? There is no objection. The agenda has therefore been amended. The next item is the Bureau's reports on draft laws submitted. The Saeima Presidium proposes that the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Legal Assistance provided by the State” presented by the Cabinet of Ministers be referred to the Legal Commission, stating that it is the committee responsible. Do Members have objections? There is no objection by Members. The draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Saeima Presidium proposes that the draft law presented by the Cabinet of Ministers “Amendments to the Administrative Procedure Law” be referred to the Legal Commission, stating that it is the committee responsible. Do Members have objections? There is no objection by Members. The draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Saeima Bureau proposes that the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Communication” presented by the Cabinet of Ministers be referred to the Legal Commission, stating that it is the committee responsible. Do Members have objections? There is no objection by Members. The draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The next item is entitled ‘On the granting of leave’. On 19 May this year, Mr Ivan Ribakov was granted unpaid leave. The Saeima shall inform the Bureau that he has received an application from a Member, Ivan Ribakov, requesting him to be granted unpaid leave on 19 May this year. The Saeima Bureau has granted this leave and shall inform the Saeima thereof. The next item is Members' requests. Dear colleagues, The Saeima Presidium has received a request from Member Sergey Dolgopolova, Aleksandra Jakimova, Zenta Tretjakas, Jānis Tutina, Jānis Adamsona, Jānis Urbanoviča, Valeria Agešina, Vitaly Orlova, Igora Pimenova and Andrejs Klementyev, Minister of Interior Rihards Kozlovskis About the future accommodation centre “Mucenieki” of foreign residents detained. The request shall be issued and made available to all Members in accordance with the Rules of Procedure of the Saeima. The applicants have asked for a statement of reasons. Name of Member Sergey Dolgopolov to provide the motivation.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-05-19-PT12-365-U2	Good morning, honourable colleagues! More than a month ago, Members of the Saeima approached Prime Minister Māra Kučinska on issues relating to the establishment of the ‘Mucenieki’ centre for the accommodation of illegal immigrants, and the Prime Minister has forwarded them to the Minister of the Interior, Mr Kozlovsky. Members have received an answer from Mr Kozlovsky, who was prepared in good bureaucratic traditions, but who, by nature, did not respond to these questions. And logically, they asked the Minister for their comments to this answer. Four times in a row, the Minister of the Interior had not found an opportunity to meet the Saeima Members in accordance with the requirements of the parliamentary roll and to provide answers to Members' questions. Four times in a row! I understand that, naturally, this beautiful slogan that is in the premises of the Cabinet of Ministers - “One law - one justice for all!” - does not apply to ministers... more precisely, to individual ministers. That is why this request has also been made, because the substance of the question is too serious to face up to it. The replies were received. There are two things here. First. Is the law really compulsory for all? Second. Is it really excluded that there is a provision for parliamentary control over those decisions, the solutions proposed by the government proposed by the executive body as a whole? This demand is therefore local and timely. I call for this request to be supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-05-19-PT12-365-U3	Dear colleagues, In accordance with the law, the request is submitted to the Request Commission. The next item on the agenda - Election, approval, appointment, dismissal or dismissal of officials, expression of trust or distrust. On the agenda - draft decision on the dismissal of Laura Grudiņa from the post of member of the State Audit Council. On behalf of the Legal Commission, Mr Valery Agešin, Member.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-05-19-PT12-365-U4	Good morning, dear colleagues! During the meeting of the Legal Commission of the Saeima on 18 May this year, the draft decision “On the dismissal of Laura Grudiņa from the post of member of the Council of the State Audit Office” was reviewed. Members of the Commission have unanimously supported the draft decision. On behalf of the Saeima Legal Commission, I invite Laura Grudiņš to be dismissed from office as a member of the Council of the State Audit Office at his own wish due to the start of work at the European Court of Auditors on 29 June 2016.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-05-19-PT12-365-U5	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote for the draft decision “On the dismissal of Lauras Grudiņa from the post of member of the Council of the State Audit Office”! Please vote mode! Please get the result! It's not about - 83, it's against and refrains from - it's not. The decision has been taken. On the agenda - draft decision “On approval of Gita Zenfa as a judge of the Land Registers Division of the District (City) Court”. On behalf of the Legal Commission, Mr Valery Agešin, Member.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-05-19-PT12-365-U6	At the meeting of the Legal Commission of the Saeima on 18 May this year, the draft decision ‘On the approval of Gita Zenfas as a judge of the Land Registers Division of the District (City) Court’ was reviewed. The members of the Commission unanimously supported the draft decision. On behalf of the Legal Commission of the Saeima, I call on Gita Zenfa to be approved as a judge of the Land Register Division of the district (city) court without any limitation of the term of office.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-05-19-PT12-365-U7	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote for the draft decision on the approval of Gita Zenfa as a judge of the Land Register Division of the district (city) court! Please vote mode! Please get the result! It's not about - 85, it's against and abstains. The decision has been taken. On the agenda - draft decision “On the appointment of Ilonas Ozoliņa-Kļaviņa as a judge of a district (city) court”. On behalf of the Legal Commission, Mr Valery Agešin, Member.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-05-19-PT12-365-U8	At the meeting of the Legal Commission of the Saeima on 18 May this year, the draft decision “On the appointment of Ilonas Ozoliņa-Kļaviņa as a judge of a district (city) court” was reviewed. The members of the Commission unanimously supported the draft decision. On behalf of the Legal Commission of the Saeima, I call on Ilona Ozoliņa-Kļaviņa to be judge of the district (city) court.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-05-19-PT12-365-U9	Please call me! We will vote for the draft decision on the appointment of Ilonas Ozoliņa-Kļaviņa as a district (city) court judge! Please vote mode! Please get the result! It's not about - 85, it's against and abstains. The decision has been taken. On the agenda - draft decision “On the appointment of Vita Rūsiņa as a judge of a district (city) court”. On behalf of the Legal Commission, Mr Valery Agešin, Member.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-05-19-PT12-365-U10	At the meeting of the Legal Commission of the Saeima on 18 May this year, the draft decision “On the appointment of Vita Rūsiņa as a judge of a district (city) court” was reviewed. The members of the Commission unanimously supported the draft decision. On behalf of the Legal Commission of the Saeima, I invite you to appoint Vita Rūsiņa as a judge of a district (city) court.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-05-19-PT12-365-U11	Please call me! We will vote for the draft decision on the appointment of Vita Rūsiņa as a judge of district (city) court! Please vote mode! Please get the result! It's not about - 86, it's against and refrains from - it's not. The decision has been taken. On the agenda - draft decision on the dismissal of Iveta Berzina from the office of judge of Riga Regional Court. On behalf of the Legal Commission, Mr Valery Agešin, Member.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-05-19-PT12-365-U12	During the sitting of the Saeima Legal Commission on 18 May, the draft decision “On the release of Iveta Berzins from the office of a judge of Riga regional court” was reviewed. I would remind you that by order of the President of Riga Regional Court, Ms. Wilsone, of 13 November 2014, judge Iveta Bēriņa has been suspended from the office of a judge on 13 November 2014, and criminal proceedings have been initiated. The members of the Commission unanimously supported the draft decision. On behalf of the Saeima Legal Commission, I call on Iveta Bērzins to release from office the judge of Riga Regional Court at his own wish.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-05-19-PT12-365-U13	Please call me! We will vote for the draft decision “On Release of Iveta Berzina from the office of a judge of Riga Regional Court”! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 87, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The decision has been taken. The next item is "Provision of draft legislation". On the agenda - draft law “Amendments to the Law on Real Estate State Cadastre”, second reading. The draft law has been declared urgent. Member of the Legal Commission Gaidis Berzins.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-05-19-PT12-365-U14	Dear Chairman of the Saeima. Dear colleagues, The Legal Commission received three proposals for this draft law. The proposal is a proposal by Ms Inga Betes, who was not supported by the Commission. In the Commission we listened to representatives of the State Land Service as well as the Latvian Municipal Union, and the Commission decided not to support this proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-05-19-PT12-365-U15	Thank you. Let us start a debate. Name of Member Inga Bite.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-05-19-PT12-365-U16	Can I combine the two speaking times... Is that so? I'll just talk once...
ParlaMint-LV_2016-05-19-PT12-365-U17	Are there any objections to Members if Member Inga Bite brings together both times of debate? There is no objection by Members. So, please!
ParlaMint-LV_2016-05-19-PT12-365-U18	Dear colleagues, good morning! Thank you for allowing me to unite the times. I will speak once on all three proposals, because all three proposals are interrelated. In particular, the proposals relate to the fact that we believe that the current cadastral value arrangements are not really sound, fair and fair. What is currently proposed by the draft law is to postpone the existing cadastral values for one year by reviewing the real estate tax system at that time. This is important, right and necessary. That is why, as a whole, we will support this draft law, but it is not enough. It is also necessary to modify the cadastral value system of real estate itself. Since this draft law is urgent, we have not yet proposed concrete solutions, as we agree that it would be worth discussing solutions. However, what these proposals mean is to instruct the Cabinet of Ministers to develop such a system and to take into account the circumstances that we have pointed out in the justification for our proposals. In particular, at present, the market value of real estate is very important for cadastral value. I will give you an example. A pensioner lives in his home for the rest of his life, and it has happened that his house is located in Mārupe, Jurmala or in any other place that is rapidly developing. If many beautiful, large houses are built next to us, then the cadastral value rises to heaven and this pensioner can no longer afford to live in his own house. If a person is younger, it is probably not a very big problem for him: to sell his property in one place and to buy in another where he can afford to pay this tax. However, it is very important for a Latvian to have his roots and his only property, so in this case it is a problem. The other situation. A person has bought a property that has been degraded, in which a bog has grown, which is in fact inextricably unusable. He invests considerable money in this property to dry it, improve it and even it, and in any other way improve it, and builds a house there, but the country comes and says: “Oh, very nice, you have invested a very large amount of money to sort out this territory. Now we will also ask you for more tax for it!” If we look at the cadastral valuation rules that are currently in force, then we see that one of the things used in cadastral valuation is the depreciation of real estate. And, you know, it turns out that the establishment of depreciation is the State Land Service fee service: it pays 80 euros, and the State Land Service will find that your real estate is worn out and will take this fact into account in determining the cadastral value! There is no 80 euros - well, then the property obviously does not wear out. Next. The present cadastral values, which will not be applied for another year, but which are obviously intended to be applied in the future... In fact, if we look at these assessments, we see that real estate in Old Riga, Kalķu Street, is as valuable as new apartments... as the value of one square metre of an apartment in a newly built apartment house. Is that really possible? Could a real property be as valuable as an apartment in a apartment in Old Riga, even if it has long been built and put into service for a long time? Well, I don't think so, but that's what these cadastral values, developed according to these rules, show us. Therefore, honourable colleagues, I am asking for support for these three proposals, the first two of which intend to give more time to the ministries to work. In particular, one year has now been given, but we also offer to recast the cadastral evaluation rules, and then they would be two years. On the other hand, the 3rd proposal instructs the Cabinet of Ministers to develop new rules for cadastral evaluation, taking into account both the circumstances I have already mentioned and other circumstances probably not yet mentioned here. I am asking for support for all three proposals, for the 'yes' vote on all three proposals. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-05-19-PT12-365-U19	Thank you. I closed the debate. Will the rapporteur add a note on behalf of the Commission?
ParlaMint-LV_2016-05-19-PT12-365-U20	Yes, honourable colleagues! As I mentioned, we listened to both representatives of the State Land Service and representatives of the Local Government Union of Latvia, and among other things, the Director General of the State Land Service indicated that some of the real estate had a new cadastral value base... In particular, the cadastral value base for multi-apartment buildings built during the Soviet period could be reduced in the following period. This aspect must therefore also be taken into account. But what Mrs Betty said about... In this section, too, the Commission had discussions, but it was pointed out many times that certain issues should be dealt with more with by tax policy than by changes in the cadastral evaluation methodology. However, the State Land Service pointed out certain issues concerning the exchange of data. They are also planned to be addressed in this period. Also, certain issues include the exchange of data on the establishment of criteria of exclusivity of property. After hearing all the arguments, as I mentioned, the Commission decided to reject the proposal. Consequently, on behalf of the Commission, the request does not support proposal 1.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-05-19-PT12-365-U21	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote in favour of 1. - Mrs Betes's proposal! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 32, for - 13, for - 37. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-05-19-PT12-365-U22	Thank you. The proposal is linked and the Commission did not support this proposal. I call for no support. ( Interface from the Hall: “Vote! ” ) Council Regulation (EC) No 1257/96 of 20 June 1996 concerning humanitarian aid (OJ L 163, 2.7.1996, p. 1).
ParlaMint-LV_2016-05-19-PT12-365-U23	Members ask for a vote. Please call me! We will vote in favour of 2. - The motion of Member Inga Betes! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 31, for - 9, for - 42. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-05-19-PT12-365-U24	The Commission also did not support the proposals. It is worth adding here, however, that already now the Government's protocol decision, dated 19 April this year... Paragraph 4 of this Protocol [31.§] provides: “The Ministry of Finance, in cooperation with the Ministry of Justice, the Union of Local Governments of Latvia, the Confederation of Employers of Latvia, inviting the competent institutions to develop and submit to the Cabinet of Ministers, in accordance with the procedure established by the end of this year, amendments to the Law “On Real Estate Tax”, which would ensure a proportionate increase in the burden of real estate tax, taking into account the rapid increase in cadastre value of the real estate tax base – and the need to ensure revenue from the budget.” The discussion here was precisely about the fact that this protocol decision refers to the necessary amendments to the Law on Real Estate Tax, while Mrs Betes draws attention specifically to the revision of the cadastral evaluation methodology. But, as the Director-General of the State Land Service has confirmed, at this time, of course, they are also planning to address the issues raised in relation to the methodology. Consequently, the Commission did not support this proposal. I call for no support.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-05-19-PT12-365-U25	The Member has asked for a vote. Please call me! We will vote in favour of 3. - the proposal tabled by Member Inga Betes! Please vote mode! Please get the result! On - 34, against - 8, refraining - 42. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-05-19-PT12-365-U26	Thank you, colleagues. We have examined all the proposals. On behalf of the Commission, please support the draft law on Amendments to the Law on the State Cadastre of Real Estate at second, final reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-05-19-PT12-365-U27	Please call me! We will vote in favour of supporting the second, final reading of the draft law “Amendments to the Real Estate State Cadastre Law”! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 85, for - no, for - 1. The law has been passed. On the agenda - draft law “Amendments to the law “On settlement finality in payment and financial instrument settlement systems”, second reading. The draft law has been declared urgent. On behalf of the Commission for Budget and Finance (Tax) - Member Ints Dalderis.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-05-19-PT12-365-U28	Dear President, Dear colleagues, Only one editorial proposal submitted by the Legal Bureau of the Saeima was received for the second reading of that draft law and the commission supported it.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-05-19-PT12-365-U29	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-05-19-PT12-365-U30	There are no other proposals. As the draft law has been declared urgent, on behalf of the Commission, I ask that it be supported at second, final, reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-05-19-PT12-365-U31	Please call me! We will vote in favour of supporting the second, final, reading of the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Settlement Finality in Payment and Settlement Systems of Financial Instruments”! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 81, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. The law has been passed. On the agenda - Draft Law Amending the Invalidity Act, third reading. On behalf of the Commission for Social and Labour Affairs - Hosams Abu Meri.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-05-19-PT12-365-U32	Good morning! We work with the draft law Amending the Invalidity Act. The Commission did not receive any proposals. On behalf of the Commission, I ask you to support the draft law at third, final, reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-05-19-PT12-365-U33	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote in favour of the third, final, reading of the draft law on Disability Act! Please vote mode! Please get the result! It's not about - 86, it's against and refrains from - it's not. The law has been passed. On the agenda - Draft Law Amending the Law on Higher Education, third reading. Member of the Commission for Education, Culture and Science Arvīds Platopers.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-05-19-PT12-365-U34	Madam President, Honourable Members! The Commission for Education, Culture and Science examined the draft law “Amendment to the Law on Higher Education”. The purpose of the said draft law is to amend the Law on Higher Education, which provides that the Cabinet of Ministers determines the procedure for funding of colleges of the Ministry of the Interior and students' self-government and determining the remuneration of academic staff. No proposals have been received for the third reading. On behalf of the Commission, I ask you to vote in favour of this carefully prepared, well-prepared (Interface: "Excellent!" ) considered draft law.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-05-19-PT12-365-U35	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote in favour of the third, final, reading of the draft law "Amendment to the Law on Higher Education". Please vote mode! Please get the result! It's not about - 86, it's against and refrains from - it's not. The law has been passed. On the agenda - draft law “Amendments to the Law on Payment Services and Electronic Money”, third reading. On behalf of the Commission for Budget and Finance (Tax) - Member Edgars Putra.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-05-19-PT12-365-U36	Good morning, colleagues! See the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Payment Services and Electronic Money”, third reading. We have not received proposals for the third reading. I ask colleagues to support the draft law at third, final, reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-05-19-PT12-365-U37	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote for the support of the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Payment Services and Electronic Money” in the third, final, reading! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 84, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The law has been passed. On the agenda - Draft Law Amending the Law on the Financial and Capital Markets, third reading. On behalf of the Commission for Budget and Finance (Tax) - Member Edgars Putra.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-05-19-PT12-365-U38	Colleagues! See the draft laws “Amendments to the Law of the Commission on the Financial and Capital Markets”, third reading. Two proposals have been received. Proposal No 1 - The proposal by Ms Inguna Silver, Member, which has not been endorsed by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-05-19-PT12-365-U39	Let us start a debate. Name of Member Inguna Silver.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-05-19-PT12-365-U40	Hello, colleagues! The essence of my proposal is primarily about the clarity of the law. In Latvia it has recently been observed that we are moving towards a country of politics where one side has rights and the other party has only responsibility. And in this respect, I believe that clarity is needed in this law, too, so that an individual can count on certain boundaries, on the consequences of doing so or other actions by a public authority. At the same time, there must be some certain boundaries, as far as this public institution can intervene in the activities of a private individual. This means that the clarity of the law must be such as to protect the private person from the arbitrariness of public authorities. And if I quote the doctrine of law, one of the views I have chosen for today's quote is: "The law must clearly define the scope of the powers given to the competent authorities and the manner in which they are to be exercised in order to give the individual adequate protection against arbitrary interference." What is the story about? It is absolutely clear that any actions of an individual, any actions of an entrepreneur, as well as those of public bodies, must be very fair, legal and transparent. In particular, amendments to the Law on Credit Institutions provide that, in addition to the regular reviews carried out by the Financial and Capital Market Commission, it will continue to have the right to impose additional checks on credit institutions. The only difference is that the credit institution will have to pay for these additional checks itself. At present, the way in which the draft law is drafted does not lay down any criteria for designating such an examination, which are proportionate to the boundaries between the objective to be achieved by the inspection and the expenditure spent on that inspection. In practice, which has recently been seen when these credit institutions pay for the checks they have called for, the costs are not low - they are in the range of EUR 1 to 3 million somewhere. And the absence of such a legal framework, which would be proportionate to certain principles of expenditure, actually places the credit institution in a situation where it has no possibility of appealing to the courts, because there are in fact no stop points, the criteria against which... the infringement is likely to be the subject of a complaint. And another point of my proposal is how officials in the Financial and Capital Market Commission can handle information. If we look at the case law, in fact, the sanctions applied to infringements of financial and capital market rules are treated as criminal cases within the meaning of the European Convention for the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms. This means that the evidence obtained can be used and is the responsibility of an official who has a degree of responsibility and limitations on his conduct. This means an official to whom the rules of the conflict of interest law apply. It cannot be that an expert is simply remunerated from the side and the evidence he obtains is the evidence that automatically follows as evidence against the credit institution. These are just basic requirements: the law provides for at least some minimum protection against extended possibilities to exercise this right. That is why I am asking for support for my proposal so that the law is clear and that it stimulates the business environment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-05-19-PT12-365-U41	I closed the debate. Will the rapporteur add a note on behalf of the Commission?
ParlaMint-LV_2016-05-19-PT12-365-U42	Yeah. The Commission did not support this proposal because it provided that, if the examination had been carried out, the bank could, for two years, carry out its economic activities related to the money laundering of criminal proceeds, and this could not be accepted. In the present case, the Financial and Capital Market Commission made clear that the inspections were carried out at the time when certain information on a possible infringement was received. No other checks are carried out. I therefore call for this proposal not to be supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-05-19-PT12-365-U43	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 1. - the proposal tabled by Member Inguna Silverba! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 38, for - 38, for - 38, for - 9. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-05-19-PT12-365-U44	2. - Proposal by Mr. Edgars Putra, Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Finance. Supported by editorial clarification.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-05-19-PT12-365-U45	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-05-19-PT12-365-U46	We have therefore examined all the proposals. I call for support to be given to the draft law at third, final, reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-05-19-PT12-365-U47	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote in favour of supporting the third final reading of the draft law on "Amendments to the Law on the Financial and Capital Markets"! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 87, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The law has been passed. On the agenda - draft law “Amendment to the Constitution of the Republic of Latvia”, third reading. On behalf of the Legal Commission - Member Inese Lībiņa-Egnere. Dear colleagues, In order to address this issue on the agenda, it is necessary, in accordance with the Constitution, to have the necessary quorum in the sitting - at least two thirds of all Members. Therefore, before we start examining this draft law, we need to register to determine the quorum. Please call me! Please register the Members! Please get the result! 89 Members have registered. So the quorum is secured. On behalf of the Legal Commission - Member Inese Lībiņa-Egnere. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2016-05-19-PT12-365-U48	Dear colleagues and honourable colleagues. The draft law “Amendment to the Constitution of the Republic of Latvia” is under consideration today. We need to examine the proposed legislation at third reading without new proposals. But since it is about making an amendment to the Constitution of the Republic of Latvia, I would like to inform you a little about the fact that this draft law provides for the expression of Article 30 of the Satversme in a new version. In particular, it provides for the waiver of administrative immunity of Members. In the Legal Commission, as well as in the Subcommittee on Judicial Policy, both before the first reading and before the second reading, we heard a number of legal scientists - experts in constitutional law. One of the issues raised in the debate was: does the parliamentary immunity remain in the event of a waiver of administrative immunity, even in the case of administrative arrest? And, as I said in the first and second reading of the report, I can claim that all the experts persuasively said that the administrative arrest is regulated by Article 29 of the Satversme and that Article 30 of the Satversme and the new wording of this Article in no way affect cases where a member of the Saeima is restricted to his personal freedom. In such cases, immunity shall remain. No proposal for third reading of this draft law has been received. I call on my colleagues to support the draft law “Amendment to the Constitution of the Republic of Latvia” at the third, final reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-05-19-PT12-365-U49	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote for the support of the draft law “Amendment to the Constitution of the Republic of Latvia” in the third, final, reading! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 87, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Thank you. The law has been passed. On the agenda - Draft law on amendments to the parliamentary roll of order, third reading. On behalf of the Legal Commission - Member Inese Lībiņa-Egnere.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-05-19-PT12-365-U50	Thank you, colleagues, for supporting the amendment in the Constitution of the Republic of Latvia! The draft law “Amendments to the parliamentary order roll” is related to the adopted amendment to the Constitution. In particular, as the immunity of Members of the Saeima in the event of imposing an administrative penalty is abolished, it is also necessary to make appropriate amendments to the standards of the Saeima roll of order which require us, the Saeima, to decide on the consent of the Saeima Member to be brought under administrative responsibility. Already when we examined the draft law at second reading, I reported that the main discussions in the Court Policy sub-committee and in the Legal Commission were on whether and how the information on administrative offences committed by Saeima Members should be made public. The Subcommittee on Judicial Policy asked the Saeima to consider and discuss this issue. The Subcommittee on Judicial Policy received the views of the political groups, but they were not in the form of proposals. As a result, these two proposals have already been drawn up within the Commission and not as proposals from Members or political groups. Having heard the views of the representatives of political groups, at that time the Legal Commission had a conceptual vote on the fact that the Legal Bureau was asked to prepare a proposal for the third reading, and today these proposals contain this proposal from the Legal Bureau. These proposals were prepared in cooperation with representatives of the Information Centre of the Ministry of the Interior and thus discussed at the sittings of both the Subcommittees of the Judicial Policy and the Legal Commission of the Saeima. At the same time, I would like to inform you that the Legal Commission decided to send letters to the Ministry of Justice, the Council for the Judiciary and the Commission on Defence, Home Affairs and Anti-Corruption, because when we started working on the abolition of administrative immunity of Members, there was a debate from the tribunal about the need to consider the abolition of administrative immunity both for officials of the judiciary and other officials. And since it is not only the competence of the Legal Commission, we first turn to both the committee responsible and the judiciary. And as soon as there are answers, the Legal Commission will continue to work. But I will now report on these two proposals, which are about amendments to the parliamentary roll of order.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-05-19-PT12-365-U51	Before Mrs Lībiņa-Egneres starts to report, I would like to inform you, colleagues, that the Legal Commission has asked for the replacement of pages 4 and 7 of the draft law under consideration with the new pages 4A and 7A. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. J.Urbanovich: “It’s nothing!” ) Please, Mrs Lībiņa-Egneres!
ParlaMint-LV_2016-05-19-PT12-365-U52	Yeah, thank you. So 1 is the proposal of the Legal Commission, which has been supported. It provides that Members who are administratively punished during the previous part-session and during part-sessions are to report to the parliamentary session once during the current part-session. The notification shall include information on the administrative violation committed by the Member, indicating the provision of the legislative act which has been violated and the institution which has adopted the decision imposing the administrative penalty, as well as the nature and date of the imposed penalty when the decision on imposing the administrative penalty came into force.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-05-19-PT12-365-U53	Thank you. Let us start a debate. Name to Member Gunaras Kūtris.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-05-19-PT12-365-U54	Hello, dear colleagues! I understand that most of the votes on these proposals have already decided and are only left to raise... - I'm sorry! - press the button as directed by the group leaders. I just want to tell you some objective considerations about this proposal and also about the proposal 2. Dear colleagues, If we look at a law called “The Rally of Saeima Order, ” consider what the law regulates. This law regulates the order in which the Saeima works - it is a roll of order. And, as a general rule, the roll of order of the Saeima regulates matters on which Members are required to vote in favour or against. These are decisions, laws, no matter what. Why was there this provision that we are amending today, more precisely, what we supported at second reading? It wasn't about... not so much with the administrative immunity of Members, because the immunes were not really there. The parliamentary approval - a decision - was required to punish a Member, and it was usually a decision that was taken. This norm regulated the procedure by which the Commission for Mandates, Ethics and Applications prepares, discusses and places such a draft decision in front of the Saeima sitting. In this case neither proposal 1 nor proposal 2 deals with the way in which the Saeima views these issues. It is not about making a decision. It's just said here... Ladies and gentlemen, here will be announced to all those who attend the parliamentary sitting, from the press that the Members concerned have committed an administrative offence during the last part-session or between sessions, have been punished and the sentence has come into effect. In essence, it is a question of whether we want to satisfy any curiosity or whether we want to demonstrate populistly that we are, to say, more blessed than the higher clergy. People will find out about this punishment in three months. This is minimal. At that moment, the press and the mass media... The Members concerned will be present at the time of the infringement described in all the newspapers for a long time, without waiting for the entry into force of the decision or not. It was that way before, too... We allowed the punishment, we said publicly: "Sanctions!" But when a person comes to court, it turns out that the court even closes the case. And we're not talking about it from the podium. I understand that this proposal means there will be an additional consumption of resources. Yes, it will probably not be so much for the Saeima Commission (you are here in the hall, they listen for a few minutes to those who have then been punished), but it will be the consumption of staff of the Ministry of the Interior who will prepare at the request of the Saeima’s Mandates, ethics and application commission for lists of people who are then punished. ( Impression: “One point to press, and all! ” ) Remember that when you draw up an administrative protocol, you are not required to fill in the field of employment. Finally. If we really want to make public all the administrative offenders... Okay, not everyone, but at least public officials... well, not all state officials, but at least the responsible state officials... Are ministers different than Members, and should the people not know who the minister has committed an administrative irregularity? Why, then, should we incorporate this into every law? Or would we be clear and clear in one law? The listed state officials would be placed by the Information Centre of the Ministry of the Interior, for example, in the “Latvian Official Journal” every month. After the ads “They are looking for the police” it could be recorded: “These officials have been punished.” The curiosity would be satisfied, additional resources would be consumed a little, but the people would at least know all their heroes. I think it is not necessary for these issues to be regulated in the parliamentary order. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-05-19-PT12-365-U55	The name of the Member, Andrejs Elksniņš. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. J.Urbanovich: “You tell a lawyer!” ) Council Regulation (EC) No 1257/96 of 20 June 1996 concerning humanitarian aid (OJ L 163, 2.7.1996, p. 1).
ParlaMint-LV_2016-05-19-PT12-365-U56	Dear colleagues, Indeed, a solution of this kind in the Latvian Code of Administrative Violations is not the best we could achieve in such a situation. And unfortunately, to a large extent our proposals, which we have made and presented to the leadership of both the Legal Commission and a number of political parties, on how to deal with this issue, were not conceptually supported. Consequently, the issue as such - the existence of an institute of administrative responsibility and administrative immunity in the legal system - remains open to us. That is, for the legislator, we have just, with the previous vote, taken away... At the same time, we have a number of other branches of state power where administrative immunity has remained. It has been preserved so much that... Administrative immunity is so general that a person is never held liable for administrative liability. For example, the law “On Public Prosecutor’s Office” provides that if a prosecutor sits at the wheel and catches him, he is simply released. If a natural person, a Member or, I do not know, another official sits on the steering wheel, then, in addition to the disciplinary penalty he receives, he also pays a fine, there is an administrative arrest, and it is possible to confiscate the vehicle, for example, at the time of payment of the fine. Thus, in the branches of power, its disproportionality with regard to the extent of administrative immunity has remained as such. All right! We started with members of the Saeima. To members of the Saeima, we take away... What do we offer in return? What kind of system do we propose with regard to the notification procedures that have been in place so far and will probably continue in the future? What was the order so far? If a member of the Saeima did not indicate an administrative violation in the minutes of his office... his name and surname in relation to his position, position, and police officer did not recognize him as a member of the Saeima, then... There are many members of the Saeima who have been called to administrative responsibility in violation of the Constitution of the Republic of Latvia, because the Saeima has not been asked to extradite the said members to administrative responsibility. Thus, the system has already worked wrong so far. What are we offering now, and what is the solution? The solution is - and it is not the best - that if a public official, a member of the Saeima, is called under administrative responsibility, then the parliamentary mandate, ethics and application board quarterly... request information after the session on Members called under administrative responsibility. Yes, indeed, this information obligation will only be fulfilled after some time has elapsed. Unfortunately, the coalition does not want to introduce a single system, such as that for declarations by public officials. There, the public database can see what debt and savings are. And one more chapter could be added there, which would indicate the administrative offences that a person has committed. In this case, the only solution that could be applied to the operation of that provision... As Mr Kūtra said, no legislative act, including the Latvian Code of Administrative Violations, obliges any Member to inform about his job so that there is a mark in the Penal Register that, for example, you see a Member (name) called administrative responsibility. It will be simple: the name, surname, called administrative responsibility. Thus, in fact, the only solution to this issue is a request from the parliamentary Mandates, Ethics and Application Commission for all 100 Members by sending to the Information Centre a name, surname and personal code with a request to provide information about those called under administrative responsibility. The information listed in the penalty register will be available with one click: the staff of the computerised processing system will simply press the button and will automatically also receive a printout for persons called under administrative responsibility. What do I mean? This solution is a solution, but it is not the best solution we could have for Members called under administrative responsibility, but also for all public officials in general. Thus we really really need to work conceptually to review the Institute of Administrative Immunity for all branches of the judiciary (e.g. Security Police, Constitutional Protection Office, KNAB, courts, prosecutor's office, the Ombudsman and so on), while establishing a common information system regarding the provision of information about those state officials whose administrative responsibility has been borne. And this can be served by the current information system, which contains declarations from public officials.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-05-19-PT12-365-U57	Thank you. Name of Member Inga Bite.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-05-19-PT12-365-U58	Dear colleagues, I would also like to express the arguments that have been made on these proposals, as the voice of the speaker who has voiced here, is calling into question many Members. Other officials - prosecutors, judges - must, of course, be debated. But we have already said here several times that this is now a debate for Members. For other officials, these are other negotiations that are probably needed. The publication of violations of other officials is the same: yes, probably the people have the right to know what the Cabinet members or the highest officials of the state have violated. But it is another conversation, and certainly not within the parliamentary order roll. At present, under the system of administrative immunity of Members, the Saeima must decide on the extradition of a Member. Yes, the publication of this information is not the direct purpose of these norms, but the fact that the sittings of the Saeima are open also means that this information is made available to the media and the public. The publication of information is, in fact, a by-product of the existing regulation. In fact, when we remove administrative immunity, we allow a Member to be punished just like any other member of society. And that is necessary! However, these proposals are intended to leave this by-product to the public. So we only take off the administrative procedures that the national authorities, the National Police, had to carry out in order to bring the Member under administrative responsibility. It was mentioned here that resources would be spent to select this information and to pass it on to the parliamentary commission. Yes, it is probably possible to agree to it, but at the moment enough resources are being spent to prepare all the documents and to send them to the Committee for Mandate, Ethics and Application, and whatever the officer of the penal authority comes to the Commission for Mandate, Ethics and Application and to justify his opinion, and to obtain all these documents relating to administrative immunity of Members. It has also been mentioned that it will take time from the date of the offence to the date of the disclosure and that the Members who have committed such an offence will be taken twice by the newspapers. Well, I have to say that it's the same right now. It is already right now that it takes quite a long time from the moment when the infringement has been committed, until all documents have been arranged and entered into and examined by the Commission for Mandate, Ethics and Application. In that sense, too, it does not make anything worse than the current situation. The information will be received on a given occasion, every three to four months depending on the length of the session. And in fact, the situation that has now arisen will be maintained: that information about what Members have done is public and therefore also valuable to voters. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-05-19-PT12-365-U59	Thank you. Name to Member Sergey Dolgopolov.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-05-19-PT12-365-U60	Dear colleagues, As I once had the honour of chairing the Mandate, Ethics and Application Commission, all these things we are discussing today are very close to me. I would like to divide this into three parts. Part one: we are talking about immunity removal. That's one thing. The decision has been made, administrative immunity has been removed. The other case is reporting irregularities... for Members who have been administratively punished. This is a question of the parliamentary order roll. On the basis of the law on the structure of the State administration, to be honest, those hundred Members who are talking about today, because we are amending not all the laws together, but only the roll of order of the Saeima... Thus, from the point of view of the Law on the Structure of the State Administration, it is the highest body, as all other officials are directly or subordinately appointed or appointed by decisions of the Saeima or any other statutory documents. That's a point two. Three points. Irrespective of whether these new amendments proposed by the Saeima are good or bad, this regulation is undoubtedly better than the previous notification procedure. The only information available in the public space was the call for execution. This did not mean that the punishment was imposed. It didn't mean that the punishment that had already been imposed... has not been appealed... And I think here, too, in the Chamber, there are Members who managed to remove this type of punishment through legal proceedings. That is why it was only the first stage in the process that a Member was called upon to take administrative responsibility. What further steps were taken? The general public was not informed. And so today... Communication of only those penalties that have entered into force is a step forward if we are talking about justice and logic. And the third thing I want to say. Naturally, I agree that... Today it was a question of changing their system with a little salt. If we are talking about officials, it should also be extended in that direction. But this is not the subject of this discussion. It is an idea that really is worth a discussion. And this really has to think not only about how to publicise cases of violations of officials, but also... Perhaps it is worth thinking, first of all, about actually reducing the number and number of officials, the more than 50,000 officials - forgive me, to the best of my will that is too much! It cannot be subject to public control or any other verification. I therefore think that these proposals are nevertheless a step forward. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-05-19-PT12-365-U61	Thank you. I closed the debate. Will the rapporteur add a note on behalf of the Commission?
ParlaMint-LV_2016-05-19-PT12-365-U62	Yes, on behalf of the Commission, I would like to say to you very briefly that the Saeima is first informed of the fine that has already been imposed on a Member and that it will be informed orally on the basis of the decision that has entered into force. This will be announced from the parliamentary tribunal, and the decision by the parliamentary commission of the mandate, ethics and application shall be taken at the time when it is to take place, with a request to the parliamentary presidency to place the matter on the agenda of the parliamentary sitting. Indeed, the Legal Commission had a debate about whether or not such information could be made public at all, but the majority of Members of the Legal Commission supported this particular proposal. And the main objective was to keep the information on administrative offences against Members’ Members available to the public by lifting administrative immunity. Thus, in order not to undermine the public's right to be informed, the Legal Commission considered that such a proposal was acceptable. I call for support.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-05-19-PT12-365-U63	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote in favour of 1. - The legal commission's proposal! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 71, for - 6, for - 4. The proposal is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-05-19-PT12-365-U64	Thank you. Since Proposal No 1 has been approved, then... 2. is the related proposal of the Legal Commission, which has also been supported by the Commission and provides for the Commission’s right to request information from the Penal Register in accordance with the procedure laid down by regulatory enactments in order to prepare the said statement of members who have already been administratively punished. I call for support.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-05-19-PT12-365-U65	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-05-19-PT12-365-U66	Thank you. All the proposals have therefore been examined. I call for support to be given to the draft law on Amendments to the parliamentary order roll at third, final reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-05-19-PT12-365-U67	Thank you. Please call me! Let us vote in favour of the third, final, reading of the draft law on Amendments to the parliamentary roll of order! Please vote mode! Please get the result! It's not about - 86, it's against and refrains from - it's not. The law has been passed.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-05-19-PT12-365-U68	Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-05-19-PT12-365-U69	On the agenda - draft law “Law on the Special Economic Zone of Latgale”, third reading. On behalf of the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy, Anrijs Matīss.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-05-19-PT12-365-U70	Hello, Madam President. Dear colleagues, We work with Latgale Special Economic Zone Law (No 486/Lp12). Consequently, nine proposals were received at the third reading, mainly editorial. Let us remember that for the second reading this law was revised quite substantially both within the Commission and with the participation of the Legal Bureau. Nine proposals have been left for the third reading. Now in turn. 1. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. The Commission is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-05-19-PT12-365-U71	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-05-19-PT12-365-U72	2. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. The Commission is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-05-19-PT12-365-U73	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-05-19-PT12-365-U74	3. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. The Commission is also supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-05-19-PT12-365-U75	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-05-19-PT12-365-U76	The same is true for 4. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. The Commission is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-05-19-PT12-365-U77	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-05-19-PT12-365-U78	Similarly, 5 is the proposal of the Legal Office. The Commission is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-05-19-PT12-365-U79	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-05-19-PT12-365-U80	6. The proposal of Mr Kaspars Gerhard, Minister for Environmental Protection and Regional Development, who has also received support from the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-05-19-PT12-365-U81	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-05-19-PT12-365-U82	7. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. The Commission is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-05-19-PT12-365-U83	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-05-19-PT12-365-U84	8. There is also a editorial proposal from the Legal Office. The Commission is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-05-19-PT12-365-U85	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-05-19-PT12-365-U86	And finally 9. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. The Commission has also received support.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-05-19-PT12-365-U87	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-05-19-PT12-365-U88	All the proposals have therefore been examined. Request to support the law at third, final, reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-05-19-PT12-365-U89	Please call me! We will vote for the support of the draft law “Law on Special Economic Zone of Latgale” in the third, final, reading! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 89, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. The law has been passed.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-05-19-PT12-365-U90	Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-05-19-PT12-365-U91	On the agenda - draft law “Amendments to the Law on Protection Zones”, third reading. On behalf of the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy, Member Ingmārs Līdaka.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-05-19-PT12-365-U92	Hello, dear colleagues! So to your attention the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Protection Zones”, third reading. I would like to remind you that this time the Protection Zones Act has been opened up to sort out the situation with regard to gas and gas stations. Three proposals have been received. 1. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. The Commission has received support.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-05-19-PT12-365-U93	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-05-19-PT12-365-U94	2. - the proposal of the Minister for Economic Affairs, Asheraden. The Commission has received support.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-05-19-PT12-365-U95	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-05-19-PT12-365-U96	And finally 3. - Minister Asheraden's proposal. This has also been supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-05-19-PT12-365-U97	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-05-19-PT12-365-U98	Therefore, please approve the draft law on Amendments to the Law on Protection Zones at third reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-05-19-PT12-365-U99	Please call me! We will vote in favour of the third, final, reading of the draft law "Amendments to the Law on Protection Zones". Please vote mode! Please get the result! It's not about - 85, it's against and abstains. The law has been passed. On the agenda - draft law “Amendments to the Law on Electronic Communications”, third reading. On behalf of the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy, Member Edward Smilten.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-05-19-PT12-365-U100	Yes, colleagues! We work with the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Electronic Communications”. A total of 12 proposals have been received. 1. - a proposal from the committee responsible. The Commission has received support.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-05-19-PT12-365-U101	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-05-19-PT12-365-U102	2. - the proposal of Foreign Minister Edgars Rinkēvičs. The Commission is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-05-19-PT12-365-U103	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-05-19-PT12-365-U104	3. - The proposal of the Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Transport, Edgars Tatars. The Commission is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-05-19-PT12-365-U105	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-05-19-PT12-365-U106	4. - The proposal of Tatar, Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Transport. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-05-19-PT12-365-U107	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-05-19-PT12-365-U108	5. - The proposal of Tatar, Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Transport. Has been supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-05-19-PT12-365-U109	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-05-19-PT12-365-U110	6. - the proposal of Foreign Minister Rinkēvičs. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-05-19-PT12-365-U111	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-05-19-PT12-365-U112	7. - The proposal of Tatar, Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Transport. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-05-19-PT12-365-U113	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-05-19-PT12-365-U114	8 / 8 - The proposal of Tatar, Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Transport. Not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-05-19-PT12-365-U115	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-05-19-PT12-365-U116	9. - a proposal from the committee responsible. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-05-19-PT12-365-U117	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-05-19-PT12-365-U118	10............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - The proposal of Tatar, Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Transport. Has been supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-05-19-PT12-365-U119	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-05-19-PT12-365-U120	11. - The proposal of Tatar, Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Transport. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-05-19-PT12-365-U121	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-05-19-PT12-365-U122	And the last, 12, is the proposal from the responsible commission, which has been supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-05-19-PT12-365-U123	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-05-19-PT12-365-U124	Colleagues! I would remind you that by means of this draft law, we are regulating how we can inform our citizens, for example in the case of terrorism such as the one that occurred in Paris, so that they can receive a message on how to act in this particular case. If we adopt this draft law, a clear framework will be included in this law. I call for support to be given to the third, final, reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-05-19-PT12-365-U125	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote in favour of supporting the draft law on electronic communications in the third, final, reading! Please vote mode! Please get the result! It's not about - 83, it's against and refrains from - it's not. The law has been passed. On the agenda - draft law “Amendments to the Law on the Electricity Market”, third reading. On behalf of the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy, Member Edward Smilten.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-05-19-PT12-365-U126	This draft law has received 31 proposals, so there are more proposals than before. Proposal 1 and the proposal of the Saeima Legal Bureau. Has been supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-05-19-PT12-365-U127	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-05-19-PT12-365-U128	2. - The proposal from the Legal Bureau of the Saeima. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-05-19-PT12-365-U129	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-05-19-PT12-365-U130	3. - The proposal from the Legal Bureau of the Saeima. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-05-19-PT12-365-U131	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-05-19-PT12-365-U132	4. - The proposal from the Legal Bureau of the Saeima. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-05-19-PT12-365-U133	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-05-19-PT12-365-U134	5. - The proposal from the Legal Bureau of the Saeima. Has been supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-05-19-PT12-365-U135	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-05-19-PT12-365-U136	6. - The proposal from the Legal Bureau of the Saeima. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-05-19-PT12-365-U137	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-05-19-PT12-365-U138	7. - the proposal of Minister for Economic Affairs, Arville Asheraden. This is partly supported and included in the next proposal: 8.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-05-19-PT12-365-U139	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-05-19-PT12-365-U140	8 / 8 - the proposal of the Commission on Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy, which includes the previous proposal - the Minister. Has received support from the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-05-19-PT12-365-U141	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-05-19-PT12-365-U142	9. - The motion from Member Ingmars Līdak. There is no support in the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-05-19-PT12-365-U143	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-05-19-PT12-365-U144	10............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - a proposal from the committee responsible, which shall be approved by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-05-19-PT12-365-U145	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-05-19-PT12-365-U146	11. - The motion from Member Ingmars Līdak. Not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-05-19-PT12-365-U147	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-05-19-PT12-365-U148	12. - a proposal from the committee responsible. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-05-19-PT12-365-U149	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-05-19-PT12-365-U150	13. - The motion from Member Ingmars Līdak. Unfortunately, the Commission is not in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-05-19-PT12-365-U151	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-05-19-PT12-365-U152	14............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - a proposal from the committee responsible. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-05-19-PT12-365-U153	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-05-19-PT12-365-U154	15............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - the proposal of Minister for Economic Affairs, Arville Asheraden. The Commission has received support.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-05-19-PT12-365-U155	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-05-19-PT12-365-U156	16. - The motion from Member Ingmars Līdak. There is no support in the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-05-19-PT12-365-U157	Let us start a debate. Name to Member Ingmars Lydak.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-05-19-PT12-365-U158	Dear colleagues, If my previous proposals could possibly have had an impact on the indicators of the mandatory procurement component in some way, then this proposal is, let us say, fiscally neutral or even positive. Let me explain a little. So in Latvia by 2020, the green energy component in final consumption must reach 40 percent. For the time being, the Ministry of Economics has no doubt that this indicator will be reached or even exceeded. In other European countries, for which there have been differences and perhaps differences in these figures, this indicator must be achieved in final consumption... It is very likely that a number of countries will not reach this target and will therefore be prepared to enter into agreements with those countries where these indicators will be exceeded in order to avoid sanctions. If we have this over-exploitation, we will actually be able to trade it purely in book-entry terms, as is the case at present. Of course, we will only be able to do so if we are prepared to conclude these contracts if the Cabinet of Ministers has drawn up the arrangements, how we calculate them and how we conclude them. Then my proposal involves a delegation to the Cabinet of Ministers to develop this regulation, which can bring us a fiscal benefit potentially after 2020 or before it, and there is no reason at present for any concern that the Ministry of Economics seems to say here that it will have any negative impact. I just think the Ministry of Economics... as Minister himself admits: “I have not yet fully understood the energy situation at that time.” And it can be understood that the Minister is simply afraid to make a decision. This is not the decision, now it is not the proposal that should be feared, because it really does not contain any underwater stones that could have any effect on the price of electricity. So I call for this proposal to be supported, and hence for the 31st proposal, which is in the transitional provisions.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-05-19-PT12-365-U159	Thank you. The name is Mr. Vilnis Ķirsim.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-05-19-PT12-365-U160	Madam President, very much. Colleagues! Mr Līdaka has already told the substance of the matter very precisely. In particular, we have promised the European Commission to achieve a share of 40 per cent of renewable energy by 2020. In 2014, we have already reached 38.7 percent, and indeed there is no reason that we could not achieve this percentage. In previous Mr Līdaka's proposals, such concerns were expressed, namely in the form of proposals that new auctions should be introduced. But I am pleased that Mr Līdaka did not have to debate and agreed that this goal could be achieved. But the problem is a little different. In fact, we are talking at the moment that the Cabinet of Ministers, the Ministry of Economics, should develop a mechanism that could be activated if something had been achieved. I mean, if there's one, then there's another. So it would only be useful to us under certain conditions. Secondly, our green energy, which we produce, is quite expensive, and those countries that could potentially want to buy, which will not be able to meet their own goals, will certainly want to buy as cheaply as possible. And Latvia, according to our estimates, will not be the country whose price will satisfy them and from which they will want to buy. So in fact we are talking about the mechanism - what if it were. Moreover, it would only work if the price was attractive, but it would not be attractive. In particular, currently the Ministry of Economics and the government are being offered to work on the mechanism, to spend resources... There's not enough officials in the ministry right now... Work on a mechanism that may be useful to us. And I'm sorry, colleagues, we're talking here about rotation of the imprudent officials of the State Revenue Service. You know, a kind of rotation has already taken place in the Ministry of Economics - the Department of Energy. The part has gone with the previous minister... with the Minister to the Ministry of Finance, part to the regulator. There are many challenges associated with the introduction of the various resubsidisation mechanisms. And now we will still focus on the things that we may need if the conditions are met! Colleagues, please do not support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-05-19-PT12-365-U161	Name to Member Ingmars Lydak, for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-05-19-PT12-365-U162	Yeah... Well, I was very saddened by Mr. Chersh's recognition, which must have been true, from inside. And now it's the sad reality that the Ministry of Economics really does not have energy specialists. And so they're not probably ready to do anything. But I think the Ministry of Economics will be fine - it will attract normal specialists and will be able to work normally ever. We simply have to make the Ministry of Economics work! That is first. And then. Mr. Chersch, the green energy... At a time when many countries will fail to comply with these rules, green energy will be very expensive, it will be very expensive everywhere, because non-compliance threatens with sanctions. Every country that will fail will be prepared to pay a rather heavy price for green energy, the deficit of which will be felt at that time. And if we don't have such a regulation, we're going to bite our fingers, we're going to fight hot, we're going through... Let us look at three readings in one day and see how we feel about not doing anything again.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-05-19-PT12-365-U163	Name to Member Ivars Zarins.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-05-19-PT12-365-U164	Hello, colleagues! I was inspired by what Ingmars said that there is hope that the Ministry of Economics will finally start working and start to understand what needs to be done in energy. Here, when this happens, let us also return to these proposals! If that's not the case, then do something like that -- it's like giving a little kid a knife in your hand, hoping he'll cut off... prepare yourself a sandwich. In fact, he will cut everything except the bread roll that needs to be cut. So that I call for no such proposals to be supported at this stage.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-05-19-PT12-365-U165	The name to Member Vilnius Chersim, for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-05-19-PT12-365-U166	Mr. Līdak! In any case, I do not agree with what you said, that there are no energy specialists in the Ministry as such. But the question is how we use existing resources. We can use them to the things that we absolutely need. We can also not do what we have to do. Well, let them take their course! But to do something that we may need - well, forgive me, this is not the right thing to do in terms of resource use. If we could do so that there is such a rule in the law, but it does not oblige us to develop this model until some time, and only implies that when we feel it is necessary, we start working on it... Then you can do it. But it is imperative to develop a model that will not be needed - well, it is not useful! Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-05-19-PT12-365-U167	Name to Member Edgars Putras.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-05-19-PT12-365-U168	Yes, colleagues! This is about 15-18 million - the amount by which we could cut this OIC for our entrepreneurs, so that they can be competitive in Europe and so that we can attract businesses from abroad so that foreign investment flows. And this proposal by Ingmara also envisages this: that, when you get this money on the sale of statistics... And Luxembourg is one of those countries where I think it was only 11 percent. At the moment, they are able to do their own thing... Then they'll buy that electricity from us for the money we'll be offering.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-05-19-PT12-365-U169	Thank you. I closed the debate. Does the rapporteur, on behalf of the Commission, want to add something about the substance of the proposal?
ParlaMint-LV_2016-05-19-PT12-365-U170	Yes, colleagues! This proposal, the 16th proposal, is not supported by the Commission and I call for the Commission's decision to be followed.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-05-19-PT12-365-U171	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote in favour of 16. - The motion tabled by Member Ingmars Līdak! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 23, for - 32, for - 20. The proposal is not supported. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. J.Urbanovich: “Oh so crazy, yeah?” ) Council Regulation (EC) No 1257/96 of 20 June 1996 concerning humanitarian aid (OJ L 163, 2.7.1996, p. 1).
ParlaMint-LV_2016-05-19-PT12-365-U172	17. - the proposal of Minister for Economic Affairs, Arville Asheraden. The Commission is supported. The Chair of the sitting shall be in favour of the Members. 18 and... I'll find you. 18. - The proposal from the Legal Bureau of the Saeima. The Commission is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-05-19-PT12-365-U173	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-05-19-PT12-365-U174	19. and the proposal of the Legal Bureau of the Saeima, which is supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-05-19-PT12-365-U175	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-05-19-PT12-365-U176	20............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - a proposal from the committee responsible which has received support from the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-05-19-PT12-365-U177	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-05-19-PT12-365-U178	21............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - a proposal from the committee responsible. The Commission is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-05-19-PT12-365-U179	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-05-19-PT12-365-U180	22. - The motion from Member Ingmars Līdak. There is no support in the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-05-19-PT12-365-U181	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-05-19-PT12-365-U182	23............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - a proposal from the committee responsible. The Commission is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-05-19-PT12-365-U183	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-05-19-PT12-365-U184	24. - a proposal from the committee responsible. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-05-19-PT12-365-U185	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-05-19-PT12-365-U186	25. - a proposal from the committee responsible. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-05-19-PT12-365-U187	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-05-19-PT12-365-U188	26. - the proposal of Minister for Economic Affairs, Arville Asheraden. The Commission is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-05-19-PT12-365-U189	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-05-19-PT12-365-U190	27. - the proposal of Minister for Economic Affairs, Arville Asheraden. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-05-19-PT12-365-U191	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-05-19-PT12-365-U192	28. - a proposal from the Minister for Economic Affairs. The next proposal - 29 - has been partly supported and incorporated.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-05-19-PT12-365-U193	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-05-19-PT12-365-U194	29. - The proposal of the Saeima Committee on Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy, which has been supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-05-19-PT12-365-U195	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-05-19-PT12-365-U196	30. - the proposal of Minister for Economic Affairs, Arville Asheraden. Has been supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-05-19-PT12-365-U197	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-05-19-PT12-365-U198	31. - The motion from Member Ingmars Līdak. Not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-05-19-PT12-365-U199	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-05-19-PT12-365-U200	We have therefore examined all the proposals, colleagues, and on behalf of the Commission, I am calling for the adoption of this draft law at third, final, reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-05-19-PT12-365-U201	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote in favour of supporting the third, final reading of the draft law on the electricity market law! Please vote mode! Please get the result! On - 76, against - non-, refraining - 4. The law has been passed. On the agenda - draft law “Amendments to the Law on Medicine”, first reading. Member of the Commission for Social and Labour Affairs Mārtiņš Šics.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-05-19-PT12-365-U202	Dear colleagues, Despite the fact that the Ministry of Health is preparing a new Law on Medicine, there are things to be resolved before the new draft law appears, and therefore amendments to the current Law on Medicine are proposed. These changes concern four important chapters. One question is to simplify the recertification of doctors' specialists in additional specialties. The second issue, which will affect and will have a very significant impact on the availability and quality of health care in the treatment of dangerous and rare diseases, is in compliance with the European Parliament and Council Directive on the application of patients' rights in cross-border healthcare, voluntary accession of Latvian medical institutions to these reference networks and the provision of information. And the third group of questions covered by this draft law aims to promote, organise and speed up the introduction of a much criticised and long-standing lack of e-health system. One question is about the incapacity sheets, as well as the electronic circulation of these incapacity sheets and the exchange of information with the State Revenue Service. And the last one. Once the major improvements promised in the implementation of eHealth have been implemented, this will not become another bureaucratic obstacle and all family doctors will not start to suffer with e-signatures, which would also be a material burden. These are issues that arrange and simplify authorisation for doctors and medical practitioners in this eHealth system. The Commission supported this proposal for first reading unanimously and I ask you to support it.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-05-19-PT12-365-U203	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote in favour of the first reading of the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Medicine”! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 89, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. The draft law at first reading has been supported. Please set a deadline for the submission of the proposals for second reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-05-19-PT12-365-U204	For the submission of proposals, one week - by 26 May of this year.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-05-19-PT12-365-U205	Thank you. Proposals are due by 26 May this year. On the agenda - draft law “Amendments to the Law “On Accounting”, first reading. On behalf of the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission, Mr Aleksandr Kirštein.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-05-19-PT12-365-U206	Dear President, Honourable Members! See Draft Law No.562/Lp12 - Amendments to the Law on Accounting. Articles 8, 10 and 13 are added here. Article 8 adds the sixth paragraph, which emphasises that micro-enterprises and other economic enterprises whose turnover for the previous year does not exceed 300 thousand are entitled to enter their business documents within 15 days of the end of the quarter. Article 13 was supplemented by the third and fourth sentences. The first paragraph of Article 13 provides that the debtor’s balance established by the insolvency law shall be subject to all the same rules as the annual accounts balance sheet. And if the insolvency proceedings of the company are announced, a financial report of the closure of the company, consisting only of a balance sheet, is prepared. Please support the draft law at first reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-05-19-PT12-365-U207	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote in favour of the first reading of the draft law “Amendments to the Law “On Accounting”! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 87, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The draft law at first reading has been supported. Please set a deadline for the submission of the proposals for second reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-05-19-PT12-365-U208	The draft law is not urgent. Please prepare your proposals by 1 June.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-05-19-PT12-365-U209	Thank you. The deadline for submitting proposals is 1 June of this year. On the agenda - draft law “Amendments to the Postal Law”, first reading. On behalf of the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy, Anrijs Matīss.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-05-19-PT12-365-U210	Madam President, Dear colleagues, We work with Law No.561/Lp12 - Amendments to the Postal Law. The Commission of Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy examined these amendments prepared and submitted by the Cabinet of Ministers. The nature of the amendments is as follows: In 2014, 15 operators were excluded from the register of postal operators; seven would be deprived of the right to provide postal services for a fixed period. Overall, it accounts for more than 20 percent of all postal operators. 61 postal operators are therefore active. And where are the problems? Why are there problems with postal operators? First of all, there has been an increase in the number of postal operators who travel across the Latvian-Russia border by means of road freight transport with an almost empty fuel lighthouse to deliver a postal item to an entity close to the border, but, of course, they do not deliver anything, return with a full fuel lighthouse. As a result, the State Revenue Service cannot control them in any way. The other thing is the sadly famous pastimes. In particular, when registering a postal company (it does not cost anything in practice), there are possibilities to receive postal passes that allow for a significant violation of the road traffic rules - stopping, parking restrictions and so on. These amendments will, to a certain extent, also deal with these cases. And the third case is unfair competition in public and municipal procurement, when these postal operators offer a lower price but are unable to carry out these services themselves. And there are cases when they simply place these items in ordinary mail boxes after that, and then “Latvijas Pasts” gets to work with them. There is therefore a need for tighter control in this area, so the Cabinet has also prepared this proposal. The draft law is supported by the Commission. Consequently, I also ask colleagues to support this draft law at first reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-05-19-PT12-365-U211	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote in favour of the first reading of the draft law “Amendments to the Postal Law”! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 87, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The draft law at first reading has been supported. Please set a deadline for the submission of the proposals for second reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-05-19-PT12-365-U212	As much work needs to be done here, it is two weeks, i.e. 2 June this year.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-05-19-PT12-365-U213	Thank you. Proposals shall be submitted by 2 June of this year. Dear colleagues, Members Adamovich, Āboltiņa, Brigmanis, Gaidis Berzins and Raivis Dzintars ask to continue the sitting of the Saeima without interruption until the examination of all items on the agenda. Do Members have objections? Members... Do Members have objections?... ( The box “Yes! ”) ; “No!” ) Consequently, Members have reservations. Please call me! Let us vote for the parliamentary session to continue without interruption until all items on the agenda have been dealt with! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 76, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Consequently, the Saeima sitting is continued without interruption. On the agenda - draft law “Amendments to the Code of Administrative Violations of Latvia”, second reading. On behalf of the Legal Commission, Member Jūlija Stepanenko.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-05-19-PT12-365-U214	Dear colleagues, The Saeima Legal Commission offers you amendments to the Latvian Administrative Violations Code for the second reading today. 19 proposals have been received for the second reading. 1. - Mr Stepanenko's proposal on the limitation of the application of administrative penalties. The Commission was not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-05-19-PT12-365-U215	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-05-19-PT12-365-U216	2. - the proposal by Daiņa Liepiņš, Chairman of the Group of the Association of the Regions of Latvia, which imposes an obligation on the infringer to make good the damage caused to the country by his rescue. No aid was granted to the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-05-19-PT12-365-U217	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-05-19-PT12-365-U218	3. - the proposal of the Minister of Justice Dzintars Rasnačs, which provides for liability not only for the violation of insolvency proceedings but also for the violation of the provisions of legal protection proceedings. The Commission received support.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-05-19-PT12-365-U219	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-05-19-PT12-365-U220	4. - a proposal from the Legal Bureau, a technical clarification which improves the rules on the prohibition on ice. The Commission received support.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-05-19-PT12-365-U221	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-05-19-PT12-365-U222	5. - Daiņa Liepiņš, Chairman of the Group of the Association of the Regions of Latvia, which intends to supplement the previous article by providing for responsibility for being on ice under the influence of alcohol. The Commission received support.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-05-19-PT12-365-U223	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-05-19-PT12-365-U224	6. - the proposal by the Minister for Culture, Daces Melbarde, which is linked to the amendments to the Law on Electronic Media on the Obligation to Communicate Services. The Commission is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-05-19-PT12-365-U225	Members are in favour. ( The drug has increased noise. The head of the sitting shall be knocked down by means of a hammer.)
ParlaMint-LV_2016-05-19-PT12-365-U226	7. - the proposal of the Minister of Justice Dzintars Rasnačs. It is recalled that discussions on the future development of the insolvency area will continue within the Council for the Judiciary policy sub-committee of the Saeima. So it is not put to the vote. 8 / 8 - a proposal from the Legal Commission providing for a broader mandate for municipal police officers in relation to the investigation of smoking offences in unauthorised places. The Commission received support.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-05-19-PT12-365-U227	Members want a vote... Members want to vote on Amendment 8? Please call me! We will vote in favour of 8. - The legal commission's proposal! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 42, for - 4, for - 23. The proposal is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-05-19-PT12-365-U228	9. - the proposal of the Minister of Justice Dzintars Rasnačs. This, too, has been withdrawn in relation to Proposal No 7, so it cannot be put to the vote. 10............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - the proposal of the Minister of Justice Dzintars Rasnačs, which is related to the amendments already adopted to the Latvian Code of Administrative Violations, according to which regulation on the imposition of a fine at the place where an administrative offence is committed has been excluded from September 1 of this year. The Commission is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-05-19-PT12-365-U229	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-05-19-PT12-365-U230	11. - the proposal of the Minister of Justice Dzintars Rasnačs to take over in Latvian legal system the Directive of 15 May 2015 of the European Parliament and of the Council on the posting of workers in the field of the provision of services. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-05-19-PT12-365-U231	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-05-19-PT12-365-U232	The next four proposals are intertwined and set out the procedure for appealing decisions in the field of administrative offences. The first court hearing cases of administrative offences is a district (city) court. The regional court will be able to appeal against decisions of district (city) court, but the regional court will have the opportunity to refuse to initiate proceedings in the composition of three judges if it is established that the judgment of the first instance court is correct and justified. An analogue scheme has been established for small claims. The Supreme Court should consider ancillary appeals against decisions of the Court of Appeal regarding newly discovered circumstances. 12. - The legal commission's proposal. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-05-19-PT12-365-U233	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-05-19-PT12-365-U234	13. - The legal commission's proposal. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-05-19-PT12-365-U235	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-05-19-PT12-365-U236	14............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - The legal commission's proposal. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-05-19-PT12-365-U237	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-05-19-PT12-365-U238	And the last proposal in this area is 15. - The legal commission's proposal. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-05-19-PT12-365-U239	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-05-19-PT12-365-U240	16. - the proposal by the Minister of Justice Dzintars Rasnačs, which also relates to the directive on the transfer of workers mentioned above. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-05-19-PT12-365-U241	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-05-19-PT12-365-U242	17. - the proposal of the Minister of Justice Dzintars Rasnačs, which includes editorial amendments, clarifications concerning previously adopted amendments. Partly supported and included 18. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-05-19-PT12-365-U243	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-05-19-PT12-365-U244	18. - a proposal from the Legal Commission which is of a technical nature. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-05-19-PT12-365-U245	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-05-19-PT12-365-U246	And the last one is 19. - the proposal of the Minister of Justice Dzintars Rasnačs, which also relates to the directive on the transfer of workers already mentioned. The Commission is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-05-19-PT12-365-U247	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-05-19-PT12-365-U248	We have therefore examined all 19 proposals. On behalf of the Saeima Legal Commission, I invite you to support the draft law “Amendments to the Latvian Code of Administrative Violations” at second reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-05-19-PT12-365-U249	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote in favour of the second reading of the draft law “Amendments to the Code of Administrative Violations of Latvia”! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 81, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. The draft law at second reading has been supported. Please set a deadline for the third reading of the proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-05-19-PT12-365-U250	The deadline for tabling proposals for third reading is 24 May.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-05-19-PT12-365-U251	Thank you. Proposals should be submitted by 24 May this year. On the agenda - draft law “Amendments to the Law of the Museum of Occupation of Latvia”, second reading. Member of the Commission for Education, Culture and Science Raivis Dzintars.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-05-19-PT12-365-U252	Dear President, Dear colleagues, We work with the draft law “Amendments to the Law of the Occupation Museum of Latvia”. The commission responsible has received three proposals. The proposal is made from the ‘From the heart to Latvia’ group. Not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-05-19-PT12-365-U253	Let us start a debate. The name of Member Arvīds Platoper.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-05-19-PT12-365-U254	Dear President of the Saeima. Dear colleagues, I would like to reiterate that the Saeima Group “From the Heart to Latvia” unanimously believes that the Museum of Occupation of Latvia is an object of national importance. We are in favour of preserving the Occupation Museum as long as Latvia exists. We must not forget the history of our country. It reminds and teaches us and makes us appreciate what we have today. In almost every Latvian family there was someone who suffered from one occupation regime or another. The suffering of thousands cannot be described. Therefore, the Museum of the Occupation of Latvia must be a proof that nothing like this will ever happen again in the history of Latvia that we will not allow anything like this like a democratic state. Next, I want to introduce where the group shared its thoughts. And it's a question of whether the law can be violated in the name of a noble goal. The law is one for all, and the law must be respected. We are in favour of democratic and legal order in our country. This week, meeting with the Association of the Occupation Museum of Latvia, with Professor Nollendorf, we became aware that such amendments would not have been necessary if “State Real Estate” had managed to obtain all necessary building permits in accordance with the procedure laid down by the law. Here, we can only talk about institutional inactions. We have arranged laws that should be respected and, when we work actively, we must reach our goal and... The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. I.Klementjevs: “On the proposal!” ; dep. A.Kamiņš: “The thing is talking!” ) The proposal... I'm talking about a thing. Once again, we want to highlight one special case of construction that cannot be reconciled according to the law. As an example, the Law on Education, as well as the regulations of the Cabinet of Ministers, have still not been amended, and, in violation of these laws, the Saeima granted exclusive rights to open the Master's Programme. To this day, Mr. Shadursky promises to put it in order. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. A.Kamiņš: “What connection?Oh, no, no, no, no, no, “ That’s one time, the honourable Member in the neighborhood, I told you, ‘ Dep. ’ A.Kamiņš: “Don’t talk to the grass!” ) have problems with intelligence. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. Elksniņš: "What is the Bureau watching?Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, ‘We have a Bureau or not?’ ; ‘Are we changing the Bureau!’ ) I would like to remind you once again that the Saeima is the highest legislator that adopts national laws here. First of all, the rules must be laid down; all organisations that approve the draft in accordance with the rules laid down by law must be required to work in the way it has been adopted in the normal democratic countries. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-05-19-PT12-365-U255	I closed the debate. Will the rapporteur add a note on behalf of the Commission?
ParlaMint-LV_2016-05-19-PT12-365-U256	Yes, colleagues! The nature of the proposal in fact provides for a new concept of further development of the Museum of Occupation of Latvia, which is in contradiction with the support of both the Museum of Occupation of Latvia and the Latvian Politically Repressed Association, as well as many supporters and donors around the world who have donated to this particular project. In support of this proposal and the next one, a strip of ideas would actually be drawn and, therefore, a convincing majority of the Commission rejected the proposal. I call on Members to vote 'no'.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-05-19-PT12-365-U257	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote in favour of 1. - the proposal submitted by the Group "From the Heart to Latvia"! Please vote mode! Please get the result! About -6, against -47, refraining from -8. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-05-19-PT12-365-U258	The second proposal received is also a heart-to-heart proposal for Latvia, which relates to what we have just voted. This is also not supported. ( Interface: ‘ Vote! ’) ) Council Regulation (EC) No 1257/96 of 20 June 1996 concerning humanitarian aid (OJ L 163, 2.7.1996, p. 1).
ParlaMint-LV_2016-05-19-PT12-365-U259	Members ask for a vote. Please call me! We will vote in favour of 2. - the proposal submitted by the Group "From the Heart to Latvia"! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 5, for - 49, for - 7. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-05-19-PT12-365-U260	3. - The proposal from Member Ritvars Janson. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-05-19-PT12-365-U261	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-05-19-PT12-365-U262	All the proposals have therefore been examined. I call for support for the draft law at second reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-05-19-PT12-365-U263	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote for support for the second reading of the draft law “Amendments to the Law of the Occupational Museum of Latvia”! Please vote mode! Please get the result! There's no one for - 60, against and abstaining. The draft law at second reading has been supported. Please set a deadline for the third reading of the proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-05-19-PT12-365-U264	June 10th
ParlaMint-LV_2016-05-19-PT12-365-U265	Thank you. Proposals shall be submitted by 10 June of this year. On the agenda - draft law “Amendments to the Code of Conduct for Penalties of Latvia”, second reading. On behalf of the Commission for Defence, Home Affairs and Anti-Corruption - Member Edwin Šnore.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-05-19-PT12-365-U266	Dear colleagues, The Commission has examined the draft law “Amendments to the Code on the Enforcement of Penalties of Latvia”. No proposals were received for the second reading. On behalf of the Commission, I ask that this draft law be supported at second reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-05-19-PT12-365-U267	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote in favour of the second reading of the draft law on amendments to the Code of Conduct for Penalties of Latvia! Please vote mode! Please get the result! It's not about - 83, it's against and refrains from - it's not. The draft law at second reading has been supported. Please set a deadline for the third reading of the proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-05-19-PT12-365-U268	Deadline for submission of proposals - 24 May.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-05-19-PT12-365-U269	Thank you. Proposals should be submitted by 24 May this year. On the agenda - draft law “Amendments to the Public Prosecutor’s Office Law”, second reading. Member of the Commission for Defence, Home Affairs and Prevention of Corruption Juris Vectirāns. ( Interface: “Well, general, debt! ” ) Council Regulation (EC) No 1257/96 of 20 June 1996 concerning humanitarian aid (OJ L 163, 2.7.1996, p. 1).
ParlaMint-LV_2016-05-19-PT12-365-U270	Dear Bureau! Dear colleagues, In its meeting of 11 May, the Commission for Defence, Home Affairs and Prevention of Corruption examined draft law “Amendments to the Public Prosecutor’s Law”. No proposals were received for the second reading. Please support the draft law at second reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-05-19-PT12-365-U271	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote in favour of the second reading of the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Public Prosecutor’s Office”! Please vote mode! Please get the result! It's not about - 86, it's against and refrains from - it's not. The draft law at second reading has been supported. Please set a deadline for the third reading of the proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-05-19-PT12-365-U272	Deadline for submission of proposals - 24 May.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-05-19-PT12-365-U273	Thank you. Proposals should be submitted by 24 May this year. On the agenda - draft law “Amendments to the Law on Pollution”, second reading. On behalf of the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy, Member Edward Smilten.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-05-19-PT12-365-U274	Colleagues! We work with the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Pollution”. Overall, we have received 14 proposals. Proposal No 1... I'll find you... The proposal is a proposal from the Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Environmental Protection and Regional Development, which has not been supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-05-19-PT12-365-U275	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-05-19-PT12-365-U276	2 and... The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. A.Klementjevs: “There is also!” )... Also... ( Merry laughter.) 2. - the committee responsible's proposal, which has been supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-05-19-PT12-365-U277	Members are in favour. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. M.Bondars: “The Member is unable to concentrate more!” ) Council Regulation (EC) No 1257/96 of 20 June 1996 concerning humanitarian aid (OJ L 163, 2.7.1996, p. 1).
ParlaMint-LV_2016-05-19-PT12-365-U278	No, there's a very long table, but I can't talk to you...
ParlaMint-LV_2016-05-19-PT12-365-U279	3. ...
ParlaMint-LV_2016-05-19-PT12-365-U280	3. - The proposal from Member Artus Neighmina. Not supported. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. A.Kimiņš: Vote! ) Council Regulation (EC) No 1257/96 of 20 June 1996 concerning humanitarian aid (OJ L 163, 2.7.1996, p. 1).
ParlaMint-LV_2016-05-19-PT12-365-U281	Members ask for a vote. Please call me! We will vote in favour of 3. - Member Artusa Nemiņa's proposal! Please vote mode! Please get the result! About -4, against -64, refraining -4. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-05-19-PT12-365-U282	4. - Motion by Parliamentary Secretary. Partly supported, included in the next proposal - 5.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-05-19-PT12-365-U283	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-05-19-PT12-365-U284	5. - a proposal from the committee responsible. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-05-19-PT12-365-U285	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-05-19-PT12-365-U286	6. - A proposal from the Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Environmental Protection and Regional Development, supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-05-19-PT12-365-U287	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-05-19-PT12-365-U288	7. - also a proposal from the Parliamentary Secretary of the VARAM, supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-05-19-PT12-365-U289	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-05-19-PT12-365-U290	8 / 8 - Motion by Parliamentary Secretary. The Commission has received support.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-05-19-PT12-365-U291	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-05-19-PT12-365-U292	9. - Motion by Parliamentary Secretary. The Commission is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-05-19-PT12-365-U293	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-05-19-PT12-365-U294	10............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - Motion by Parliamentary Secretary. The Commission is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-05-19-PT12-365-U295	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-05-19-PT12-365-U296	11. - The proposal of Parliamentary Secretary Eglitis. The Commission has received support.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-05-19-PT12-365-U297	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-05-19-PT12-365-U298	12 and... The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. A.Kamiņš: “There is! Yes!’ ) The proposal of Mr. Janis Eglitis, Parliamentary Secretary, which has been approved.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-05-19-PT12-365-U299	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-05-19-PT12-365-U300	13. - also a proposal from the Parliamentary Secretary to the VARAM. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-05-19-PT12-365-U301	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-05-19-PT12-365-U302	14............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - the proposal by Member Artus Neimins, who has not received support from the Commission. ( From the hall: ‘ Vote! ’) ) Council Regulation (EC) No 1257/96 of 20 June 1996 concerning humanitarian aid (OJ L 163, 2.7.1996, p. 1).
ParlaMint-LV_2016-05-19-PT12-365-U303	Members ask for a vote. Please call me! We will vote in favour of 14. - Member Artusa Nemiņa's proposal! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 4, for - 65, for - 7. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-05-19-PT12-365-U304	We have therefore examined all the proposals. I call for the draft law to be supported at second reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-05-19-PT12-365-U305	Please call me! We will vote in favour of the second reading of the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Pollution”! Please vote mode! Please get the result! It's not about - 80, it's against and refrains from - it's not. The draft law at second reading is therefore supported. Please set a deadline for the third reading of the proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-05-19-PT12-365-U306	Colleagues! Let us wait until 26 May this year for your constructive proposals to be submitted to the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-05-19-PT12-365-U307	Thank you. Proposals are due by 26 May this year. On the agenda - draft law on Amendments to the Law on Electronic Media, first reading. On behalf of the Commission for Human Rights and Public Affairs - Member Inese Laizāne.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-05-19-PT12-365-U308	Dear Chairman of the Saeima. Dear colleagues, The Human Rights and Public Affairs Commission worked with the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Electronic Media”. The draft law relates to the transposition of the directive, which prohibits advertising of electronic cigarettes and refilling vials in commercial communications and advertising. The Commission decided to support this draft law and asked for it to be declared urgent.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-05-19-PT12-365-U309	Hence, the Commission asked the draft law to be declared urgent. Please call me! We will vote for the urgent recognition of the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Electronic Media”! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The draft law has been declared urgent.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-05-19-PT12-365-U310	The Commission is also asking to support the draft law at first reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-05-19-PT12-365-U311	Please call me! We will vote in favour of the first reading of the draft law "Amendments to the Law on Electronic Media". Please vote mode! Please get the result! It's not about - 86, it's against and refrains from - it's not. The draft law at first reading has been supported. Please specify the deadline for the submission of proposals and the time for examination at the Saeima sitting.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-05-19-PT12-365-U312	Deadline for submission of proposals - 23 May, consideration of Saeima sitting - 2 June.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-05-19-PT12-365-U313	Thank you. Proposals must be submitted by 23 May this year, consideration at the Saeima sitting - 2 June this year. The next item is Members' requests. Request to the Minister for Health Guntis Belēvičs “On implementation of the project “E-health in Latvia”. Thus, the Saeima Presidium has received a request from the Member Mārtiņš Bondara, Inguna Silverba, Gunāra Kūtra, Valija Agešina, Jānis Urbanoviča, Mārtiņš Šics, Silvija Simfas, Sergeja Dolgopolova, Vital Orlova and Andrejs Klementyeva, Minister of Health Guntis Belēvičs about the implementation of the project “E-health in Latvia”. The request shall be distributed and made available to all Members of the Saeima in accordance with the Rules of Procedure of the Saeima. The applicants have asked for a statement to justify the request. Name of the Saeima for Andrejs Klementyev.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-05-19-PT12-365-U314	Thank you. High honourable Members! The opposition - three political groups - has signed the request and we want to highlight two problems. The first problem is the implementation of the programme “E-Health in Latvia”. Yesterday, in the Commission for Public Expenditure and Audit, I think most Members had a lot of questions for officials who came to us for a sitting, but there is no clarity and conviction that Latvia will not lose almost EUR 12 million in European Commission money. We therefore ask the Minister to fulfil his promise of monitoring this process, finding the perpetrator, punishing and implementing this project by 1 December. And the second one we want to talk about. The culture of parliamentary work. This question, this problem, we were able to discuss at a special question and answer sitting, because Members have the right to ask questions not only in writing but also orally. The Ministry has been ignoring these questions and answers for almost a year; the visit is very low. And so all three opposition groups took a decision: if the Ministry does not take part in the hearings of questions and answers and does not answer oral questions, all the unanswered questions will go through the Request Commission. Today, too, we have submitted two requests, which were in the form of a question before. If the culture of political and parliamentary work does not improve in the near future and the rights of Members guaranteed by the Constitution will be ignored, the Request Commission will receive three more requests each week. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-05-19-PT12-365-U315	The request is therefore submitted to the Commission. Dear colleagues, The agenda of the parliamentary sitting has been discussed, but I would like to inform you about the meeting of the questions and answers provided for today at 5 p.m. The question of Members Dolgopolova, Adamson, Urbanovich, Tretyaka and Zemlinskis to Prime Minister Maris Kučinskis “On the future accommodation centre “Mucenieki” of foreign residents detained.” The question is addressed to the Minister of the Interior, Rihard Kozlovski. The responses received are not satisfactory. The Minister informed that an oral answer could be given on 2 June this year. The question of Members Silver, May, Platoper, Baloža and Šymfas to Prime Minister Maris Kučinskis “On the information report on the evaluation of the proposals contained in the final report of the parliamentary committee of inquiry of the Saeima”. The responses received are not satisfactory. The Prime Minister has informed that he will not be able to attend oral answers today in connection with his participation in a previous meeting. The question of Members Silver, Kūtra, Šimfas, Platopers and Maya to the Minister of Education and Science Kārlis Šadurskis “On the organisation and implementation of the subject “Music” in Latvian general education schools”. The responses received are not satisfactory. The Minister has informed that due to a pre-planned regional visit, he will not be able to attend oral replies. The question of Members Silver, Shifas, Kūtra, Maya and Platoper to Prime Minister Maris Kučinskis “On Draft Law”. The question was referred to Minister for Finance Dana Reizniece-Ozola. Applicants inform that they do not want to ask additional questions, as with the adoption of the relevant laws, the questions have become obsolete. The question of Members Silver, Šymfas, Platopera, Maya and Baložs to the Minister of Education and Science Kārlis Šaduriskis “On the closure and reorganisation of educational institutions in Latvian municipalities”. The responses received are not satisfactory. The Minister has informed that due to a pre-planned regional visit, he will not be able to attend oral replies. The question of Member Zariņa, Agešina, A.Rubika, Tutina and Ribakova regarding the Minister of Economics Arvilas Aseradens “As regards the inability of EM to provide economic justification for the possible compatibility of the acquisition of shares in joint stock company Latvijas Gāze with the State’s interests”. The written replies received shall not be satisfied. The Minister has informed that due to the schedule of events planned in the past, he will not be able to attend oral answers today. The question to Dzintars Rasnačs, the Minister of Justice, about planned amendments to the Law on the Maintenance Guarantee Fund, by Members Agešina, Urbanoviča, Potapkina, Ribakova and Jakimov. The written reply received shall be granted to the applicants. Therefore, my fellow Members, I have to inform you that today's answers to Members' questions will not take place at 17.00. ( Insight: ‘ There is no government! ’) ) Please call us! Please check-in mode for Members! While the results of the registration are being prepared, I would like to inform you that five minutes after the Saeima meeting, everyone is welcome to the opening of the exhibition in the Red Hall of Latvia, and at 14.00 in the Red Hall together with the Sports Sub-Commission we will welcome our bobsleigh, skeleton and parabobsleigh athletes. On Saturday, May 21, from 19.00 to midnight, the Saeima House opens its doors to visitors of the Museum Night. Name for the statement to Member Lolita Chigan.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-05-19-PT12-365-U316	Dear Members of the Commission on European Affairs. The Commission will meet today at 12.30 a.m. in the Red Chamber.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-05-19-PT12-365-U317	Name for the statement to Member Arthur Rubik.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-05-19-PT12-365-U318	Hello, colleagues! Members who are in the group for cooperation with the Belarusian Parliament, I ask you to see them immediately at a short meeting in the Yellow House. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-05-19-PT12-365-U319	Name Member of the Saeima, Gunars Kūtris, to read the results of the registration.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-05-19-PT12-365-U320	Dear colleagues, Currently not registered: Ints Dālderis, Romanas Naudiņš, Sergejs Potapkins, Artis Rasmanis, Romualds Ražuks, Ivans Ribakovs, Kārlis Sergeants, Ilze Viņķelė and Jānis Vucāns.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-05-19-PT12-365-U321	Thank you. I'm closing the sitting.
