ParlaMint-LV_2016-01-26-PT12-340-U1	Good morning, dear colleagues! Madam Prime Minister! Mr. Foreign Minister! Ministers! Excellency! We started the extraordinary sitting of the Saeima on 26 January. On the agenda, ‘Annual report by the Minister for Foreign Affairs on the progress made and the planned activities of the country’s foreign policy and of the European Union’. Name to Foreign Minister Edgars Rinkēvičs.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-01-26-PT12-340-U2	President-in-Office of the Saeima, very much. Madam Prime Minister, very much. Members of the Saeima Bureau! Dear Members and honourable Members, Excellency! I have the honour to address you in the 12th Saeima for the second time in a foreign policy debate to look back on the work done last year and to highlight the foreign policy realities and challenges that are facing Latvia, Europe and the world in 2016. It is common in Latvia to consider every event and phenomenon critically, unbelievingly and mostly to treat anything sceptical. However, I can claim with full confidence that the composition of words “The Latvian Presidency”, which was heard in almost every single house in Latvia, and our joint work in 2015 has been highly appreciated internationally. It was the year 2015 that was the first in the history of the European Union's thematic years, when all 28 Member States drew the public's attention to foreign policy, namely development cooperation. Cooperation with Latvian non-governmental organisations and social partners played an important role in this process. The first Latvian Presidency of the Council of the European Union confirmed the international capacity of our country to manage the European agenda and find the best common denominator among the 28 Member States. From the first days of the Presidency, Latvia had to address a number of important issues: it was necessary to coordinate and be able to find new solutions to the strengthening of the internal security of the European Union as a result of the increasing terrorist threat following the tragic events in Paris and Copenhagen; Latvia had to find a common denominator for the future of the Eastern Partnership and seek a balanced approach to the policies of the Member States in terms of equal support for both the Southern and Eastern neighbours; in the end of the Latvian Presidency, the European Union faced a dramatic migration crisis, the volumes of which continued and continued to rise; we were able to achieve the creation of a European Fund for Strategic Investments, an agreement on the abolition of mobile roaming charges, as well as significant progress both for Latvia in establishing the Digital Single Market and the Energy Union. Our Presidency would not be possible without unified and unified cooperation between the Saeima, the Cabinet of Ministers, the Ministry of Industry, the Presidential Chancellery, non-governmental organisations, social partners, local governments in Latvia and our Latvian Foreign Service. Thank you. Honourable Members! No country, including Latvia, can put foreign policy in the frame of the calendar year. There is no doubt that many of the challenges facing Europe and the world, the solution to the crisis and the causes of these crises will continue not only this year, but also in the years to come. And unfortunately, the situation in Europe, which very recently seemed to be calm, even sleepy, has changed radically. 2016 from the perspective of international and security policy will be a difficult, painful and restless year, as almost every day has become an endless whirlwind of crises in the world. Its devastating effects have a lasting impact on the common foreign and security policy of the European Union. Terrorism and uncontrolled migration flows in Europe, unpredictable and aggressive Russian actions, tensions in the east of Ukraine, hostilities in Syria and Libya, instability in the Middle East, recruitment of foreign fighters by various terrorist organisations and the growing campaigns of hate and violence propaganda by these organisations – these are the problems that will need to be addressed in the world, Europe and Latvia. There is no doubt that one of the major challenges for Europe and the world this year will be the migration crisis and the resolution of the consequences of this crisis. The test of European political and economic unity will be the forthcoming referendum on Britain's future membership of the block and the future of the Schengen area. The leaders of both the European Union and each Member State will have to make the most of their efforts to find adequate, mutually acceptable and long-term solutions. Otherwise, one morning we can really wake up to a pile of ruins that we once called the European Union. Unfortunately, we will also see various intensity tensions and conflicts in Afghanistan, Yemen, Syria, Libya, Iraq and a number of African countries. The relationship between Iran and Saudi Arabia is a cause for concern, and the Middle East peace process has in fact been weakened. There is progress in the fight against terrorist organisations by international coalition forces and individual states – the so-called Islamic state, Boko Haram, Al Qaeda and others. Low oil prices can have a significant impact on world economic growth and serve as the basis for new conflicts. These are just a few factors that will affect the context of international relations, the economic and security situation in the world, Europe and also Latvia. Honourable Members! International politics has the principle of connected vessels, and no country can stand apart from the reality that is happening in today's world. Latvia is no exception. Our country's history so far teaches us that we must not remain alone. And we are not alone! More than twenty years ago, Latvia's decision to integrate into the Euro-Atlantic space and become a full member of the European Union and NATO has been far-reaching and correct. In this way, we have also assumed certain commitments and responsibilities that define the fundamental principles of our country's foreign policy. It is in our interest to have a stable, secure and economically competitive Latvia. It is in our interest to have a united and strong European Union. And it is in our interest to have a strong North Atlantic Treaty organisation capable of adapting effectively to the new security situation in the world. Therefore, Latvia's foreign policy will have to focus this year on a number of complementary challenges: firstly, strengthening Latvia's external security by achieving the long-term presence of NATO forces in our region; secondly, promoting the unity and effectiveness of the European Union to ensure stability in the neighbouring regions of the European Union; thirdly, completing the accession process within the Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development and fourthly, promoting external economic relations and the acquisition of new markets. Honourable Members! When it comes to Latvia's security, it is necessary to speak a clear language. Last few years have highlighted the fact that our eastern neighbour is a revisionist superpower and is ready to use military force to defend its ambitions, even by changing the borders of independent countries, as in the case of the illegal annexation of Crimea. It is therefore in Latvia's interest to strengthen NATO's collective defence and deterrence policy. It is based on NATO's response capacity and military presence in our region. Only an effective and convincing deterrence policy guarantees the independence of our country. The military presence of allies is an integral part of any successful deterrence policy. These issues will be discussed this year at the NATO Summit in Warsaw, which is the main event in the field of security policy and which is carefully prepared by the Latvian foreign and defence services. The NATO Warsaw Summit must decide on the following issues: firstly, on the long-term and significant presence of allies in the Baltics. The summit should decide on the establishment of a more effective management system capable of responding immediately to any provocation; secondly on crisis management and the further development of a hybrid war prevention strategy. Thanks to the active involvement of Latvia, the NATO hybrid war strategy was developed and approved at the level of foreign ministers in early December last year. It extends collective defence guarantees, including effective support from allies, to any Member State at any stage of hybrid war; thirdly, it is necessary to decide on strengthening NATO's cooperation with Finland and Sweden. It not only contributes to the security of NATO and these partner countries, but also improves the security climate in the Baltic Sea region. Therefore, Latvia will continue to support both more active NATO political dialogue and closer practical cooperation with Finland and Sweden in the field of joint military and crisis management training; fourthly, the “NATO Open Door Policy”, which Latvia consistently supports and which helped Latvia to join NATO in 2004. This increases peace and security in Europe today. The decision to open NATO accession negotiations with Montenegro demonstrates not only the irreplaceable role of NATO in European security, but also the continuation and importance of open door policy today. Latvia will continue to promote Georgia's Euro-Atlantic integration process by providing both political and practical support. At the same time as preparing for the Warsaw Summit, Latvia must continue to carry out its domestic work in the field of both defence financing and internal security. I would also like to reaffirm strongly that the United States is Latvia's main strategic partner and reliable ally. We are grateful to our U.S. and Canadian as well as European allies involved in both NATO training in the region and the Baltic airspace patrolling mission, thus demonstrating true solidarity. Last year confirms that the risks posed by international terrorism are present not only in the remote regions of the world, but also in Europe. The permanent presence of these risks was recalled in 2015 by the barbaric terrorists in Paris and Copenhagen. It is in the interest of Latvia's national security to engage in a common counter-terrorism policy together with Latvian allies. Thanks to the contribution of Latvian experts, during the Presidency, an agreement was reached on the signing of the Additional Protocol to the Council of Europe Convention on the Prevention of Terrorism in Riga. It has been designed to prevent early manifestations of terrorism by criminalising the participation in or travel to a terrorist group for the purpose of terrorism, receiving such training, financing and organising travel. Honourable Members! Russia's aggression in Ukraine showed challenges for which the international community was not ready. It was an information war that took place in parallel with the Russian military operation in Crimea and will continue in the east of Ukraine. The information war is not easy to win. However, the response to this challenge requires the involvement of the whole of society: it is based on our public's awareness of the facts, their ability to critically assess them and also to discuss them with one another. We have long discussed the role of the media in Latvia. Events in the world and in Europe over recent years have shown that strengthening independent, high-quality media is both an issue of maturity for our democracy and of national security. This needs to be addressed by encouraging dialogue between policy-makers and media professionals. And that is impossible without proper funding. I also call for a more active search for solutions for the widest possible audiences, including young people and minorities, in the media, especially public media. It is a pleasure that last year journalists and media professionals established the Baltic Media Centre of Excellence, which will play an important role in raising the quality of journalism in the Baltic and Eastern Partnership countries. Latvia's contribution to NATO strategic communication capabilities is the NATO Strategic Communication Centre of Excellence based in Riga. Ladies and gentlemen! 2016 will be a serious test for Europe. The idea of Europe as a single, free and secure home, which has been implemented in the European Union as a result of integration processes, is currently under serious threat. Migration, a single currency and an area of mobility, structural problems, terrorism, challenges in the eastern and southern neighbourhood of Europe raise questions about the future of the European Union. Last year, we have often talked about the beginning of the end of the European Union, about the war of civilisations and about Europe's will. The fact that last year, in many cases, the European Union has reacted lately to global developments must be acknowledged. The European Union's leadership in global processes is not sufficiently visible. There is also a crisis of leadership within the European Union itself. The citizens of the European Union rightly want clear answers to many questions, such as how to improve the European Union's socio-economic development and global competitiveness, what the benefits will be to the citizens of the European Union from the Transatlantic Trade and Investment Partnership Treaty (TTIP) and what the future migration policy of the European Union will be. The European Union is based on shared values, trust and strong institutions. Unfortunately, the many challenges have led to a crisis of trust, of values and of institutions. Eurozone governance, migration, counter-political rhetoric, lack of leadership at both European and national levels jeopardises the existence of the European Union. However, I am convinced that the European Union can recover if it becomes an effective implementer of the common policy, including the common foreign and security policy. And the European Union must be the defender of a European value area for centuries, based on democracy, human rights and the rule of law. Migration is a strong testimony to the crisis in the European Union. Last year clearly highlighted the fact that no country can resolve the migration crisis alone in the European Union. However, we are still not ready for concerted and joint action. This crisis has also been a challenge for the values of the European Union. So far, the European Union and European governments and citizens have demonstrated their goodwill, openness and solidarity towards third-country asylum seekers. We are an open society, but we expect European values to be respected. Violence, disrespect for women, failure to respect the values of the European Union is unacceptable! It is unacceptable that those who have been given a helping hand and a refuge are aggressively trying to impose their traditions and worldly views. If European openness and European values rooted in the centuries are not respected, then we must respond accordingly. The migration crisis has also opened the way for the extreme good parties to preach open racism and xenophobia. For many politicians, this seems to be the simplest way of raising their political ratings. This path, too, means the loss of Europe and the desire to return to the terrible past. The European Union must first of all provide a real and tangible long-term solution to the causes of this migration, with a particular focus on stabilising the political, economic and social situation in the neighbouring regions of the European Union. Secondly, there is a need to step up a real fight against criminal groups that organise human trafficking. In the European Union, we also need to implement a concrete and effective return policy or a mechanism for returning immigrants who do not qualify for refugee status to their country of origin. All the Member States of the European Union must strengthen the common external borders of the European Union. Latvia will comply with the commitments made to date within the European Union for persons in need of international protection, but further reception of refugees is not possible in both the European Union and Latvia, because we see that the issues that I have listed are not really addressed. Honourable Members! There is another important issue for the existence of the European Union: Britain's membership of the European Union. Britain is an important Latvian thinker and ally in the field of economic and security policy, so we are in the interests of a strong Britain in a united and strong European Union. Latvia will continue to insist on compliance with the principle of “unanimity in diversity”, which respects the different cultures, historical experience and constitutional structure of the Member States. However, we need to find a way of respecting the interests of different countries, while strengthening the European Union. The restoration of strong economic growth in the European Union is also a prerequisite for Latvia's economic growth. I am pleased that during the Latvian Presidency an agreement was reached on the European Fund for Strategic Investments, which will contribute to attracting up to 315 billion euros of investment to the European Union economy. However, the way in which we can make use of this opportunity already depends on us. Latvia also supports the active establishment of the Energy Union, which includes all five elements: energy security, solidarity and confidence; a fully integrated internal energy market; energy efficiency; decarbonisation of the economy; research, innovation and competitiveness. It is in our interest to further integrate Europe's energy and transport systems. It is in our interest to develop the single market of the European Union. And it is in our interest to strengthen the country's European identity. Ladies and gentlemen! This year there is also the Latvian Presidency of the Baltic Council of Ministers, during which we have identified several priority areas – strengthening security in the region and developing transport and energy infrastructure. As regards Latvia's cooperation with the Baltic Sea Region countries, I would like to point out that this year Latvia has taken over the coordination responsibilities of the Baltic-Nordic cooperation format or NB8 and established security, energy and strategic communication as priorities. Together, the Baltic States have made important steps towards a free and functioning gas and electricity market. In the past, I have shown that the Baltic States must become a united part of the European Union's words and actions. I believe that the Baltic States have so far shown a balanced and solidarityable position and that there has been a voice of reason in Europe. I am also pleased that the Baltic States maintain a common and persistent position within NATO, both as regards the promotion of the long-term military presence of allies in the region and the implementation of the NATO preparedness action plan. As within NATO, Latvia, Lithuania and Estonia must have a common position in the European Union. Latvia is also essential for a single European Neighbourhood Policy, based on an individual approach and in the interests of each country. The Riga Eastern Partnership Summit reaffirmed that the Eastern Partnership is a strategic and ambitious policy of the European Union that will continue to evolve. In implementing the decisions of the Riga Summit, it is necessary to take a number of further steps in the area of the Eastern Partnership. Work on the implementation of the Association Agreements between Ukraine, Georgia and Moldova is a key priority as they ensure the modernisation and economic development of these countries. Last year bilateral political dialogue and practical cooperation between Latvia and Ukraine became more intensive and wider, and Latvia provided support. Ukraine has also continued to implement a national course of approximation to the European Union under the conditions of military aggression and to work hard on many important reforms. I am pleased that the political commitment of the Riga Eastern Partnership Summit has been implemented this year, namely that the implementation of the Deep and Comprehensive Free Trade Agreement between the European Union and Ukraine has started. The expected progress towards visa liberalisation has also been achieved. I would like to reiterate that Latvia will consistently continue its policy of non-recognition of the illegal annexation of the Crimean Peninsula. Crimea and Ukraine! Latvian support for Ukrainian sovereignty, territorial indivisibility and reform process will remain constant. However, it should be borne in mind that this is a crucial year for Ukraine to implement the reform process. Both Ukrainian society and we expect a breakthrough in the implementation of public administration reforms, the fight against corruption and economic recovery. Only a strong Ukraine will be able to cope with all the challenges. We have helped a great deal, and we are ready to continue to help our friends. We are following recent developments in Moldova with concern. Its new government must be able to implement the necessary reforms, bringing tangible benefits to its citizens. Moldovan colleagues know that they can rely on Latvia's support for the reform process. Latvia is also a reliable friend and ally of Georgia for closer integration into the European Union and the Euro-Atlantic area. It welcomes the conclusion of the Georgian visa liberalisation process with the European Union, which provides practical support to Georgian society on the way to the European family. Armenia and Azerbaijan are equally important partners in continuing the implementation of the Eastern Partnership policy. This year, it is important to start working on a new framework agreement between the European Union and Armenia and to be able to agree on a new framework agreement with Azerbaijan. It is also necessary to strengthen the bilateral cooperation between the European Union and Belarus by supporting Belarus in the process of accession to the World Trade Organisation and its cooperation with international financial institutions. At the same time, Latvia calls on Belarus to continue taking further steps in strengthening the norms of democracy and human rights. Ladies and gentlemen, When assessing the situation in the neighbourhood, it should be said that last year EU-Russia relations continued to be influenced by the conflict in Ukraine caused by Russia and the illegal annexation of Crimea. In 2016, the dynamics of both Latvian and European Union-Russia relations will continue to be influenced by the policies implemented by Russia. Although our entrepreneurs have partially closed the Russian market, total Latvian exports have increased. We have been able to help entrepreneurs to reorient and learn new markets. On relations between the European Union and Central Asia, I would like to draw attention to the fact that Latvia's foreign policy interests in the Central Asian region are related to strengthening regional security and stability, development and modernisation of transport and transit links. In 2016, Latvia's foreign policy towards Central Asia will focus on maintaining active transnational dialogue and continuing the ongoing cooperation. This was helped by the contribution of the Latvian Presidency to the adoption of the new European Union-Central Asia strategy. Honourable Members! This year, Latvia is committed to completing the accession process in the Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development, which is more widely known as the English acronym – the OECD. This will contribute to an increase in foreign direct investment, and Latvia will become more attractive to investors and foreign entrepreneurs. Why is accession to this organisation important to us? Firstly, accession to the OECD has a positive impact on the international credit rating, which in turn has a positive impact on the interest rate at which government and companies can raise funding. This will reduce the cost of government debt and open up new development opportunities for entrepreneurs. Secondly, Latvia will also become economically visible in those countries with which the full potential has not been fully exploited in economic cooperation so far. The status of OECD member will ensure greater confidence in Latvia's economic potential and investment security. Third, OECD Member States have higher standards regarding international business, financial transactions, corporate governance and the fight against corruption in international business. This will undoubtedly also stimulate the improvement of standards in Latvia and bring concrete economic benefits. Although accession negotiations have reached their final phase, Latvia now needs to show better progress, especially in areas related to combating bribery in international business transactions and the administration of state-owned companies. One of the tasks of Latvia's foreign policy is to promote our country's external economic relations and acquire new markets. Last year the Ministry of Foreign Affairs has continued to support Latvian entrepreneurs in mastering new export markets, with particular emphasis on the reorientation of the food sector market from Russia to new markets in Europe and Asia. The result of joint efforts is 19 new export markets for Latvian farmers and food producers. In particular, Latvia's dairy products exports to China have been initiated. We can already make it clear that we have demonstrated ourselves by the opening up of new diplomatic representations in Asian countries. Since the opening of the Embassy, Latvia's exports to the United Arab Emirates have tripled. In the first weeks since sending the first diplomat to South Korea, the first agreements with Latvian companies in the area of ultra high technology have also been concluded. Latvian universities and pure technology cluster successfully apply to the Indian market. 2016 will be a year of great opportunity for cooperation with China. For several years, the Foreign Service has paid increased attention to promoting relations with the People's Republic of China. At the end of last year we achieved that the next meeting of 16+1, or China, Central and Eastern European countries, will be held in Riga, as well as Latvia will be a coordinating country in the field of transport and logistics. This means that under the 16+1 format, the Prime Minister of China will visit Latvia with several dozens of representatives of Chinese leading companies this autumn. The development of single supply is an essential condition for the success of each sector in cooperation with China. This applies both to the transport and logistics sector and to infrastructure projects and manufacturing companies. Honourable Members! We hope to see progress in negotiations on the Transatlantic Trade and Investment Partnership Agreement between the US and the European Union, which will enable Latvia to strengthen its socio-economic security in the future and offer alternative export markets and investment sources in today's precarious world. We expect that the agreement will provide better conditions of competitiveness for European Union producers and will take into account Latvia's interests regarding sensitive production and services sectors and products. The deepening of trade links with the US and the Chinese market, together with the development of the European Union's single market, thus forms the three main strands of our work this year to expand external trade opportunities. Honourable Members! Often the best Latvian business agents and assistants in foreign markets are our own countrymen. This had to be verified at the Second World Latvian Economic and Innovation Forum last July in Riga. The Forum highlighted our mistake of the untapped intellectual potential of the compatriots. Therefore, I would like to thank all the countrymen abroad who continue to maintain ties with Latvia, maintain and maintain Latvian language and traditions, as well as provide a significant economic and intellectual contribution to our country. With Latvia's accession to the European Union, the world has become even more open and many Latvian citizens, each for their own reasons, have taken advantage of the opportunity to move freely. Over the last two decades, more than 210 thousand people from Latvia have emigrated from Latvia. Latvian citizens live in more than 120 countries worldwide. The Latvian Diaspora in the world, which left Latvia after the Second World War, and the new emigration after the restoration of Latvia's independence is an essential part of our country, the potential of which has not yet been sufficiently assessed and exploited. In order to ensure ties with Latvia, the diplomatic and consular service will continue to promote the spread of Latvian language and culture in the world this year, as well as support the search for new opportunities in the field of economy and innovation. Honourable Members! The fathers of the Constitution have put in our basic law a certain understanding and attitude to the values that underpin the establishment of the state of Latvia and form the identity of our country. Until now, the state of Latvia has honoured human dignity and its freedoms, which represent every modern and democratic state. At present, it is very obvious in Latvia, but growing hatred and violence in the world can easily lose these values. I call on us to continue to defend the values and interests of our country in order to promote democracy, peace and security in a united Europe. I express my hope that today's debate on foreign policy and European Union issues taking place on the 95th anniversary of Latvia's de iure recognition will be constructive and will provide new suggestions for the future work of the Latvian Foreign Service. Let all of us succeed! Thank you for your attention. (Applause)
ParlaMint-LV_2016-01-26-PT12-340-U3	Thank you to Foreign Minister Edgars Rinkēvičs. Let us start a debate.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-01-26-PT12-340-U4	Name in the debate for the Speaker of the Saeima Ināra Mūrniece.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-01-26-PT12-340-U5	I will ask for the opportunity to combine the two times of the debate.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-01-26-PT12-340-U6	Members have no reservations. Members shall not object. Mrs. Moore, you have 15 minutes.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-01-26-PT12-340-U7	Thank you. Madam Prime Minister, Sir, Excellency! Members! Ladies and gentlemen! Thank you, Mr Rinkēvičs, once again for your comprehensive report. Today we celebrate the 95th anniversary of Latvia's international recognition. In 1921, after the decisive international vote, Zigfried Anna Meierovics said at the Constitutional Meeting: “We can now build our future as a fully-fledged state, as our interests demand it best.” We also remember these words today. It is a great privilege – to build our own future, as our national interests require it. The Foreign Minister highlighted international challenges. The threat of terrorism, conflicts and the migration crisis in Europe, right here in our immediate neighbours – an aggressive, revanishist and unpredictable power. What we are seeing is a more insecure and changing world. Our time to respond to these challenges is getting shorter and the resources we need to invest are much bigger. For further work. The main thing at the moment is to strengthen the security of Latvia. This means security in the broadest sense – both the long-term presence of NATO in our region, a strong and functioning European Union, and the economic security of our country, which will have the most direct impact on the future of our children. Today, we are witnessing the fact that the Kremlin is opting for new avants to distract its citizens from the problems that have come up in their own homes. Different developments have to be taken into account. We are following Russia's behaviour closely so that we can be prepared for a quick and adequate response. We can be pleased that NATO's decisions to strengthen collective security in the eastern flank are being implemented. All 28 Member States contribute here. Without close cooperation with the U.S. – our main strategic partner – it is impossible to strengthen our security. Our NATO allies patrol the Baltic airspace. We are grateful to our allies for the rotating forces to the Baltics. These deterrence measures are a clear signal that Article 5 of NATO is working in practice. However, we will not be naive – NATO and our allies will only defend us if we have demonstrated our readiness to protect ourselves. We have significantly increased the defence budget to reach 2 percent of gross domestic product by 2018. However, the readiness to defend ourselves is manifested not only by the provision of funding, but also by the close cooperation and support of all our state and local government institutions. State security and defence is not only the Ministry of Defence, but the whole state's cooperation. At the forthcoming NATO Summit in Warsaw, the most important foreign policy challenge for us will be to achieve the strengthening of NATO's long-term military presence in Latvia and to ensure the protection of the members of the Alliance against any kind of threat. Here, I would particularly like to highlight the hybrid threat that has become a special form of war. We are faced with an unprecedented scale of confrontation involving various instruments – not only military assets, cyber threats, energy resources, but also propaganda. Strategic communication is therefore one of the most important strands of foreign policy work. Latvia has played an active role – the NATO Strategic Communication Centre of Excellence operates in Riga, which contributes to NATO strategic communication and in which more and more partner countries are involved. Ladies and gentlemen! The European Union is now also facing internal and external challenges. Regrettably, the politicians of the Member States of the European Union have not been able to explain to citizens in good time that the threat to the common European heritage is much greater than ever before the ability to imagine. The Minister of Foreign Affairs also emphasised this. However, we still live in the shadow of the European financial crisis. The migration crisis has come, which coincides with the increase in terrorism and extremism in time and space. This leads to a gap in our democratic institutions of the European Union. If the centrifugal process continues in Europe, Latvia's task to guarantee our own security and prosperity is to maintain its participation in the core of the European Union. To say that, I would like to draw attention to the Schengen system. The control of the external borders of the European Union is essential for the existence of the Schengen system. The drivers of the migration crisis – wars in the Middle East and their escape, the return of human smuggling – will unfortunately remain. Therefore, Latvia is in favour of a complex solution to the European Union's migration policy. Its main tasks are an effective return policy, the fight against criminal groups involved in smuggling people, and the strengthening of the European Union's external borders. As long as these tasks are not fulfilled, there can be no question of receiving an additional number of asylum seekers in Latvia. Not only the southern borders of Europe but also the eastern borders need to be strengthened. Latvia has a special responsibility as a border state. We have a wide list of homework. We must not hesitate with the government's conceptual document and – this is very important! – the introduction of practical measures for the control and protection of the eastern border of the country. Yes, Latvia is currently able to control its borders, but it is also important for us that if necessary, we will be helped. Therefore, it supports the creation of a single border guard for the European Union. It must be established as soon as possible. There's no time left for years to make plans. These work must be carried out within the next few months. Dear colleagues, Latvia recently successfully completed the Presidency of the Council of the European Union. We were also among the most active supporters of the European Union's Energy Union, who were the most prominent in terms of energy security. We also need to make responsible decisions in the Saeima regarding amendments to the Energy Law, which would ensure the opening of the Latvian gas market by ending the Russian dictatorship in the Latvian energy market. The European Energy Union aims to reduce energy dependence on one supplier, Russia. This objective is supported by all Member States. It is therefore shocking to build the Nord Stream 2 gas pipeline across the Baltic Sea from Russia to Germany, which is contrary to the objective of the Energy Union. We cannot agree with what we heard in Berlin that this would be just an economic project. This project has a direct impact on our political and security interests. The decisions on Nord Stream 2 must therefore not only be in the hands of the European Commission, but also of the Member States, involving also security experts. Ladies and gentlemen! We are pleased that the Latvian Presidency of the European Union managed to pay attention and focus on maintaining the Eastern Partnership. It is our duty to ensure that the decisions of the Eastern Partnership Riga Summit are implemented. The responsibility for implementing the Association Agreements between Ukraine, Georgia and Moldova lies first with the partner countries themselves, but support from the European Union is also needed. The completion of the ratification of the Association Agreements in all the parliaments of the Member States of the European Union is important. In order for the people of Georgia and Ukraine to feel the benefits of the European Union's reforms, which will only return in the future, the European Union's visa-free regime with these two countries should be introduced as soon as possible. Latvia will continue to provide strong support to Ukraine, which, under such difficult circumstances, is trying to implement long overdue major reforms. I am very pleased that the Baltic-Nordic Parliamentary Spyers have supported Latvia's initiative to visit Ukraine together – in the coming days the leaders of the eight Member States will visit Ukraine together. Such an expression of solidarity also has a profound symbolic meaning: to be free and to assume a strong leading role. The Spekervisit of the Baltic-Nordic Parliaments in Ukraine will take place at a time when there are still no visible improvements in the solution to the Ukrainian conflict. Although the operation of the war has occurred, the eastern border of Ukraine has not been closed, foreign military formations have not been removed. Latvia is one of the Member States of the European Union, which actively advocates that sanctions against Russia should be linked to the Minsk agreement. Our foreign policy must continue to demand full implementation of the Minsk Agreement. We must not allow what Russia is doing in Syria or the migration crisis to distract attention and weaken the common position of the European Union. Ladies and gentlemen! When it comes to national security, we must say that defence expenditure will continue to increase, but the budget must be earned for ourselves. Therefore, I call on the Foreign Service to work more actively in the field of economic security, promoting external economic relations, seeking markets for Latvian goods and carrying out research into new markets. Attracting foreign investment is very important, which would provide new jobs in Latvia and facilitate the return of our compatriots to their homeland. As a small country with an open economy, Latvia depends on the international economy. We need an appropriate economic structure and governance to be able to compete. That is why our participation in the Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development is essential. During the accession process we have identified a number of homework that will help our economy to become more competitive and open to foreign investors. The OECD offers solutions that will benefit us. These include creating a more favourable business environment and fighting corruption – and this is also the responsibility of politicians. Latvia has done a great deal of work in the negotiations with the OECD, for which I really thank the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, and the negotiations are in the final stage – they have to be completed so that Latvia, as an OECD member country, gets the benefits that the organisation gives its Member States, the world's most advanced countries. Ladies and gentlemen! Dear colleagues, Finally, I would like to emphasise that daily work is no less important than a strategic debate. Every day we build our country. Let us not live in illusions that foreign policy is just the work of diplomats. All of us – Latvian politicians, experts, entrepreneurs – must be Latvian ambassadors who defend our ideas and interests in the world. I call on anyone who is involved in the development of our foreign policy to continue this work so that Latvia becomes a safer and better country for our people. Thank you. (Applause)
ParlaMint-LV_2016-01-26-PT12-340-U8	Thank you to the Speaker of the Saeima. The name of Member Ojārs Eriks Kalniņš will be discussed. He will speak on behalf of the Commission on Foreign Affairs.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-01-26-PT12-340-U9	Dear President, Dear Bureau! Honourable Members! Excellency! Ladies and gentlemen! 25 years ago, the people of Latvia stood on barricades not only to restore Latvia's independence, but also to implement what we recently wrote in the preamble to the Satversme. And I would like to quote: “... to guarantee the existence and development of the Latvian nation, its language and culture through the centuries, to ensure the freedom of the people of Latvia and everyone and to promote prosperity.” Over the last 25 years, we have understood that barricades alone will not protect our national values. In isolation we will not survive because we live in a world with 200 countries, and our existence is only possible if we are able to cooperate constructively with at least most of these countries. As Prime Minister Laimdota Straujuma said in his review on the national security of Latvia – we cannot think about the welfare, security and development of our country without taking into account the international context and developments both at our borders, in the European Union and worldwide. Foreign policy is one of the instruments at our disposal and allows us to achieve this. If we want to defend our country, our language and our culture and prevent external threats, we need to work with our allies. And the most important allies of Latvia are located in NATO and the European Union. In my opinion, in 2016, Latvia's main foreign policy priority is to do everything to protect and strengthen these two organizations. Most of our national interests are related to the existence of the European Union and NATO. There are many challenges. It is ironic that Russia's aggression in Ukraine has given NATO new breath, restored the meaning of the organisation and, thanks to the Wales Summit, gave NATO new ambition and muscles, especially in our region. In recent years, Latvia has actively participated in NATO operations and received positive feedback on its contribution to strengthening NATO. We can really be proud of Latvia's role in establishing and developing NATO Strategic Communication Centre of Excellence. Latvia's membership in NATO has long been justified and repaid. Our aim is still to strengthen this security alliance. While NATO is becoming stronger against external threats, the European Union faces internal and external challenges that many are concerned about the future of the Union. The British referendum, the growth of radical anti-European political parties and the emergency situation in the area of migration and asylum threaten not only the Schengen system, but also the future of the European Union as such. We must not allow this to happen. Of course, we must be involved in solving the problems of refugees in the European Union, but only with solutions that do not threaten Latvia's internal peace, security and stability. It is important for the future government to complement and strengthen our previous position on a complex approach to refugees. And these solutions include strengthening the European Union's external borders, effective return policy and the fight against organised crime. Although the European Union and NATO are two different organisations, their problems and interests overlap. Let us not forget that 22 of the 28 countries of the European Union are members of NATO at the same time. That South European Prime Minister, who agrees to send combat planes to the Baltic region to help protect our airspace within NATO, is the same Prime Minister who could ask of us for support for a common European Union strategy to alleviate the situation in his region in the context of the refugee crisis. Will this Prime Minister be ready to support Latvia within NATO if Latvia refuses to help him on the issue of the European Union? Purely human – I doubt it. It would be naive and even dangerous from a foreign policy point of view – to ignore this fact. Let us be principled, but let us also be reasonable! We work with real people, not abstract concepts. Foreign policy requires complex solutions, and this means cooperation with many countries in different directions within different organisations. This year, Latvia is holding the presidency of NB8, the Baltic Assembly and the Baltic Council of Ministers. But the issues that will be discussed in our region are those that NATO and the European Union are talking about. And these are: Russian aggression in Ukraine, terrorism and refugees. Each international organisation in which Latvia participates offers different opportunities for cooperation with some relative part of these 200 countries. We want to join the OECD because it will expand and strengthen our ability to successfully integrate into the global economy. Our internal and external security is closely linked to our economic security, and our participation in the OECD this year will be a powerful new instrument in our hands. This year, as in previous years, Latvia's foreign policy interests are linked to our Eastern Partnership neighbours – Central Asia and Asia, especially China, Korea and Japan. We must continue to take advantage of NATO and the European Union in order to promote our bilateral relations with these countries. Such interaction serves Latvian interests and coincides with NATO and European Union objectives. This year, the European Union will adopt a new global strategy for foreign and security policy. Not only the officials in Brussels, but also the governments and parliaments of the 28 countries. This is a joint work because we have common interests. Here Latvia has a special saying, because Sandra Kalniete, Member of the European Parliament, is responsible for this subject at the European Parliament's Committee on Foreign Affairs. At the same time, we must promote a united and consistent policy of the European Union in relations with Russia. At present, diplomacy and sanctions are the main means of limiting further escalation of the situation in the east of Ukraine. Although it is desirable to improve relations with the Russian Federation, this is not currently possible without full implementation of the Minsk Agreement. Ladies and gentlemen, During the Barricades, our people showed the world that we were ready to fight for the language and culture of our country. We renewed our independence, because the countries of the world appreciated our courage and confirmed our position in the international environment. We have been working well in this environment for 25 years, but to protect our country, we must at the same time protect this environment where we are. Latvia is a country with two million inhabitants and we have to live between 200 other countries and 7.4 billion people. In such a global context, we cannot survive in blind isolation or permanent confrontation. During the crisis, people can be divided into two groups: there are those who complain about how bad everything is, and looking for those who are guilty, and there are those who demand what can be done for them, and looking for help. If we want to help Latvian citizens, strengthen Latvia's independence and promote our security and development, we need to help Europe find common solutions. Thank you for your attention. (Applause)
ParlaMint-LV_2016-01-26-PT12-340-U10	Thank you. Member Lolita Čigāne on behalf of the Saeima Commission of European Affairs.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-01-26-PT12-340-U11	Dear Chairman of the Saeima. Dear colleagues, Mr. Foreign Minister! Prime Minister! Ambassadors! Friends and supporters of Latvia! In 2003, just a year before Latvia joined the European Union, a European Security Strategy was adopted, which said: "Europe has never been so prosperous, so secure and so free. Violence in the first half of the 20th century has given way to the peace and stability that has not been experienced in the past in European history." Many of these words, which are very far from reality today, long after 2003, for Europe as a Europe of peace and prosperity, are human and understandable. What is less understandable is that there are now people, politicians in the European Union who say: "Today Europe is not the Europe that we wanted. Either give us another Europe or we won't participate in this game!' There are people who say that crises could be the driving force of the European Union, this previously unprecedented European integration project. And just as in 2010, the European Union was hit by an unprecedented economic crisis that at that time threatened the most obvious and most obvious benefits of European integration – the single currency – the migration crisis caused by the instability of the Middle East, North Africa and other European neighbouring regions, which is threatening another benefit of European integration and a symbol of the Schengen area, a Europe without borders, the flow of people, goods and services. The 2010 economic crisis in the European Union has created a conflict between the northern and southern Member States of the European Union, and its scars we still see today. At that time, a very bright symbol of this conflict was a poster held in the hands of a Greek protestor: German Chancellor Merkel had a note of the mustaches that were typical of Hitler. The migration crisis has now created a division between the west and east of the European Union, the old and the new Member States of the European Union. And the traces of this conflict will leave scars. At the same time, as the Foreign Minister said, the European Union's partner – the United Kingdom – will hold a referendum on possible exit from the European Union, following long-standing encouragement from the British Eurosceptics in the second half of this year. It is also known that the Finnish Parliament will shortly discuss a petition signed by 50,000 people about leaving the euro area. In recent days, information has been revealed about the so-called Islamic country's planned large-scale attacks on the whole of Europe. Dear colleagues, Under conditions of instability, threat and unpredictability, the first instinct of people is closed – to draw strict and clear boundaries around our house, where everything is so far safe and which we could take care of first. This helps to gain clarity and control about your field of activity and your controlled individual environment. However, honourable colleagues, looking at their navels, we will not save the European Union. Where is it even better seen as with us in Latvia? There was no crisis at European level in the last century that would not have directly affected Latvia. All of them come to us sooner or later. Therefore, as in 2010, when the solution to the economic crisis was “more Europe”, rather than “less Europe”, the solution is “more Europe”. If the countries of the European Union make a fundamental mistake and find a solution through "less Europe" by restoring borders and travelling borders, then our short-term problem will indeed become a problem for our neighbours and our neighbours will be a problem for their neighbours. In this way, Europe will very soon begin to look like the continent that it was between the First and Second World War. Dignified insults, hostility, and self - exclusion. We know very well what tragic consequences we had at that time. For a long time, we wanted to be a single European Union because it was a port of peace and prosperity. Now we need to want to be in the European Union precisely because this continent, this common home, is facing challenges that we will only be able to deal with together. The first half of 2015 was the Latvian Presidency of the Council of the European Union. It was a time when we applied our shoulder to bring forward the common European Union project. Raising their two million votes at 500 million votes. At the moment, our colleagues of the European Union are looking at us and asking us: why did the government of Laimdota Straujuma have to fall after such a successful Presidency, in the context of a growing economy and after the adoption of the 2016 budget? In these circumstances, it is particularly important for us to establish a pro-European government with ministers who will be actively involved in the work of the European Union. The knowledge, experience and reputation capital accumulated during the Presidency should be used for active participation, with a European response to the current crisis. It is important that those who have demonstrated their authority during the Presidency also have a place for further work in public administration. We at the European Commission for European Affairs in 2015 have worked very actively on the solutions the European Union has sought for in the migration crisis. We have discussed the return mechanism to ensure that only those who flee war and persecution can remain in the European Union. We have discussed support for Turkey so that it can maintain in a normal way the 2.5 million Syrian refugees who are on its territory. We have talked about protecting the European Union's common borders so as not to allow uncontrolled flows of people to cross Europe's borders. Unfortunately, many of these solutions have not been implemented. Not because of the reluctance of the European Commission, but precisely because the 28 Member States of the European Union sometimes have a radically different vision of these solutions. There are therefore countless summits and meetings. If each of them leaves with strong conviction to defend their territory and not stand by for a centimetre, the result is no one. As long as there is no result, the public in the European Union loses their confidence, their faith in the Union's capacity for action, as they see the apparent inability to act. Finally. The events of the old-year night in Cologne, Germany, confirmed that we should not be naive, that asylum seekers from North Africa and the Middle East will automatically know and accept the standards of conduct adopted by European societies. Such infringements shall not be subject to five proceedings, shall be subject to rapid investigation and shall be punished accordingly. I am convinced that the law enforcement authorities of the Member States of the European Union, faced with such cases, will manage them quickly and successfully - if necessary with the help of other Europeans - because this is only about the potential of a couple of thousands of criminals who must not endanger the future of the 500 million European Union. Thank you. (Applause)
ParlaMint-LV_2016-01-26-PT12-340-U12	Thank you. Karlis Sergeant, on behalf of the Group of the Greens/Farmers Union.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-01-26-PT12-340-U13	Good morning, colleagues! Good morning, honourable Members! I would like to thank Mr Rinkēvičs for a rather broad and comprehensive report, but in the opinion of the STECF, perhaps two things were missing in this report. However, we would have liked to have heard more about the problem of refugees in Europe, namely overcoming its consequences, about the possible division of Europe, about the weakness of the Schengen area, which is increasingly obvious. And if even our Ministry of Foreign Affairs is looking at the possibility that only five six countries would stay in the Schengen area, and if Latvia continues to stay there, the teeth would have to be talked about in such a report. As regards the position of the FAO on the issue of refugees, we have already said and reaffirm that the commitments made must, of course, be fulfilled, but we strongly reject any increase in this number, the introduction of compulsory quotas or the imposition of other forms of pressure on refugees. It cannot be that, in Europe, some countries, with their own policies on the issue of refugees, are creating problems for Europe as a whole and are even refusing to discuss any revision of this policy. The second topic is perhaps a salty exotic: Arctic and a possible European policy in the region. There's a feeling that it's something far away. But, you know, it's not right to think so! For, look, from Riga to Paris is 2,200 kilometres, but to the north of Norway, where the last settlement is located – Hammerfest – only 1,800 kilometres. And it is clear that it will be there that the major redistributive processes of natural resources will take place in the coming years. And it is not for nothing that the Russian national security strategy mentions the Arctic and its importance as many times as in the US! With regard to Russia's strategy, which I have already mentioned, it should be said that, due to objective circumstances, the Minister's report does not reflect this, because the Russian President Putin has only signed it on 31 December last year. This country's security strategy is a document whose content, such as the Russian military doctrine, is the subject of a foreign policy and very many plans governing the internal security of the country. That is, this document tells us what our... transnational relations. True, there is also a great deal of demagogia and the desired appeal about existing ones, but let me introduce some of the 120 points in this very important document. The first point clearly states what this strategy is: “This strategy is the basis of strategic planning, which defines the national interests of the Russian Federation and the strategic national priorities, objectives, objectives and means in the fields of foreign and internal policy aimed at ensuring national security and long-term development.” Go on. After a long time, Russia has also openly identified its main security threat in the strategy: “The potential increase of NATO’s power by giving it global functions that are taking place in violation of international law; the activation of the forces of the States of the Block, the further expansion of the Alliance and the proximity of its infrastructure to the Russian borders are a direct threat to the security of the state’s borders.” Here you can also find the theme of the information war. I quote: “The fight in the global information space, driven by the desire of some countries to use information and communication technologies to achieve their geopolitical goals through the manipulation of public consciousness and the falsification of history, is becoming increasingly influential.” It should be added here that this is also a very precise description of what Russia itself is doing with its “roll farms” and with its informational pressure. ‘ In international security, Russia retains priority over the application of political, diplomatic and legal instruments. The use of military force to defend national interests is possible only if all non-military means have proved ineffective.’ Well, in the context of Ukraine, I will not even comment on this point. Go on. As one of Russia's greatest threats, the activities of non-governmental organisations are perceived. I quote: “The threats of state and public security include radical public organisations that use nationalistic and religious ideology; foreign and international non-governmental organisations that focus on destabilising the situation, including the inspiration of colour revolutions and the destruction of Russian traditional spiritual and moral values.” The strategy also mentions the drop in the role of Russian in the world, the drop in the level of training in Russia and elsewhere in the world, so the strategy envisages further development of a common human and information telecommunications environment in the CIS countries and other neighbouring regions (with neighbouring regions, of course, understanding the Baltic States). In words, this strategy is quite interesting both in the text and between rows, and it clearly tells us that nothing will change in the attitude and pressure of a big neighbour. Therefore, it is likely that there will have to be rather substantial diplomatic resources towards the east and that the situation in the neighbourhood will not deteriorate. And I would like to wish the Minister every success in this difficult area in the future. Thank you for your attention. (Applause)
ParlaMint-LV_2016-01-26-PT12-340-U14	Thank you. Mr Solvita Āboltiņa on behalf of the Saeima Group.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-01-26-PT12-340-U15	Madam Prime Minister, Your Honorary Minister for Foreign Affairs! Excellency! Colleagues! Ladies and gentlemen! I would first of all like to thank the Foreign Minister for the good, balanced report that we have received in writing, and even more so for the things that you have clarified in your speech. This report focuses very much on the Presidency's analysis last year. And I really want to take the opportunity to thank both the Foreign Minister and all the diplomats and those who were involved in it, and also the ministerial team, because we received compliments for our first Presidency, which fell into no easy time at all. In my view, those compliments are justified, and this proves that we are able to work effectively and to do a lot. Despite the fact that it was our first Presidency, despite the fact that we are a small country, that our opportunities were questioned and that we have limited resources, it was a bright Presidency. The last year in the world has brought many trials, challenges, and shocks. I hope that in Latvia we all think more and more about the importance of freedom – our individual and our common freedom. Freedom to think, to speak and to act without externally imposed restrictions. Today, we have a much stronger sense of the value of peace. We felt that World War II was a long time ago and that the unrest that occurred somewhere in the world was far away. At the moment, we understand that it is not far from any of us. Pope Francisco said: “Peace is a precious gift that needs to be promoted and protected. Violence never brings peace in its way.” And indeed – I guess it's just now that we're aware of what peace means. They say that we are rarely aware of the history of events when they occur. However, I am sure that at this moment, at this point in time, we are a little more painful, a little deeper, a little more personal, about the world and events around us. The independent democratic Republic of Latvia has already grown up since 1990: each of us is proud that Latvia has regained its European and global trust, and it is quite obvious that we perceive Latvia's participation in the most influential organisations in the world – the European Union and NATO. This gives us guarantees of security that we have never had before. However, I can also add my voice to those words that security is first and foremost our own issue and, if we do not fight for it ourselves and pay enough attention to it, then no external forces will protect us. At the moment, we can predict that 2016 will be as serious a year for the European Union and Latvia as it had in the past, because refugees and migration are just one of the major challenges that will inevitably have to be tackled. Last year began with tragic terrorists, then we received information about prevented terrorists, and then we received new terrorists... All this shows that despite intensive counter-terrorism measures, the level of terrorist threats posed by Islamists in Europe will not decrease in the near future. This is not the only challenge. An equally important challenge is the forthcoming British referendum in 2017 in which its citizens will vote for stay in the European Union. I hope that we are aware that we have a strong and united European Union in our interests. In addition, Russia's threat remains at the outskirts of Latvia on the eastern border of Europe. We must not forget what happened in Ukraine, and we must not pretend that this could not affect us. These are just a few of the reasons why the report rightly sets national security and economic interests as the main objectives of Latvia's foreign policy for 2016. I believe that at a time when Europe is facing one of the greatest challenges of the refugee crisis, it is important to remember that our European membership is not only rights, guarantees and opportunities, but also a high moral responsibility of the political culture of democratic countries in overcoming such crises. And this membership of Europe places particular responsibilities on us. At the moment, it is clear that no Member State can effectively tackle migration on its own. Let us not deceive ourselves! No matter how high the fences we bring, no matter how much we try to isolate ourselves from this problem, no one will guarantee us that we will be protected and enjoy more security here in Latvia, because only through joint cooperation can Europe overcome this crisis. Let us remember that Latvia received a great deal of support from its friends and partners in the world at the time, in its way of regaining independence and democracy, and that it is still taking advantage of the opportunities and privileges that the European Union and NATO give us! Therefore, we now have to answer our own question whether, after overcoming our difficulties at the time, we are ready today to turn our partners back on. Are we really going to be so two-way and take active participation in the distribution of the overall budget, while pretending that we are not able to provide even a symbolic support shoulder? Freedom, democracy, the rule of law, equality, human dignity and respect for human rights. They're not just loud phrases. These are not only values that have united Europe and brought its peoples the longest period of peace and prosperity, but also embody and define completely concrete patterns of action. Undoubtedly, Europe has no opportunity to welcome all refugees from all over the world. Similarly, we must not allow solutions to this crisis to be implemented at the expense of increasing the safety risks to the people of Europe. However, it is equally clear that Europeans cannot turn their backs on human suffering and death. We must not forget that refugees are the same people as us. We must not forget, first and foremost, that we are human beings. Therefore, Europe and we must help those asylum seekers whose lives are in real danger. On the other hand, those who use the refugee background to gain economic benefits must leave Europe. The recent events in Cologne are unacceptable, they must not be repeated. Every security institution and official, both in Latvia and elsewhere in Europe, must be able to address anyone who does not respect and observe our laws and traditions, to whom respect, freedom and even life of other people will not have value within the framework of the law. It does not matter what legal status these persons will have. These are basic and indisputable fundamental principles to be adopted by everyone who asks for a helping hand for Europe. At the same time, however, I would like to call on everyone to avoid generalisations and provocations at this time. Let us not scare ourselves and scare Latvian society, because all refugees are neither terrorists nor offenders. Offencers, terrorists do not have a common nationality or country of origin. Dear Members of the Committee. Russia's aggression in Ukraine encouraged the countries of the European Union to start thinking more actively about ensuring and strengthening the energy independence of the states of the block. And it was during our Presidency that important steps were taken to make Europe aware of this problem as a common challenge. And also in the field of reducing economic and energy dependence in Latvia last year, one of the most important events was the clearly marked path to opening up the gas market in 2017. Even tomorrow, the Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy Commission will meet again to decide, in a possibly longer session, how to adopt this draft law as soon as possible. I hope that we will be able to accept this without any substantial change to the version accepted by the second reading. Given the importance of further integration of the Latvian energy market into Europe in reducing political risks, I am very pleased that the Foreign Minister's report also places an important emphasis on energy security issues and concrete initiatives, with particular emphasis on the importance of regional cooperation. On behalf of Fraction Unity, we look with real satisfaction at the progress made in the negotiations on accession to the Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development (OECD) and the forecast in the report of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs that Latvia could become a full member of the OECD already this year. I am aware that it is our own work and that, to say Valdis Dombrovskis, this was another challenge through which we can assess the maturity of our country. I would like to remind you that it was during the government of Valda Dombrovsky that the task of joining the OECD was for the first time formulated in the Government Declaration. And I am sure that we will be able to achieve this ambitious target at the time. In recent years, Latvia's economic growth has indeed been one of the fastest in the European Union, and now experts recognise that Latvia's economy as a whole, as well as key indicators, are proportionate. But also next year we have to achieve a faster increase in economic growth together, so that every Latvian citizen can feel it more tangible in their wallets and money. I would like to thank all the diplomats of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, who, even in the face of the crisis, are still able to provide very small teams with these huge tasks and yet to succeed, which are even difficult to expect from such small teams. Thanks to those consular staff who provide assistance, a helping hand to any citizen of Latvia who is in distress or who has temporarily chosen another country as his home country. Dear Members, The success of foreign policy depends to a large extent on the strength, coherence and single-purpose of national policies within it. Well managed... ( The utterance: “Time! ”) ) Council Regulation (EC) No 1257/96 of 20 June 1996 concerning humanitarian aid (OJ L 163, 2.7.1996, p. 1).
ParlaMint-LV_2016-01-26-PT12-340-U16	Mrs. Applet, your time... The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. I.Zariņš: “Let’s talk!” ) Council Regulation (EC) No 1257/96 of 20 June 1996 concerning humanitarian aid (OJ L 163, 2.7.1996, p. 1).
ParlaMint-LV_2016-01-26-PT12-340-U17	One sentence.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-01-26-PT12-340-U18	Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-01-26-PT12-340-U19	A well-managed and economically successful country, which every citizen of our land feels necessary and expensive, is the safest guarantee for a successful foreign policy. And we are the ones who make up Latvia's internal policy. We are also the ones who set our foreign policy course. Let us remember this every day in our responsibilities so that our people can be proud of us so that our allies gain confidence that we are safe and reliable partners. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-01-26-PT12-340-U20	Thank you. Mrs Silverba has come up in the next debate. Mrs Silver, are you going to have a debate with six minutes? Thank you. We will therefore continue the debate after a break. Please call me! Please check-in mode for Members! Please get the result! Name of the Secretary of the Saeima Gunaras Kūtris to read the results of the registration.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-01-26-PT12-340-U21	Dear colleagues, Not registered at the moment: Aldis Adamovičs, Ringolds Balodis, Guntis Belēvičs, Andris Berzins, Inesis Boķis, Boriss Cilevičs, Raivis Dzintars, Rihards Eigims, Andrejs Elksniņš... is, Guntis Kalniņš, Jānis Klazds, Nelli Kleinberga, Armands Krauze, Māris Kučinskis, Vilnis Ķirsis, Inese Laizāne, Inese Lībiņa-Egnere, Romanas Mežeckis, Ainārs Mežulis, Sergejs Mirskis, Nikita Nikiforovs, Imants Raudnieks... Yes, Artis Rasmanis, Juris Vectirāns, Dzintars Zaķis. ( Interface: “I am already! ” ; “We pressed the buttons!” ) Thank you. I'll write you down... Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-01-26-PT12-340-U22	Thank you. Interruption until 11 a.m. ( Interruption)
ParlaMint-LV_2016-01-26-PT12-340-U23	Dear colleagues, I invite you to take up seats in the Chamber so that we can continue the extraordinary sitting of the Saeima on January 26th! On the agenda, ‘Annual report by the Minister for Foreign Affairs on the progress made and the planned activities of the country’s foreign policy and of the European Union’. We are continuing the debate. On behalf of the “From the heart to Latvia” member Inguna Silverba.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-01-26-PT12-340-U24	Mr. Foreign Minister! Excellency! Honourable Members! I will begin with a reference to an interview by Henry Kisingger, an excellent foreign policy authority, at the beginning of the month, to the German edition of Handelsblatt. His erudition must not be called into question by anyone here. He noted that for the first time in the world, changes were taking place in different continents, which were very different. They have no common characteristics, so there are no common principles on which to solve these problems. Kisinger also pointed out that Europe is currently seeking a new form of unity, but it is not yet able to give it a political expression. Europe does not succeed in developing a long-term strategy for its development. Here, in this dynamic and unfortunately chaotic changing situation, it would be more difficult for the foreign minister to defend Latvia's national interests. This, in turn, cannot be done successfully without an independent, in-depth analysis of the problems, as well as the definition of the objectives to be achieved in each region, in each area, in each situation. Unfortunately, reading the annual report by the Foreign Minister gives the impression that its authors perceive the world as a rigid and constant formation. There are regions where the Ministry carries out its activities, but often it is unthinkable whether what has been done has also produced results and, if not, what has been done wrong and how better to proceed in the future. There are everywhere concerns about the future of the European Union up to anticipating its disintegration. Different scenarios of development are being modelled, national foreign restaurants think about what position to take, where to look for allies on that or another issue. However, the report emits complete peace – nothing extraordinary has already happened, Latvia has successfully abandoned the Presidency and will continue to support the common European Union policy. Is it really not noticed that countries are showing different policies on more than one issue? For example, the fact that, following the terrorist attacks in Paris, France quickly found an opportunity to coordinate with Russia military activities in Syria, while other countries did not, clearly shows that the European Union has problems in implementing the common foreign and security policy. It is even more sad when I read about the achievements of the UN: “... a long-term contribution was made to address the causes of conflict and instability. An agreement was reached on the UN's new 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development... to achieve global action for sustainable development." I would not be so lightly optimistic – however, it is obvious that in recent times, the UN is gradually turning into a dazzling discussion club, and it is very likely that this "long-term investment" achieved will be able to prevent future conflicts. It further states that "the global agreement reached at the UN climate change conference in Paris will contribute to the prevention of climate change. It is so far the most ambitious international environmental agreement in the world". Excuse me, Minister, but does this agreement impose any sanctions on countries that violate this agreement? As far as I know, this document has no legal force. The only thing you can do with the infringer is to name them, shake their finger. I guess not enough to hope for real results, do you? All right, the UN is far away, and that's why you can have a mission. But what about the analysis when we talk about cooperation between the Baltic States? It seems that there are no problems at all but to continue and improve, as has been the case so far. Well, for example: “The commercial start of Klaipeda LNG terminal on 1 January 2015 is a significant turning point in the diversification of natural gas supply sources.” This is what – the success of Latvia? Is it really forgotten that the Baltic States did not agree on the construction of a common terminal, wasting time until the Lithuanians built their own terminal? Perhaps, though, it would be wiser to examine why it came together and what action should be taken to prevent it coming back? I was looking forward to an analysis of the most pressing problem that the world, Europe and Latvia are facing and are facing at the moment, about the migration crisis and its possible solutions. The report rightly notes: "The ability of the European Union to find a solution will depend on whether the Schengen system will continue to exist." So what is offered? It turns out: “Latvia is in favour of a complex solution for developing a comprehensive EU migration policy.” Basically – let's do what has been up to now, even more actively. Let us strengthen the common border of the European Union and continue to do so. The fact that this kind of "strengthening" does not work and states build fences on their hands and are threatening to close internal borders is probably not worth attention. Kissinger describes the problem clearly: "In Europe, we see a very rare historical phenomenon – it does not protect its external borders but, on the contrary, has opened them up. Nothing like this has been the case for thousands of years." What will Latvia do in this situation in order to prevent the destruction of the national state, while also not forgetting the humanitarian aspect? How many asylum seekers will we still receive? Let us support or not support the proposals on the additional distribution of asylum seekers between the countries of the European Union? What will our arguments be? ‘ From the heart to Latvia” has always considered that we cannot afford to welcome asylum seekers. Will the foreign restaurant be able to defend this position in the future and with what arguments? We have a good argument why we cannot afford to do so. I would call in Brussels to name EU countries whose capitals the indigenous population would be in minority. In the European Union, Riga is the only capital in which indigenous people have reached a minority as a result of migration. If we start to receive asylum seekers in mass, then we will decide to destroy the Latvian people in the future. And finally, about the results. It seems that an understanding of what is and what is not a result is specific to our Ministry of Foreign Affairs. It is no secret that representatives of Georgia and Ukraine, for example, left the Eastern Partnership Riga Summit dissatisfied because the result they hoped for was not achieved – the decision on visa-free travel with the European Union was not taken. On the other hand, our Ministry is satisfied, as the report shows, with "a number of important discussions and ministerial meetings". The authors remain silent about what they gave our country and its citizens. I also want to know what benefits Latvia has, for example, from activities in Central Asian countries. What contracts have been concluded, what do they give our entrepreneurs, what is their economic impact? Okay, maybe this effect is not yet there, but then you have to ask: when and what will happen? There must be a forecast! Unfortunately, it is clear from the report that the greatest success achieved in this region is Latvia's right to lead a consortium of European Union Member States in the project of the European Commission's border management in Central Asia. What are the benefits for Latvia? It would also be important to find out what results have been achieved by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs in the fight against the consequences for Latvia of the European Union sanctions against Russia and Russian anti-sanctions. Yes, Latvian producers have been able to diversify export markets. But I'd like to know how big it was for foreign policy restaurant? The only concrete measures... According to the report, it has been “an investigation into offers of Latvian fishermen’s competitors abroad and support to the Ministry of Agriculture in the certification process for export of products as soon as possible”. In conclusion, once again a list of various activities has been created without any deeper analysis and meaning. Unfortunately, it's exactly the same as a year ago. Yes, the foreign restaurant has worked. Yes, good things have also been done as far as possible. Let us not dispute, for example, the need for integration, the need for collective protection and the progress made. However, the report also clearly confirms that Latvia has been a player in foreign policy, not a player, but only a player in leading players. In addition, sometimes a player who does not even understand or cannot admit to himself that players who play their own game, not the same one, are playing. In addition, sometimes they play with people who don’t always play thoughtfully and know how to win. In preparation for today's sitting, I reread my presentation a year ago. And, to be honest, nothing has changed: the problems remain, and how they are still being proposed to "continue", "promote", "actively operate" and so on. Although – at least some of my previous speeches have been taken into account. In particular, a country such as Iran was ignored last year, whereas this year it has already been pointed out that "in 2015, with the active involvement of European Union diplomacy, an agreement was reached with Iran which paves the way for the peaceful development of its nuclear programme and provides an opportunity for a positive change in dynamics across the Middle East region". Let us hope that this agreement will be fulfilled. However, my recommendation, as part of the Latvian Presidency, to come with an initiative to open the Embassy of the European Union in Tehran, remained unrealistic. I'm sorry! There was an opportunity to do something permanent in memory, because the conclusion of the agreement on the nuclear programme already did not have Latvian merit. I'm gonna need...
ParlaMint-LV_2016-01-26-PT12-340-U25	How much extra time do you need?
ParlaMint-LV_2016-01-26-PT12-340-U26	I'll need one minute.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-01-26-PT12-340-U27	Do Members have objections? There is no objection.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-01-26-PT12-340-U28	And more. If we once love to emphasise that we know the former USSR countries better than others in the European Union, we are an expert, then perhaps it is worth thinking about a serious analysis and recommendations to help Ukraine achieve real change. It is already pleasant to put on your shoulders that “in 2015 bilateral political dialogue and practical cooperation between Latvia and Ukraine has become more intensive and wider”, but the bitter truth is that economic assistance is being made as a thing in a barrel. It is not for nothing that the Netherlands has proposed a referendum on the Association Agreement between Ukraine and the European Union. Dutch taxpayers do not want to give their money to corrupt politicians. Perhaps our Foreign Ministry is able to develop solutions that would make Ukraine change much more quickly by means of the European Union? I think that such assistance would be more useful for the Ukrainian people. The conclusion of the report is truly a message of hope – the promise to respond effectively to the challenges of global and regional security in a changing international environment, so that Latvia can demonstrate itself as a responsible and mature member of the international community, increasingly engaging in global processes. ( The utterance: “Time! ”) ) Well, long ago it was time. ( Interface: “It’s been time for a long time! ” Only by seeing how the Foreign Ministry's leadership has so far succeeded in analysing and developing political initiatives to defend Latvia's national interests, does “From the heart to Latvia” no longer believe that optimism is the basis. Thank you for your attention. (Applause)
ParlaMint-LV_2016-01-26-PT12-340-U29	Thank you. On behalf of the Group of the National Alliance, is Member Edwin Schnore.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-01-26-PT12-340-U30	Dear Chairman of the Saeima. Minister for Foreign Affairs! Dear colleagues, I thank the Foreign Minister for his annual foreign policy report. During this turbulent time, Latvia's achievements in foreign policy have received increased attention. People are worried about what is happening beyond our borders, and they expect that Latvia's foreign restaurant will be able to adequately prepare and respond to global challenges. We know that this has not always been the case in the past, and the National Association has always pointed out these errors, the worst of which was in 2014, when the foreign report contained a positive, optimistic description of Russia – two months before the Kremlin's aggression in Ukraine. At that time many Latvian entrepreneurs, who were inspired by optimism, suffered losses from sanctions and sanctions that were too closely linked to an aggressive neighbouring country. In order to avoid such and similar mistakes, the Latvian Government and, above all, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, must be able to give the right signals so that citizens know what to count on and what to do. Yes, it may not always be possible to predict everything. And even if you can predict, not everything can be said. However, the most important thing is that what is said is correct, not misleading. Safety is the main priority of this year's report. And that is right for us. Because it has not been as insecure as it is now in Europe. Our country is also under threat. Therefore, it is only possible to agree with the basic ideas of the report that Latvia's security needs to be strengthened, the military presence of NATO powers in Latvia needs to be enhanced, and it is necessary to work to strengthen the transatlantic link in the European Union's global strategy for foreign and security policy. One of the most important foreign policy issues, which in last year broke a storm in Latvian society, was the issue of migration. For the first time since Awake! Posters “No for Migrants!” were again displayed on the streets of Riga. . We all know how sensitive this topic is in our country after those waves of migration and colonisation that overflowed over Latvia during the occupation of the USSR. How does the Ministry of Foreign Affairs work on this issue? Some facts. Last September, the Foreign Minister announced that 776 migrants, which Latvia will have to accept under the European Commission's plan, do not threaten Latvia. The Prime Minister, in his report on state security last week here in the Saeima, stressed that reception of 776 asylum seekers (I quote): “... create new risks and challenges for national security, as it is possible that persons associated with terrorist organisations, as well as the presence of refugees in Latvia, can create ethnic tensions and feelings of insecurity in society.” The question arises: if receiving migrants poses a threat to Latvia's security, why did the Latvian government decide to receive migrants? We all know the answer: because the Ministry of Foreign Affairs was actively lobbying it. It rejected any objections of the National Alliance and strongly argued that Latvia should listen to the European Commission and accept migrants. If this is not the case, then there may be safety risks. On the contrary, not if we accept risks, but if we do not accept them. The Foreign Minister announced that Latvia would be in complete isolation, losing Latvia's support of the EU and NATO member states on matters important to us. When Latvia is sent out to the EU Court of Justice, penalties and penalties will be paid. Latvian skies protect themselves by refusing certain NATO member states, namely Hungary. I was at the time as Head of the Latvian delegation at the OSCE Parliamentary Assembly and asked my Hungarian colleagues: will Hungary really refuse to patrol Latvia's airspace if we do not support Juncker's plan? And I got an answer: “Of course not!” Because Hungary itself does not support this plan. NATO was also forced to respond to the scandalous statements of the Latvian Foreign Minister. Vice-Chairman of the Supreme Command of the Allied Forces in Europe General Bradshawv expressed his misunderstanding and pointed out that the admission or non-entry of refugees does not affect NATO's commitment to protect Member States. The same great misunderstanding in the West was caused by the statement by the Foreign Minister that the Latvian Government has forces to hand Latvia over to the Kremlin. In this geopolitical situation, similar statements from the head of the country's foreign reserve cannot be justified. Undoubtedly, the statements of the Foreign Minister also deeply offended many of the members and supporters of the National Alliance, who, even with their weapons, opposed the Kremlin's power in Latvia. Such statements do not in any way contribute to the security of Latvia and improve the state's reputation. As regards the solution to migration issues last year, many might have had the impression that Latvia does not have its own foreign policy on this issue and that there is only the foreign policy of the European Commission and Merkel, whose explanation and proof of correctness was taken by the Latvian Ministry of Foreign Affairs, unfortunately. However, Juncker and Merkel's policy is wrong. Calling migrants, giving them generous benefits, then re-allocating them across EU countries is wrong! Not only does it not solve the migration crisis, it deepens it. The National Association reiterates this point to the Minister of Foreign Affairs since the summer. Why could Latvian representatives not make this clear in Brussels? After all – who, if not for us, Latvia, has the greatest experience in the European Union with unwitting guests? We know and can show how dramatic the consequences of uncontrolled migration in one European country can be. Terrorism had to happen and victims had to be victims in order to finally change rhetoric and to show an understanding of the nature of the problem. It is to be welcomed that the Ministry of Foreign Affairs has addressed the problem of terrorism. The Foreign Policy Report states in this respect: "The terrorist attacks in France and Denmark have highlighted the direct impact of non-European conflicts on the stability of European society." Let us remember, however, that most of the terrorists who did these terrorists did not come from outside! They were second and third-generation immigrants born in Europe, EU citizens. This means that the problem is much deeper than the negative externalities alone. The problem lies within Europe, and it is rooted in the catastrophic immigration policy that has been implemented so far. Now to deal with terrorism, without seeing its connection with immigration policy, is like drinking medicines against colds, but continuing to walk with bare feet and wonder that the medicine does not help. Unfortunately, the report does not identify this link. Nor is there any mention of a problem that threatens Europe, not less than the floods of migrants and terrorism, a problem that causes Europe's body from inside – and that is political correctness as a cancer. We have recently learned that the law enforcement authorities of Germany, Sweden and other countries are hiding mass crimes, lying and misleading so as not to reveal facts that are politically wrong. The events in Cologne are only a visible part of the iceberg, which showed that political correctness can also have pure real victims. Latvia's task would be to highlight this problem and to prevent Europe from getting further into the political duvet ofektoruma. Finally, on solidarity. Last year, from the foreign minister's mouth, this word was very common. Solidarity between European countries. What about Nord Stream 2 in this regard? Why are Latvia's concerns about this Mistral-like transaction not mentioned in the foreign policy report? Yes, Germany might not like this, but we have our national interests. It is clear that this project is directly threatening the security of the Baltic States and Latvia, so we must not remain silent about it. It would also be a wish of the National Association to the Foreign Minister this year: do not be afraid to express Latvia's opinion – even if it is in conflict with what Merkel and Juncker say. There is, of course, some discomfort to speak in return, but experience from the Visegrad countries shows that this is paying off. The fear of European bureaucrats with sanctions has not materialised either in Hungary, Poland or in other EU countries. This should be taken into account. Thank you. (Applause)
ParlaMint-LV_2016-01-26-PT12-340-U31	Thank you. Name to Member Gundars Many.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-01-26-PT12-340-U32	Dear President of the Saeima. Mr. Foreign Minister! Colleagues! Colleagues! Excellency! Ladies and gentlemen! The last year is characterised by a time of serious security challenges. The events in Syria, Yemen, as well as in our closest places – Ukraine, France, Germany and southern Europe – have brought the world's attention all year round. There is no doubt that these processes should be maintained in the focus of Latvia's foreign policy in 2016. In a context of increased security threats and the European Union's weak capacity to control its external borders, we are increasingly facing uncontrolled migration flows. We must recognise that the consequences of this flow have created an existential threat to our value system and require rapid, uniform and effective action. I would therefore like to highlight the positive steps taken in 2015 to make a long-term contribution to preventing conflicts and instability. An agreement was reached on the UN Agenda for Sustainable Development by 2030, and an agreement was also reached on the prevention of climate change by signing the most ambitious international environmental agreement so far. This is particularly important, as we need to be aware that the effects of climate change may become a pretext for future conflicts. As Head of the Interparliamentary delegation of Latvia in the Union, I would like to highlight the contribution of this organisation representing national parliaments in the world to promoting these decisions. Just as important as the preparation of both decisions will be the examination of the accompanying parliamentary action plan in March this year at the 134th European Union Interparliamentary Conference, which shows the interest of the world's parliamentarians in addressing this issue. Another example of parliamentary diplomacy last year was demonstrated by the Interparliamentary Union at its fourth meeting of the Presidents of the world. It adopted an ambitious and forward-looking declaration in the form of a parliamentary vision of democracy, sustainable development and cooperation between countries. Our ability to carry out the tasks of the Presidency of the Council of the European Union, our skills in finding compromises and our participation in global decision-making at all levels of public administration demonstrates the maturity of our country. This confirms that we are equal partners and able to manage international processes successfully. Dear colleagues, Dear colleagues, In order for Latvia to achieve its goals effectively, Latvia needs to become more and more actively involved in the processes taking place in the world. As the centenary of Latvia approaches, we need to demonstrate very clearly the contribution of Latvia and our compatriots to the world. In my opinion, we must not isolate ourselves with constant protests and reservations. But we must not become silenced co-runners, who play supportive phrases, which are politically correct but do not solve the problems in substance. Latvia must be able to formulate its proposals for compromises. We have gained such experience under the leadership of the Council of the European Union. It would be logical for us to continue using these skills. Today, the most active threat to global stability and Europe is the civil war in Syria, as well as the escalation of relations between Iran and Saudi Arabia in the form of a conflict in Yemen. In both cases, it is a dispute between the cannons and the Shiite, whose roots can be found in the interpretation of the succession of the prophet Muhammad. I have doubts about the ability to find a solution to this conflict on a secular political basis. More worrying, however, is the fact that during the "political solution" search, each power provides support to its closest party in the conflict. This, in my opinion, increases the risk of military escalation. A clear example of such escalation was the actions of Turkey, our NATO allies, by striking the Russian Air Force aircraft. In my opinion, the promotion of diplomatic negotiations between the two sides would be more effective than the training of the semi-military forces and the provision of weapons. Contrary to the current policy of involvement, it is necessary to think about restrictive measures against all parties to the conflict in order to limit the conflict. It must not be allowed to grow into a wider confrontation between the world's powers. It would be naive to think that such a conflict would leave us intact. We must be aware that, as this conflict develops, we will have to face increasingly uncontrolled migration flows. I am therefore really surprised that the foreign policy report does not analyse in detail and in detail the shortcomings of the southern borders of the European Union, nor does it offer solutions to the shortcomings of the European Union's asylum and migration policy and the Dublin system created by it. The inability or unwillingness to address these issues jointly, at European level, will put pressure on the search for national solutions, including the reintroduction of border controls. This, in my view, is unacceptable, because it would mean a continuation of the single market and of economic and monetary union. This would be a crunch for many of our entrepreneurs and citizens. I would like to hear a clear opinion on the establishment of a common European Union border guard service in order to strengthen control at the external borders of the European Union. I would like to hear a clear view of the permanent reallocation of asylum seekers to assessment centres in order to prevent uncontrolled migration within the European Union. Dear colleagues, Dear colleagues, We must be able to ensure that every asylum seeker is subject to detailed checks. We must be able to demonstrate clearly that economic migrants are being expelled. We must be able to separate the refugee from the terrorist. This does not mean declaring an asylum seeker as a person non grata, but a person suspecta though. By fully supporting the values of humanism, we must also remember our duty to care for the economic, social and physical security of Latvian citizens. It is necessary to encourage amendments to international rules on refugees, by rejecting their expulsion in situations where the beneficiary of the asylum status has violated the laws of the host country. Discussions on this type of change in our national asylum law were launched at the first Saeima meeting this year and should be continued internationally as well. Colleagues and colleagues! Finally, I would like to thank the Foreign Service for working for Europe and the world in the year 2015. The successful Latvian Presidency of the Council of the European Union is to be distinguished and praised. In particular, I would like to congratulate my colleagues who successfully implemented the parliamentary dimension of the Presidency. Thank you to all the members of the Saeima for their support in the implementation of parliamentary diplomacy in all its forms. Sir, I am convinced that today's debate, as well as our cooperation on a daily basis, will contribute to the implementation of a successful foreign policy that meets Latvia's interests in the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-01-26-PT12-340-U33	Thank you. The name to the Member Atm Lejny. Do Members have no objections if both speeches are combined for a total of 15 minutes?
ParlaMint-LV_2016-01-26-PT12-340-U34	I won't talk for so long, don't be afraid! Madam President, Minister! Excellency! Colleagues! There are two truths about the security of Latvia that we have been stoned into. Strong, free Latvia can only be strong and free in the European Union and NATO. This was also reminded of by Prime Minister Laimdota Straujuma at the Saeima sitting last week. But the European Union is not separable from NATO. These are the European Union's structures, which form a strong foundation for NATO. It should also be placed in a stone. Every attempt to weaken the European Union will respond to NATO's ability to protect Europe. We live in a global environment, with new powers and huge global challenges that we are now experiencing in Europe. No country can face these challenges alone. Absolutely nobody! Name me a country that one can face up to these challenges. In fact, this could not have been done either in the 20th and 30th centuries of the past, when we formed... We got and formed our own country. Europe, including Latvia, would be different today if Europeans had already succeeded in establishing the European Union. Unfortunately, there was a terrible war before it was understood. Latvia has three major challenges this year, which we can only address in close cooperation with the other EU and NATO Member States. First. This is about international terrorism. Second. Uncontrolled migration. And the third. Revanchist Russia. Unfortunately, things must be made clear, as the Minister has told us in his speech. All right, let's talk about a few sentences on international terrorism. Latvia has moved the fight against terrorism well forward during its Presidency of the European Union. It is not for nothing now called the Riga Process. Unfortunately, we did not achieve the adoption of the Passenger Name Record by the European Union. Unfortunately, the terrorist attacks in Paris and the terrorist threats in Brussels themselves should have taken place in order to speed up the adoption of such a register in the European Parliament. Hopefully, at the end of this month, the European Parliament will finally adopt it at its sitting. And I do not think that the Council of Europe will also hesitate to adopt it. Second. Uncontrolled immigration or migration. You know, something very interesting happened in this sitting. Instead of highlighting Latvia as a model country for the other Member States of the European Union regarding how to deal with uncontrolled migration, it has been said in this hall that Latvia's reception for accommodation has been a serious mistake for a few hundred refugees. Can you imagine? The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. I.Zariņš: “Come on, show on the other side!” ) I did it. Can you imagine what would happen if Latvia had been the only country in the European Union to take such a decision while Estonia and Lithuania would have solidarity in receiving refugees? The only country in the European Union! ( Interface: Hungary, Poland!) ) Congratulations. Our strong migration policy... I do not understand why it is defaulted that we introduced a strong filtering policy from the very beginning. I must reiterate that there will be no family reunification for those over the age of 18. We're gonna pick those who're going here. And, you know, the other countries of the European Union are following us now, including Denmark, Sweden, Germany. ( Milestones.) That's it! And we should highlight this, not earn ourselves. But it is already in fashion for Latvians – first to earn us, not to highlight us. States of the European Union... and we, the Saeima Commission for European Affairs, will soon have to endorse the first position on strengthening the external border. We call it protection of the same border in Latvian. This is already in the process. Unfortunately – late... Yes, yes, the European Union lay on its laurels. That's the fact! They killed themselves: everything will be very beautiful! It should always be borne in mind that what has happened and is happening at the southern borders of the European Union can also be happening along our borders. To a lesser extent this is happening, has it not been seen? But our border guards and police officers, including around two hundred, who have helped South colleagues, have gained valuable experience in working under unprecedented conditions. It is a precious asset! And next week, already at the Latvian border, there will be American border guards, experts who will assess how better... that we evaluate Latvia's borders... They have already been in Estonia and Lithuania. Imagine if Russia can enter the territory of Estonia, grab one border guard, NATO border guard, take him to Russia, keep him in prison for a month and... Years later, and only then, let go? It's a big mistake! Dear friends! By the way, it is the European Commission that pays us for sending illegal immigrants back to Vietnam. The European Commission! And that's not cheap joy. Okay, now at the third point. Russia. The main thing to remember here is this. Without the United States in Europe... Europe... Sorry, I wanted to say – without the US Europe – and above all we, the Baltic States! - would have been gone for a long time. And in this Chamber, another Member's composition would be voted in the same way as it did in 1940. This is not the first time in European history, nor will it be the last time the US protects Europe. But also in this respect, Europe has wake up and has stopped the dismantling of its defence capabilities. This has happened very rapidly over the last ten years. Even Sweden and even Germany have begun to increase their defence budgets. The second truth that we need to know, even when we wake up at midnight, is the key role of Germany in Europe, especially its crucial role in Western-Eastern policy-making. Please remember this. We can only breathe lightly that the German soldiers, together with American, English and our soldiers, will stand in a united battalion in Riga's watchhouse after the Warsaw NATO Summit Conference. I have a proposal – I offer to discuss the construction of Rail Baltica railroad, because Berlin connects us with Riga strategically as important and close to the capital as Warsaw. And two interesting observations lately. You know that Iran's President, Hasan Ruhan, is meeting the Pope in Rome today. 11th Saeima – remember? – we talked about maybe a war of 50 percent possible between the 7th American fleet and Iran. Today, America and Iran are flooding with oil... world of oil – cheap oil... and gas! The first American oil tanker has arrived in Marseille, England is the first liquefied gas ship, and Lithuania, Klaipeda, will also arrive the first American liquefied gas ship. ‘ Latvian gas” is no longer light in front of the day. And the last one is banks and the OECD. Many do not understand what the OECD means. But the Minister has already pointed out: we have saved EUR 50 million by borrowing cheaper money on world markets, because we have almost joined the OECD. Just now, because we are on our way to it, Mr Bondara, we are finally beginning to clean our banks from the parasites that wash away the dirty money from the East in our banks. Only now is it done! We could not do this by ourselves, unfortunately. Thank you for your attention. (Applause)
ParlaMint-LV_2016-01-26-PT12-340-U35	Thank you. Name to Member Rihard Cole.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-01-26-PT12-340-U36	President-in-Office of the Saeima, very much. High Minister for Foreign Affairs! Dear and honourable Members, Excellency! Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to start with the achievements of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs last year's foreign policy events and plans for this year. The first half of 2015 was spent on the Presidency of the European Union, in which Latvia, thanks to the professional work of both the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and other ministries, demonstrated that we were ready to implement global events in Latvia. It is also necessary to recommend the work of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs in support of Ukraine, its reforms, as well as its interests in the institutions of the European Union. The work to ensure the continued presence of more NATO forces and structures, both in Latvia and in the Baltic States, as well as the strengthening and updating of the Eastern Partnership, has also been important. And yet – about the work that has not been done. The commitment of previous years to strengthen public cohesion has unfortunately been forgotten in the context of the European Union's migration crisis, when the personal views expressed by the Foreign Minister and on behalf of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs were purposefully frightened and blackmailed by Latvian society. The loud statements about Latvia's possible entry into international isolation, the loss of NATO and European Union support and, in the latter way, even the threat to Siberia, have directly contributed to fragmentation and soared fears in a society where almost 80 percent are now opposed to the reception of asylum seekers. In the light of the information gathered at the beginning of this year on the possible establishment of a new, mandatory mechanism for redistributing refugees, I call on both the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and other institutions of the participating country to remember the interests of their citizens and to represent the country in these negotiations, bearing certain national positions. On the foreign policy report. Overall, the report is of high quality and many of the issues considered can only express their support and agreement. However, despite (or quite logically) the wide-ranging range of foreign policy issues, the report once again falls into its annual pit: it sounds like a declaration and an inspiring speech. Unfortunately, there is a lack of specificity. It seems that we are still afraid to take a leading role in the updating and resolution of important issues. On Latvia's foreign policy priorities in 2016. One of them is safety. Much has been achieved in ensuring NATO's permanent presence in the Baltic States in a period of instability and prolonged external threat. Protection is necessary not only on land, but also on sea areas, so the ongoing work needs to be continued, and during the Warsaw Summit this year the issue of permanent deployment of NATO's maritime forces in the Baltic Sea needs to be updated and put on the agenda in the future. However, national security is not limited to the presence of the army and military equipment within our borders. As recognised by the U.S. Special Envoy for Eurasian Energy – if a country is dependent on only one energy supplier, its independence is threatened. In this context, the decision not to mention the Nord Stream 2 project in this year's report seems particularly worrying. Mr Rinkēvičs, however, we strongly oppose the implementation of this project and call on the European Union to stop it! At a time when Ukraine's occupation continues and the European Union implements sanctions against Russia, launching new projects that increase our energy dependence and strengthen Russia's influence would be an absolutely incomprehensible and short-sighted step, which is already opposed by several Member States of the European Union. Latvia must take the initiative in seeking and putting forward legal and diplomatic considerations for stopping this project. The second issue is the creation of the external economic image of Latvia. In 2012, the Council for the Coordination of Foreign Economic Policy was established – the supervisory institution with the Foreign Minister at its forefront – with the aim of (please quote): “Ensure a coherent cooperation between public administrations and business organisations in the development and implementation of successful external economic policy for improving the competitiveness of the Latvian economy and strengthening export capacity.” Since the evaluation of the functioning of these boards, a very strong supervisory body, has not been included in any report since its establishment, it has to be asked: what has been achieved during its lifetime? And is it possible to get acquainted with this external economic policy, the implementation of which is monitored by the Council? Whatever the answers to these questions, it must be acknowledged that the basic idea of establishing this institution – to define, to find its external economic priorities and export areas – is to be welcomed when defining a clear external economic policy. Now it needs to be reviewed, it needs to be more effective and it needs to put its ideas into practice. It is clear that there is currently no specific external economic strategy in Latvia. Not really a vision. Can we, today, on the eve of the new European Union investment plan, the signing of the European transatlantic trade agreement and the 16+1 meeting, afford to flow through the stream without priorities? Is it really the only thing Latvia can do for the development of the external economy is to participate in hundreds of conferences and exhibitions? The Ministry of Foreign Affairs, as the Ministry of Latvia's image in the world, must assume the role of a flagship in the development and implementation of this policy. The creation of a single body is obviously not enough; it needs to work effectively. This year's report, once again, is of high quality and broad quality, identifying a number of serious tasks to be accomplished during this year. However, there is still a little lack of courage in Latvia's foreign policy, and that is essential! - also clear visions. The Latvian Presidency – Latvia as a mediator – is over. I invite you to give up misunderstood and excessive caution and to guide and implement with confidence issues relevant to Latvia on the international and local agenda. And in conclusion, rewording Kissinger, I will say: no kind of foreign policy, no matter how brilliant, will not be successful if it is created by some and will not be supported by anyone. Let us build a foreign policy that is supported and proud of Latvian society! Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-01-26-PT12-340-U37	Thank you. Name to Member Janis Dombrava.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-01-26-PT12-340-U38	Very honourable Speaker of the Saeima! Dear Saeima! Excellency! In the last decade, Europe has not experienced the security risks it is facing today. These changes did not take place in one day; during many years, the situation has escalated. Europe is threatened from outside by Russia and radical Islam who want to transform Europe in their own right. The liberal cosmopolits and internationally supportive socialists, who are unable to protect Europe but are actively involved in the destruction of the existing states, have too much influence within Europe. As I said, European security is equally threatened by two forces. Our task is to neutralise these threats. But to do this, it is necessary to change policy not only at the level of Latvia, but at the level of the European Union as a whole. To begin with, I would like to draw attention to the problematic situation in Africa and the Middle East. Poverty, low education, ethnic and religious conflicts are everyday. Unfortunately, I must admit that nothing will change until the colonial policy of maintaining the political and economic influence of the major powers in Africa is eliminated. Let us take the example of Mali, to which Latvia sent several soldiers last week at the request of an all-encompassing state, France. It must be acknowledged that Mali is artificially established. It is not designed to ensure the right of self-determination for a particular nation, but it coincides with the borders of colonial French Sudan. The countries live in many different ethnic groups. The greatest differences are observed in the north of Mali, where the Arab canoe and the Moore live. The most common is bamboo language, which speaks about 80 percent of the population, while the state language is one French. It should be noted that the largest state-owned companies belong to Western entrepreneurs and not to the local population. In order to fundamentally change the situation, the various Commissioners must stop going on tours to African countries in order to put the cameras in front of the poor. Instead, the international community should support the dismantling of artificial colonial boundaries and the creation of states on a national basis. The major powers, on the other hand, should stop sending pennies in the form of humanitarian aid, but instead provide strategic resources and businesses to African countries. Until this happens, poverty and wars will be inevitable. Refugees who will flee from the current civil war as well as economic migrants will be flowing towards Europe. Europe cannot receive many tens of millions of Africans and Arabs who would like to settle here. They bring with them a very different culture, lifestyle and religion that is in conflict with European culture, lifestyle and religion. Colleagues! We warned you that mass immigration would bring enormous challenges to Europe. The first consequences at the micro level can be seen right now – intolerance to European way of life and Christianity, criminality and clear disregard of laws, murders and acts of terrorism. If an even greater bar enters the European Union, the security and identity of Europe as a whole will be compromised. Colleagues, I do not want these problems to come to Latvia. ( FROM a faction: “They have come! ” ) I do not want to see crimes committed in Latvia, as happens in many European cities. It is not yet too late to change public policy on this issue. Latvia has experienced mass immigration and its consequences. With immigrants and military personnel from other republics of the USSR, crime increased considerably in Latvia, and Russian language began to dominate the big cities. The Latvians had almost become a minority in their own country. Latvia recovers every year. Latvian share is increasing, but still today, the consequences of occupation cause problems for society. Distributed education system, discrimination in the labour market, prisons that are overcrowded with Russian-speaking criminals... But the most important problem for our security is the Russians living in Latvia who dream about the rebirth of the Soviet Union and feel belonging to a neighbouring country. Dear colleagues, Latvia must not allow a new wave of immigration, as this could threaten the long-term existence of our people. Anyone who calls or supports the arrival of new immigrants in Latvia should be seen as an evildoer who does not differ from the Communists, who contributed to the colonisation of Latvia during the Soviet occupation. Latvia should not only abandon any reallocations of asylum seekers in the future, but also abandon the decisions of the debilitated government, for which support was obtained in a dubious way. If someone disagrees with me, this issue must be passed on to the people who should be represented here. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. I. Viņķelis: “Yes!” ) At the same time, the security of our region continues to be threatened by Russia. It has not abandoned its imperialist ambitions, which have long been warned of by the National Association, but most of them pretended to be unheard of. The great walk of the people and the problems with them provide an excellent opportunity for Russia. If Western Europe is concerned and busy with the challenges of migration and the fight against terrorism within countries, then it will give Russia the opportunity to strengthen its influence over Eastern European countries. If Western Europe does not change its policy and stop immigration, it will be up to the Eastern European countries and the United States to prevent Russia from increasing its influence in our region. Latvia must continue to strengthen its armed forces and promote cooperation within NATO, implement patriotic upbringing and establish a physical eastern border. On the strategic level, Latvia should actively promote close cooperation between the Baltic and Black Sea countries, which largely share geopolitical interests. This cooperation is possible through the active involvement of Poland and Ukraine. In the long term, it is also important that Belarus joins the group of these countries. This group of countries could influence the decisions made in the European Union, as well as become a counterweight for Russia, because both in terms of population and in economic terms, the Baltic-Black Sea countries would be equal to Russia. Then it wouldn't be the same as it is now. Fragmented we are weak. Minister of Foreign Affairs, it is time to give up the receptive foreign policy and blind follow-up to Germany! It is time for us to be clearly aware of our geopolitical interests and to take appropriate action to ensure that our country exists through the centuries. That's what I wish you. Let us do it! (Applause)
ParlaMint-LV_2016-01-26-PT12-340-U39	Name to Member Alexander Kirštein.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-01-26-PT12-340-U40	Dear President, Honourable Members! Honorable ambassadors! What do we expect from the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and our foreign policy? Obviously rapid response to various threats and protection of the interests of Latvian citizens. Have we always received this from the Ministry of Foreign Affairs? I regret to say no. The policy of the German Chancellor Merkel and the President of the European Commission Juncker – to open Europe's borders to 1.2 million refugees – is not understandable to the Latvian people, although, as we know, Africa's territory is larger than that of the United States, Canada and China together. There are millions of hectares of excellent agricultural land in Africa, which could fully supply both Africa and the whole of Europe with excellent food. However, the European Union is not opening up the market for agricultural goods in Africa, it is destroying the natural wealth of Africa, and instead of building shelters for refugees (and, as we know, these opportunities and territories are not two or three million, but tens and even hundreds of millions of people there!) , opening Europe’s borders and uncritically influxing more than 1.2 million people in Europe for the time being. We are now being told that the minimum we should receive is between five and six million refugees. And so on. It is also not understandable, for example, to me why the so-called Saudi Arabia has built a whole city for refugees. With a population of three million... This city has built excellent schools, hospitals, and accommodation is equipped with air conditioning, but so far no refugee has been taken into this city. Both the European Union and the United States have sufficient resources to force the neighbouring Arab countries to help their brothers in their faith, but this is not the case. Instead, in Germany, according to recent reports, 98 percent of all refugees are young men. Obviously there are some other objectives that we cannot understand in order to bring these foreign people into Europe for European civilisation. I hope that the Ministry of Foreign Affairs will clarify these reasons and explain them to us in the next debate. Instead, we have obtained censorship, lies, political correctness, which we call European values. European unity is a very important component of this foreign policy report. Question to the Minister for Foreign Affairs: How has Latvia expressed its support for the countries of Visegrad, which point to the pointlessness of “open doors” policy? What was the European Union at the time when Chancellor Merkel declared that a new gas pipeline from Russia was only an economic solution, not a political one? What unity is there between the European Union at a time when France built Mistral helicopter base vessels for Russia and sold them to Egypt only after strong interference by the United States? We have not heard any opposition from our Ministry of Foreign Affairs on this issue. What unity, honourable Minister, is there at the moment when the French President of the Netherlands declares that Russia must take away sanctions and restore it to the "Big Eight", despite the occupation of Crimea and other issues? By the way, I do not know why the Minister did not mention that the question of the return of Donetsk and Lugansk to Ukraine was being dealt with very successfully. These negotiations are conducted in great secrecy by the United States and Russia. It will not be long for sanctions to be removed and Russia will indeed be reinstated in the Great Eight. What will happen to Crimea? The Crimeas are being prepared, as we see in the international press, the fate of the former Baltic states. Remember: no Western country recognises occupation, while at the same time being friendlyly travelling to Moscow and continuing to develop relations with Russia. Obviously, exactly the same events are expected with regard to Crimea with the silent consent of the countries of the European Union. I think that Latvia, too, will not raise much objections there. It's pretty sad, but it's a fact! An important thing, as the Minister said here, is the information war, which requires the involvement of every citizen. Well, we have just seen that the Russian Ambassador to Latvia Vesņakov demonstrated honor to the war criminal Cononov. It was a political step. On the question to the Minister of Foreign Affairs how he evaluates this event, the Minister said that Mr. Vesņakov can do what he wants, but we will discuss Latvia's history with Russia in the next consultations. That's not right! Vesņakov cannot do what he wants, because ambassadors cannot organise political demonstrations in the countries where they work as ambassadors. It's a clear Vienna Convention... violation of the diplomatic convention, and I would nevertheless like to see an appropriate note from the Ministry of Foreign Affairs on this issue. Did the propaganda war start with a hybrid war and the 'green people' in Ukraine, as we are saying here? That's total stupid! The Russian imperialist war against the Latvian people began in 1959, when Moscow realized that it was unable to suppress the national resistance movement. The directives were sent from Moscow to Latvia, Lithuania, Estonia, Ukraine and Belarus: to search for war criminals and to organise Vishinsk-type cases that would show both these national states whose independence was subject to the interests of the Kremlin and the people of these countries as war criminals. After directives from Moscow between 1970 and 1973, a 1937 model series against 18 and 21 police battalion participants took place in Riga. People who had already been sentenced and had already passed the sentence at the end of 1940 were found with great distress, and 15 people were sentenced to death in the context of the frozen cases for the crimes committed by police battalions in 1941 (although these police battalions were established in 1942!) . (For this, the historian Andrievs Ezergalis collected very accurate material and presented it to the Latvian Public Prosecutor's Office, however, these police battalion cases did not give rise to any interest abroad.) And a decision was made and a directive was sent to the Czech Republic and the Republic of Latvia – to find an internationally known person from Latvia, who could be sentenced in Latvia to see the whole world see what these nationalists are then, who do not want to recognise Moscow's supercency. Herbert Zukur, who was internationally known as a popular pilot, was the most perfect candidate. He was also very popular in Latvia. He lived in Brazil. There was a quick case against him. By the way, the Committee on Cultural Relations with Nationals abroad (called the Committee on Cultural Relations) distributed five booklets that the Czech had written: “Who are the “Daugavas vanagi”, “They are without a mask”, “Kangari tālarais”, “From SS and SD to...”, and so on. And, as it is written now and as recent material shows, an order was given to the Israeli intelligence service, Mossad – Sugar Capture. As Andrew Ezergailis studied archives and various court protocols, all accusations and key evidence have been completely removed. Sugar has not burned synagogues, because he arrived in Riga only on 14 July, he did not participate in the destruction of European Jews in 1942 because he was on the front of Nasva. And the only known facts are that he has saved Miriam Kaicner and Abraham Shapiro. The rest is the purest fiction. As confirmed by the Prosecutor General of Latvia, Israel has not responded in 2012, nor last year to the current request of the Prosecutor's Office of Latvia for any materials to prove Herbert Sugar's fault. Obviously, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs needs to get involved and achieve either such evidence from Israel or compensation from the State of Israel to the Sugar Family for the crime committed by Mossad, because the whole Latvian nation has already been accused. You know, it's not Sugar, it's Cream's saphrification against the Latvian people! As Andrie Ezergailis rightly said – the Holocaust for the Kremlin had turned from a popular tragedy into a geopolitical... So...
ParlaMint-LV_2016-01-26-PT12-340-U41	Mr Kirstein, your speaking time is over.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-01-26-PT12-340-U42	One minute, please.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-01-26-PT12-340-U43	Do Members agree? The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. L. Cigan: “No!” ) Members object. We must therefore vote. ( Insight: “Who opposes?Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, “)
ParlaMint-LV_2016-01-26-PT12-340-U44	Please combine with the next speaking time.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-01-26-PT12-340-U45	You can unite, yeah.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-01-26-PT12-340-U46	Okay, yeah. Okay. I'll finish it. Thus, the Holocaust has become a geopolitical tool to expose Latvians and other nations to the Nebula of the Kremlin. I think that the Ministry of Foreign Affairs will be able to help the prosecutor's office in some way to deal with these issues. And the last one. When it comes to economic cooperation, I think that the embassies must open up where money is, and the money is most still in the Gulf countries that buy timber, veneers, pipeline connections, food from Latvia. And we know that Latvian builders are involved, for example, in the reconstruction of the Emirium Palace in Kuwait, but unfortunately due to the frauds of various local entrepreneurs is deceived. It would be much more important, however, if we could open either in the Emirates or somewhere near the next embassy to defend our interests. I hope that in the next report we will hear a much more substantiated report specifically on the protection of the interests of Latvian citizens. Thank you for your attention. (Applause)
ParlaMint-LV_2016-01-26-PT12-340-U47	Name to Foreign Minister Edgars Rinkēvičs.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-01-26-PT12-340-U48	Thank you very much to the Speaker of the Saeima. As we may have been approaching the lunch break and many of the themes have already been spoken, continuing our good tradition, I would like to answer some, or give some clarification. First of all, I would like to say that I have already expressed this and can only join both the Speaker of the Saeima and several Members and their words about Latvia's assessment of the construction of Nord Stream 2. As you know, Latvia has also joined a letter signed by several countries. We believe that the European Commission must apply the same principle as that applied in the context of South Stream: European law must be enforced in the north and in the south. And we do not really believe that this type of project contributes to energy independence in Europe, and it is also geopolitically unacceptable. I would like to say that I fully support what the Speaker of the Saeima said in relation to the parliamentary dimension of NB8. I think that the work that Parliament will do is very important and will strengthen cooperation in our region. What Mr. Sergeant said. For the fact that Latvia will stick firmly to the Schengen area of five six countries. That is not the case. I think that we will be discussing, and we will be talking a lot about, to keep the Schengen area as such. Five six countries are no longer in Schengen. That's the fact. We will, of course, take this into account in these discussions, and I want to hope that we will be able to maintain this zone and will be able to do the works that we intend to do, but we will not go anywhere to "let's go" if this really is contrary to Latvia's national interests. I fully share the fact that Russia's new security strategy is indeed a cause for concern. You have rightly said, Mr Sergeant, that it could no longer be included in the report as an element of analysis, because the documents had already been prepared and submitted in advance. But I have also expressed our basic position in this context. This strategy only shows that the Baltic security must be protected that NATO presence here is essential. But I also want to remind everyone that NATO is not here to attack anyone. NATO is here to protect us. I would also like to join fully in the words of Mrs Āboltiņa in saying that it is very important not only to look globally at the Energy Union but to do my own homework, and I would hope that the Saeima will adopt the necessary amendments to the Energy Law and will finally do what has long been necessary. Mrs Silver, I also remember your speech last year. I have to say that if last year you tried to call for the ratification of the Estonian-Latvian maritime border agreement, which had already been done in 1996, then this time you criticised the Riga Summit, which politically decided what is now happening. And it is a visa liberalisation regime. So, before you speak, you should check the facts. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. J.Urbanovich: “Ai, ai, ai!” ) As regards the arguments that... I have heard and we have spoken a lot about it in the Commission on European Affairs that we must fight against migration with arguments that there have now been so many Soviets here that it makes us almost a country of illegal migration... Then I can repeat what I have said. With such arguments, we ourselves undermine the arguments which, over 25 years, have actually helped us to reach both NATO and the European Union. To a large extent, it is a matter of doing so for those inexperienced people who are still talking about some strange violations of the rights of non-citizens in international organisations and everything else. As for what Mr Schnores said. I would like to say, though, that I did not give up on something that I said last autumn, neither on a sandal nor on a centimeter. All the signals that were in the context of both NATO and the European Union were and still are. And if you think that this is something better in terms of solidarity, if you think that certain Member States do not send any signals in different ways and do not try to link, for example, their participation in airspace patrolling... I'm sorry. And you have to bear in mind that, rather then, you are misleading the public rather than the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, whose duty it is to warn about the consequences... about what we hear. Not always can we name sources, but if you once read the European press, you would know exactly what the Prime Minister of a country has said. Therefore, I think that here we must be guided by the fact that the task of the foreign service is to inform you about what is, not about what you sometimes want to hear. I would like to say that several Members spoke in the debate and asked for something that is not, in fact, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Foreign Affairs... It is a siren. It's a drug.)
ParlaMint-LV_2016-01-26-PT12-340-U49	Colleagues! For now... This information will be clarified and specified why it has worked... We assume that this has been a mistake. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. I.Zariņš: “A won’t get us like Maxima?” ) Council Regulation (EC) No 1257/96 of 20 June 1996 concerning humanitarian aid (OJ L 163, 2.7.1996, p. 1).
ParlaMint-LV_2016-01-26-PT12-340-U50	Okay. We're going on, huh?
ParlaMint-LV_2016-01-26-PT12-340-U51	Continue the debate.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-01-26-PT12-340-U52	So several Members – several Members! – tried to ask from the Ministry of Foreign Affairs what, in fact, is the range of issues of other institutions and also of the Ministry of the Interior. And I think that, partly in the last debate on national security, the Minister of the Interior has already answered a number of questions. I would like to respond to Mr Dauges on the European Border Guard Service. We are still in the discussion process. I can only say one thing: I believe that such a service should be created, but the problem that we will have to discuss is that it is proposed that this service, with a specific decision by the European Commission or another institution of the European Union, goes to those countries that fail to deal with their external borders. And that is also, in a way, a question of further restricting sovereignty. I think we will have to discuss these issues seriously: what powers we want. Personally, I support the creation of such a service in principle, although there will be these discussions in the government. Mr Kola spoke of the Council for the Coordination of Foreign Economic Policy. It has to be said that as we have talked to business organisations, these organisations, such as the LDDK, LTRK, sectoral associations, as well as the ministries of industry, are quite satisfied that we have agreed with each other on the establishment and opening of the Embassy Network, as well as have agreed and prepared a priority list in the field of foreign visits as well as other activities. If you have a wish, of course, we can hold a special meeting of the Foreign Affairs Commission and introduce you to this work, but to be honest, I think that there should be more listening to the business organisations, which really appreciated everything very positively. Mr Kirstein talked about Mistral ships... Mr Kirštein, it has to be said that the Ministry of Foreign Affairs has, in fact, already since 2010... 2011... Even before I was a foreign minister and during my time, too, expressed my position in principle, and I also continued to say so until France, by the way, refused this deal on behalf of solidarity, too. And sometimes when we ask for something from allies, it must be borne in mind that they also have the right to ask for our support. The removal of sanctions. Yes, very many statements have been heard about it since the beginning of 2014. By the way, if you want to hear a position of principle on France's position, then I would like to hear your views on the principle position of a number of Heads of State of Visegrad with whom you so desire, both in terms of sanctions, and in terms of travelling last year to the celebration of 9 May. If we are talking about some kind of strategic partnership, then we must understand that we also have areas where our opinions are not completely the same. So I say this: we will not blindly make unions and coalitions. We will work with those countries with which our interests match, and we will try to convince our allies, our partners, if we believe that our opinions do not match. Therefore, on the issue of sanctions, too, the statements of certain politicians, the different positions of the 28 Member States, are nothing new. More importantly, we are able to agree at the end of eight, ten, twelve-hour discussions with different views, and the European Union's policy towards Ukraine and Russia has, however, been a good example of our unity. And the last two questions I'd like to say something about. Mr. Kirstein! I said this very clearly in my speech, and it is also recorded in the report: the Embassy of Latvia in the United Arab Emirates has already been working in the United Arab Emirates and has been working for more than a year. I think that, both within the Committee on European Affairs and in Parliament, when reading documents, this was a visible fact. And yet I call: no matter how often it seems to us that all of us have great righteousness and conviction, let us not make out of the people who have worked in the team of Arja, neither the heroes nor the victims! It is not even a matter of legal qualifications; there are also moral and political categories of nature. And I will not be acceptable to those who have been active in either the cheque or Nazi German structures, some kind of heroinisation and glorification. Let us be united here! As far as the legal aid agreements are concerned, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that judicial assistance cooperation does not take place through the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, but usually either through the Prosecutor General's Office or, if the treaties provide, through the Ministry of Justice. Therefore, in this particular situation, I would like to express my thanks, of course, for a great many interesting comments and remarks. Next time, I will be on the verge at the end of the debate, bringing additional issues together. In general, however, I would like to say now that I am pleased that the quality of discussions in the Saeima (just as you often say about each of the foreign policy reports) becomes better, more interesting every time, and I think it is interesting for both journalists and ambassadors who are here. Thank you. (Applause)
ParlaMint-LV_2016-01-26-PT12-340-U53	Thank you to the Minister for Foreign Affairs. The Bureau has a proposal to continue the debate after a break. Do Members agree? So it's time for a break. Please call me! Please check-in mode for Members! Please get the result! As long as the results of the registration are being prepared, the name of the notification to Member Romuald Ražuks.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-01-26-PT12-340-U54	Very honourable members of the Health Sub-Commission! Today's promised sitting is postponed to this Thursday after the Saeima meeting, due to the busy nature of the Minister. No sitting will take place today.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-01-26-PT12-340-U55	Thank you. Name Member of Parliamentary Secretary Gunars Kūtris to read the results of the registration, as soon as the results of the registration have been prepared... So the name of the Secretary of the Saeima, Andrejs Klementyev.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-01-26-PT12-340-U56	Thank you. Five seconds of attention, please! Very many Members have not registered – 25. Aldis Adamovich... I don't see, Solvita Aboltina... I can't see, Ringolds Balodis... No, Guntis Belevičs... No, Andris Bērziņš... No, Boris Cilevič... No, Raivis Dzintars... Not in the hall, Richard Egim... I don't see, Andrejs Elksnins... I see, Gunar Curry... I don't see, John Crowd... I can't see, Nelly Kleinberg... I can't see, Armands Krauze... I don't see, Maris Kučinskis... Well, obviously busy, not in the hall... Gunārs Kūtris, Vilnis Kersis... No, Inese Laizāne, Inese Lībiņa-Egnere, Roman Mežeckis... Oh, thank you, I see, Ainārs Mežulis... I don't see, Sergey Mirsky... I can't see, Nikiforov... I don't see, Artie Rasmann... I don't see, Carly Shadursky... with Maris Kučinski... I don't see, Juris Vectyran... I don't see. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-01-26-PT12-340-U57	Thank you. Interruption until 13.30 a.m. ( Interruption)
ParlaMint-LV_2016-01-26-PT12-340-U58	Dear colleagues, I invite you to take your seats in the Chamber. We're continuing the extraordinary sitting of the Saeima. On the agenda, ‘Annual report by the Minister for Foreign Affairs on the progress made and the planned activities of the country’s foreign policy and of the European Union’. We are continuing the debate. The name is Mr. Janis Wuzan.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-01-26-PT12-340-U59	Very respectful Speaker of the Saeima! Highly honored Saeima Presidium! Mr. Foreign Minister! Colleagues! In the foreign policy report under discussion today, the page is dedicated to Latvia's foreign policy activities in the Baltic Sea region. Noting that in 2016, Latvia is the leading country in several organisations in the region – the Baltic Council of Ministers, NB8, and the Baltic Assembly – I would like to add that since September 2015, Latvia has been holding the Presidency of the Baltic Sea Parliamentary Conference. As I have been entrusted with the responsibility at the moment to lead two of these inter-parliamentary organisations, the Baltic Assembly and the Baltic Sea Parliamentary Conference, I would like to raise a bit today's attention to the actual work of both organisations and the priorities set by Latvia in these organisations. It should be noted that this is the year of 25 June for both organisations. First of all, the Baltic Assembly. Taking the lead in this organization, the Latvian delegation in the Baltic Assembly has set three priorities for its work: first, strengthening the security of the Baltic region, strategic communication and cyber security; second, cooperation in the fields of higher education, science and culture; thirdly, promoting and strengthening a common business environment in the Baltic States. As you know, the main form of activities of the Baltic Assembly is the work of the established Baltic Assembly Committees, summing up the results of their work at the final session of the Baltic Assembly, which will take place this year on 27 and 28 October in Riga. Therefore, the success of our work in the interests of Latvia will depend not only on the active and skilled work of our Members in these commissions, but also on our ability to cooperate with the governments and ministries of the other Baltic States in implementing cooperation between the Baltic Assembly and the Baltic Council of Ministers. So far, cooperation has gone everywhere, and there has been both satisfaction and disappointment. Here we can remember both joint medical procurement and work on Rail Baltica project; there have been times when work has progressed and there has been a really stagnating operation, a stagnating situation. The cooperation of the Baltic Assembly with other interparliamentary institutions – the Nordic Council, the Benelux Parliament, the Parliamentary Assembly of the GUAM States, the Interparliamentary Organisation of Visegrad Countries, as well as with the Barents Parliamentary Assembly and the Parliamentary Assembly of the Black Sea States of Economic Cooperation must not be mentioned. Each of these forms of bilateral cooperation has given interparliamentary assemblies the opportunity to better understand the different types of problems affecting different European regions and to build more balanced mutual relations with the countries concerned and their parliaments. For us parliamentarians, it has been a good school, an opportunity to look at new, current areas of mutual cooperation. Last year, for example, the Benelux Parliament discussed the creation of a common mobile space for three countries. There were discussions on the unconditional recognition of educational documents in three countries in general, without additional alignment activities. These are areas in which the Benelux countries operate in the run-up to the European Union's joint initiatives, and it is possible that we in the Baltic Sea region, especially the three Baltic States, should also think about such matters. Of course, during the last year particular emphasis has been placed on cooperation with the Ukrainian Parliament in the work of the Baltic Assembly. Both because Ukraine was the Presidency of the Parliamentary Assembly of the GUAM in 2015 and because of the development of the situation in Ukraine. The main task of such an activity has been to provide direct, direct meetings and dialogue opportunities between representatives of the GUAM countries, in particular Ukraine and Georgia, and Western and Nordic parliamentarians, through their forms of cooperation with the Nordic Council, with the Benelux Parliament and also with the European Parliament, thus giving them access to direct information on developments in these Eastern Partnership countries. The second hot issue in the discussions of these other inter-parliamentary organisations over the past year has, of course, been the issue of refugees. With regular participation in parliamentary assemblies of other regions, we, as representatives of the Baltic Assembly, have also had the opportunity to observe the transformation of governments' and parliamentary positions in the respective countries. From an attitude that strongly supports the reception of refugees to a very cautious, or even openly disproved, attitude. I would also like to say a few words about the Latvian Presidency of the Baltic Sea Parliamentary Conference, which lasts for 12 months, of which almost half has already been left. This format brings together 11 national and 11 regional parliamentary delegations, including representatives of the Baltic States, Nordic countries, Poland, Germany and Russia. Of course, in this broad format, taking into account the diversity of political views of Member States' delegated representatives, there is quite a limited range of areas where productive cooperation is possible. Despite this, however, the Latvian Presidency of the Baltic Sea Parliamentary Conference has as a priority the issue that is successfully addressed in the Permanent Commission, namely to identify how problems related to the adequacy of the proposed education and labour market demand could be addressed in the Baltic Sea region. Not in a single country, but in the region as a whole. This is a very important issue for Latvia, especially in the context of an educated labour mobility or – in the situation of Latvia – departure from the country. At the second Baltic Sea parliamentary conference, the priority initiated by the Latvian Presidency is to set up a working group and start its work for the entire Baltic Sea region in developing a common concept of sustainable tourism development based on a multi-sectoral approach. Another activity of the Baltic Sea Parliamentary Conference, on which a further solution will be decided by the Permanent Council of the said Conference already this Thursday, which will be held in Brussels, is the issue of granting observer status to Belarus at the Baltic Sea Parliamentary Conference, in coordination with the European Union's joint recent policy towards Belarus. The request for Belarus to be granted observer status at the Baltic Sea Parliamentary Conference has been addressed by the Foreign Affairs Commission of the Belarusian Parliament, with its Chairman, Mr Busko, emphasising the willingness to cooperate with the Baltic Sea countries on issues of ecology, education, health and energy. Colleagues! I tried to draw a little more detail about Latvia's cooperation in various inter-parliamentary formats in the Baltic Sea region at this time, which is set out in the foreign policy report under discussion today in a very perspective, without detail. Mr. Foreign Minister, I wish you every success this year in coordinating the work of the Baltic Council of Ministers, as well as in cooperating successfully with the Baltic Assembly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-01-26-PT12-340-U60	Thank you. Name to Member Ivars Zarins.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-01-26-PT12-340-U61	Hello, colleagues! I have a question for you. Do you, those who listen to this debate, feel at times as if you were back in kindergarten times? In the kindergarten was the same – there children were proud of each other with whom a dad, what he could do. And almost nothing is said about what we can, what we have done ourselves. More! There is no analysis of this achievement. I understand that this is understandable in some way, because it is right to ask whether we have our own foreign policy at all and whether we have any chance of implementing this foreign policy at all, because to a large extent our foreign policy is determined by the European Union framework and our strategic partners. In the case of Latvia, it could also be a big, positive addition, because Latvia's policy has at least one area where there is some clarity and predictability. Of course, we can make ourselves proud of it all the time and put ourselves on our shoulders, but there are important risks and threats to us, because we are like a son who has been absorbed to the sides of the ocean liner and always rejoices and praises ourselves for it: “How powerful we are, we break down the ocean waves, we reach the most distant, most global goals!” We are beginning to forget about what our own real power is, and here are those risks. I absolutely do not say that this choice to use a ship, a liner, is wrong. Not at all! It is also politically strategic and right in our case, because in this way we can really achieve something, but it is also important to be aware of our power and work on it in parallel, because otherwise it may turn out that, at a time when the liner suddenly stops or starts moving in the wrong direction, we can only falsify and slip in our powerlessness, as demonstrated by the refugee crisis. Colleagues! It was the most obvious example of how we are able to do so in our foreign policy. At a time when the liner stopped suddenly, we did not understand what we should do, we were unable to answer a basic question about how many refugees we will and what we will do to them for half a year. There is still no answer! And now, as we see, this refugee crisis gives us two lessons. The second lesson we haven't understood. At the moment that the liner took the direction, we suddenly saw that it was moving in the wrong direction. We understood why such a policy, why it is necessary for Germany. Germany is thus addressing its labour problems. What were our hot dogs doing? They simply automatically copy this solution, says: “ Okey, we too! Our integration will be based on our offering them a job here." Colleagues! I have to ask you, What story do you live in?Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, These are people who have paid thousands to come here in Europe, and who perhaps all relatives have collected this money so that they can come here so that they can really find a good place here, build wealth for their family, or perhaps for their whole family. And for such people we offer: “Go to Latvia! There, in the Latvian countryside, you will be able to work on a farm for a hundred euros.” What do you think – such integration will work? It is fundamentally wrong. It is simply fundamentally wrong! And it will have serious consequences. So, colleagues, it is so important that we learn to join this liner. But it is important that we also think about our power. And if we are already talking about the fact that we still have our own foreign policy, there is our own foreign policy power, then here we should talk specifically about specific things that no one but ourselves can deal with... either unable or not ready to solve us instead. For example, the issue of rail tracks to the Rhine, which Lithuanians have demolished so that transit does not pass through. Here is a real foreign policy issue that we should address with our foreign policy! The same sea... The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. V.Spolitis: "This is being done thanks to the European Union!" ) It is dealt with for years and years. Also the question of the sea border with Lithuanians; there we have disputes about possible oil fields. Where is the solution? Okay, let us look at the very recent European Presidency. We're very proud of what we're talking about. Colleagues! But where is one specific project that we have led and implemented for ourselves through this Presidency? All we can boast is how comfortable we have been, how diligent we have been, how diligent we have been for all, how bad we are. That's just what you're thinking. Is that really all we can do in foreign policy – just serve someone? That is also not bad, but I think we should also think about our own interests. Another specific topical, I think, example of where we should play a major role in foreign policy if we realise that the existence of our country, the prosperity of our people, is very much dependent on how we integrate into global processes. We very much like to talk about how we will be part of the New Silk Road, how transit from China and going to the West will come. What, though, have we really done to do so? If we compare it to the same Lithuanians who actually work, who already have a real logistics centre in which the Chinese participate? They have cooperation with the Kazakhs, and they have agreed on everything with Belarus. And what is our foreign policy? So we are dreaming that this transit will take place. But what we say to the same goats who invite us to join them in the EXPO. We say to them, "You know, but we will not come to you." How do you think we will then be able to communicate with the Kazakhs? How will they look at us? Will we really be on their wish list somewhere in the top? I strongly doubt that. Talking about the lessons we should learn from refugees. So we must bear in mind that there may be situations where this liner does not go in that direction or something happens to it, and we must be prepared to do so. So we should also draw conclusions from the refugee training on the other risks. What is involved? What we are seeing is very serious threats and risks on which were rightly pointed and which are linked to the integrity of the European Union. I think we all very much hope that these risks will not occur. But if they do not come back, as was the case with the refugee crisis... Should we not begin to think preventively about this? What is our strategy, what are our solutions to these issues? And maybe we should start looking for some of our peers, so that there will be others who make up the policy that we will then run along and we will try to tell you that we shouldn't do it, that you can see that it'll be bad for us. For, as the wisdom of a people teaches, in which we may soon have to put on, trust in Allah, and put your camel on. That is what we should do. Go on. I accept... Okay, I understand purely humane that doing certain things is much more difficult than talking about some global things. I can put forward one practical proposal that is also topical at global level for the entire liner... No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. It is quite rightly said that one of the greatest threats is global terrorism. Today you can even read news portals – Daesh has announced that it is ready for global terrorist attacks in Europe. I very much hope that this will not involve the acquisition of any new mass weapon technology, and the predictions that we hear, what can happen to Europe, will not be fulfilled. However, if we take into account the fact that the United States has in the meantime launched a programme of assistance to Eastern Europe following the collapse of the Iron Curtain, which helped to fund scientists who are involved in military technology so that they do not enter the global movement of terrorism, then it should be borne in mind that the United States has now ceased the programme. Thus, Minister, perhaps this could be a Latvian initiative that we could initiate and invite partners in Europe to discuss the fact that perhaps it is worth taking over this programme from Europe. And if we see these risks that can actually exist, if we look at what is happening in our east – because of this global situation, because of sanctions, there are real risks because of conflicts. And we know that the economic and political situation will be difficult there, we know what politicians do in economically difficult situations: the first to whom they cut money, these are scientists. This can lead to serious threats, serious risks that such scientists can enter into war to bring about global terrorism, which will be able to offer them a offer that they will not be able to give up. I would call on you to think about it: these are serious risks. In conclusion, perhaps another important aspect. We know that negotiations on the Transatlantic Trade and Investment Partnership Agreement with the United States are coming to an end (whether or not we know at some point). I think it would be very important for all of our future generations to talk about how these genetically modified organisms will circulate. The indications show that its initial plot of commitment to Europe is gradually broken. Perhaps here, too, we should carry our share, initiate it, and prepare ourselves for it in a preventive manner. And perhaps we can still save this situation. Finally, I would like to wish us all peace on earth and people a good mind. ( Interface: ‘ Merry Christmas! ’) ) Thank you. (Applause)
ParlaMint-LV_2016-01-26-PT12-340-U62	Name to Member Juris Villums.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-01-26-PT12-340-U63	Very respectful Speaker of the Saeima! Minister! Excellency! Ladies and gentlemen! First of all, it should be noted that last Thursday, when we looked at the report on national security, there were considerably fewer speakers. It is already true that, over the last two years, we can see that events outside the borders of our country can have a direct impact on the country's internal agenda. The violent change in the borders of Russia's sovereign Ukraine led us to take serious action to strengthen our security structures and to unify a relatively divided society, while the great walk of the peoples in the Mediterranean is causing us to take a worrying look at the very beneficial principles of the open internal borders of Europe. In these circumstances, I would like to expect two things from the foreign services: firstly, a much more pro-active position on these issues and, secondly, a much more active explanation of the current situation and the position of Latvia to our own society. I would like to see a weekly (or at least monthly) explanation from our Embassy in Kiev about what is happening in that country, about the situation in the east of Ukraine and in Crimea. They should be complemented by comments from Latvia and other European Union countries on their position and its changes during the relevant period. The website of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs already shows a good start, but it must be understood that information updated in the weeks back is no longer serious in our time, where it is for several months. There is still huge work to be done on clarifying the content and substance of EU sanctions applied to Russia across society. I am not surprised by the Russian people's lack of awareness of the real causes of sanctions, the lack of awareness of the purpose of sanctions and their methodology, but if I have to listen to the border residents' questions about the reasons why the Latvian Government agrees with the European Union's proposed ban on the sale of food and medicines to Russian citizens, then our explanatory work really is wrong. The issue of refugees in southern and central Europe seems to be even more confused, all the more so because of the lack of official information, the chaotic information and the inability to respond in real time. All of this forms the ideal soil for rumors, half-truths and shameless stories of horror that break social networks on all sides, often using highly dubious content websites as a source of information. By the way, one of them freely advertises on the back of the Riga taxi. We often talk about refugees... often see on social networks stories about refugee violence, but at the same time, we are also... We have to respond to the statistics recently seen in the public media that every third of Latvia's women have been victims of domestic violence. Who is responsible for it? Immigrants, refugees, or Islamics? Maybe someone else? In general, there is the impression that the main task of Latvian diplomacy (like many other countries of the European Union) is to fight for lower “refuge quota” numbers, not to ask entirely legitimate questions about why those poor people are allowed to sit in life-saving bathing facilities in one war-free country, such as Turkey, to go to another war-free country, such as Greece, to cross the official borders of another or two European countries. Similarly, there is a lack of public debate about the ability of our own immediate neighbours to protect their borders. This is the case with the abduction of the Estonian border guard and the information just coming from Finland that the special services of the Russian Federation are involved in the transportation of refugees. While our diplomats and media are busy with the division of several hundred so-called Western refugees, at least half a thousand illegal immigrants are smuggled across our eastern border within a year. But neither the Ministry of Foreign Affairs nor the government as a whole is following any significant action, at least you do not feel it. The caricature just appeared in the press. Mr. Šiūka has drawn a map of Latvia and has marked several nature trails – Teiču, Slītere nature trail and, of course, Vietnami nature trail on the eastern side. And another topic that seems to be more common in Latvia in terms of foreign affairs than in terms of home affairs or national security is – I can let you mention – but... ( Interference from the drug.) It is wrong, Mr. Kaimiņa, that is the area I wanted to pay attention to – it is Latgale. Although the Constitution states that in international treaties the territory of Latvia is made up of Kurzeme, Vidzeme, Zemgale and Latgale, indeed even before the 1918 official meeting in the theatre and the joint photo took place many important events in the regions, the centenaries of which will soon mark just as the anniversary of the state proclamation. The Ministry of Culture, in cooperation with representatives of Latgale Municipality and non-governmental organisations, created a working group, came together, decided, sought ideas, created a summary not only for events of 2018, but also for events of 2017. In addition to the programmes of municipalities and the State Culture Capital Foundation, almost 168 thousand euros were requested from the state budget. When we reviewed this estimate among the Members elected from Latgale, someone allowed me to say that it seemed too modest about such an important anniversary. Now we get the news that the Ministry of Finance also considers this to be too much and does not intend to support the centenary events of Latgale Congress. Will the Latgalians be required to support any gas importer or perhaps any wealthy SRS employee? In order not to have to tell such jokes, the state must finally take serious action towards Latvian regional policy, not just to imitate action in this direction from time to time – this is indeed an important issue of both national security and, I say, international relations. In cross-border cooperation, there have been successful cooperation projects in the field of tourism, culture and sport. However, truly strong administrative regions of Latvia could help the government to build closer cooperation links between the Baltic States and to create an economically favourable environment at the border, where the population in both the Soviet and these 25 years of independence has been catastrophicly reduced due to a lack of state responsible action. The citizens living at the border would be the best border guards. They could best, quickly, report a stranger who is trying to get past there most effectively. Consequently, the development and security of the whole of the European Union and each Member State is based on human beings. Human and related regional policy. If we already have such a wide-ranging debate in the Saeima on national security, on foreign affairs, I think, it would also be truly valuable to hold a separate qualitative discussion on regional policy in the context of Latvia, the Baltic and the whole of Europe. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-01-26-PT12-340-U64	Thank you. The name of the Member is Going to Spolitis.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-01-26-PT12-340-U65	Very respectful Speaker of the Saeima! Colleagues! Excellency! I thank the Minister for Foreign Affairs and the staff of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs for this huge document, which I would also refer to as a very strategic document, because these three main strategic points, in my opinion, are very precisely highlighted and also reflected in the Foreign Minister's speech. So, firstly, if we are talking about NATO presence and what we need to do in the space between Wales and Warsaw. This is about both cyber security, where we have also worked, and how we need to work together with Sweden and Finland to strengthen our security interests. Interestingly, we have literally received indications from the Pentagon over the last few days about the fact that the USA has already earmarked funding in 2017 to be able to provide here a military... Let us call it the technique and other war materials that are necessary for us to be able to carry out an active assurance policy. Secondly, when it comes to a single European Union, it is a stronger European Union. A number of colleagues have already spoken about this, and my colleague Lolita Chigane has also said this very clearly, namely that we need more Europe. And finally, the third strategic point is about a competitive European Union. We have also worked on this during our Presidency, and thank you to all those who put their hand on this very good job! But in addition to this, there is work with the OECD or with the Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development, and now at least in the Saeima commissions, it is very clear that this process of Europeanisation, which began in the early 1990s, is very successful in carrying out and purifying our legislation, Latvia, from the “brother’s policy” slag. What do we hear in this Chamber, especially from the highly respected opposition? We heard analogys with Kisinger's old analogy about... What, then, is the Europe we are calling for? So what number do we call if we want to call Europe? We heard a saying about the world as if it's stagnated... At the same time, it was mentioned that France and Russia have managed to reach an agreement. But forgive me! What, then, did we decide on literally two weeks ago? We decide that our soldiers will participate in Iraqi and Malian missions. These are, in particular, policies which are coordinated with France and other NATO allies. We are working in this area, there is nothing stagnant! We heard about the UN as a zobby-free discussion club. A document on climate change is no useless paper... Look here on the street, remember the green Christmas if you don't know how climate change changes our climate! But if we are talking about documents (I emphasise documents), it should be stressed that all of them have legal force. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. G.Kūrris: “No! It has no legal force!’ ) We here must bear this in mind, in particular, because after 17 June 1940, thanks to the U.S. Department of State and Samner Wales, the policy of non-recognition of our occupation was the basis on which we were able to demand that our independence be restored. It will also work on the climate change document, and it will also work on the policy of non-recognition of Crimean annexation. We heard claims against the common migration policy, although there were contradictions there... Then it was talked about the fact that Latvia is not a player, but is like a player... Here I am not going to repeat what my colleague Atis Lejiņš very clearly said about how we have worked under our Presidency to strengthen the external borders between the European Union and our common borders. We heard criticisms about Ukraine, about the upcoming referendum in the Netherlands. I am sorry, we are seeing very clearly how Moscow is currently running its nose in our European affairs, changing the normal course of this referendum. But I want to remind you... and thank Mr Mežulis and the representatives of the Baltic Assembly who provided... And thank you also to all those who donated to Chernigov's orphanage to make gifts for Christmas. This is how we help Ukraine – in addition to what the government gives. Finally, of course, if we are talking about Ukraine's question or other cases in which assistance is given, we must remember the ancient saying that Riga was not built one day. We cannot want a change in Ukraine on one day, where, unfortunately, for 25 years, the oligarchical clans have been trawling politics. Finally. I think that, when it comes to foreign policy documents, we must look to the future as well, and this document is one that looks to the future if we follow strategic proposals. With regard to strategic settings, this is about where we will live in Europe. And now we, those of course who sit here, can think about what is connected with the New Silk Road, Kazakhstan, Ukraine and other countries, but at the same time we are growing here in Latvia, and the European Union's 27 other Member States by the so-called 'Erasmus' generation: they go to each other's villages, study at universities in other countries and look at the European Union quite differently. To conclude, therefore, let me say that, in my opinion, both the refugee crisis and the crisis in our institutional framework are temporary. The European Union has not only seen this. Let us remember the oil crisis in the early and end of 1970s and the entry of the USSR into Afghanistan! Everyone spoke of horrors in the European Union (which at that time was called the European Community), but in 1986 he was able to adopt the Single European Act, which laid the foundations for the single market. Then followed, of course, by the fall of the annus mirabilis or 1989, the Berlin Wall. Despite these major changes that took place on the European continent, the Maastricht Treaty was concluded in 1993 thanks to the combined efforts of Germany, France and Jacques Delors. From the crisis – to the contract! Just as after the Bosnian War, the Treaty of Amsterdam was concluded in 1997. For the first time, guidelines for a common migration policy were adopted. Unfortunately, because of the position of the German countries, Helmut Cole was unable to establish a common migration policy, and it is now also referring to the events that are taking place here in Europe today. Finally, the Treaty of Nice was adopted after the Kosovo War. Following the 2008 financial crisis, the Treaty of Lisbon was adopted. Throughout every crisis, the European Union remains stronger and is able to tackle its problems. Let's not fool ourselves! Even after this crisis - and I am sure - we will continue to move towards a single European confederation. Thank you. (Applause)
ParlaMint-LV_2016-01-26-PT12-340-U66	Name to Member Artus Neminis.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-01-26-PT12-340-U67	Hello, dear colleagues! Hello, honourable guests! Thank you to Mr Rinkēvičs for the annual report by the Minister of Foreign Affairs on the country's foreign policy. Many things are listed in this report, but it ignores the simple basic issue of taxpayers. In 2016 the Ministry of Foreign Affairs will spend 52 million 558 thousand Latvian taxpayers' money on its activities. How will this amount be spent? What does the Ministry of Foreign Affairs want to achieve? What is the benefit of the objectives set by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs for the taxpayer? Why has the Ministry of Foreign Affairs set these priorities? How do the global risks mentioned by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs affect the Latvian taxpayer? This explanation... This clarification work, Minister, must be done by you. This document is not written to Latvian taxpayers, who have more than 52 million reasons to request clarification on their used resources. Tell me, Minister, why isn't Diaspora a priority? Why is improving services not a priority? Why is addressing refugees not a priority? Mr Rinkēvičs, you are not the Belgian Foreign Minister, you are neither the Russian Foreign Minister, nor you are the German Foreign Minister. Mr. Rinkēvičs, you are the Latvian Foreign Minister! The document defines all other interests except those of Latvia. You and your employer are a Latvian tax payer. The interests of the State are those of the taxpayer. This document does not explain to the taxpayer anything about the foreign policy of the country. And that is very different from what you were talking about here at the very beginning of this troupe, because what you said here would be very happy to see in this report, because this information was very useful. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-01-26-PT12-340-U68	The name of the Member, Martin Bondar.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-01-26-PT12-340-U69	Madam President, Sir, Dear Members! Honourable Members! And I would also like to say, ‘Mr. Kučinskis!’ , but you can't say it at this point, because she's not here. ( Insight: “We will betray! ” ) On reading the annual report by the Minister for Foreign Affairs, I have the feeling that I am reading a letter to my Santa Claus. Edgars Rinkēvičs extorts the past and makes the future not particularly clear. For the extorted year 2015. Most of the time in Edgars Rinkēvičs's report we hear about the very successful Latvian Presidency in the first half of 2015. And it's true! The Latvian Presidency of the European Union was successful in both protocols and technical terms. But, Minister, it is not necessary to mislead Latvian society by saying that Latvia has led... set out the European Union agenda. Latvia has not set the European Union agenda! Moreover, I can say that nobody can believe it, because the Latvian government, which is now the government, is not able to set the agenda in Latvia, where it is still in Europe. And, of course, when you understand the falling rating of your party and your government, you have the need to talk about the Presidency, because it is the only straw to stick to you when it comes to 2015. There is something else that is not mentioned in this report, the 2015 report. Minister, this is about the double morals of your institution... And also for yours. Before the elections, you with foam on your lips... You didn't let three singers from Russia into Latvia, but already in March 2015, one of the closest co-authors of the Russian President – Mr. Jakuņina – came freely to Latvia and moved freely across our country. Despite the fact that in 2014, our allies – the United States – had already included Mr Jakunin in the blacklist! Despite the fact that the European Union wanted to do so in 2015! In turn, it is clear from the backstage that Latvian diplomats and politicians did everything to prevent this person from being included. It is a double morale that before the elections you are telling the singers – no, while the close co-authors of the Russian President – yes! Finally. The biggest accusation to you, however, is about something else – that in 2015 you have not encouraged and led the internal debate on foreign policy processes in Latvia. It hasn't happened. And when you talked about the fact that Latvia was in isolation in September 2015, you blamed the Union of Greens and Farmers... and you blamed the National Association that it had led Latvia into this isolation, then in principle you should look in the mirror, because you have led in this isolation because the internal political debate on asylum seekers' issues is not ever driven by you. I'm sorry. Not on your side! And that has also led to a crisis. The National Association is very clear about its elites, the Union of Greens and Farmers evaluates the sociological data very accurately... If they see in sociology that the reception of asylum seekers is not popular, then, of course, they take an appropriate political stance. And if you're not trying to do anything about this, then it's really a problem. It must be enough for the past at this point. I would also like to say one word about the uncertain future. One compliment to you, Mr Rinkēvičs, is that in terms of security policy everything is clear enough in this report and there is nothing to add. So – the presence of allies in our country and, of course, closer cooperation between the Baltic States, closer cooperation with Finland, Sweden. There's nothing to say. However, in 2016 Latvia's agenda will be determined by the European Agenda for 2016. And in 2016, there are five very clear issues in Europe. Question number one – these are asylum seekers. Number two: this is the future of the Schengen area. Number three is the fight against terrorism. Number four is the British referendum on staying or leaving the European Union. And the number five is the economic growth of the European Union. In this five-question block, the foreign policy report, your report, Minister, is unclear. If we are talking about asylum seekers, Latvia says: no, we do not. If we are talking about the future of the Schengen area: yes, we want it. If we are talking about combating terrorism: let us support it. For Britain in the European Union: let it stay. No, I need you to stay. And for economic growth: let them grow! That is what is found in the report. I'm sorry. For asylum seekers, if we are talking, then what do we now see in Europe? Firstly, the fact that very many people are on their way to Europe at this point. In the first two weeks of the year, no fewer than 35 000 asylum seekers have been in influx in Europe. It's more than any other year before. Secondly. More people will probably be forced to leave their homes – from the Himalayas to Africa, where various geopolitical processes, negative geopolitical processes are taking place, and these people will be on their way to Europe. Thirdly. The ability to receive asylum seekers in Europe has reached a limit. And finally, in some European countries or, to be precise, in all European countries, the desire to look for local rather than collective solutions will be reinforced. At the moment, it is very difficult to talk about unity and solidarity, at the same time, in general for asylum seekers – no! It just doesn't live in one jar or live on one page, Minister! I understand that you can try to present it to Latvian society in this way, but sooner or later such a policy is going through a crah. On the Schengen area. I think that we do not have any disagreement about the fact that we would like the Schengen area to remain in this form or form. But it seems to me that in 2016 we can experience even more restrictions than has been the case so far. And about the United Kingdom. That is our chance. The four questions put by the British Prime Minister, which he would like to see... To a certain extent – the concessions of Brussels – this is an opportunity for us in at least one section. And its chapter relates to the fact that the British Prime Minister wants people coming from Central and Eastern European countries not to receive social benefits for the first five or the first four years. This is understandable, because the stress it causes for the British social system is... They are unable to accumulate this stress in any way and to deal with it in no way. The British Prime Minister therefore says: "Yes, we are in favour of the free movement of labour, but no social benefits are due to these people." So this issue of the migration process in Europe is made legitimate, worthy of debate. And here we are interested. We are interested in not to continue to give the rich countries of the European Union actually, investing in people's education, health, the infrastructure they use, without getting back anything. This is our opportunity to debate it. But this option will only be possible until May, when the British Prime Minister hopes to close the other three points in his relations with the European Union, which, of course, is, above all, an increase in competitiveness in Europe, and this is linked to the issue of the European Union as a multi-currency union rather than a euro area union, and, finally, it is a question of the Member States not continuing to reduce sovereignty by transferring more and more rights to Brussels at any moment. These are issues where there should be a clear position. In this document, which I am reading, I do not see anything like that. And that's not right. Could I have two more minutes, Madam President?
ParlaMint-LV_2016-01-26-PT12-340-U70	Do Members have objections? ( Intercretion from the Hall: “Let it speak! ” ; dep. A.Loskutov: “Let it sing!” ) Thank you. Keep going!
ParlaMint-LV_2016-01-26-PT12-340-U71	Finally, I would like to touch at the very end on the question of expanding the economic space, about our growth in Latvia. Minister! You mentioned that accession to the OECD will contribute to an increase in investment. I fully agree with you that accession to the OECD is important, but, of course, the increase in investment will not be driven by accession to the OECD. The increase in investment will be facilitated by the Latvian legal environment, the increase in investment will be facilitated by good governance in Latvia and how we will be able to ensure adequate costs for our entrepreneurs and less bureaucracy. These are foundations for an increase in investment, not for joining the OECD. You don't have to deceive Latvian society, because it's getting bad results in the long term! Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-01-26-PT12-340-U72	Thank you. The name to Member Richard Cole, for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-01-26-PT12-340-U73	Madam President, The Minister replied on external economic policy, but did not provide an answer where this policy is available, where it can be consulted. And the absence of such a policy, however, raises questions, gives rise to doubt that the businessmen, as the Minister says, are satisfied with the whole process. Well, that's not true! In fact, the greatest dissatisfaction with the functioning of the existing government comes from the business environment. For a variety of areas, including export opportunities, for acquiring new markets... What you said about learning 19 new markets... opening... Opening up is one thing. This is the status quo situation. But there is the question: how do we increase our turnover in relation to this balance sheet? And your reference to these successful markets is not the result of a systematically implemented policy, but a response to the crisis. Of course, it is good that we are able to respond so quickly to the challenges, but a country that wants to develop successfully in the long term needs a clear long-term policy. There is no such thing at present. There is a lack of clear guidelines at national level for all institutions involved in investment and maintenance – the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, the Ministry of Economics, the Ministry of Transport, the Ministry of Finance, the Ministry of Environmental Protection and Regional Development, and so on. The non-involvement of municipalities, as well as of less important institutions, in attracting investment, is particularly acute. In this regard, it should be mentioned the Competition Council, Public Procurement Office, State Revenue Service, which should continue working on Latvia as an attractive and safe environment for investment. And finally. I think you should take these calls more seriously. I am not questioning your status quo position as coordinator of the Council for the Coordination of Foreign Economic Policy, but what I have said is more than pragmatic proposals on what should be done to this Council in the future. It would be necessary to establish common inter-institutional guidelines on priority investment objects in Latvia, as well as to identify country priority export orientations, creating a transparent and coordinated policy in which all institutions involved in investment and economy cooperate. It is more a call than a finger bacter. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-01-26-PT12-340-U74	Name to Member Sergey Dolgopolov.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-01-26-PT12-340-U75	Dear colleagues, Dear guests with special thanks for endurance and patience! I would not want to talk about what has been done, because its assessment depends on the one on which the evaluator is sitting – the position or opposition. The content of the valuation also depends on this. I would like to talk about what needs to be done in the report, in the Prime Minister's speech. Naturally, as last year, there are three major threats: Russia, international terrorism and refugees. I would also be present at the fourth – Europe – and not just Europe! – the political elite has known a rather serious depletion that prevents making not only unified but also understandable and reasonable decisions. As far as the work to be done is concerned, it seems to me that there should be a more specific talk here about the problems that really need to be addressed. The Minister had even said that Britain was preparing for a referendum. Yeah, really, that's it. It is really important to stick to the slogan “United in Diversity”. But I think we should tell you what of the demands made by Britain, those made by the European Commission, those made by Britain, those made by the United Kingdom, which are supported by Latvia with both hands, which are supported by one hand and which are to be rejected? Where will we stand as a rock to preserve the unity of the European Union? The second question. It is about extending the visa-free regime to other countries. Is this the only way out of the crisis that the Schengen area is going through in everything related to refugee problems and other matters? Maybe there are other recipes too? Let us say, visa facilitation or other attempts to resolve this matter. The third issue, which is naturally not this year's issue, is a matter of this year's process – it is a question of enlargement of the European Union. Already now, as we know, there are two groups of countries in Europe with two speeds of development. In the event of enlargement, the third group will join at the third speed. How is it prepared and able to withstand the European Union's budget? How are we prepared ourselves or are not prepared to accept that the same funds that come from the European Union will shrink? But maybe it's going to drop more than salt... To what extent and to what extent? All these are issues that need not only to be considered but also to be discussed and accounted for. The next item is the Transatlantic Trade and Investment Partnership Agreement. We are talking about genetically modified food commodities, we are talking about standards. Are we talking about the Euro-dollar exchange rate relationship and how it affects import and export relations between the European Union and the United States? How are comparable and how are tax matters between the European Union and the United States of America compatible, which are very different, and which will also have a great impact on these matters, which I have just said about? All these things must be discussed in sufficient detail when planning foreign policy activities in the context of 2016. And the last thing I wanted to say at the end. One technical remark – I have already spoken about it once. We have an extremely large diplomatic (and not only) apparatus in Brussels. But I would very much like to see a strengthening of the coordinating role of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, so that we do not turn out every time a new directive or an amendment to the European Union appears and we are immediately forced to adopt appropriate amendments to several laws of the Republic of Latvia. It seems to me that the heavy procedures that exist in the European Union when adopting the directives themselves and amending them also help to coordinate and take the relevant decisions in good time. I wish the Ministry of Foreign Affairs every success, including the existing and future Minister of Foreign Affairs, so that these problems can be tackled. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-01-26-PT12-340-U76	Thank you. I closed the debate. Does the Minister of Foreign Affairs want to add something?
ParlaMint-LV_2016-01-26-PT12-340-U77	Yes, thank you, very honourable Speaker of the Saeima. Some answers and in accordance with the Rules of Procedure – also the final words. In my opinion, especially in this second part, it became clear what was... Since I have already had the fifth foreign debate, it is clear from the very first I have taken part in, that often, when it comes to foreign affairs, we believe in some way that we are talking about all things, and so in some ways, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs could be referred to as the ministry of all things in the context of this debate. I completely agree with those who say that we need to build, as Mr Zarina said, an integrated offer and an integrated policy in relation to, for example, the New Silk Road, transit and everything else. However, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs has already pointed out a hundred times to both industry and colleagues that, in order to promote such an integrated offer and competitiveness, we need a wider range of institutions working on it. We need to talk about tariffs, we need to talk about various types of measures, which, in fact, are both private business and public administration. And that's what we're working on. It was mentioned about EXPO 2017 and, in a way, Mr. Kola is still worried about this advice... Obviously, you will have to be invited to a sitting. But I can say – yes, there was a view that Latvian taxpayers regarding EXPO... that neither Milan nor Astana should spend their money. We succeeded in working with both the Employers' Confederation of Latvia and the Latvian Chamber of Commerce and Industry in particular to achieve Latvia's participation, and for the first time we are going on such a certain experimental route that in fact entrepreneurs themselves will pay for it. Is that good or bad? We can discuss it. But it is also, to a large extent, an innovative contribution. Well, in view of what I said – that the Ministry of Foreign Affairs is responsible for everything – I even started to feel that I have to start paying attention to what is happening in Latvia. Although, in real time, our service cannot do this. I understand, Mr Viļuma, its concerns, and I fully support the view that, unfortunately, there are informative "holes" in several places in the regions of Latvia, and I would even say so. But here, of course, we would also like to see the involvement of institutions that have long been responsible for preparing the appropriate budget and solving the problems involved. Well, and of course I could not say in any way that the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of Latvia would be responsible for violence against women in Latvia. It would probably be a little exaggerated, but I almost have to understand from that your speech. I fully agree that its disinformation, its actions, which are often carried out in connection with very serious problems, are, by nature, more or less contributed to very, very, very bad trends. And, of course, to a large extent politicians, who often also participate in discussions in both public and private media and social networks, also have to understand their responsibilities, often re-publicising unverified different types of information. Mr President, thank you for the compliment that this was better than the report. The report and the speech are, in fact, a traditionally unified document... a single package. In the report, we are marking a little wider, but this is an emphasis. However, this report cannot in any way be an explanation of the budget. We debated the budget last year. I would be happy to explain that or another position, but I would just like to say that the budget of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of Latvia is not the largest one, but we are doing our best to provide assistance to our citizens, whether they are the people of the Diaspora or those who are facing various problems, and to support our business as well as to fight for the security of our country. And I can only admire and say thank you to my fellow diplomats, who are really doing a fantastic job in very, very difficult circumstances. I think that Mr Bondara and I can keep everyone in mind about the success of the Latvian Presidency. I have spoken quite a lot about the course of the Presidency. I have also spoken a lot about those issues that I believe have been not only strategic but also those on which, for example, even on the last day of the Latvian Presidency, we have managed to achieve a solution that is favourable to both Latvian citizens and citizens throughout Europe (even though in mobile and internet roaming matters). So we have something to be proud of, but now, of course, the fate of the opposition is to criticise what we also understand. At the same time, however, I would like to recall two things. We are coming to this debate every January, so to say that we do not despise some kind of negotiation - even though it is even set out in the parliamentary roll of order - would be quite wrong. I also think that, in a way, you have even rightly said some of the priorities that we talked about here. I also fully agree that we need to work hard on the issues raised by Britain, but we also need to remember a number of things. For example, if we really agree with the suggestion that the non-euro area countries should have sufficient opportunity to be present on matters discussed by the euro area countries, or if we are talking about the free movement of labour, at the same time, we cannot agree with the fact that our people in Britain are in any way suddenly discriminated against... So we will continue to work here. The quotas are talking about. However, I would like to remind you once again of what did not sound like that. As regards quota policy, the first position of the Latvian Government has been very clear, and it should not really mislead the public, for which you are concerned. From the first day we said that we were strongly against the mandatory distribution mechanism for refugees or immigration, since the first day, during our Presidency, when the Commission came with these proposals. At the same time, we also said, and there was a very difficult discussion here that, in the name of solidarity, we are ready to participate in the redistribution of a certain number of people. But if other conditions, on which there is a lot of debate here, are not met, then we will be opposed. This action has therefore been sufficiently consistent. And finally on the increase in investment. I would like to say that the OECD will itself contribute to an increase in investment, because membership of this organisation will address a whole series of issues relating to the environmental management of economic operators. I already mentioned it here. Firstly, the fight against corruption. Secondly, these are issues that affect better governance of public capital companies. This is a problem associated with our financial sector. And we know we have a lot to do here, too. Since in itself the process of preparation is something that will contribute to an increase in the environment for our entrepreneurs. Mr Cole, I think we could continue this discussion time. It would not be wise to come back to the questions again. But I want, however, to fully agree with one statement that you said. It is absolutely true that investment requires an orderly business environment. Among other things, those issues for which the Ministry of Justice is directly responsible and where there are problems. In our international ratings, as well as, let us say, the range of issues on which we are continuing to work together. And yet... Yes, we probably have a number of areas of shared responsibility, and this must be taken into account. For example, together with the Ministry of Economic Affairs, we are working quite closely on attracting investment to promote external economic relations. The Ministry of Foreign Affairs is more active in external trade policy. Together with the Ministry of Culture and Education, beside the policy of the Diaspora. I think that this cooperation has been good enough. At the same time, we have always been open to any discussion about what else could be done for the benefit of the matter. Thank you to Mr Dolgopolova for the wishes that we should do, as we should. Here too, the Transatlantic Trade and Investment Partnership Agreement was discussed. If I am not mistaken, Mr. Zarins talked about some standards that could be reviewed or where there could be concessions. I can only say that these negotiations are difficult, they are continuing. And now there are a number of issues in the format of the Minister for Foreign Trade of the European Union – genetically modified food, as well as other issues on which, of course, negotiations are hard and where not only Latvia, but many countries are not ready for compromises. In conclusion, I would like to thank my colleagues and those colleagues in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, who have worked a great deal last year, and have also worked on this particular report. I would also like to thank my colleagues here in the Saeima for these discussions, for criticism, for advice, for recommendations. And, as I said, much of the country's foreign policy is formed from many different mosaic elements, from the successful cooperation of many and different institutions. Therefore, I would like to say that in the next period, by January next year, until the next debate, we have to bear in mind that our country will have a great deal of challenges and will have to react very, very quickly and sometimes also in a flexible way. I would therefore very much like to hope that our successful cooperation – the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, the Government's cooperation with Parliament and with the parliamentary commissions (I must, of course, address in particular the Foreign Affairs Commission and the European Affairs Commission) – will continue in the same good and constructive atmosphere and that together we will be able to ensure both national security and economic growth, as well as, of course, to strengthen the foundations that we are at - part of the Euro-Atlantic society. Thank you very much for your attention. (Applause)
ParlaMint-LV_2016-01-26-PT12-340-U78	I thank Foreign Minister Edgars Rinkēvičs for his report and for his extensive comments. Consequently, the Foreign Minister's annual report on the progress made and the planned activities of the country's foreign policy and of the European Union must be considered. Please call me! Please check-in mode for Members! Please get the result! Name Member of the Saeima, Gunars Kūtris, to read the results of the registration.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-01-26-PT12-340-U79	Dear colleagues, Not registered at the moment: Aldis Adamovičs, Ringolds Balodis, Guntis Belēvičs, Andris Berzins, Boriss Cilevičs, Raivis Dzintars, Rihards Eigims, Andrejs Elksniņš, Guntis Kalniņš, Jānis Kžads, Nellija Kleinberga, Armands Krauze, Maris Kučinskis, Vilnis Ķirsis, Inese Laizāne, Inese Lībiņa-Egnere, Ainārs Mežulis, Sergejs Mirskis, Ināra Mūrniece... is, Nikitta Nikiforovs, Imants Krādnieks, Artis Rasmanis, Silvija Šimfas, Juris Vectirāns, Ivars Zarins and Mihail Zemlinskis.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-01-26-PT12-340-U80	Thank you. I closed the extraordinary sitting of the Saeima.
