ParlaMint-LV_2016-03-31-PT12-356-U1	Good morning, honourable Members! I invite you to take seats in Saeima's meeting room. Let's start the extraordinary sitting of the Saeima on 31 March 2016. On the agenda is the report by the Bureau on the proposal for an own-initiative opinion, the draft decision entitled 'On Members of the Ukrainian Parliament and Air Force pilots Nadiya Savchenko'. This own-initiative proposal has been submitted by the Foreign Affairs Commission. Are Members opposed to examining this own-initiative proposal? Members have reservations. We must therefore decide to put this own-initiative proposal on the agenda for the next sitting. The inclusion of this draft decision on the agenda of the next plenary session is an opportunity for one Member to speak in favour, one against. Members have not applied. Please call me! We will vote for the inclusion of the Saeima's draft decision “On the agenda of the next ordinary sitting of the Seimas Members of the Ukrainian Parliament and Air Force Pilot Nadiy Savchenko”! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 64, for - no, for - 19. Consequently, a decision has been taken. So the draft decision “On Members of the Ukrainian Parliament and Air Force Pilots Nady Savchenko” will be discussed at the next meeting, which was announced today at 9.00. Thank you. The agenda for the extraordinary sitting of the Saeima has therefore been examined. Please call me! Please register the Members! Please get the result! Name to read the registration results to the Secretary of the Saeima Andrejs Klementyev as soon as the registration results have been prepared.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-03-31-PT12-356-U2	Good morning, honourable Members! Not registered: Inga Bite... I don't see, Boris Cylevich... No, Int Dalder... I can't see, Raivis Dzintars... No, John Crowd... I don't see... Thank you, I see, yes. Thank you. That's it. Gunar Curry... No, Roman Mežeckis... No, Vladimir Niconov... No, Arvīd Platoper... I can't see, Julia Stepanenko... No, Inguna Silver... I don't, Sylvia Schiffe... No, Victor Valainis... Thank you. That's it.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-03-31-PT12-356-U3	Thank you. I closed the extraordinary sitting of the Saeima.
