ParlaMint-LV_2016-02-11-PT12-345-U1	Dear colleagues, I invite you to take seats in Saeima's meeting room! We started the extraordinary sitting of the Saeima on 11 February 2016. Colleagues, please, take your seats in Saeima's meeting room! On the agenda is the draft decision “On Expression of Trust to the Cabinet of Ministers”. Name for Prime Minister's candidate Mr. Maris Kučinskis.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-02-11-PT12-345-U2	Dear President of the Saeima. Honourable Members and Members! Excellency! Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to begin by expressing my gratitude to the President of Latvia for the honour and trust I have shown by calling for the creation of a government. I wish the President of Latvia a quicker recovery and hope that our cooperation will be successful and will serve the prosperity of Latvia. I do not intend to strongly criticise the previous government and even immediately apply for rapid revolutionary changes. Our country does not need shocks at the moment. Latvia needs clear, well-planned and quickly implemented reforms in several sectors. We must not allow the words “stability” or “stagnation” to be used when describing the situation in Latvia. Paradoxically, reforms in education, health, the economy and in other areas have been discussed for years, but no decision is taken. This shows that the executive has lack of political will or perhaps the ability to make bold and at the same time urgently needed decisions. As a result, we are delaying - we are delaying as a state, stuck in bureaucratic detail and wanting all to live up to it. By not taking decisions, we reduce our international competitiveness, promote the departure of Latvian citizens and thus the depopulation of entire municipalities. We are just watching and passively promoting the disintegration of the foundations of our country. However, this is not a criticism of the government led by Laimdotas Straujuma. Definitely not. The causes of the problem are much earlier. This happened when the coalition parties first agreed on the allocation of executive powers or ministries and isolated them from each other. As a result, the government’s common objectives remained unachievable. The highest point in this feudal model was the call for the parties “to awaken their minister’s beasts fighting for the budget”. That is, the government as a political legional arena, not a team working for common goals. The government must be a team working across society, not for the benefit of different political elites more or less closely related to interest groups. Honourable Members! Usually there was no tradition in Latvian politics of thanking the outgoing government, but I would like to express my sincere thanks to Laimdota Straujuma! Thank you for her courage, for your commitment. Thank you for your sense of humanity and your sense of duty. You can learn from her. (Applause) Honourable Members! The declaration by the future government defines five priorities: economic strengthening, state security, national identity, reforms in education and science, and reforms in health care. These priorities cannot be arranged hierarchically, saying that one of them is the first and one - the fifth. No, no! Success in one area depends on what happens in the other or in the third. Progress in the economy can be discussed when we are sure of successful reforms in education, demographics, and health care. We must also be sure of the security of the country. Security is and will be the cornerstone of our government's policy. The government that I manage is not going to fill ministerial posts, the government's aim is to demonstrate faster economic growth, reforms in the education and health sector. These are things that, to put it, boiling lies on the government table. They should not be put aside, pretending to be more important. Not anymore. Honourable Members! The declaration signed by all coalition partners does not offer to focus on the interests of certain sectors, or ministries, but on the common goal, which must not be a monopoly of one ministry. I know that this offer is significantly different from the model of relations between coalition parties that have existed in Latvia for more than twenty years. By fighting each other, we are losing our own political capacity and amplifying voters' nihilism in relation to parties. Honourable Members! The challenge of demographic change can only be solved through the prism of economic development. Benefits are important, and yet there must be an environment that makes a person feel stable and able to predict the future of his family in the long term. Housing, competitive wage, accessible infrastructure, educational opportunities, health and safety. This is like one abstract, but at the same time, real family and our government's priorities coincide. A little bit about education. The demographic situation is a cruel advisor. Latvia cannot afford the ratio of teachers to the number of pupils 1 : 3. We don't have any resources. The exit is the optimisation of the school network. In addition to this, the state, together with municipalities, must provide children with the opportunity to attend primary school as close as possible to their home, as well as safe transportation to further educational institutions. Honourable Members! That is how I could analyse the sector by industry, but I do not think it is worth doing, because many things that need to be done urgently are well known to all of you. There is a government declaration, there are ministers, there are works. I want this government to be afraid of unfulfilled promises and unfulfilled things. I look forward to the courage of coalition partners - Unity, National Alliance, Greens/Farmers' Union - to being in this government! You're on your own, too! The opposition, we know and appreciate that you're there. I call on the Saeima to support the new government! Thank you. (Applause)
ParlaMint-LV_2016-02-11-PT12-345-U3	Thank you. Let us start a debate. The name is Mr. Wallary Ageshin.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-02-11-PT12-345-U4	Dear colleagues, The fall of the government of Laimdota Straujuma was predictable and natural, as the Prime Minister, in fact, even before the fall of the Cabinet of Ministers, did not really lead it. In any case, the optimism played by some members of the government and the sufferings of other ministers were obvious. The partners didn't work. They were suffering. Unfulfilled promises to reduce tax rates and spontaneous introduction of new taxes, sale of Citadele bank, situation around airBaltic, endless story about purchase of passenger trains, weak, unclear and passive position of the government on the issue of the company AS KV Liepājas metalurgs, reform of the salary model of teachers, chaos in the area of health care, persistent uncertainty about the insulation programme of apartment houses and regulations of renovation of houses, empty reviews of ministers with only one aim of reminding about themselves, as well as violation of laws and procedures in parliament, inconceivable pride in attitude towards citizens of their country, intrigues and scandals - all this became a sign of the political company in power. But one of the main achievements of Mrs Straujuma's government seems to have been raising ministers' salaries on the day of the teachers' strike. This scandalous list can be continued for a long time. After all, when you look at the hours of activity of some officials in Parliament and in the government, Ostaps Benders comes to mind, who knew 400 relatively honest ways to take money away from the people. On the other hand, certain members of the coalition are so confident of their righteousness and impunity and convinced about some of the voters, they are so out of the reality that they believe that there is no threat to the inalienability of the loving political elite. The process of making a coalition, which was closely related to various rumours and imaginatives, even if very much wanted, is difficult to call a success story because it is rotten to the foundations. A lot of unexpected and absolutely unrealistic candidates have jumped out of the cullars over the last two months as rabbits from a cylinder of a magic artist. This government will be neither better nor worse than the previous one. It's the same government that's like a broken and unsuccessfully glued cup. Because nothing has changed, except certain personalities. It is still the same discrediting coalition. Positive changes can be achieved if coalition partners no longer think about their convenience and struggle for positions, but think about people and our country, Latvia. However, for the time being, it is difficult to imagine this because the right-wing parties are not prepared to give up their benefits from the ministries that have been monitoring them. In any case, at least not before the next elections. At the moment, there is no reason why the government of the candidate for Prime Minister Maris Kučinskis should be supported. Thank you for your attention. ( A PASSENGER’S ANSWER.)
ParlaMint-LV_2016-02-11-PT12-345-U5	The name of the Member, Martin Bondar. ( across the line: “Don’t wear the shoes out! ” ) Council Regulation (EC) No 1257/96 of 20 June 1996 concerning humanitarian aid (OJ L 163, 2.7.1996, p. 1).
ParlaMint-LV_2016-02-11-PT12-345-U6	Colleagues! Colleagues Maris Kučinskis entered Latvia's policy under the auspices of Andris Šķēle - Andris Šķēle imported Maris Kučinski into Latvia's policy. Then, Maris Kučinskis continued his career. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. A.Barča: “What, what!” ) But for several years now, Maris Kučinskis has been shadowing Aivars Lembergs. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. A.Barča: “Or my day!” ) And there is no indication that Maris Kučinskis is able to stand on his feet. And I will say even more: since the day it was said that Maris Kučinskis is a prime minister, the political cemetery has started to play its part. Such characters as Kārlis Leiškalns and his likes are very excited and tell us that this politician should be elected as Prime Minister of Latvia. Yesterday... Colleagues, as you all know, yesterday was Shadow Day, and young people from various schools in Latvia asked me, “What is Maris Kučinskis?” Good question: who's Maris Kučinskis? The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. A.Loskutov: “What is Mārtiņš Bondars?” ) The only proposal I can remember about which Mr Kučinski has joined this Saeima, or over the last one and a half years, is the creation of a children's square in the Greens in Liepaja. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. A.Loskutov: “Tolerance!” ) (I guess there will soon be opened a plaque: “The children’s square named after Prime Minister Maris Kučinskis.” ) It is not a proposal worthy of the Prime Minister! You, Mr Kučinski, did not have proposals worthy of the Prime Minister during this Saeima. But it could not be said that you have never raised questions in your political career that affect Latvia's life as a whole and affect the presence of a Prime Minister. Everyone in Latvia speaks of those three years and calls them Aigars Kalvitis the three years, but forget to mention that Aigars Kalvitis was only the head of government. But Maris Kučinskis was the leader of the People's Party Group - the man who provided all the votes in the Saeima for these three years to be. Another heroic act of Kalvitis-Kuchinskis is related to the area of national security, when the government drafted amendments to the National Security Law that were not notified to the National Security Council, did not consult with our allies in NATO and, as a result, lost its referendum on these security laws. Maris Kučinskis was the person who organised this process in the Saeima - these outlawed and irresponsible amendments. That is why I ask you, colleagues, to think very carefully about whether Latvia needs a prime minister who represents an out-of-court and irresponsible time in Latvia's politics, or whether there is a prime minister who knows what and how to do it and who is able to do it. ( Interface: “Mārtiņš Bondars! ” ) Maris Kučinskis has not shown any interest in economic issues or national security issues during this one and a half year. Colleagues, until recently there was a debate in the Saeima about Latvia's foreign policy - where was Maris Kučinskis? He was hiding because he's scared of foreign policy. ( Internoint.) It's laughter.) He's scared! The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. A.Barch: “Oh this?Oh, no, no, no, ") I understand, honourable members of the coalition, you will certainly vote in favour of Mari Kučinski. And there's one reason. Because Maris Kučinskis doesn't forget his own. Look at this prison in Liepaja, Mrs. Barch! Concert hall in Ventspils, Mrs. Ozola, right? And I can tell you more! I can tell you even more: on 26 May 2011, Maris Kučinskis was one of those Members - one of those seven Members! - who voted against the search in Ainars Shlesser's apartment. It symbolizes his rule of law. ( The ring of noise.) If you have problems with law enforcement agencies, Maris Kučinskis will help you. It will certainly help! The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. A.Barča: “Stop getting started!” ) But for the rest of Latvia I recommend to wait until 2018, because no change is expected. Thank you, colleagues. ( A round of the LRA fraction.)
ParlaMint-LV_2016-02-11-PT12-345-U7	Name of Member Inguna Silver.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-02-11-PT12-345-U8	High honourable Members! The declaration made by the government made by Maris Kučinska states (I quote): “In implementing the work of the government, dialogue with society is important, emphasising the important role and shared responsibility of every Latvian citizen in the development of the country. Reforms bring change and a new reality, so society must be involved in their implementation and be made aware of the benefits. This must strengthen the ability of the government to address the public." I must admit that this is the right setting. Indeed, the government needs to talk to the public more and more clearly. Perhaps, too, the writers of the declaration still remember how reluctantly and inconveniently the previous government and its constituent parties spoke to the public, and which ended up coming. Unfortunately, at the time the government was formed, no dialogue with the public has happened: the opinion of the public and its representatives on the government's tasks and on its desired composition has not been clarified. This time it was not even attempted to establish a dialogue with opposition parties, which, however, represents a certain part of society. More! The cooperation agreement provides for the establishment of a dialogue on the basis of, for example: ‘Without prior coordination in the Cooperation Council, do not support draft laws if they are submitted by the opposition’. And: ‘Do not propose that Members put questions to the Prime Minister or Minister unless the answer to the question in the form of an application is received.’ So you have to ask: does this really mean that the government expects to improve communication? It seems from the side at all that the new government is already tired of communication, because the forces have been given up a lot, both within parties fighting for positions, and by sliding and pulling chairs from one party to another; moreover, there has been a heavy chair of the Minister of Transport between these chairs, whose movement and attempts to keep them in their old place were made by both the ZZS and the distributed Unity. And as a result... Think of what has become more understandable to someone who is not involved in the allocation of chairs, why and in what name did this engagement take place? That is why the first thing I want to wish is to be fulfilled: the ability of the government to address the public needs to be strengthened. I do not want to call into question all the really good intentions recorded in the government declaration. ‘ Indeed, Latvia appreciates that the declaration has tried to link with the results of the National Development Plan and the performance indicators even foreseen for certain tasks. Undoubtedly, this is a very courageous step. The public and the opposition, when this government ends its work, will have the opportunity to assess more accurately what has been achieved, as well as what has been promised, but not what has been achieved. Unfortunately, there have been too few forces or knowledge, mainly in the first chapters, but the number of performance indicators as well as the measures to be measured will fall at the end of the declaration. Unfortunately, there was a lack of strength in priority areas such as demographics and health. And without beautiful phrases than any other here, there is no real commitment to improving the situation. In our view, the declaration does not make it clear what the whole Latvian society is waiting for: what is the agreement of three parties on what will happen to refugees. Whether the policy on the reception of refugees undertaken by the Unity will be pursued. The following wording (and I quote again) can be widely considered: “Being respectful of the decisions already taken by the Latvian government within the framework of the solidarity mechanism of the European Union, let us implement their practical implementation, taking care of the significant reduction of the risks and negative consequences of immigration.” This represents another compromise, not a clear government policy. There is no mention of a Category of “no” reception for new refugees. Above all, however, it is difficult to believe that this government will be able to implement what is written in the declaration. Tell me, why would the same ministers who did not deal with their responsibilities in the previous government now prove to be more capable and powerful? What has happened that will enable the health minister to eliminate patient lines on investigations and lines with specialists? In the past, however, they only increased. Why should the Minister of Justice finally take seriously the work of insolvency administrators? And will the former Minister of Finance, who was unable to draw up an acceptable budget and whose activities were evaluated negatively by business organisations, be able to manage the Ministry of Welfare successfully? Will it be possible to provide older people with decent pensions and to have children born again? Will a minister who is unable to communicate with businessmen suddenly be able to establish a constructive, interested and respectful dialogue with pensioners, large families, people with special needs? And why would a former Minister of Welfare, who is dependent on Unity, manage to prevent the eternal threat of airBaltic bankruptcy, find money for purchasing passenger trains instead of European money that has been lost in the past, eliminate pits on the roads and ensure that Rail Baltica's project is implemented at the planned time and without scandals? ‘ From the heart to Latvia” sees no arguments why this government could do better than the previous almost identical government - Laimdota Straujuma government? Just because Straujuma is now replaced by Kučinski, and Seile by Shadurski? Will ministers ’ handicrafts from one ministry to another in the weak bodies of the government? I don't think so. This was not expected even in Soviet times. The ministers, who did not wear, were then reduced, for example, to museum directors. There was no concept, but at least a smaller number of employees had to suffer. If this government succeeds, let us say, two thirds of the promises contained in the declaration, then such success will enter the history of Latvia as the so-called miracle of the 36th Brīvības Street. Yet, miracles rarely occur in life. Rather, a prophetic statement by an asparagus that any government is a temporary government will appear. This government encodes a whole ball of contradiction that will sooner or later appear to the public. Both here in the hall, someone is sitting here again, keeping the fingers crumbled; and someone will be looking again for an opportunity to hold a government restart. That is why the Saeima's Heart for Latvia cannot support the government of Māra Kučinska and will vote against it. Thank you for your attention. ( The philosophies of the NSL fraction.)
ParlaMint-LV_2016-02-11-PT12-345-U9	Name to Member John Ruck.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-02-11-PT12-345-U10	Dear President of the Saeima. Madam Prime Minister, Dear colleagues and honourable colleagues. I wish the driver Māra Kučinska another government, because it is difficult to describe it as a new one, both in terms of the composition of the proposed ministerial candidates and in terms of the priorities set out in the government declaration. For the sake of fairness, however, it has to be said that the declaration by this future government, although it does not lack the words ‘let’, ‘Let’, ‘Let’, ‘Let’, the list of tasks of the government is more specific than that of the declaration by the government of Laimdota Straujuma, which was adopted in November 2014. There is a saying in the people: “Wolf throws a hair, but virtue doesn’t.” Therefore, the particular candidates for ministerial post who took a direct part in the preparation of the national budget for 2016 and their accompanying draft laws, but who did not take into account the criticisms of their colleagues in the Saeima, nor the objections of the social partners (for example, the Latvian Chamber of Commerce and Industry and the Latvian Employers' Confederation in the field of tax policy), will suddenly be able to change their working style and to comply with the declaration: “Let us, together with social and cooperation partners, develop a balanced and predictable tax policy...” According to the very words of the government maker in the press, the process of drawing up the government declaration has been hampered by the question of receiving additional refugees. But has the asylum-seekers’ status been resolved? Formally, yes. However, I see that the problem is simply directed to the back of the municipalities. For example, the Rozai Regional Court for the Afghan boy is looking for adoptive parents, because a teenager who is currently living in Muceniki and who has been granted refugee status will have to leave the asylum seeker accommodation centre in Muceniki. If the adoptive parents are not found, the boy will reach the orphanage, where the cost of a teenager’s stay will have to be borne by the county of Rozau from his budget. I have a question. Is it the people of the Rozai District responsible for the government's acceptance of the establishment of an asylum seeker centre in their county, which must result in the Rozai District to bear from its budget the work that the government has not done to the end? The process is being created by the Ministry of the Interior. The work has not been done. In the proposed Cabinet of Ministers, the Minister of the Interior will be the same... It may be that the wolf not only throws the feathers, but also changes virtue. Let the time and the works show it! Thank you. (Applause)
ParlaMint-LV_2016-02-11-PT12-345-U11	Name to Member Igor Pimenov.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-02-11-PT12-345-U12	Hello, honourable Members! Honourable Members! I will not talk more about individuals in the new, future government, but about the programme, about a declaration that we have received once again as an official document today. In trying to understand what will happen in the government, we are rather looking at Internet portals, as we have already adopted. As a result, opposition Members had to take stock of their assessments rather than of the next government position. I conclude that the declaration has been established as a solid instrument for strengthening the economy, which is very different from the previous declarations of the economic liberal governments, in particular the declarations of the governments of Valdis Dombrovskis. And here I see the hand of Māra Kučinskis, who led me working five years ago at the National Development Plan Development Commission for Monitoring and Implementation. If this program, this declaration and this intention will decrease... you will be able to blame for the fact that economic policy will become the dominant policy and submit to yourself budgetary policy, but it will be a good turning point for the future development of the Latvian economy. If nothing changes and economic development remains subject to the budget, then the government will continue to work together in the same handcuffs as the previous liberal governments since the restoration of Latvia's independence. The direction of the Second Government of Laimdota Straujuma has fallen out of the declaration with a promising name, namely to reduce social and income inequality. This direction is not mentioned at all in this declaration. And it's not accidental. It is obvious that the previous government has stretched over trying to raise a weight that the right government has no power to do. Apparently, Maris Kučinskis decided not to risk, although one of the glaring challenges in Latvian society is that social inequality in Latvia is one of the most pronounced in the European Union. But if there is low market demand and it becomes one of the obstacles to economic development in society, then it can also become a serious obstacle to all the good intentions that Maris has planned. There will have to be a lot to do, but yet this contradiction remains. And as a result of this contradiction, the government can get lost. This contradiction makes this government weak. There is another subject in the declaration, which I cannot ignore. Future government plans (please quote): “A plan for the transition to a common education standard for teaching in the state language at state-funded and municipal educational institutions should be developed and implemented.” ( End quoted) It means that the government intends to start teaching children from minority families in Latvia only in the state language. It is a pity that Inas Druviete is no longer present in the Saeima, proud of her invented and implemented minority learning model, which was also celebrated and venerable by the mission of the Organisation for Security and Cooperation in Latvia, various monitoring committees and committees of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe, as well as UN committees. I would like to know with what psychological theory she would justify today's intention of her allies to put aside the main achievement of her political life. I would really like to hear how Mr Shadursky now has a fundamental intention to kill the product that he himself created and has stood by the candle at that swing. Perhaps you will justify that the child you decided to be born 10 years ago hasn't passed the real training air, hasn't been suffocated and will therefore be better if you pretend that you never had? I could limit myself to sarcasm if the current changes in the system of training for minority children, which you invented for political purposes, would now be subject to a new turn of the economy. Not at all! The future government intends to abolish the minority education system provided by the state with funds, and this is clear. It shall be entered in the declaration. Thus, the historically established traditions of schooling in minority languages, with which Latvia has always been proud, will be interrupted, as well as the international commitments made by the Republic of Latvia will be violated. Of all minority languages, Russian is the most common language used as a learning language in schools in Latvia. Therefore, this plan is primarily aimed at the Russian language, where more than one third of Latvia's population is spoken in their families. There is good reason for the Russian-speaking population to ask the state to provide their children with education in the language in which they bring up their children from the taxes they pay. Both Latvian and Latvian people regard the school where the child is sent as a continuation of their family. The unification of our society cannot be imagined without mutual trust of the people of Latvia, and it is society's cohesion that is one of the cornerstones on which Maris Kučinskis intends to support his future activities. Trust is based on a respectful attitude toward every person’s pride, which is inextricably linked with ethnic self - confidence. And strangely, it must be explained to the government and politicians, who are mostly Latvians. In order for students to learn their mother tongue fully, develop their mind skills and self-esteem (self-esteem - this is very important!) and, in order for them to be aware of their cultural and national identity, training at school must take place in a language used by the family. That truth is the basis for the treatment of schools. I will try to make my truth simple and clear. Ladies and gentlemen! You've planned war, you've been playing with fire, because you're fighting people's lives at the very root. In any political context, family language, as a child and adolescence, must be the main language in schools - compared to other languages - without prejudice to the acquisition of official language or education in that language. After all the positive moments that I touched on at the very beginning of my speech, I would like to conclude that the end of minority training is a tar spoon that will spoil any good intentions of a full government declaration, and this declaration is not an exception. I am deeply convinced that Maris Kučinskis has become a prisoner in very dangerous traps, and I hope that he himself and those who understand this danger will, however, change his view on the future of Latvia. I cannot support this declaration and I call on the Saeima not to support it either. Thank you for your attention. ( A PASSENGER’S ANSWER.)
ParlaMint-LV_2016-02-11-PT12-345-U13	Name of Member Inga Bite.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-02-11-PT12-345-U14	Dear Chairman of the Saeima. Mrs. Strautums! Ministers! Colleagues! Today is the name of Laimdota Straujuma (still the Prime Minister). And this day, we are going to approve the new government, more precisely the coalition. And it must probably be hoped that Mrs Straujuma will have a calmer evening, with less care than it may have been. And I too will probably join those who have expressed admiration for your humanity and endurance in the events that have occurred in recent months. But when you talk about what Mr. Kučinski mentioned here and... the new-old government, I want to ask: Mr Kučinska, you said that governments have not worked as a team over 20 years. What suggests that the same people will work as a team from 1 p.m. today? The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. K. Šadurskis: “No, out of two thirty!” ) You have said that ministers have fought against each other and each one for his ministry until today, but what suggests that from 1 p.m. today they will become a loving family that will take care of each other and take care of each other? And that's why I think... I want to ask, Do you believe in what you said from this platform? And if you believe, will it really be a miracle that will happen in the near future, or will it still be a little naive? I would also like to address my colleagues who once, in 2011, with foam on their lips and a great deal of energy and gambling, participated in the formation of the Reform Party, where I also had the opportunity to participate and work for a while at my shoulder with the slogan: “Let’s fight the oligarchs!” Here we are! And Mr Bondara has already discovered very well these shadows, all of which are here again. Are you sure your hand will not go away and your conscience will not say anything by pressing the button today? The declaration states that the work of the government will be based on the targeted reforms discussed with the social partners. Ministers have recently had some problems in consulting the social partners. One of these was in the Ministry of Education and Science on the new model of teacher pay reform. Now Mr Shadurski is standing for the position of Minister for Education and Science, a man who led the Budget and Finance (Tax) Commission and teachers on the strike day increased salaries for ministers and executives of Saeima commissions, and said that teachers only strike after strikes. Well, let's hope, Mr. Shadursky, that you know how to raise wages! The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. K. Šadurskis: “Well, so I can increase wages!” ) Mr Reira will sit in this government from one chair to the other, who was highly accused of the lack of consultation and neglect of the social partners, including employers and trade unions, during the 2016 budget-making process. Mr Reira, you will be working on employment issues, and you will need to work with these social partners directly. I realize another miracle is going to happen today at two or a half o'clock. Mr. Belēvičs will continue his work, and we can all read about cooperation with the Latvian Medical Association in our e-mails. Two Latvian cities are named on behalf of the declaration. One of them is Riga. Perhaps because it is the capital of the Republic of Latvia. The other one is Ventspils. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. S. Āboltiņa: “Liepāja!” ; dep. K. Šadurskis: “Liepāja! Prison! We should have read more!’ ) Yesterday evening, there were two in the declaration, perhaps three in the declaration signed today, but also if the third is Liepaja, we understand very well which side or on which side the wind blows. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. A.Barča: “Ai, ai, ai!” ) On the motivation of teachers - be it pay or any other system - this is not mentioned in the declaration. The eradication of corruption in the judicial system is not talked about either. The time limits for proceedings are in question. And it has to be said that the demographic section at least at this point also allows people to "put down" in popular terms. And it remains to be hoped that those commitments that are not included in the declaration but exist somewhere will be implemented. Colleagues! These are the reasons why I cannot support Mrs Kučinski and such a government. I usually believe in miracles, but I cannot believe this miracle. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-02-11-PT12-345-U15	The name of Member Nelli Kleinberg.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-02-11-PT12-345-U16	Dear Chairman of the Saeima. Resurrection! Existing, future and former ministers, as well as honourable colleagues! I would also like to talk about the government declaration, which the Prime Minister-designate himself has not called a utopian document, but a guide to assessing the tasks and the work done by the ministers. Overall, reading and learning about government declarations published in the public space on the previous day, I will say, at that time still blacklist, it sees both a new approach to solving problems, clear objectives and measurable results, and the same promises of the previous governments - the continuation of the ongoing but unfinished work. However, I was personally ‘addressed’ by some things which I consider positive and which I would like to emphasise. First of all, the involvement of municipalities in promoting entrepreneurship. I really want to believe and hope that once again, the moment has come to realise the thoughts and opinions expressed at long-disputed and municipal congresses, which is stated in the government declaration as follows: "The opportunities for municipalities to use different tools to promote entrepreneurship should be broadened." I would say more specifically: to allow local authorities to decide themselves and operate in business areas wisely, without distorting the business environment. I have no doubt that local authorities will find solutions, available means and means to implement projects of interest to the local community together with economic operators. Perhaps so many of the private partnership projects mentioned above will finally begin to work. I hope that this point in the declaration could also give the green light to their implementation. It is the attitude of the government that really starts to attract investment and implement projects in many - not only large but also medium and small - municipalities. I would also like to quote, as a positive point, this text in the government declaration: "Let us strengthen the functioning of cooperative savings companies." The Association of the Regions of Latvia has repeatedly encouraged discussion on this subject, especially at the time when Professor Freeer was in our ranks, but now I can only express our appreciation that it is also enshrined in the government declaration and will, to a large extent, encourage the enthusiasts of this movement to put it into practice on the basis of a specific government statement. Perhaps it is only passed on to the promised individual lead parties in the programmes, but the attitude of the future government is positive, and I hope that this will continue to be the case. With some satisfaction, but I will not deny it, too, with concern, I read another point: “To promote polycentric state development, we will establish cooperation areas between municipalities, increasing the potential of economic development of territories and cooperation between municipalities in the provision of public services, as well as creating economic levers for voluntary cooperation between municipalities.” On the one hand, I want to believe that this new government will clear up concerns about a new reform - the forced reform of local governments - and instead allow and national support for each municipality's democratic and voluntary choice of models of action for its sustainable development. I think it will not take long until the municipalities themselves are ready to encourage where their citizens will choose to build their own local government living space, perhaps also with their neighbours. But as a goat foot to me, it seems to be worrying what is written in the first part of the declaration, and it concerns polycentric promotion of the country's development. However, I hope and believe that, by promoting the development of the new model of cooperation, local authorities from those who have failed (as the Prime Minister himself has said) will become those who have succeeded. In the introduction to the Government Declaration, we can also read the following text, which I have heard many times in the media and also read: “In the implementation of the Government’s work, dialogue with the public is important, emphasising the important role and shared responsibility of every Latvian citizen in the development of the country.” Reading this introductory text in a government declaration, my optimism is a little bit less so, because I am a Latvian citizen too, I am an elected Member (even perhaps a small part of the people are elected), and I also wanted to participate and be co-responsible at the time of making this declaration. Unfortunately, from the first day, I was sad to hear that we even excluded you from negotiating possible cooperation. I thought it was a very arrogant attitude that should be changed. I didn't like to hear it either as a man or as a Member. The government-building process was a difficult and lengthy process. And it seems that the expectations of society after real change have not been justified. In my opinion, the process did not take advantage of an important opportunity: to set up a stable platform in Parliament so that there can be extensive reforms that the leading political forces have been talking about for years. And this arrogant attitude not to engage or even talk to opposition parties, even though a polite visit comes to listen, actually gives me the impression that there is little interest in what the opposition thinks. In summary. We're left at a narrow coalition. And it is only once again perhaps arousing speculation and concerns about the stability of the government, excluding attention from the work to be done, which may probably once again be on paper, as left of previous governments. I just want to say, honourable colleagues in the parties to the position, that the people in the opposition are equally sensible and decisive, creative and responsible. A good example of constructive work may be the resolution of issues and the assessment of situations for the purpose of achieving common goals in the Commission for Public Administration and Local Government Affairs. Both the positions and the opposition have supported or convinced each other of good and balanced decisions pending their adoption. With little hope, however, I wish the government of Māra Kučinskis to be decisive rather than imitating action. So that in Latvia, however, the long-running economic breakthrough can finally be achieved, so that at least one promise can be made forward. I hope, however, that, with all the good for the new government, I can expect and experience an interesting attitude without arrogance of others so that the words "government priorities... focus on the development of the country" in the introductory text do indeed serve that purpose. (Applause)
ParlaMint-LV_2016-02-11-PT12-345-U17	The name of the Member, Martin Schic.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-02-11-PT12-345-U18	Hello, colleagues! Friends! Yesterday, there was the Day of Shadows.Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Ooo!’ ), and I was asked to be with a new girl from the crèches. She, this 13 - year - old girl, does not understand how she can fail what she has to do, how she can fail what she has to do. As a small populist, she could not go or do it, not learn it, be unworkable. How she could and could not ignore the principles of her organization's four-page clover - mind, heart, hands, health. Giving the mind to clear thoughts, the heart - to the right and to the eloquence, the hands - to work and hard work. Health, which is the most expensive asset of a human being, is protected by a member of their small groups so that he can serve his Fatherland - Latvia better and longer. And she asked... And we talked about why the big ones - Members, Ministers and many others - are not watching these seemingly very understandable things. And when after such a philosophical discussion with this nice girl, I led her home, a journalist called “Latvijas Radio 4” and asked: “Docter, what can you say – what is the current diagnosis of the state and government of Latvia?” And I'm confused. I can say at the first moment only that I do not have a diagnosis, but I see that the country is being treated symptomatically, with some patches, but not in the root and not in the essence. Today I am no longer as confused as I was when I had to answer this sudden question, and I can describe it differently. Yes, this country, with this government, is a cancer patient with metastasis, who can still be rescued if all treatment is radical, to the end, sometimes very, very painful. Unfortunately, I doubt that the government today has this will to take such measures. I am convinced that the surgeon who may now go to the operating table is not the one who knows what he needs to do. And, Mr. Kučinsky, I heard a lot yesterday, listening to the radio, too, of the fact that... Former Finance Minister, who will now be Minister for Welfare, said that the first priority of the Ministry of Welfare will be the introduction of compulsory health insurance. The main priority of the Ministry of Welfare and the Minister! Yes, this is necessary, but even in the ministerial statute there is no word about health policy. So the minister lives in the past century: somewhere in the regulations of 1979 was written... They made up these things in 1979... Unfortunately, it's about getting lost in pines... We need the ability and understanding to be. And he's the surgeon at the operating desk, and he's... And Mr. Kučinsky has to look at another harsh thing that's... that he will be served, his functions will be provided by a formal official who - and I will repeat! - shall not be put to the end and cannot be relied upon. Because there are a lot of examples - uncontractual contracts, unaccepted programmes, unrealised rules, and so on, and so on. Let's imagine that the surgeon is waiting at the operating table for the scalpel and the nurse's lesson to justify why she didn't bring her... But he has nothing to do with him! Let's imagine that a surgeon is standing at the operating desk, who has to sew a wound hard, but he has no threads or they're not sterile and everything's broken... In this situation, there is the system of administration of that state! And of these poor, poor-quality employees... Ministers have tied their hands... You can't get rid of it. Unfair employees, bribers, State Revenue Service, Economics Police... You can't get rid of the contracts... I know - and respect Mr. Belevičs! - How he fought to get rid of an extraordinary national warlord... That is why I would like to wish the Minister... I wish the Prime Minister one thing: there would be a team that would be able to save this country's organism, which will be operated by this Prime Minister! It is possible to save this country, move it towards success, but many painful actions must be taken, which will be criticised for not being democratic. Good luck at work, and let your words not remain on paper alone! Thank you. (Applause)
ParlaMint-LV_2016-02-11-PT12-345-U19	Name to Member Kārlis Chair.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-02-11-PT12-345-U20	Dear Chairman of the Saeima. Madam Prime Minister, Thank you, ladies. Ladies and gentlemen, I want to be the one who is 'for' because very many have spoken and criticised here with the idea that we will not vote, we will not support it. I will vote in favour and support. But I have some questions that all need to think about. First. Ask the people: do they distinguish, where is the responsibility of the government and where is the responsibility of the Saeima? Our prestige is generally low, very low. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. I.Klementjevs: “Thanks to the Government!” ) But when they ask people who are guilty of it... As a former soldier (although there are no former soldiers), I am used to having rights and responsibilities - rights and responsibilities! - are balanced. In democratic countries, we all know there are four independent powers. Let us now look at two of those that we are also talking about today: the executive and the legislative powers. With regard to the events that have been, and the issues that have been addressed, for example, in connection with the Zolitūde tragedy (I was also a member of the parliamentary committee of inquiry), the bank Citadele, the company Liepaja Metalurgs or many other issues, its reservation is very simple: “Well, the Saeima voted for it!” On many issues, let us say when we repeal a law or give money - that is true. But how do these procedures work? Well, the people here know very well how this happens. There is a Coalition Council, chaired by a Prime Minister, in which representatives of the executive power, ministers and Members participate and where it is decided how to vote. Well, it's clear that the group can already speak out and there can already be different groups... But basically there are conceptual things. Then the question arises: how is it - but the executive power is separate from the legislative power? In my opinion (I will say it again as a military person), the Saeima is like a strategic headquarters that confirms long-term development in the country, as well as a medium-term and one-year budget. The executive power shall be the operational headquarters which shall perform in particular what has been adopted. And then the ministries are already like tactical level headquarters, which specifically work in that direction or in another direction. It would be normal. But for us these questions are quite complexly separated, and it is not clear what exactly is responsible for what. And voters should better explain, so that they understand where the responsibility of the Saeima lies, what laws are bad, not designed or not enough, and where the responsibility of the executive power lies. I say it more for thought. But I strongly support the government of Kučinski. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-02-11-PT12-345-U21	Name to Member Sergey Dolgopolov.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-02-11-PT12-345-U22	The High Saeima! Every time a new government is formed, there are some reflections, interest, and great interest in it. But to be honest, I want to say a few things. First thing. I think you shouldn't change to people instead of talking about the substance of things (forgive me about folklore!) . For if we now list in every case what a man has done before 1917 and fill in questionnaires in this way, then no one will be through. I personally very much appreciate Mr Kučinska as a person, as an employee, as a Member, because I have had the honour of working with him both in one commission and working together when he was in other positions. I believe that it would be worth considering his candidacy both for the position and for the opposition if we had a different system and if he was given the opportunity to form a government in his own opinion - as he said - to form his team. But why is there so much doubt on the part of the opposition and, in fact, there is no support for it? Because there is also no great belief that Mr Kučinskis, as an experienced politician, will succeed in establishing his team. Once from the parliamentary tribunal, I already told you how the ruling coalition in our sense, or our vision, looks like (and not only in our vision, but also in the vision of the people!) - that, as the fable says, they are like a swan, a cancer and a pike (let Ingmārs not offend!) . That is really the case. And, by the way, the declaration also shows this, because there are many general words to meet these members of the coalition 'terror' to meet their interests. This is also reflected in the fact that the statements of one other candidate already today, to be honest, create some confusion as to how the government will act as a team. The failure to believe in the ability to set up their team also creates mistrust for the government. The second moment, which I want to highlight in particular and which was also the subject of today, is about the prestige of the Saeima and about everything else. It seems to me that this is also very important for the Prime Minister's candidate - you know that there is little cooperation between the Cabinet and Parliament. Perhaps this is quite well formal: ministers come to the Coalition Council, listen to what the members of the Coalition Council say. However, practical cooperation in drawing up draft laws and working on legislative processes is at a rather weak level. And so the Saeima comes, well, I would say so gently, not quite well-designed draft laws. And the third. Much has been said and the declaration also refers to cooperation with non-governmental organisations. Undoubtedly, this is important. Undoubtedly, this is what is happening today. But if we talk about partners, then we have to say that the first partner, official partner, recognised partner, to whom the voters have given their trust, is the opposition of the Saeima. To declare that any proposal from the opposition must be rejected simply because it has been tabled by the opposition - it is foolish to put it mildly. It is difficult to work with the opposition, of course! But the opposition is needed and there must be constructive cooperation with the opposition. If all this works, then I think maybe one year later... if the government actually set up by Maris Kučinskis, with parliamentary support, proves that it is capable, then maybe that support will also be wider. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-02-11-PT12-345-U23	Name to Member Carl Sergeant.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-02-11-PT12-345-U24	Good afternoon, dear colleagues! Well, it must be illustrated that Mr Bondara was just on the table again with another shoe. — Dep. K. Šadurskis: “No, with a boot!” ) because she spoke and then, in some of the speeches of his party group members, mentioned the prison of Liepaja as a accusation to Mr Kučinskis that he would now arrange it for Liepaja as a cradle of his party. I would remind you that this decision on the Liepaja prison was taken in the summer of 2014, in June, and it has nothing to do with Mr Kučinskis - and has nothing to do with the outgoing government of Mrs Straujuma. And I would advise critics to study those reasons, the reasons why this place has been chosen to build a prison. And the other thing I want to say. As if I finish what Mr Dolgopolov said. Any position is, of course, dreaming of a constructive and intelligent opposition, and I would therefore recommend that one another's political power perhaps end up seeking, in Saeima's waste, some of the draft laws that have already been rejected and declared, which have been fallen here, and finally address really serious and improving things. And if, for your part, there are such proposals - not populist and declaratory, but really serious and understandable - then we will also, of course, support them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-02-11-PT12-345-U25	Name to Member Juris Villums.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-02-11-PT12-345-U26	Ladies and gentlemen! The declaration has already been written and we can no longer change anything. Unlike the draft laws in three readings, this declaration can neither recommend nor correct, nor even correct any print errors. Well, there would be something to say. For example, on the creation of administrative regions. Nine, four, two are not important, but the coalition and government must finally understand that the same law, the same norms, even the same penalties for using a mobile phone on the wheel of a car cannot work equally well in Riga and Viļaka. Two-speed Europe is often spoken of. But in Latvia too, unfortunately, there are at least two, maybe several speeds. This should be taken into account by the government in its work, not only in terms of regional development and simulation of the size of the municipalities, but also in real action, the creation of administrative regions and the decentralisation of powers. By the way, paragraph 76 of the declaration states (please quote): “Let us improve Latvia’s self-defence capabilities by strengthening the preparedness and response and combat capability of the National Armed Forces, as well as by strengthening their presence in the Eastern region of Latvia.” What is the Eastern region of Latvia? East of Riga? East of Valmiera? East of Liepaja or Ventspils? Paragraph 108 states: "Let's look at the possibility of introducing third sports hours and health training into educational institutions." Congratulations! At the same time, the declaration states: “The security of Latvia is an important unified and shared-value-oriented society, united by the sense of belonging to the state of Latvia, its language, culture and fundamental values.” I can recommend seriously considering the implementation of this paragraph not only in Latgale, but in all schools in Latvia. Yesterday we talked at the Commission for Education, Culture and Science about changing the funding model of the State Culture Capital Foundation, taking Estonia or Lithuania as an example. I call on the government to consider this seriously already this year, with the addition of strong regional cultural capital programmes. Because culture and a steady economic development of the country would be the best response to propaganda. Finally, I must also mention the preparations for Latvia's centenary. We all love this country, Mr. Kučinski! I want to believe that this centenary will not be just a celebration and that it will not only be a celebration in Riga, opening new infrastructure objects. The government must also take serious account of the fact that the regions are not only visible on public television, but that society as a whole feels that our country also has a future. At least another 100 years. So it's important, really... I, to say so, ask you to put it behind the ear of every coalition Member, every minister, that Latvia's centenary is not part of the election campaign. Both the Director of the State Culture Capital Foundation and many others expressed concerns about this. For more details on this subject, if necessary, I can speak at one of the next sittings or in a separate Internet article. Whatever I say today, unfortunately, we see that the coalition, too, does not take particular account of the opposition proposals made here, is not serious and does not try to listen to them in particular. On the one hand, this is the role of the opposition: we must always be opponents of the position. However, on the other hand, like every Latvian citizen, I really want the future government to work for the country and society, to achieve at least the goals it has set itself and to sort out at least the priority areas it has set itself. For this to be implemented and for the Kučinskis government to be truly a team, the fundamental values of the coalition must first be clarified. And what are the fundamental values of this coalition? The rule of law or the successful arrangement of insolvency administration? A united society or, yet, an individual's desire to be elected at any cost to the next Saeima, despite the fact that there is no single darker shadow going through? Will the central value of this government be a truly green Latvia or, at the same time, the interests of some ports? Thank you. (Applause)
ParlaMint-LV_2016-02-11-PT12-345-U27	The name of the Member is Going to Spolitis.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-02-11-PT12-345-U28	Very respectful Speaker of the Saeima! Colleagues! I just want to say two things. First of all, I would like to thank Laimdota Straujuma and her managing Cabinet for their work for two years. Secondly, I would like to touch on three points in the future government declaration - points 16, 21 and 65. Points 16 and 21 of the Declaration talk about the implementation of Rail Baltica, as well as about the establishment of an predictable model of transport infrastructure financing in Latvia, and this pleases me. Paragraph 65 of the Declaration talks about cooperation between the Baltic States and the Nordic countries (especially in the areas of security, transport and energy), using the framework of cooperation between the Baltic Assembly, the Baltic Council of Ministers and the Baltic-Nordic countries. I would therefore like to appeal in particular to the future Minister for the transport sector, because at the end of last year, we in the group of Members, in cooperation with the Estonian Parliament, visited Valka and Valga, where we learned about one pointless thing. I studied at the University of Tērbat until 1996, remember the headache caused by the transport connection between Latvia and Estonia. For a moment this issue was solved, but now the reality is that... Although we are talking about Rail Baltica and the need to build compatible transport infrastructure, the reality is that there are three trains from Tallinn to Valga and there are three trains from Riga to Lugaži and Valka, but unfortunately these trains are not compatible. In other words, they do not meet on one platform, and on leaving one train they cannot get on a second train and go to Tartu and Tallinn. That is why I am addressing the future Minister of Transport. I hope you will receive the support of the Passenger Train, the Latvian Railways, the government (the current management) and also your Estonian colleagues, the Estonian Minister for Economics will sit down at one table and address this issue, as the implementation of Rail Baltica is still ahead of us. I hope it works. And Maris Kučinskis just said: “... and ministers, and works.’ Success!
ParlaMint-LV_2016-02-11-PT12-345-U29	Name to Member Ivars Zarins.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-02-11-PT12-345-U30	Colleagues! Everyone has a certain analogy about politics and sausages. And in this context, according to exactly this situation, one such joke - the answer to a survey conducted by a meat combinate to find out how the people like its produce and which sausages people like and kept in mind the longest. The answer was, ‘It sausages with an expired expiry date’. I will not try to guess which of these promises of the government - the new, future governments - will be something worth remembering and which will really be fulfilled. For, purely humanly, as a patriot of my land, I would very much like all that is written to be done. But as any rational-thinking person who can adequately outline the real order of things, I realize that this will not happen, because while there is an existing monopoly of power... You know, the monopoly - something that we have also talked about today in the area of gas... If there is a monopoly, this monopoly is first of all concerned with satisfying its needs and interests, and not so much with ensuring that its service is better provided to the public. The same applies to the existing monopoly of power which has been established. You can talk about a lot of things here: you can make any laws, we can join da any organizations, we can create any new structures that will work... which will aim to combat corruption or in some way reduce these irresponsible decisions. Nothing will change until there is political competition until this existing monopoly of power exists! People in power... they will not have to answer for anything because they know that they simply have no responsibility, no one else can replace them. And this was demonstrated by the very process of formation of the government, which the whole society could clearly enjoy and see - all that was of interest to them was the conduct of mutual relations. Paradoxically, this government has ended happily for all government-building parties. TO Unity is, in fact, a very happy solution because, in essence, the Union of Greens/Farmers has saved Unity. Imagine what would have happened if Unity were left under government leadership with this fragmentation! Now, in this situation, they have the opportunity to rest, go in a humiliation and perhaps even play some way with their political competitors and their conditional partners, which they will certainly do. But throughout this process, keeping Mr Sergeant at the floor, who came here and said that he is waiting for the constructive proposals from the opposition that would be needed and really needed in the name of national interests, and taking advantage of the situation that Mr Kučinski is still here, who will, of course, no longer appear here after becoming a Prime Minister and will no longer communicate with the opposition, I would like to point out a few things that could really be useful for the new government. So one thing is talking about energy. All these processes will continue in the light of the quail currently being boiled in energy. You will have to deal with a lot of things. One of these you have mentioned in your government declaration: this is about what the state's position will be: to buy or not buy “Latvijas Gas” infrastructure. And what it's talking about... I understand from what I have heard from the governing politicians that another incompetent decision is being prepared. How should we do what is right? First of all, in order to correctly decide what to do with all this, it would first be normal if Latvia finally had its own energy strategy - a very specific document, where you specifically say how we will then build our energy independence. Will this really be the gas that we will use in the future, or will it be the renewable energy sources that we intend to develop in the future? And on this basis, you will understand whether it makes sense for us at all to try to save existing shareholders and buy out from them perhaps a very difficult business if public policy is to try to give up gas and build our energy independence on our energy sources. So what the hell would have to buy an infrastructure from a business that's falling apart?Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, That's one thing. The other thing that should be done, but which has not been done, is that we still do not have a law on renewable energy. So we need a law on renewable energy, Mr. Kučinsky! Because there is no basic framework. As a result, the whole sector is stagnating. We love to look for all sorts of myths and stories about the gas lobby and so on. Excuse me! You will hardly be able to say that the gas lobby is to blame for the fact that there are still no necessary regulatory acts for this very important sector of renewable energy independence. And this can be said in all areas. If we look at why we have had such a gesture in energy so far, then let us see that the main reason is not to call on some mystical lobby, but rather that the country itself has lacked political will and competence. Another point that I want to highlight, given that you led the Sustainable Development Commission and participated in sub-committee meetings on Information Technology and Innovative Entrepreneurship - a very important thing that is still not organised if we realise that our country's sustainable development and the well-being of our country depend on how productive we will be, how productive our economy, which in turn depends on how intensive it will be, because we cannot become richer by trying to be more economical. We can become richer if we can become more productive and produce something more valuable. And here is a very important basic thing to which Europe has also drawn our attention and in whose words we recognise: we need to focus on specific areas where we can really be competitive and where our knowledge can be competitive and bring added value on a global scale. And for all this, the framework consists of a strategy for smart specialisation. As you know, it is still not clear to anyone working in this area what the Smart Specialisation Strategy is, but that is exactly the document on which all European Structural Funds money is shared. Our whole growth should also be further developed. It is very important to ask the Ministry of Education and Science to prepare such a strategy for Smart Specialisation, not to continue as it is now: there is some leaking document that will continue in four other documents containing conflicting rules. The strategy for smart specialisation, as well as the energy strategy, should be on a few pages that everyone takes, reads and understands what the priorities are, what is the framework on which we are heading. If this is not the case, then again we will have the same, similar problems that we are currently seeing in healthcare. In science, too, it's getting bigger. I had the opportunity to work with you in the Saeima and make sure that you were one of the few Members who really understand the importance of innovation, the importance of knowledge for economic development. You were the person who really tried to solve some problems systemically and strategically, without losing this sustainable view. I would very much like to call on you not to lose this view as Prime Minister. And when it comes to these scientific things, there is a fundamental problem that will lead us to a serious impasse. In particular, the financing model for the sustainable development of science and higher education has still not been developed. Such a model is not still! It is simply once again an easy-handed reliance on the fact that there is money from the European Structural Funds: while this is the case, we will spend it. But so European Structural Funds money cannot solve many things, including basic funding! And if we don't foresee here how to build this knowledge-able human potential, then we will get into very fundamental problems. In principle, we will end up where we are almost there - at the deadlock of our country's development. My call should not forget these things. And one specific thing you could do is to convene a meeting of the Latvian Strategic Council on Research and Innovation in the near future and talk about all these things and agree how we will move forward. And if necessary, here in the Saeima, we can help you with certain things already, because we have a specific sub-commission that deals with these things. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-02-11-PT12-345-U31	Dear colleagues, Members of Parliament, Mr Smilten, Mr Šadurskis, Mr Āboltiņa, Mr Brigmanis and Mr Barča, ask for an extraordinary sitting of the Saeima on 11 February this year, without interruption, until all items on the agenda are examined. Do Members have objections? There is no objection by Members. So we are continuing the debate. ( The box “When Will We Rejoice? ”) ) Name of Member Janis Dombrava.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-02-11-PT12-345-U32	Dear colleagues, I would like to highlight three points. First. On the issue of asylum seekers, which was a concern expressed by colleagues. The first agreement with the future Prime Minister, Maris Kučinski, has been that in Latvia new asylum seekers will not be admitted in addition to those decided on in the previous government. It has been established that there will be no new quota that Latvia will not be able to receive new asylum seekers on a voluntary basis, because our opportunities have been exhausted, and this has also been fixed in a government declaration. I can only point out that, while there is respect for existing decisions, certain discussions and negotiations on this issue will still be taking into account both the security aspects that arise - new developments are emerging! - as well as various technical issues. For example, the following question: Does the monitoring of asylum seekers really require social workers whose salaries are twice as high as those of other social workers and those of other sectors? The other thing. On the transition to education in the state language. It is a good thing that this declaration contains this provision. And it's only natural that the country goes to single education in the state language, because demographic situation shows... If you look at the proportion of Latvians and how many Russians are born each year, we can see that over the last five years this proportion is 80 percent Latvian, 20 percent Russian. Russian schools will remain empty every year. At the same time, this performance will increase in Latvian schools. We should also take into account the fact that we have one state language, the Latvian language, enshrined in the Constitution. And the third point I would like to highlight is the whole government declaration. The national association can be pleased because the declaration incorporates most of the National Alliance's programme points, which are essential for us in the areas of demographics, culture, tax policy and security. In particular, I would like to point out that the government declaration includes a strengthening of the eastern border, which will have to be carried out in the coming years. I can wish the new Cabinet of Ministers to implement this government declaration in full. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-02-11-PT12-345-U33	Name to Member Aldim Adamovich.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-02-11-PT12-345-U34	Hello, dear colleagues! I would like to say a great deal of thanks to Mrs Straujuma today, and also to congratulate him on his name day, and of course also to thank the entire government and certain ministers who are particularly concerned about the Latgale region, because I am speaking today on behalf of the people of Latgale. Here I would like to mention Mr Bergmanis, Mr Kozlovska, Mr Gerharda, Mr Reira and, of course, other ministers who have helped Latgale with concrete measures in recent years. And this is more than EUR 60 million that has reached the region in support of the Latgale Action Programme under the various European programmes. And, of course, I would also like to wish Mr Kučinski's success today in chairing the new government, and I am pleased that support for the Latgale region is being continued in paragraph 20 of the Declaration. For Mr. Viļuma, I would like to say as a geographer of specialty: Latvia's eastern region is Latgale and Alūksne municipality. So late for success in the new government and call on us to vote in favour! Thank you. (Applause)
ParlaMint-LV_2016-02-11-PT12-345-U35	Name to Member Augustis Brigman.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-02-11-PT12-345-U36	Madam Prime Minister, Colleagues! Today we are writing history. History. Since 2002, I have had this honor and the trust of the people - to be in this house and in this hall, and there have been various moments of government approval. And I have come to the common conclusion that any Member is in dignity and honor - whether he is a Member of the opposition or of the position. Because for each of these Members, society has given its own mandate, behind him there is a certain round of voters, and only in his own hands and in terms of how he uses this mandate, what is his next step, what steps... You can say that he chooses his own way. And in this situation, it is to some extent an answer to the question, which is Maris Kučinskis. With Maris Kučinski, I had the opportunity to be at different stages of my life - working together in this house and in this hall, both when he was the leader of the People's Party Group and when he was elected from another party that is no longer there. I don't remember how that party... Maybe my colleagues will fix me, as the party called. ( Interface: “For the good of Latvia! ”) ) I've even forgotten... “For the benefit of Latvia”, yes. Now Maris is on our team. And I am very happy and pleased that he is on our team. The fact that he has been and is now elected by the Saeima is the indicator of his professionalism, his power. The public has appreciated him, the voter has put his hopes on Mary, so he's here. He has taken the way from the head of the municipality to the minister. He has also worked in economic work, in the work of a civil servant. I would like to say that he has all these qualities and also one quality that I value above everything in every human being - regardless of who he is, whose political forces are represented - that is still his humanity. And, my fellow Members, Maris, believe me, there is a person who will always be open - it will be open to both the positions and the opposition. Maybe he's still at a crucifixion, looking for a way to go. But I too am a man who has been in opposition. The political power we represent - the Union of Greens/Farmers - has been in the opposition, we understand what "baby" means by the opposition. And, believe me, there is no haughtiness in the Union of Greens and Farmers, no euphoria, that now we will be, as you say, those great gentlemen. That's not the case! That's not what it is and can't be! And that is why I, too, want only to respect today's debate, each of the speeches that my fellow Members have made in this debate - whether it be our honourable coalition partner, Mr Dombrava or Mr Srollish... At the same time, I would like to express the conclusions made by Mr Viļuma, Mr Dolgopolov, Mr Ruck... ( Internouncing call.) No, no, no, no! I think that all these things are constructive and, if they are a matter, they must be recognised. Well, it's actually a thing, colleagues. And if it succeeds or fails, it will only show up in time. Because of the people’s sayings (Dep. I.Zariņš: Chickens count in autumn! ), which I should remind you as a farmer, says: “The chickens count in the autumn.” And, as you say, let us pick up the grain from the chaff, so that only the grain remains! And I call on our association - the Union of Greens/Farmers - to support Mrs Kučinski to become the Prime Minister! And support his team! That's it, colleagues. And, Laimdota, I'm going out of this pub once again to pull your hand. (Applause)
ParlaMint-LV_2016-02-11-PT12-345-U37	I closed the debate. Mr Kučinska, do you want to add something? No, no? ( Intercretion: “He agrees with all things. ”) ) Thank you. Please call me! We will vote for the draft decision “On Expression of Trust for the Cabinet of Ministers”! Please vote mode! ( Interface: “Well nothing! ” ) Please vote mode! Please get the result! It's not about - 60, it's 32, it's not. The decision has been taken. (Applause) On behalf of the Saeima, I congratulate Prime Minister Maris Kučinskis and thank the former Head of Government, Mrs Straujuma. (Applause) Colleagues! Consequently, the agenda for the extraordinary sitting of the Saeima has been examined and we must register. Please call me! Please check-in mode for Members! Please get the result! For reading the results of the registration, the name to Gunārs Kūtris, member of the Saeima Secretary, as soon as the results of the registration have been prepared. And I would remind you that in five minutes' time, the next extraordinary sitting will begin.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-02-11-PT12-345-U38	Dear colleagues, Not registered at the moment: Ringolds Balodis, Aija Barča... why, Raivis Dzintars, Andrejs Elksniņš, Artuss Kaimiņš, Romanas Mežeckis, Vitalijs Orlovs... There, Carly Shadursky... Where's Shadursky? Shadursky...
ParlaMint-LV_2016-02-11-PT12-345-U39	Thank you. I closed the extraordinary sitting of the Saeima.
