ParlaMint-LV_2016-04-07-PT12-357-U1	Good morning, honourable Members! I invite you to take seats in Saeima's meeting room. Let's start the Saeima sitting on April 7. Honourable Members! I invite you to take seats in the Saeima sitting room so that we can start the Saeima sitting! Before starting to discuss the agenda of the Bureau meeting, proposals for amendments should be examined. The Budget and Finance (Tax) Commission asks for an amendment to the agenda of the meeting and the inclusion in it of the draft law on Customs Law. Are Members opposed to this amendment of the agenda? There is no objection by Members. The agenda has been amended. The Budget and Finance (Tax) Commission asks to amend the agenda of the sitting and to include in it the draft law “Amendments to the Law “On State Revenue Service””. Do Members have objections? There is no objection by Members. The agenda has been amended. The Education, Culture and Science Commission is asking to amend the agenda of the meeting and to include in it the draft decision “On extension of the deadline for the submission of proposals in the Law on the Occupational Museum of Latvia” (No 516/Lp12) for the second reading until 9 May 2016. Are Members opposed to this amendment of the agenda? There is no objection by Members. The agenda has been amended. The Legal Commission is asking to amend the agenda of the sitting and to exclude it from the draft law “Amendments to the Criminal Law” by including it on the agenda of the sitting of the Saeima on 21 April this year. Are Members opposed to this amendment of the agenda? There is no objection by Members. The agenda has been amended. The Legal Commission asks to amend the agenda of the sitting and to include in it the draft decision “On the appointment of Inese Bērzins as a judge of a district (city) court”. Are Members opposed to this amendment of the agenda? There is no objection by Members. The agenda has been amended. The next item is the Bureau's reports on draft laws submitted. The Saeima Presidium proposes that the draft law presented by the Cabinet of Ministers “On disposal of real estate at Purvciema Street 4, Riga, for public needs - for the construction of the East Highway section” be submitted to the Legal Commission, stating that it is the committee responsible. Do Members have objections? There is no objection by Members. The draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Saeima Presidium proposes that the draft law presented by the Cabinet of Ministers “Amendments to the Law “On Holidays, Remembrances and Markable Days” be referred to the Commission for Human Rights and Public Affairs, stating that it is the committee responsible. Do Members have objections? Members ask for a vote. Please call me! We will vote in favour of handing over to the Commission for Human Rights and Public Affairs of the draft law “Amendments to the Law “On Holidays, Remembrances and Markable Days” establishing that it is the committee responsible! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 27, for - 12, for - 38. The draft law has not been passed on to the commission. The Saeima Presidium proposes that the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Consumer Protection” presented by the Cabinet of Ministers be referred to the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy, stating that it is the committee responsible. Do Members have objections? There is no objection by Members. The draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Saeima Presidium proposes that the draft law “Amendment to the Law on Procedure for the entry into force of the Commercial Law” submitted by the Cabinet of Ministers be referred to the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy, stating that it is the committee responsible. Do Members have objections? There is no objection by Members. The draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Parliamentary Bureau proposes that the draft law “Amendments to Criminal Law” presented by Member Mārtiņš Bondara, Mārtiņš Šics, Jānis Ruka, Jurs Viļuma and Daiņa Liepiņš be referred to the Legal Commission, stating that it is the committee responsible. ‘ For” applied to speak Member Mārtiņš Bondars.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-04-07-PT12-357-U2	Colleagues! Colleagues! Can money laundering take place without the direct or indirect involvement of public officials? ( Interface: “May! ”) ; dep. L. Cigan: “Story!” ) May! It could happen. But please say: can money laundering take place for so long and in such large amounts without the direct or indirect involvement of public officials? ( The transcripts are: “You can’t! ”) ) No, you can't. So, colleagues, please say: why is the Ministry of Finance, by proposing more severe penalties for money laundering, imposing them only on private individuals, but leaving only orders and bonuses to officials? I believe that the punishment of the officials involved for this type of crime should be more severe and that the officials involved should bear more responsibility than private individuals. These amendments to the law have therefore been tabled, and therefore the request, colleagues, to support these amendments to the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-04-07-PT12-357-U3	“Pret” has applied to speak to Andrejs Judin.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-04-07-PT12-357-U4	Dear colleagues, First of all, annotation. A few things we can see in the text. It has been correctly pointed out that the OECD indicated in point 106 of its report that the fine for money laundering was inadequate. But that does not mean that there is a problem with law. A careful reading of the text shows that there is a problem with the use of punishment. In particular, the rules of law impose heavy liability, but the court does not impose a penalty. Consequently, amending the Criminal Law is unlikely to solve the problem. The following is interesting. As you can see, the authors have pointed out that the Credit Institutions Act increases private responsibility, but does not have enough responsibility for officials. I understand that not all colleagues are working on criminal law, but I would still like to believe that people understand that an official is also a human being. And if an officer has committed a criminal offence - such as rape, money laundering, theft - then he is also called criminally. In particular, we do not now have a situation in which an official has no responsibility, but can only be punished by a person who does not have the status in question. If an official commits a criminal offence, he shall be held liable for the misuse of his official position and shall be punished for the offence committed by him. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. M.Bondars: “Examples!” ) That means that if a person commits an offence, he or she should be punished by two articles. What is proposed by Mr Bondara and the other authors? Enter in the law that two articles are no longer necessary. In other words, if an article contains a special sign that an official has committed an offence, then let us only be punished in accordance with one article. And here's a big... An Interesting One, Deb. M.Bondar's intermediate call.) : the author indicates that he wants to increase the penalty, but in fact it is proposed to reduce the penalty. For if a penalty is imposed for one offence and another, then the countdown of the penalties is more than Mr Bondara offers. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. M.Bondar's intermediate call.) Question: "What is the purpose?" Do you really know the officials who have committed the relevant offences that are at risk of liability and are designed to protect them from liability? I doubt very much that is the case. I understood, as an annotation, that you have indicated that there have been consultations with the voters. This is very good, but it is also very important that you consult people working on criminal law. We have professors at the University of Latvia who can... who will definitely not refuse to give up and can provide assistance in the application of the relevant norm. There is also a very interesting offer that made me very embarrassed. In particular, Article 88.1 of the Criminal Law, which you did not talk about, but which you propose to amend, provides for responsibility for the financing of terrorism. It's not written there that the officials... Everyone can be held accountable. And there is a penalty for this: life imprisonment. You propose to add a third paragraph and reduce the penalty to 20 years. Question: "What is your aim?" Now punishment is life imprisonment. Why do you offer to reduce the penalty? This must not be done, Mr Bondar! (Applause)
ParlaMint-LV_2016-04-07-PT12-357-U5	So one Member has spoken 'for', one for 'no'. We have to vote. Please call me! We will vote in favour of handing over the draft law “Amendments to the Criminal Law” to the Legal Commission, stating that it is the Commission responsible! Please vote mode! Please get the result! About - 33, against - 52, abstaining - 2. The draft law has not been passed on to the commission. The Saeima Presidium proposes that the draft law “Amendments to the Code of Conduct of Penalties of Latvia” presented by the Cabinet of Ministers be referred to the Commission for Defence, Home Affairs and Prevention of Corruption, stating that it is the committee responsible. Do Members have objections? There is no objection by Members. The draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The next item is entitled ‘On the granting of leave’. ‘ On 31 March of this year, Intt Dalder was granted unpaid leave.’ The Saeima shall inform the Bureau that it has received an application from Member Inta Dalder requesting him to be granted unpaid leave on 31 March of this year. The Bureau has granted leave and shall inform the Saeima thereof. The next item on the agenda - Election, approval, appointment, dismissal or dismissal of officials, expression of trust or distrust. On the agenda - draft decision “On appointment of Inese Bērzins as a judge of a district (city) court”. On behalf of the Legal Commission, Mr Valery Agešin, Member.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-04-07-PT12-357-U6	Good morning, honourable colleagues! The draft decision “On the appointment of Inese Bērzins as a judge of a district (city) court” was reviewed at the sitting of the Legal Commission of the Saeima on 6 April this year. The members of the Commission unanimously support the draft decision. On behalf of the Saeima Legal Commission, I call on Inese Bērzins to appoint a judge of district (city) court. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-04-07-PT12-357-U7	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote for the draft decision on the appointment of Inese Bērzins as a district (city) court judge! Please vote mode! Please get the result! It's not about - 86, it's against and refrains from - it's not. The decision has been taken. The next item is "Provision of draft legislation". On the agenda - draft law “Amendments to Law on Procedure of Entry into Force and Application of Criminal Law”, second reading. The draft law has been declared urgent. On behalf of the Legal Commission, Mr Andrejs Judin.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-04-07-PT12-357-U8	Dear colleagues, We work with the draft law “Amendments to the Law “On Procedure of Entry into Force and Application of Criminal Law”. The draft law provides for the addition of a list of narcotic and psychotropic substances with new harmful substances. Two proposals have been received. 1. is a proposal from the Minister for Health, Mr Belevičs, concerning pyrazole-3-carbonyl derivatives. The proposal is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-04-07-PT12-357-U9	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-04-07-PT12-357-U10	The proposal provides for the addition of another new group of substances - pyrazole-5-carbonyl derivatives. This proposal was also supported by the Legal Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-04-07-PT12-357-U11	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-04-07-PT12-357-U12	Please support the draft law at final reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-04-07-PT12-357-U13	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote for support for the second, final reading of the draft law “Amendments to the Law “On Procedure of Entry into Force and Application of Criminal Law”! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 84, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The law has been passed. On the agenda - draft law “Amendments to the Law on the Protection of Cultural Monuments”, third reading on behalf of the Commission for Education, Culture and Science – Member Valdis Skujiņš.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-04-07-PT12-357-U14	Dear Chairman of the Saeima. Colleagues! Two proposals have been put forward for the third reading. Both are proposals from the Education, Culture and Science Commission. The proposal provides for the addition of the third paragraph of Article 18.1 after the words ‘of which to export’. Please do not object to this proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-04-07-PT12-357-U15	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-04-07-PT12-357-U16	The proposal and proposal 2 are similar to proposal 1. In particular, it is proposed to add the words ‘or temporary export’.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-04-07-PT12-357-U17	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-04-07-PT12-357-U18	All the proposals have therefore been examined. Please support the draft law at final reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-04-07-PT12-357-U19	Please call me! We will vote in favour of supporting the third, final reading of the draft law on the protection of cultural monuments. Please vote mode! Please get the result! It's not about - 86, it's against and refrains from - it's not. The law has been passed. On the agenda: Draft Law on Amendments to the Maritime Code, second reading. On behalf of the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy, Member Edward Smilten.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-04-07-PT12-357-U20	Colleagues! We are working on the draft law amending the Maritime Code. For the second reading, we have received one proposal from the Commission. This proposal, which comes from the Legal Office of the Saeima, provides for the replacement of the words “in the newspaper “Latvijas Vēstnesis” with the words “in the official journal “Latvijas Vēstnesis”” throughout the text of the law. We have discussed this proposal within the Commission, we have discussed it and we have agreed that we support it. I therefore call on you to support it.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-04-07-PT12-357-U21	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-04-07-PT12-357-U22	We have therefore examined all the proposals and call for support for the draft law at second reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-04-07-PT12-357-U23	Please call me! Let us vote in favour of the second reading of the draft law on "Amendments to the Maritime Code". Please vote mode! Please get the result! It's not about - 85, it's against and abstains. The draft law at second reading has been supported. Please set a deadline for the third reading of the proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-04-07-PT12-357-U24	Yeah, colleagues. Let us wait until 12 April for constructive proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-04-07-PT12-357-U25	The proposals should therefore be submitted by 12 April this year. On the agenda - draft law “Amendments to Law on Prevention of Conflict of Interest in Activities of Public Officials”, second reading. On behalf of the Commission of the State Administration and Local Government - Member Vilnis Ķirsis.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-04-07-PT12-357-U26	Madam President, very much. Colleagues! We are looking at a draft law, which initially provided for the Land Guards to temporarily replace the troops of the professional service of the National Armed Forces. A total of 13 proposals have been received. 1. - A proposal from the Commission of Public Administration and Local Government. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-04-07-PT12-357-U27	Draft law “Amendments to law on the prevention of conflicts of interest in the activities of public officials”. Yeah. Proposal No 1. Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-04-07-PT12-357-U28	2. - a proposal from the committee responsible. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-04-07-PT12-357-U29	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-04-07-PT12-357-U30	3. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Partly supported and included 4. - in the proposal of the committee responsible, which is also supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-04-07-PT12-357-U31	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-04-07-PT12-357-U32	4. - a proposal from the committee responsible. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-04-07-PT12-357-U33	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-04-07-PT12-357-U34	5. - a proposal from the committee responsible. It is also supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-04-07-PT12-357-U35	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-04-07-PT12-357-U36	6. - a proposal from the committee responsible. It is also supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-04-07-PT12-357-U37	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-04-07-PT12-357-U38	7. - a proposal from the committee responsible. It is also supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-04-07-PT12-357-U39	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-04-07-PT12-357-U40	8 / 8 - a proposal from the committee responsible. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-04-07-PT12-357-U41	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-04-07-PT12-357-U42	9. - a proposal from the committee responsible. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-04-07-PT12-357-U43	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-04-07-PT12-357-U44	10............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - a proposal from the committee responsible. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-04-07-PT12-357-U45	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-04-07-PT12-357-U46	11. - a proposal from the committee responsible relating to insolvency administrators, which are also lawyers at the same time. So with this proposal, the law includes a way to... fell out of the judgment of the Constitutional Court, namely what information the insolvency administrators, who are lawyers, have to provide in the declaration and what - not. So here is exactly the order. It is a proposal from the responsible commission, which has been supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-04-07-PT12-357-U47	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-04-07-PT12-357-U48	12. - a proposal from the committee responsible. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-04-07-PT12-357-U49	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-04-07-PT12-357-U50	And 13. - a proposal from the committee responsible. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-04-07-PT12-357-U51	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-04-07-PT12-357-U52	So all the proposals are under consideration. I call for support at second reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-04-07-PT12-357-U53	Please call me! We will vote for support for the second reading of the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Prevention of Conflict of Interest in Activities of Public Officials”! Please vote mode! Please get the result! It's not about - 85, it's against and abstains. The draft law at second reading has been supported. Please set a deadline for the third reading of the proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-04-07-PT12-357-U54	14 April of this year.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-04-07-PT12-357-U55	Thank you. Proposals are due by 14 April this year. On the agenda - Draft Law on Customs, first reading. On behalf of the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission, Member Imants Debtor.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-04-07-PT12-357-U56	Good morning, dear colleagues! The Customs Act currently in force was adopted in 1997 on the basis of the 1992 Council of Europe Regulation laying down the procedure for establishing the Community Customs Code. In 2004, many laws in the field of customs changed because Latvia joined the European Union. Significant amendments are introduced with the adoption of the new Customs Code of the European Union on 9 October 2013, which will actually enter into force on 1 May this year. Consequently, many of the legal provisions that have been adopted, as I said, in 1997 are substantially out of date and make adjustments to them is not appropriate. A new Customs Act has therefore been drawn up, which takes all these circumstances into account. Perhaps quite a long time has been the process of harmonisation with the industry, so that the draft law would get a form that could be viewed at the Saeima sitting, and we also discussed this in the committee, because the draft law prepared by the Cabinet of Ministers was submitted to the Saeima only on 24 March, and the applicants are asking to adopt it in the urgency procedure, so that the law will enter into force at the same time as the regulation, that is, on 1 May. In the Commission, we discussed this and decided that this was not a worthy procedure: to adopt a new law in two readings. Together with the industry, specifically with representatives of the Latvian Transit Business Association, we agreed, and we came to the common denominator that we would accept in three readings, so that 20 May the adoption of this draft law at the third or final reading and the first days of June would come into force. As this agreement has been reached, I call on the Commission to support the draft law at first reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-04-07-PT12-357-U57	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote in favour of the first reading of the draft law on customs! Please vote mode! Please get the result! It's not about - 86, it's against and refrains from - it's not. The draft law at first reading has been supported. Please set a deadline for the submission of the proposals for second reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-04-07-PT12-357-U58	The deadline for submitting proposals is April 18, this year.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-04-07-PT12-357-U59	Thank you. Proposals are due by 18 April this year. Dear colleagues, Members Gaidis Berzins, Imants Krādnieks, Romanas Naudiņš, Raivis Dzintars and Jānis Dombrava ask to amend the agenda of the sitting and to include the draft law “Amendment to the Law on the Status of Member of City Council and District Council of the Republic”. Do Members have objections? Members have reservations and we must vote. Please call me! We will vote in favour of amending the agenda of the sitting, including the draft law “Amendment to the Law on the Status of Member of City Council and District Council of the Republic”! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 60, for - 24, for - 1. The agenda has been amended. On the agenda - draft law “Amendments to the Law “On State Revenue Service”, first reading. On behalf of the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission, Member Imants Debtor.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-04-07-PT12-357-U60	Colleagues! This draft law is part of a package containing the new Customs Act previously approved at first reading. As there will be adjustments, it is necessary to align it with the Law on State Revenue Service. There are two small corrections. On behalf of the Commission, I call for support for the draft law at first reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-04-07-PT12-357-U61	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote for the support of the draft law “Amendments to the Law “On State Revenue Service” at first reading! Please vote mode! Please get the result! It's not about - 86, it's against and refrains from - it's not. The draft law at first reading has been supported. Please set a deadline for the submission of the proposals for second reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-04-07-PT12-357-U62	Just like the new Customs Law, the deadline for submitting proposals for this draft law is 18 April this year.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-04-07-PT12-357-U63	Thank you. Proposals are due by 18 April this year. The next item is "Review of draft decisions". On the agenda is a draft decision presented by 34 Members “On the establishment of a Parliamentary Investigation Commission on the impact of corruption, lobbying, organised crime and smuggling on tax collection and investigation of economic and financial crimes, as well as on the assessment of personal liability of officials of the Interior, the Ministry of Justice, the Ministry of Finance and other state institutions in respect of public interests and principles of good governance”. Member Ringolds Balodis on behalf of the applicants. Five...
ParlaMint-LV_2016-04-07-PT12-357-U64	Can I ask for extra time right away?
ParlaMint-LV_2016-04-07-PT12-357-U65	Two minutes.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-04-07-PT12-357-U66	Two minutes.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-04-07-PT12-357-U67	So a total of seven minutes.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-04-07-PT12-357-U68	Thank you. Dear colleagues, The creation of a parliamentary committee of inquiry in Latvia is one of the rare instruments, in fact, the only instrument with which a minority of the Saeima can influence the movement of Parliament, the government and, therefore, the country as a whole. The Request Commission has positions in its hands. Ministers and Prime Minister often do not even come to answer Members' questions and only laugh at current questions. In practice, tabling draft laws for parliamentary consideration will always end with rejected opposition proposals. The constructive work of the opposition is, in essence, impossible in the Latvian Parliament. This makes Latvia's situation unique and causes side effects that cause damage to the country. For example, political cartelism and lobbying are a direct consequence of this process. The name of the Commission is tasteful, but it is in the style of Latvian parliamentary practice: the mission, task and mandate are included in one giant sentence. Therefore, a number of colleagues, with high expectations for this investigation, suggest that the Commission should be referred to as the State Investigation Commission. As the initiator of the idea, I would rather name the commission in an abbreviated version, following the first three main directions. So it would be a Commission of Parliamentary Investigation in the areas of corruption, lobbying and organised crime. The Commission's emergence is the result of a parliamentary struggle and its establishment is a clear indication of the extremely weak parliamentary control by the Saeima over the judiciary by the standing commissions. Colleagues! I think none of us has any doubt that parliamentary investigation is a political and quite exclusive instrument of truth-finding. Normal investigation is a duty of law enforcement authorities, but parliamentary investigation commissions have to investigate why they are not doing so. Let's say, there's bad law. Harmful law enforcement or abusers. Parliamentary investigations are a political test for the executive. Why do husbands and wives of government often fail to deal with their work? But we have so many laws! Too much! And basically they're mostly not bad at all. Well, let us take, for example, ministers who are basically ministers of the will of the majority in Parliament. No matter how critical a politician is before the minister and no matter what he thinks of a restaurant, the capacity of the workers in it, at the moment he becomes the political leader of the institution, the minister, he is essentially the hostage of his own restaurant. The minister is desperately forced to protect a system that may be condemned in the depths of the heart. However, in order to continue his work and to keep the promises made to the voters, he may have to do something about his restaurant shouting under a decissor and even wiped under a foothold to avoid fire in the media and in the nation. The processes that take place in the public administration are thick mist, opaque, and often the desperate attempts of the Minister to reach a solution are more like the brave attempt of Eisis, the main hero of the animation film "Essis in mist", to look at the mist from the inside. Ezitis, Minister, is forced to conclude later: “I am in the river, so that the river itself may bear me!” And the stream takes him. The end is with Elisha: “U-hu!” which rests in the same mist. Not reform, not good governance, once again another chic! If a minister starts a desperate fight against the system, he risks following the paths of the Minister for Health Auder, the Minister for Education and Science Kiel and Seile, so to find yourself in a situation where you are being blamed for all the troubles of the restaurants and even your own ones are being turned away from you! What can now be observed is close to the example of Essite. The heads of the Ministry of the Interior, the Ministry of Justice and the Ministry of Finance have the risk of swimming through the stream, or they already swim through this stream. The insolvency administrator series is already going in the en season. It could certainly beat “Hameleon games”. Six, eight years, maybe more. I don't remember. The series of scandals that started with the bribery scandal of the police chief Feierabend will continue with the use of rogue border guards who carry stolen cars. The management of the State Revenue Service admits that within three years, 32 employees have been caught in crimes (Dep. Mr Balodis is starting to speak quietly. Depp. A.Bērzins: “Go, keep quiet!” ) and is starting to install blacklists on behalf of the Minister. I am not going to judge what these people will do. Shots on the ground or in the deports? Oh, there are two versions in the media. Whether it's going to be from the SRS... the question is, which authority will take these black list non-leans? Or the other version - reorganize the Financial Police and Customs Administration by creating a tax police. I do not know what it is changing if 2 + 2 = 4, and how it will look if 3 + 1 is already over four. Moreover, the Office for the Prevention and Combating of Corruption is weakened by internal disputes. Prime Minister Maris Kučinskis sees and knows everything. I will quote one of his words: “This situation is not about the shadow economy anymore, but about organised crime, which has become so large that it is not about individual cases. It involves people who need to monitor the situation." What is Parliament doing? Do you think you're watching such a newspaper at your sittings? No, no! A smile and collective vote by members of the coalition is against the opposition's proposal to focus more on these processes. ( The box “What Is About? ”) ) Wait, colleagues! What's the matter? There's no anxiety. Shouldn't parliamentary control of the processes be? This is about increased parliamentary control. Now... Today, huge sums of money pass past the Treasury. If we look at the Council of Europe's study, Latvia loses 13 percent of GDP every year. The Foreign Investors' Board, in turn, refers to large amounts of money in the pockets of insolvency administrators. It is about the fact that, let us say, the Subcommittee on the Prevention of Corruption is holding 16 meetings a year. At the same time, the Sports Sub-Commission has met at 33 meetings. Normal work doesn't want to be done. In order to remedy this situation, it is necessary to set up a parliamentary committee of inquiry. The Irish have the saying: “We have to finish cleaning up the house when the roof of the house is in flames.” And don't bother us to work if we don't want to do it ourselves! Thank you. (Applause)
ParlaMint-LV_2016-04-07-PT12-357-U69	Thank you. Let us start a debate. Name of Member Inga Bite.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-04-07-PT12-357-U70	Dear colleagues, The officials who, through their personal property or freedom, have responded to their activities as a public official, are unfortunately easily counted. Moreover, those who have actually been punished have often been fined for other formal offences, because there has been no great opportunity or willingness to prove... Unfortunately, when assessing and looking at developments in society and public administration, there is no indication that any improvement is expected. Already in 2014, Tālis Putniņš and Arnis Sauka found that compared to neighbouring countries, the size of the shadow economy in Latvia exceeded the size of the neighbouring countries by about 8 or 9 percent of gross domestic product. In the same study, they write that Latvian companies are more dissatisfied with tax policy and state support for entrepreneurs than companies in Estonia and Lithuania, and it is precisely dissatisfaction that encourages companies to engage in the shadow economy, and therefore the difference between Latvia and neighbouring countries is explained precisely by this situation. Unfortunately, instead of really fighting the shadow economy, we are delighted with the reduction in its share of gross domestic product and pretending to be blind and deaf to the fact that its volume in absolute terms is continuing to rise. In 2013, the amount of unpaid taxes due to the shadow economy was around €1.6 billion, and this has not been kept to a minimum. This money would be sufficient for teachers, doctors, and police officers. However, instead of actually collecting it, the government thinks about how to increase taxes on those citizens who already pay taxes. In 2015, the SKDS study found that only 13 percent of citizens believe that taxes collected are being used correctly, and only 20 percent believe that the tax system is fair. And therefore, it is not surprising that 45 percent of Latvians are in favour of partial non-payment of taxes, receiving of envelope wages. 50 percent of private sector workers think so and - colleagues, please, pay attention! - 43 per cent of public sector employees. Almost no Latvian citizen believes that the country will be able to provide him with a sufficiently large pension in old age. Corruption, crime and smuggling are cancer in the body of Latvia. Instead of making an accurate diagnosis and proper treatment, however, we continue to drink coughing teas and wonder that the symptoms of cancer are not only decreasing but continue to grow. The Parliamentary Commission of Inquiry will not be in the hands of the scalp for the removal of this cancer, but the parliamentary investigation is an opportunity to provide the public with information on the extent and localisation of the evil disease, so that the "surgeons" in power finally either resign from office or begin to search for long-term lost scalp. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-04-07-PT12-357-U71	Thank you. I closed the debate. Please call me! We will vote on the draft decision submitted by 34 Members “On the establishment of a Parliamentary Investigation Commission on the impact of corruption, lobbying, organised crime and smuggling on tax collection and investigation of economic and financial crimes, as well as on the assessment of personal liability of officials of the Interior, the Ministry of Justice, the Ministry of Finance and other state institutions in the respect of public interests and principles of good governance”! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 89, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. Consequently, a decision has been taken. A parliamentary committee of inquiry shall be set up. In order to determine the composition of the panel in accordance with the law of the Parliamentary Commission of Inquiry, a joint meeting of the Fraction Council and the Saeima Presidium will be convened immediately after the meeting of the Saeima, in which it will decide on the representativeness of the panel and determine the length of time for which candidates may be nominated, so that the Saeima can decide on the composition of the panel and the panel can begin its work. Dear colleagues, Forty-seven Members are asking to amend the agenda of the Saeima sitting and to include in it the draft decision of the Saeima “On the impact of the parliamentary investigation commission on tax collection, lobbying, organised crime and smuggling and on the investigation of economic and financial crimes, as well as on the assessment of personal liability of officials of the Interior, the Ministry of Justice, the Ministry of Finance and other state institutions in respecting public interests and principles of good governance”. Are Members opposed to this amendment of the agenda? So “no” has applied to speak to Gunārs Kūtris.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-04-07-PT12-357-U72	Good morning, honourable colleagues! I understand that the Saeima can take various decisions by a majority. The question is whether the decision taken by the majority is not... Does the draft decision drawn up by the majority not incorporate ridicule into the working methods of the parliament? Every normal, reasonable person knows that corruption, lobbying and all related problems in the revenue of the state budget have existed for ten years at least. By planning that six months is a reasonable time to name both the specific officials who have contributed to this, and by setting out what needs to be improved in the law to improve this situation, to improve the fight against such a system, I think that here, most of us want to just laugh at what parliamentary control means. Six months! Dear colleagues, You all have holiday time, free time, so it's an unrealistic time. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. S.Absolute intermediate call sign.) I'd suggest, though, that I think it's reasonable... I will approach this issue in a reasonable way and think about what is needed by the parliamentary committee of inquiry and not by a majority vote to deny its action... and create not by nature, but formally. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-04-07-PT12-357-U73	Mr Baloža, are you going to talk about it?
ParlaMint-LV_2016-04-07-PT12-357-U74	Of course! The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. A.Kimiņš is a better friend.)
ParlaMint-LV_2016-04-07-PT12-357-U75	Please.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-04-07-PT12-357-U76	Good afternoon, dear colleagues, again! Some asked me if I was really “for” these six months? But, of course! Let us say, with regard to these deadlines, which could be the case for parliamentary committees, I have analysed all the practices. Of course, I am looking at legislation and I have not seen any place where it is said that this committee would not have been able to choose any term of office. Nor is it said anywhere that Parliament could vote in favour of six months, as it is today, and cut the thirty-month term of office. We understand that this is fear in this case. I think that every one of you who is voting in favour (and I am calling for the 'yes' to be voted in favour of these six months) has a great deal of fear of fighting corruption, of being able to detect your crimes, and I think that fear must be changed in some way, and it can be achieved by voting. So vote in 'yes' for these six months and think about how to prevent the next parliamentary investigation commission, which will become after those six months, and certainly we should vote 'yes' for six months again. Because you see what the situation is. I will give a little theory what I can do in relation to the parliamentary committees. Parliamentary committees of inquiry in the world are set up on an ad hoc basis in exceptional cases. Firstly, when the general public is offended and the government is unable to achieve a clear and clear solution. It's now... and, of course, such a commission should not have any solution at all. So vote in favour for six months. And then. There is a possibility that politicians and officials have committed a serious crime that cannot be detected by the law enforcement authorities due to strong political lobbying. Of course! Six months! Otherwise it will be more and more discovered! Well, what do you think in six months... Another summer in the middle! I am happy to ask for support! Under no circumstances should such investigation commissions be allowed to operate! Let us hide our crimes, our crimes and our people who work in the system! Please, just six months. (Applause)
ParlaMint-LV_2016-04-07-PT12-357-U77	Please call me! We will vote for the amendment of the agenda of the sitting, including the draft decision submitted by 47 Members of the Saeima on the impact of the parliamentary investigation commission on tax collection, lobbying, organised crime and smuggling and the investigation of economic and financial crimes, as well as the assessment of the personal responsibility of officials of the Interior, the Ministry of Justice, the Ministry of Finance and other state institutions in respecting public interests and principles of good governance. Please vote mode! ( Subtotal: ‘ Ringold, vote in favour! ’) ) Please see the result. - 53, against - 34, refrains - not. The working procedure has been amended. On the agenda - draft decision “On extension of the deadline for submitting proposals in the second reading of the draft law “Amendments to the Law of the Museum of Occupation of Latvia” (No. 516/Lp12) until 9 May 2016. Member of the Commission for Education, Culture and Science Raivis Dzintars.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-04-07-PT12-357-U78	Dear colleagues, The Education, Culture and Science Commission has received a letter from the Minister of Culture asking to extend the deadline for the second reading of the draft law “Amendments to the Law of the Occupation Museum of Latvia”. Everyone in the Commission unanimously supported it. The request to Members is to support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-04-07-PT12-357-U79	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote on the draft decision on the extension of the deadline for submitting proposals to the second reading of the draft law “Amendments to the Law of the Museum of Occupation of Latvia” (No 516/Lp12) until 9 May 2016! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 88, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. The decision has been taken. The next item is the Bureau's reports on draft laws submitted. The Presidium of the Saeima proposes that the draft law “Amendment to the Law on the Status of a Member of the City (Council) and District Council of the Republic of Lithuania” presented by Member of the Parliament Gaida Berzins, Imantas Krādnieks, Romana Nadiņa, Raivja Dzintars and Jānis Dombrava be referred to the Commission of State Administration and Local Government, stating that it is the committee responsible. ‘ On” applied to speak Member Gaidis Berzins.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-04-07-PT12-357-U80	Dear Chairman of the Saeima. Dear colleagues, The first annex to Cabinet of Ministers Regulations No.733 establishes the division of posts and professions according to the required level and degree of state language skills for certain professions, including the Member of the City Council of the Republican City Council and the Member of the Council of the Municipality Council; there these skills are defined in level 1 of level C. The candidate for a municipal member’s post shall be obliged to comply with these requirements as regards the degree of national language proficiency already when he agrees to include his candidacy in the list of candidates. But I must admit that there is a lack of mechanism to test these skills. But that's another question. However, if the State Language Centre finds, in accordance with the procedure established by law, after a person has become a member, that a person’s skills in the state language do not correspond to the specific level, the person, namely a Member, shall be obliged to acquire the state language within six months at the level of skills specified by the Cabinet of Ministers. However, the most strange and, in our view, the most disproportionate is that, at the moment, the law provides that, in such a situation, the President of the Council is obliged to do so immediately - immediately! - to ensure that funds are made available so that the Member can learn the national language. Thus, provision is made for the financial allocation from the municipal budget, from the municipal population units. Is this proportionate? This is, of course, disproportionate. Consider some examples. One of the last: in a municipality in Latgale the council according to the Financial Commission... the committee decision has decided to allocate EUR 2300 to the Member's national language skills training. Is this proportionate? This is, of course, disproportionate. We therefore propose that this provision, which obliges the municipality to cover these costs from its budget, be excluded at this time, and we propose that the Member "renew" the skills of the state language (I will say in feet, because he should know the state language at the specified level) at his own expense. Colleagues! Please support.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-04-07-PT12-357-U81	Mr. Sergey Dolgopolov, Member, has applied for a speech.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-04-07-PT12-357-U82	Dear colleagues, It is indeed the last moment that these things need to be brought up to date, and it is precisely the language skills that are relevant to the Members. You know, I'll tell you one thing about my life. Tell me, does anyone in the room doubt that my knowledge of language meets the requirements set by the Cabinet of Ministers? But! After passing the language exam and obtaining the appropriate certificate, I went on to live and work with a calm mind. A little time passed, and the State Language Centre called me to a language check because there was a signal that, here, my certificate was purchased. The situation is out of life, and it affects me. Such cases are not an exception, and this is unfortunately a fairly common phenomenon that we use administrative instruments in the fight against competitors. It seems to me that the existing and existing regulations, which are incorporated into the law, are fully in line with the needs of both the councils and the daily work of the Saeima. Therefore, I think that these innovations are artificial, they only increase the administrative burden and do not save local government resources and the municipal budget. I call for this kind of thing not to be supported, because nothing other than the current wave of tension will call it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-04-07-PT12-357-U83	So one Member said 'for', one spoke 'for'. We have to vote. Please call me! We will vote in favour of transferring the draft law “Amendment to the Law on the Status of Member of City Council and District Council of the Republic” to the Commission of State Administration and Local Government, establishing that it is the committee responsible! Please vote mode! Please get the result! -64, against -23, refrains - not. The draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The next item is "Review of draft decisions". On the agenda - draft decision presented by 47 Members "On the evaluation of the personal liability of officials of the Parliamentary Investigation Commission on the impact of corruption, lobbying, organised crime and smuggling on tax collection and investigation of economic and financial crimes, as well as on the assessment of the personal liability of officials of the Interior, the Ministry of Justice, the Ministry of Finance and other state institutions in the respect of public interests and principles of good governance". Let us start a debate. The name of the Member, Martin Bondar.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-04-07-PT12-357-U84	Mr. Baloža! You think what you're doing! You have spoken so convincingly about putting this issue on the agenda that the coalition Members believed. He believed that he could investigate, see, and so forth for six months. Come on! Six months later, we will have to set up another commission - a commission of two. Mr. Balozh, don't do that anymore! Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-04-07-PT12-357-U85	Name to Member Ringold Balodim.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-04-07-PT12-357-U86	Good afternoon, dear colleagues! Of course, there was a great opportunity here to encourage this commission to be set up for a period of six months. I would like to point out that, at the moment, this time limit, which is being reduced, is a change of parliamentary practice, and in future any parliamentary committee of inquiry, regardless of the time it will set for it, say, the year that the Zolitude Commission or the Citadele Commission of inquiry was the year, Parliament may even be amended for a month... The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. S. Apple: “You can’t set for a month!” ) Where is the difference? If the parliament... The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. S.Bobs and depots A.Loskutov’s intersacrements.) Mr Loskutov, you would have spoken better at the meetings of the Defence, Home Affairs and Anti-Corruption Commission than at all this time, sat down and deserved a salary! And, Mrs. Āboltiņa, I won't answer you because I won't talk to the grass.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-04-07-PT12-357-U87	Mr Baloža, please continue the debate and do not talk to the room.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-04-07-PT12-357-U88	Of course, I would like to remind you that the law lays down that if the committee of inquiry does not set its term of office, Parliament will automatically set a three-month period. In this case, it is not said anywhere that Parliament could reduce the term of the parliamentary committee of inquiry, so in the future, even for a month, a majority may change... And it is not only a change of parliamentary practice, it is a gross interpretation of Article 26 of the Satversme. What do I mean? I would like to say at this point that Parliament's responsible commission, namely the Commission on Defence, Home Affairs and the Prevention of Corruption, which also has the responsibility of overseeing processes in the State police, the Security Police, the State Border Guard, the Public Prosecutor's Office, the Office for the Prevention and Combating of Corruption, the Financial Police Administration of the State Revenue Service and the Customs Police Administration, continues to work peacefully on the maintenance of draft laws drafted by the Government. But Parliament must not only deal with legislative work but also with parliamentary control! The situation that is currently in place is not normal, because Parliament is now pretending to be invisible to all of this. I saw Mr. Andris Bērzins on the table newspaper Eighteenca. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. A.Bērzins: “Yes!” ) He study it carefully... every word it contains. I do not want to raise, say, the rating of this newspaper, even though its copies had been delivered to me in two places - the Saulkrasti House and Parliament - but I want to say that it is irresponsible - to pretend not to see it all, to put your head in the sand and think: “No, it’s not about me! It doesn’t happen to me!” And that is why, as a result of the parliamentary struggle, the idea of reinforcing this control has arisen. And the objective has certainly been achieved: these processes are now being addressed. Therefore, I think it is a mistake in this case, it is a gross interpretation of Article 26 of the Satversme, but now, we are subject to pressure from the majority, without doubt. Why was that 30 - month period set? Because, if a certain year were to come, you would probably agree, but after a year this commission would not be extended. And so after six months of this commission's work, where it is impossible to actually study anything and only to start these processes, we will probably not ask for this deadline to be extended. You won't. You're scared. We're going to make a new investigation commission. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-04-07-PT12-357-U89	Name of Member Inga Bite.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-04-07-PT12-357-U90	Colleagues! I think it is not necessary to worry about these six months, because this shows the coalition's enormous respect for the opposition's ability. Mr. Baloža, Mr. Bondar! Obviously, the coalition believes that the opposition will be able to do what the coalition has not done within ten years or more within six months. Thank you very much for this compliment.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-04-07-PT12-357-U91	Name of Member Solvita Āboltiņš.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-04-07-PT12-357-U92	Good morning, honourable colleagues! So that's a very emotional debate, but I only have some legal answers to Mr Baloža. I like that you are a very good lawyer, you speak and interpret very well, and you're gestivating what you're saying. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. R. Balodis: “Teaching! I learn from the best!” ) But perhaps you should look at the beginning of the Satversme. Read the Article of the Satversme, which provides for the establishment of parliamentary committees of inquiry. The family creates for certain cases... Perhaps you could come here to explain what this established case is? The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. A.Kamiņš: “Look in the mirror!” ) What is this specific case? I'm glad to see in the mirror... Because... ( The Hall is full of hands.) Sometimes I'm not so happy looking at some faces in the hall, but I don't think about this... We are discussing a parliamentary committee of inquiry, which is indeed an instrument for the opposition to investigate concrete investigations - political investigations. Mr Baloža, I am the author of the law entitled “The Law on Parliamentary Investigation Commissions”, and I have also studied very well and carefully what this law says. And don't be deceived here, talking about one month! Can't be for a month... And there is an accurate record: created for a certain time or, if there is no specified time, for three months. And it is also written there that the deadline may be extended if necessary. And then, Mr. Baloze or Mr. Curry... What leave do Members have? What are you talking about? We don't have a vacation. We have to work. Well, if you're so keen to dig into those irregularities, then you have to work day and night, and also during the summer. So I don't understand what this anxiety is about? And, Mr Balozy, for those thirty months. In my opinion, thirty months are exact on 7 November 2018. It is the day when the mandate of this Saeima ends and when the new Saeima meets. Read again the law of the Parliamentary Investigation Commissions. They shall be formed during one Saeima. I think you show once again that you only want to simulate the work, just come and, every time each meeting of each commission, get down to the full camera with total stupidity, unwarranted statements. When will that report be, Mr. Balozh? We also want to see that report and to discuss it.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-04-07-PT12-357-U93	Name to Member Artus Neminis.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-04-07-PT12-357-U94	Good morning, people's servants! Solvita, the form does not change the content. That's the point one. For a year, we worked with the Maxima case in the Parliamentary Investigation Commission, and for the first time in the history of Latvia we named seven politically and morally responsible people for the death of 54 people at the Maxima supermarket. There is still no Lobbying Law in Latvia within 25 years. I am leaving your commission, Mr Losktov, because it is completely pointless. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. A.Loskutov: “Thank you!” ) Please! Mr. Adamson left your commission because it's pointless. Zent Tretyaka left your commission because it's pointless. Ringold Balodis left your commission because it's pointless. You may laugh, but you imitate the activity in that sub- commission, and you also receive a salary for that. The ultimate aim of this parliamentary committee of inquiry is what you have had to do for many years before I left that committee. You need the law of lobbying, but you do not accept it. Solvita, don't stop me! You and... Because... Apologies, for which there is a commission. ( The grass has increased in noise.)
ParlaMint-LV_2016-04-07-PT12-357-U95	Mr. Neighbours, continue the debate. That's right, exactly. Please do not talk to the room and continue the debate.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-04-07-PT12-357-U96	With regard to Mr Baloža's proposal, that six months... Mr Baloža, I think that all can be done in a week. Just seven days, seven nights and our 25-year experience in the country that has been, and the law of lobbying will, and everything will happen. Because you can simulate the action. I simply see that these 40, how many, 49 members of the coalition had signed up to a six-month deadline? The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. M.Bondars: “53!” ) 53? Lobbyed Members like this, right? What are you afraid of this lobbying law? The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. S. Āboltiņa: “I have supported it in the Legal Commission!” ) A rhetorical question. Solvita, don't stop me! Never, never stop me! Thank you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-04-07-PT12-357-U97	Name to Member Ringold Balodim, for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-04-07-PT12-357-U98	I will, of course, not turn my attention to Solvita Āboltiņa, in order not to make the accusation that I was talking to the hall. I will speak in general terms. Regarding the specific cases set out in the Constitution. These specific cases may be numerous, there may be a set of specific cases. Because (I quote what our Prime Minister Maris Kučinskis said) the crime actually organised is through and there can no longer be a single case. That is why we need to talk about a whole range of problems in this case, and that is why the title refers to a capacitive problem that has an impact on tax collection. It is not normal that such committees of inquiry should be set up at all. Oh, my God! The opposition calls for increased work. The sub-commission of the prevention of corruption led by Loskutov, which actually imitates the work... Well, come on, once a month... The sports sub-commission sits there for weeks, thinks... Corruption is all right! In the autumn, we have the re-election of the KNAB leader. That law is so far out of nature that... But it was confirmed, but in the end you'll probably "screw" that poor Strelčenok, who is trying to do it with all his heart right now... And the words “from the heart” have no connection with the name of the “from the heart” party for Latvia. ( The transcripts are: “Yes! Yes!’ ) I think that this situation is tragic in this case. We need to work on parliamentary commission with parliamentary control cases, not just to imitate legislation!
ParlaMint-LV_2016-04-07-PT12-357-U99	Name to Member Edward Smilten.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-04-07-PT12-357-U100	Colleagues! A brief lesson for the Saeima to earn EUR 30,000 with one vote. ( Insight: “Well, Edward, tell me! ” ) An application for the establishment of a parliamentary committee of inquiry must be submitted. For one month - it is not really useful, better for thirty months, that is, for the entire Saeima cycle, because the head of the parliamentary committee of inquiry for each month worked or spent (at his option) in the relevant committee receives an additional EUR 1000 at salary. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. I. Silver: “He shares his experience!” ) Colleagues, it will perhaps be irony if I say that I do not understand what it is about. Until now, the Commission on severe issues (Citadel and other issues) has been set up for a period of nine months, 12 months. This needs to be done all the time before the parliamentary term ends. What's the problem? If there is really a lot of work, the Saeima extends the deadline. But now it all looks more like trying to look for a chance... ( Intercretion: “Let us hold on to the word. ”) ) to make a profit by working under the authority of such an investigative commission. Thank you. ( Milestones.)
ParlaMint-LV_2016-04-07-PT12-357-U101	The name to Member Martin Bondar, for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-04-07-PT12-357-U102	Colleagues! It was asked: What has happened, why is it now necessary to set up such a commission? ( Interface: “Salary too little! ” ) In the State Revenue Service scandal in relation to very many employees who are, let us say, with so uncertain income that the hair licks on the floor (if I were so short that I could rise up)! The country of Latvia is not taken - not taken! - OECD money laundering. And as if the public officials didn't know anything about it... And so on. And the study commissioned by the European Parliament has just been published that Latvia loses up to EUR 5 billion every year because of corruption. There's not enough reason? Everyone is in front of you, friends!
ParlaMint-LV_2016-04-07-PT12-357-U103	The name of the Member, Janis Upeiver.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-04-07-PT12-357-U104	Dear colleagues, In a way, it is already a pleasure to have colleagues active, willing to act and deal with these issues, but... This time I hope that there will really be work on certain things, helping the State Revenue Service or someone else to deal with the big issues, rather than simply concluding that certain people see are guilty of all the things that happen in this country. Unfortunately, the parliamentary committee of inquiry, which dealt with the Zolitūde tragedy, used the tragedy of 54 people to build their own PRs, to create different “dog way” stories, and the result, unfortunately, was nothing. That is why I hope you will be fine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-04-07-PT12-357-U105	The name of the Member is Waiting for Burns.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-04-07-PT12-357-U106	Colleagues! I am listening very carefully to this debate, but to the end, I do not understand what the real aim was at that point of the applicants who planned to set the Commission for thirty months. Here one of the representatives of the applicants pointed out that the task of the commission was to identify and correct the shortcomings and, of course, this can be accepted, because some time ago we worked with amendments to the law of the Parliamentary Investigation Commission, where, inter alia, we stated that, at the end of the commission work, it was necessary to draw up a report to be submitted to the Saeima Bureau, as well as to publish a report in the official edition of the Official Journal of Latvia. In turn, this report should be sent to those institutions whose competences have identified the relevant potential problems in order to assess the elimination of these problems. However, if we look at the calendar, as Mrs Āboltiņa said, for thirty months, it is actually the next Saeima. So the next Saeima will not do this task in accordance with the law. In fact, the Commission is working, there is some draft report, there are perhaps shortcomings, there is much talk about it, but in fact this objective - to identify and correct the shortcomings - is not being achieved. Therefore, I think there could not be a problem here with Article 26 of the Satversme either, because we cannot go to absurdity and say that in this way the objective can be achieved - only by working but not removing the shortcomings. I think there may be political objectives here, but these objectives are not in line with the objective of Parliamentary Commissions of Inquiry law and also with Article 26 of the Satversme. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-04-07-PT12-357-U107	Thank you. I closed the debate. Please call me! We will vote on the draft decision submitted by 47 Members “On the evaluation of the personal responsibility of the Parliamentary Investigation Commission on the impact of corruption, lobbying, organised crime and smuggling on tax collection and the investigation of economic and financial crimes, as well as the determination of the duration of the activities of officials of the Interior, the Ministry of Justice, the Ministry of Finance and other state institutions in respect of public interests and principles of good governance”! Please vote mode! Please get the result! - 55, against - 34, refrains - none. Consequently, a decision has been taken. Dear colleagues, The agenda of the sitting has been examined but will also be kept informed of the questions put by Members. Members Adamson, Urbanovich, Nikiforov, Arthur Rubik and Tutin put forward a question to the Prime Minister, Maris Kučinskis, about the dissemination of the mass media. Members Liepiņš, Ruks, Šics, Bondars, Bite and Symfa submitted a question to Members “On Compliance of Cabinet Regulations with the State Language Law”, which is submitted to the Prime Minister Maris Kučinskis. Members Dolgopolovs, Adamsons, Urbanovičs, Tretyaka and Zemlinskis submitted a question “On the future accommodation centre “Mucenieki” of foreign residents detained”, which is given to Prime Minister Maris Kučinskis. Please call me! Please check-in mode for Members! While preparing the results of the registration, I would remind you that following the general meeting of the Saeima Fraction Council and the Saeima Presidium, the Saeima Red Hall will receive regular training for Members and staff working with classified information. Name for the statement to Member Lolita Chigan.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-04-07-PT12-357-U108	Dear Members of the Commission on European Affairs. The meeting of the Committee on European Affairs will be held today at 12.30 a.m. in the Committee on Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-04-07-PT12-357-U109	Name Member of the Saeima, Gunars Kūtris, to read the results of the registration.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-04-07-PT12-357-U110	Thank you. Dear colleagues, Currently not registered: Andrejs Elksniņš, Ojārs Ēriks Kalniņš, Rihards Kols, Ainars Latkovskis, Romanas Mežeckis, Igors Pimenovs, Sergejs Potapkins, Kārlis Sergeants, Julija Stepanenko... Yes, John Trupovnieks. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-04-07-PT12-357-U111	Thank you. I'm closing the sitting.
