ParlaMint-LV_2016-09-08-PT12-373-U1	Good morning, dear colleagues! I invite you to take seats in Saeima's meeting room. Let's start the sitting of the Saeima on 8 September. Before considering the agenda approved by the Saeima Bureau, the amendments tabled should be considered. The Budget and Finance (Tax) Commission asks to change the agenda of the sitting and to include in it the draft decision “On the consent of the Saeima to reallocation of appropriations established in the Law “On the State Budget for 2016”. Are Members opposed to this amendment of the agenda? There is no objection by Members. The agenda has been amended. The Legal Commission asks to amend the agenda of the sitting and to include a draft decision “On the approval of Līga Grīnbergs as a judge of the Land Registers Division of the District (City) Court”. Are Members opposed to this amendment of the agenda? There is no objection. The agenda has been amended. The Legal Commission asks for amendments to the agenda of the sitting, including the draft decision ‘On the approval of Kristīne Vinte-Korme as a judge of the Land Registers Division of the District (City) Court’. Are Members opposed to this amendment of the agenda? There is no objection. The agenda has been amended. The Legal Commission requests that the draft decision on the approval of Kristīne Jandava as a judge of district (city) court be included on the agenda of the sitting. Are Members opposed to this amendment of the agenda? There is no objection. The agenda has been amended. The Legal Commission is asking to include in the agenda of the sitting the draft decision “On Release of Karlis Stāras from the position of a judge of the regional court in Kurzeme”. Are Members opposed to this amendment of the agenda? There is no objection. The agenda has been amended. The Committee on Mandates, Ethics and Application requests that the draft decision on the approval of the mandate of Mr Riharda Melgailis Member of the 12th Saeima be placed on the agenda of the sitting. Are Members opposed to this amendment of the agenda? There is no objection. The agenda has been amended. The Legal Commission asks for the draft decision “On approval of Inese Kalvane as a member of the State Audit Council” to be included on the agenda of the sitting. Are Members opposed to this amendment of the agenda? There is no objection. The agenda has been amended. Members Valerijs Agešins, Ivans Ribakovs, Jānis Urbanovičs, Jānis Tutins and Aleksandrs Jakimovs are asking to amend the agenda of the sitting and to exclude from it the draft law “Amendments to the Transport Law”. ‘ For” applied to speak Member Valery Agešins.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-09-08-PT12-373-U2	Good morning, dear colleagues! I call for the draft law on the agenda of today's sitting on 'Amendments to the Road Transport Act' to be excluded for the following reasons. The legislative framework for the introduction of a new "sharing" service raises many unanswered questions in the draft law and its annotation, especially as regards the impact this innovation will have on the road transport situation. For obvious reasons, the draft law is directed by certain coalition Members who have representatives in the government, and thus also by the Ministry of Transport, who is directly responsible for the policy-making of the transport sector, including road transport. However, the draft law is not directed in the ordinary procedure, is not fully coordinated with ministries, and there is no clear position of non-governmental organisations on this issue. In view of the fact that the draft law contains a lot of uncertainties, I invite the authors of the draft law not to predetermine the draft law in a hurry and to present Members of the Saeima with the substance of the draft law in detail before submitting them to the sitting of the Saeima, providing the necessary additional information and answering unclear questions. And I would like to add that Members of the Saeima should put an end to the practice of rushing forward draft laws with unclear content and purpose, as well as difficult to predict consequences. I call for a vote on the exclusion.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-09-08-PT12-373-U3	Mr. Edvards Smilten has applied for a speech.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-09-08-PT12-373-U4	Good morning, colleagues! Of course, we can say: “It’s something new, unknown! How will this affect the road transport sector? Such regulation has never been seen!” - and so on. I would like to remind you that we could, of course, postpone all viewing today or not at all how Mr. Agešin asks, but – this is not any bike! The Estonians and the Lews have long been ahead of us in this area, and if we do not even want to pioneer on these issues, but simply follow our neighbours and follow most of the European Union Member States (with only two of them not yet in Latvia) then... Well, yeah... Well, I think it's not serious! Today we will be looking at the issue, and I will also be going to argue from the platform why it is extremely important for Latvia and important, and then let us also, colleagues, take a decision by voting. I call for this proposal not to be supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-09-08-PT12-373-U5	Thank you. One Member has spoken for, one against. We have to vote. We will vote in favour of changing the agenda of the sitting by excluding from it the draft law on Amendments to the Road Transport Act! Please vote mode! Please get the result! 25, 55, abstain - not. Consequently, the draft law is not excluded from the agenda of the sitting. Members Jānis Adamsons, Jānis Tutins, Jānis Urbanovičs, Ivans Ribakovs and Valerijs Agešins ask to amend the agenda of the sitting, excluding paragraphs 22-29. ‘ For” applied to speak Member Jānis Adamsons.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-09-08-PT12-373-U6	Highly honored Presidium! Dear colleagues, In principle, we need to talk about a whole series of draft laws, which are linked to one package and which are in principle related to the main draft law, the Law on the Execution of Confiscations of Criminal Property. It has been said in both the draft law and in the mass media that we need such a mechanism, an improved mechanism, which is in line with both the United Nations Convention or, in other words, the Palermo Convention on the fight against transnational organised crime, as well as a whole series of European Union directives on the fight against organised crime, which provide for confiscation of the proceeds and assets of crime. However, contrary to what is defined in this draft law, this Convention and the regulatory framework existing in Latvia provide that the proceeds of crime should not benefit third parties, any other persons, and all of this is confiscated for the benefit of the state and goes to the state budget. What does this draft law, a package of draft laws, provide? The legislative package provides that these funds are acquired by no one else than the bailiffs. The whole package could then be referred to as the law of the lobby of bailiffs, which is focused only in one direction. The need to develop the mechanism itself, how we realise the proceeds of crime, which have been confiscated for the benefit of the state, is another issue. The proposed text does not solve these problems; it highlights one privileged box, which will benefit from criminal proceeds. It is precisely for this absurdity that I believe that we cannot allow such draft laws to be viewed by the commissions. All the more so. However, I call on the Saeima to return to this issue once again: if we look at the legislative package, then we are referring to one committee responsible and not, as it is intended for this package, a number of commissions responsible for one or the other, or a third draft. I call for no support to be given to the examination of this draft law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-09-08-PT12-373-U7	Thank you. Are Members opposed to the exclusion of paragraphs 22-29, namely the legislative package, from the agenda of the Saeima sitting? Members have reservations, so we must vote. Please call me! We will vote for amendments to the agenda of the Saeima sitting, excluding paragraphs 22-29 - package of draft laws: Draft law on the execution of confiscation of criminal assets and related draft laws! Please vote mode! Please get the result! It's not about - 24, it's against - 60, it's not. The agenda for the sitting of the Saeima is therefore not amended. On the agenda - draft decision on the approval of Mr Riharda Melgiel's 12th Saeima Member's mandate. Member Vitaly Orlov on behalf of the Commission for Mandates, Ethics and Applications.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-09-08-PT12-373-U8	Thank you, Presidium. Honourable Members! The Commission for Mandates, Ethics and Application reviewed the application of 11 August 2016 by the Saeima Presidium with information that 12. Saeima Member Dainis Liepiņš is to be considered excluded from the composition of the Saeima on the basis of the Second Part of Article 4 of the Saeima Rules of Procedure. The next candidate for Member's office from the list of Zemgale electoral district of the Latvian Association of Regions is Rihards Melgailis. The Commission of Mandates, Ethics and Applications has received an application from the candidate for Member's post Rihards Melgailis on 8 August 2016 that he agrees to take up the position of Member of the 12th Saeima. Dainis Liepiņš was elected from the list of Zemgale electoral district of the Latvian Association of Regions and his mandate was approved by the Saeima on 5 November 2014. On 5 February 2015, the Saeima, having assessed the application of 28 January 2015 by Jelgava court on the need to obtain the Saeima's consent to continue to adjudicate criminal proceedings, where the accused was the Saeima's Member Dainis Liepiņš, decided to agree to a further trial of 12th Saeima member Daiņa Liepiņš' criminal case. The Commission unanimously supported and decided to direct the draft decision on the approval of Mr Riharda Melgailis 12. Please support the prepared draft decision.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-09-08-PT12-373-U9	Thank you. I call on Richard Melgaili to make a solemn promise.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-09-08-PT12-373-U10	Good morning! As a member of the Saeima, I swear to the Latvian people to be loyal to Latvia, to strengthen its sovereignty and Latvian language as the only state language, to defend Latvia as an independent and democratic state, to perform my duties in good faith and with the best consciousness. I undertake to respect the Constitution and laws of Latvia.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-09-08-PT12-373-U11	Thank you. I invite you to sign the solemn promise. Thank you. Please call me! We will vote on the draft decision on the approval of Mr Riharda Melgiel's 12th Saeima Member's mandate! Please vote mode! Please get the result! It's not about - 86, it's against and refrains from - it's not. The decision has been taken. Congratulations to Rihards Melgile and I call on the Saeima to take a seat in the Saeima's meeting room. Please! The next item is the Bureau's reports on draft laws submitted. The Saeima Bureau proposes that the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Investment Administration Companies” presented by the Cabinet of Ministers be referred to the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission, stating that it is the committee responsible. Do Members have objections? There is no objection by Members. The draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Saeima Presidium proposes that the draft law presented by the Cabinet of Ministers “On the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Latvia and the Government of Hong Kong Special Administrative Region of the People’s Republic of China on the elimination of double taxation and tax evasion in respect of income taxes” be referred to the Foreign Affairs Commission, stating that it is the committee responsible. Do Members have objections? There is no objection by Members. The draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Saeima Presidium proposes that the draft law presented by the Cabinet of Ministers “Amendments to the Criminal Procedure Law” be referred to the Legal Commission, stating that it is the committee responsible. Do Members have objections? There is no objection by Members. The draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Saeima Presidium proposes that the draft law presented by the Cabinet of Ministers “Amendments to the Law “On State Revenue Service” be submitted to the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission, stating that it is the committee responsible. Do Members have objections? There is no objection by Members. The draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Saeima Presidium proposes that the draft law “Amendment to the Law on Remuneration of Officials and Employees of State and Municipal Institutions” submitted by the Cabinet of Ministers be referred to the Commission for Defence, Home Affairs and Prevention of Corruption, as well as the Commission of the State Administration and Local Government, stating that it is the committee responsible. Do Members have objections? There is no objection by Members. The draft law has been passed on to the commissions. The Council of the Saeima proposes that the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Diplomatic and Consular Service” presented by the Cabinet of Ministers be referred to the Foreign Affairs Commission, stating that it is the committee responsible. Do Members have objections? There is no objection by Members. The draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Saeima Presidium proposes that the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Natural Resources Tax” presented by the Cabinet of Ministers be referred to the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission, stating that it is the committee responsible. Do Members have objections? There is no objection by Members. The draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Saeima Bureau proposes that the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Waste Management” presented by the Cabinet of Ministers be referred to the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy, stating that it is the committee responsible. Do Members have objections? There is no objection by Members. The draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Saeima Presidium proposes that the draft law presented by the Cabinet of Ministers “Amendments to the Law on Real Estate Tax” be submitted to the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission, stating that it is the committee responsible. Do Members have objections? There is no objection by Members. The draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Saeima Presidium proposes that the draft law presented by the Cabinet of Ministers “Amendments to the Law on the State Cadastre of Real Estate” be referred to the Legal Commission, stating that it is the committee responsible. Do Members have objections? There is no objection by Members. Draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Saeima Presidium proposes that the draft law presented by the Cabinet of Ministers “Amendments to the Land Register Law” be referred to the Legal Commission, stating that it is the committee responsible. Do Members have objections? There is no objection by Members. The draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Council of the Saeima proposes that the draft law on the processing of air passenger data presented by the Cabinet of Ministers be referred to the Commission for Defence, Home Affairs and Prevention of Corruption, establishing that it is the committee responsible, as well as the Legal Commission and the Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy Commission. Do Members have objections? There is no objection by Members. The draft law has been passed on to the commissions. The Saeima Presidium proposes that the draft law presented by the Cabinet of Ministers “Amendments to the Ģerbonis Law” be submitted to the Education, Culture and Science Commission, stating that it is the committee responsible, as well as to the Legal Commission. Do Members have objections? There is no objection by Members. The draft law has been passed on to the commissions. The Saeima Bureau proposes that the draft law presented by the Cabinet of Ministers “Amendments to the Law on Legal Force of Documents” be referred to the Legal Commission, stating that it is the committee responsible. Do Members have objections? There is no objection. The draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Council of the Saeima proposes that the draft law on public procurement presented by the Cabinet of Ministers be referred to the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy, stating that it is the committee responsible. Do Members have objections? There is no objection by Members. The draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Saeima Presidium proposes that the draft law “On the agreement of the Supreme Grand Command of the Republic of Latvia, North Atlantic Treaty Organization and the Chief of Staff of the Supreme Grand Command of the United Nations Transformation Commander, which complements the Paris Protocol”, be submitted to the Foreign Affairs Commission, stating that it is the committee responsible. Do Members have objections? There is no objection. The draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Saeima Presidium proposes that the draft law presented by the Cabinet of Ministers “Amendment to the Law on Statistics” be submitted to the Commission of the State Administration and Local Government, stating that it is the commission responsible, as well as to the Legal Commission. Do Members have objections? There is no objection. The draft law has been passed on to the commissions. The Saeima Presidium proposes that the draft law “Amendment to the Law on State Civil Service” presented by the Cabinet of Ministers be submitted to the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission, as well as the Commission of the State Administration and Local Government, establishing that it is the committee responsible. Do Members have objections? There is no objection. The draft law has been passed on to the commissions. The Saeima Presidium proposes that the draft law presented by the Cabinet “On the Convention between the Government of the Republic of Latvia and the Government of the Republic of Cyprus on the elimination of double taxation and tax evasion in respect of income taxes” be referred to the Foreign Affairs Commission, stating that it is the committee responsible. Do Members have objections? There is no objection. The draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Saeima Presidium proposes that the draft law “Amendment to the Law on Security Activities” presented by the Cabinet of Ministers be referred to the Commission for Defence, Home Affairs and Prevention of Corruption, stating that it is the committee responsible, as well as the Budget and Finance (tax) Commission. Do Members have objections? There is no objection by Members. The draft law has been passed on to the commissions. The Saeima Presidium proposes that the draft law “Amendment to the Law “On the Bank of Latvia” presented by the Cabinet of Ministers be submitted to the Commission for Defence, Home Affairs and Corruption Prevention, as well as the Budget and Finance (tax) Commission, stating that it is the committee responsible. Do Members have objections? Members want a vote. On the handover of the draft law to commissions? ( FROM a fraction DECLARES: “Yes! Let's vote!' ) Please call us! We will vote for the transfer of the draft law “Amendment to the Law “On the Bank of Latvia” to the Commission for Defence, Home Affairs and Prevention of Corruption, as well as the Budget and Finance (tax) Commission, establishing that it is the committee responsible! Please vote mode! Please get the result! About -63, against -22, refrains -0. The draft law has been passed on to the commissions. The Saeima Presidium proposes that the draft law presented by the Cabinet of Ministers “Amendments to the Civil Procedure Law” be referred to the Legal Commission, stating that it is the committee responsible. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. V.Ageshin: “Let’s vote!” ) Members ask for a vote. Please call me! We will vote in favour of handing over the draft law “Amendments to the Civil Procedure Law” to the Legal Commission, establishing that it is the committee responsible! Please vote mode! Please get the result! -64, against -24, refrains - none. The draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Saeima Bureau proposes to refer the draft law “Amendments to the Criminal Law” presented by the Cabinet of Ministers to the Legal Commission, stating that it is the committee responsible. Do Members have objections? The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. V.Ageshin: “Let’s vote!” ) Members ask for a vote. Please call me! We will vote in favour of handing over the draft law “Amendments to the Criminal Law” to the Legal Commission, stating that it is the Commission responsible! Please vote mode! Please get the result! -63, against -24, refrains - not. The draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Saeima Presidium proposes that the draft law presented by the Cabinet of Ministers “Amendments to the Criminal Procedure Law” be referred to the Legal Commission, stating that it is the committee responsible. Do Members have objections? The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. V.Ageshin: “Vote!” ) Members wish to vote. Please call me! We will vote in favour of handing over the draft law “Amendments to the Criminal Procedure Law” to the Legal Commission, stating that it is the committee responsible! Please vote mode! Please get the result! -64, against -24, refrains - none. The draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Saeima Presidium proposes that the draft law “Amendments to the Code of Conduct of Penalties of Latvia” presented by the Cabinet of Ministers be referred to the Commission for Defence, Home Affairs and Prevention of Corruption, stating that it is the committee responsible. Do Members have objections? The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. V.Ageshin: ‘Ir!’ ) Please call us! We will vote in favour of handing over to the Commission for Defence, Home Affairs and Prevention of Corruption of the draft law “Amendments to the Code of Conduct of Penalties of Latvia”, which states that it is the committee responsible! Please vote mode! Please get the result! -64, against -23, refrains - not. The draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Saeima Presidium proposes that the draft law presented by the Cabinet of Ministers “Amendments to the Law on Real Estate Tax” be submitted to the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission, stating that it is the committee responsible. Do Members have objections? The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. V.Ageshin: ‘Ir!’ ) Please call us! We will vote in favour of transferring the draft law “Amendments to the Law “On Real Estate Tax”” to the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission, according to which it is the committee responsible! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, So the draft law has been passed on to the commission. The Saeima Presidium proposes that the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Vehicle Operation Tax and Companies on Passenger Vehicle Tax” presented by the Cabinet of Ministers be submitted to the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission, stating that it is the committee responsible. Do Members have objections? The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. V.Ageshin: “Vote!” ) Please call us! We will vote in favour of handing over to the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Vehicle Operation Tax and Companies Tax on Light Vehicles”, which states that it is the committee responsible! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Saeima Presidium proposes that the draft law presented by the Cabinet of Ministers “Amendments to the Law on the Prevention of Money Laundering and Financing of Terrorism” be referred to the Commission for Defence, Home Affairs and Prevention of Corruption, stating that it is the committee responsible. Do Members have objections? The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. V.Ageshin: “Vote!” ) Members wish to vote. Please call me! We will vote in favour of transferring the draft law “Amendments to the Law on the Prevention of Money Laundering and Financing of Terrorism” to the Commission for Defence, Home Affairs and Prevention of Corruption, which states that it is the committee responsible! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Saeima Presidium proposes that the draft law on the execution of confiscation of criminally acquired property presented by the Cabinet of Ministers be referred to the Commission for Defence, Home Affairs and Prevention of Corruption, stating that it is the committee responsible. Do Members have objections? The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. V.Ageshin: “Vote!” ) Please call us! We will vote in favour of handing over to the Commission for Defence, Home Affairs and Prevention of Corruption of the draft law “Law on the Execution of Confiscation of Criminal Property”, which states that it is the commission responsible! Please vote mode! Please get the result! -63, against -23, refrains - not. The draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Saeima Presidium proposes that the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Security Activities” presented by the Cabinet of Ministers be referred to the Commission for Defence, Home Affairs and Prevention of Corruption, stating that it is the committee responsible. Do Members have objections? There is no objection by Members. The draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Saeima Presidium proposes that the draft law “Amendments to the Law on National Security” presented by the Cabinet of Ministers be referred to the Commission on Defence, Home Affairs and Prevention of Corruption, stating that it is the committee responsible, as well as to the Legal Commission and the National Security Commission. Do Members have objections? There is no objection by Members. The draft law has been passed on to the commissions. The Saeima Presidium proposes that the draft law “Amendment to Criminal Law” submitted by the Cabinet of Ministers (No 638/Lp12) be submitted to the Commission for Defence, Home Affairs and Prevention of Corruption, as well as the Legal Commission, establishing that it is the committee responsible and the National Security Commission. Do Members have objections? There is no objection by Members. The draft law has been passed on to the commissions. The Parliamentary Bureau proposes that the draft law “On the Economic Partnership Agreement between the European Union and its Member States, of the one part, and the SADC EPA States, of the other part” presented by the Cabinet be referred to the Foreign Affairs Commission, stating that it is the committee responsible. Do Members have objections? There is no objection by Members. The draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Saeima Presidium proposes that the draft law “Amendments to the Law on the Protection of the Rights of the Child” presented by the Cabinet of Ministers be referred to the Commission for Human Rights and Public Affairs, stating that it is the committee responsible. Do Members have objections? There is no objection. The draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Saeima Presidium proposes that the draft law “Amendment to the Law on Advertising” presented by the Cabinet of Ministers be referred to the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy, stating that it is the committee responsible. Do Members have objections? There is no objection. The draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Saeima Presidium proposes that the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Veterinary Medicine” presented by the Cabinet of Ministers be referred to the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy, stating that it is the committee responsible. ‘ For” applied to speak Member Armands Krauze.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-09-08-PT12-373-U12	Dear Chairman of the Saeima. Colleagues! I call on you to vote in favour of amendments to the Veterinary Medicine Law by the Cabinet of Ministers. What is this about? This is about marking dogs to make them more accessible to our citizens. There is now a situation where these rights have been exclusively granted only to vetoers, that is the case. Veterans, in fact, thanks to us, can make a profit, because the price is set by them. Unfortunately, in some cases... I even have the news that last night the vetist asked for EUR 50. Think about it! Can people living in urban and rural areas and with several dogs in rural singles pay such money? What we are proposing with these amendments is to extend the scope of these individuals, to allow the PVD inspectors who are professional vetists, as well as dog shelter workers who are specially trained, to carry out this chipping, thus making this service more accessible to the public. In fact, we have stated that this price could be no more than EUR 15 ( instead of EUR 50). It is important to understand that if we do not support this draft law today, in fact, we say to all those poor: “Pay as much as you require.” I therefore call on you to support this draft law. I would also like to say that this draft law has been agreed with KNAB as regards the Food and Veterinary Office inspectors and that there is no conflict of interest there. It seems to me that we should not go so far that, in the end, perhaps we will also ban farmers from labeling their own cows in their cattle herds and putting in the ears the ear ear ear that is currently allowed. So I call on you to support the draft law and to move it forward to the Saeima for consideration by the commissions.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-09-08-PT12-373-U13	Ms Inguna Ribena has applied for a speech.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-09-08-PT12-373-U14	Dear colleagues, What is the purpose of this draft law? Annotated record: register all dogs and make more accessible the dog's chipping and registration service. First of all, chipping. What are the problems that have been identified? It turns out that problems with canine chipping exist in rural areas, not in cities. Why is the law not addressing only the problem in these territories, but the country as a whole is changing and embarrassing the existing chipping order? According to the report, it is not possible to choose the cheapest service in rural areas due to a lack of competition, and therefore it is proposed to carry out this work for FTD inspectors during the control period. Does this mean that future PVD inspectors will significantly increase the number of controls if all dogs in the field already need to be chied? Can an artificially established system, in which employees employed by a state institution participate, create fair competition with a veterinarian who does not receive funding from the state budget for his work? And will we achieve a reduction in the price of the service by introducing such a procedure? Maybe this particular service is yes. But how will this affect other services and prices provided by veterinarians? The draft law provides for the creation of a new training programme and spending money on training additional people in dog pickling. Why create new specialists if there are already enough qualified specialists in the country who can do so? In the field of veterinary medicine in Latvia, the funds of the state budget are prepared not only by veterinarians, but also by veterinarians and veterinary assistants. What is the point of spending public funds on training third-, middle-, level specialists, if we want a couple of hours trained instead of these specially trained specialists? What do we say to the public? The fact that education doesn't have any value? That learning is pointless? Microchips are a medical procedure in which the skin is broken and a foreign body is injected into the dog’s body. Bleeding may occur during the procedure, and the animal may be very painful if it hits the nerve; it may cause aggression and fear. A certified practitioner in such cases shall act professionally using sedatives or even anaesthesia. Would any of you, knowing the potential risks, expose your dog to an experiment like this? Perhaps the funding planned to be spent on programme development and training could be directed, for example, towards the purchase of microchips, which could then be used by veterinarians without charging for the chip itself and thus reducing the total cost of chipping. Is it worth spending money on such a one-off training campaign if it is already clear that in the coming years the number of dogs will be significantly lower and these specialists will not be needed? According to the report, such providers will reduce costs and significantly reduce the number of dogs left anonymously. However, it is not clear how a person who has a contract with an animal shelter can drastically reduce the number of dogs left anonymously if they often end up in the shelter when they are already abandoned. And finally about the dog registration service. This service is currently not available electronically for dog owners. Maybe it should have started with the fact that the owner can himself electronically and simply register his dog in the Farm Data Centre? Did you know that there were no discounts in the prices of this data centre for the registration fee for low and disabled dogs? If this service needs to be made more financially available, then perhaps let us start with an exemption from registration fees for at least these two categories of persons, rather than thinking about how to attract and train additional people in order to do a job that some people do not have the opportunity to pay for, because there is no money! I also draw your attention to the fact that, when assessing the draft law's intention to provide a service currently provided by veterinarians, the Competition Council has seen a risk of market distortion. The meaning and nature of the draft law could not be seen either by the Ministry of Justice or by the Ministry of Finance, nor was it strongly opposed to the progress of the draft law by the MoEPRD and KNAB. The bill has been outrageous by shelters who do not want to collect donations to mark dogs owned by solvent dogs. What can we conclude? The fact that the draft law does not, in principle, solve the problems that led to its preparation. I therefore call on us not to support the handover of this draft law to the parliamentary commissions. ( The interdependencies of the fraction.)
ParlaMint-LV_2016-09-08-PT12-373-U15	Thank you. One Member has said 'for', one against. We have to vote. Please call me! We will vote in favour of handing over the draft law on Veterinary Medicine to the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy, stating that it is the committee responsible! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 24, for - 25, for - 31. The draft law has not been passed on to the commission. “ Bobiki will fly without chips! ” ) The Presidium of the Saeima proposes that the draft law “Amendment to the Law on State Administration Structures” presented by the Cabinet of Ministers be referred to the Commission for Defence, Home Affairs and Prevention of Corruption, as well as the Commission of the State Administration and Local Government, stating that it is the committee responsible. Do Members have objections? There is no objection by Members. The draft law has been passed on to the commissions. The Saeima Presidium proposes that the draft law presented by the Cabinet of Ministers “Amendment to the Law on Expropriation of Public Person’s Property” be referred to the Legal Commission, as well as the Commission of the State Administration and Local Government, establishing that it is the committee responsible. Do Members have objections? There is no objection. The draft law has been passed on to the commissions. The Saeima Presidium proposes that the draft law “On a Limited Liability Society “Bulduri Secondary School of Gardening” presented by the Cabinet of Ministers be submitted to the Education, Culture and Science Commission, stating that it is the committee responsible. Do Members have objections? There is no objection by Members. The draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Saeima Bureau proposes that the Member Edward Smilten, Ingmars Līdaka, Rihards Kola, Inese Lībiņa-Egnere and Vilnius Ķirsis refer the draft law “Amendments to the Road Transport Act” to the National, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy Commission, which states that it is the Commission responsible. ‘ Member Edvards Smiltens has applied for this.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-09-08-PT12-373-U16	Good morning, colleagues! We are talking so much about the need for more rapid economic growth in Latvia, because with the current pace we can only reach the European Union average in ten years. We are talking so much about state-of-the-art technologies, services, the need for innovation and their support. We are aware that our societies are very strangled, there are social inequalities, many people are fighting every day for their ability to support their families and pay their bills. At the same time, we are proud of Latvia's achievements. We tell our foreign colleagues and friends about the fact that we have almost the fastest Internet in the world, excellent fibre cables and 4G network coverage, mobile internet at a very reasonable price is also available in a remote corner of the forest, where mushrooms need to turn on the navigation card in order not to be lost. Really! We have an excellent ICT infrastructure, but to be a real driver of our economy, it must be filled with content. When Latvia was the Presidency of the European Union, we prioritised the digital economy and did a lot. The European Commission is moving forward and encourages Member States to work in a timely manner to develop a collaborative economy that is brand new but wildly growing at a fast pace, where demand for society is significant and has impressive potential. Experts estimate that already today the revenues from collaborative economic platforms for suppliers in the EU are EUR 28 billion. Looking ahead, the collaborative economy could bring an additional €160 to 572 billion in the EU. This results from the European Commission's report. And here is the question that we need to answer today, colleagues. Is Latvia ready to fight for its market share in this new market and in this new opportunity for the ocean? Therefore, the Unity is already working in several directions in the Ministry of Economics to open these opportunities. The first is the housing sector. Several platforms already exist in Latvia... crowdfunding platforms and fintech solutions; involvement of the Ministry of Finance in regulatory development is also required. Next: a relationship that we have to decide on today. The development of the collaborative economy, thus also sharing, brings a number of benefits to the Latvian state as a whole and to the citizens of Latvia. Firstly, such technologies save resources, time and money. Secondly, this is a real example of how to fight the shadow economy, because digital and internet technologies allow us to track the services provided, track the flow of money, and there is even an opportunity to link this data online with the State Revenue Service, and then it immediately shows how much money is due to the Latvian budget, from which salaries are paid to teachers, policemen, rescuers, and the necessary things are provided for the maintenance of the state. Imagine, colleagues: if such systems were applied to us in the usual taxi industry, it would probably be really frightening for some. Thirdly, it is a tool for improving growth and improving gross domestic product. The example of Stockholm shows that sharing alone provides an additional EUR 70 million per year. Estonia is already implementing a pilot project, working on regulation. Fourthly, it breaks down borders and barriers and opens the way for new innovative products. For the time being, 60 thousand people in Latvia are using, for example, a Taxify application. But why is it Estonian application again? The answer is simple: because they react much more quickly, they open up opportunities for such products to emerge and be born in their own country. In turn, as usual, we do not change anything, we do not help the tax industry that is common to the years and that is falling into the shadow economy to change and go back to time. The introduction of such innovations would also make it necessary to improve the quality of existing players' services and to modernise them. It is a good soil for our ICT companies to develop their innovative products. And the fifth, which is the most important: it gives opportunities to earn income for virtually every person in Latvia without intermediaries. This is a way to reduce social inequalities. Give people real fishing hands! Because on average 85 percent of turnover remains in people's own hands. The collaborative economy enables people to become small entrepreneurs themselves and to earn extra income for their family exactly to the extent and at the time they are able to do today. Colleagues! At present, there are a number of completely absurd myths in the public space and doubts are being raised so that everything can remain old. Of course, we can be afraid of modern technologies and opportunities for the digital economy as the devil from the cross or cover a couple of friendly tax firms. But, colleagues, then don't say that Estonia and Lithuania are always in front of us! You need to consider this issue today and take a decision by voting. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-09-08-PT12-373-U17	Thank you. Are Members opposed to the transmission of the draft law? ( Insight: “Yes! Let's vote!' ) There are therefore objections. Please call me! We will vote in favour of handing over the draft law “Amendments to the Road Transport Law” to the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy, stating that it is the committee responsible! Please vote mode! Please get the result! It's not about - 60, it's 24, it's not. The draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Saeima Presidium proposes that the draft law “Amendment to the Law on Taxes and Fees” presented by the Cabinet of Ministers be referred to the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy, as well as the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission, stating that it is the committee responsible. Do Members have objections? There is no objection by Members. The draft law has been passed on to the commissions. The Council of the Saeima proposes that the draft law “Amendment to the Maritime Code” presented by the Cabinet of Ministers be referred to the Legal Commission, as well as the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy, stating that it is the committee responsible. Do Members have objections? There is no objection by Members. The draft law has been passed on to the commissions. The Saeima Presidium proposes that the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Remuneration of Officials and Employees of State and Municipal Institutions” submitted by the Cabinet of Ministers be submitted to the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission, as well as to the State Administration and Municipal Commission, establishing that it is the committee responsible. Please turn on the microphone for Dolgopolov!
ParlaMint-LV_2016-09-08-PT12-373-U18	Hello! On behalf of the Commission, I call on the Commission to refer the matter to the Commission of Public Administration and Local Government only.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-09-08-PT12-373-U19	Are Members opposed to this proposal - to make the Commission of Public Administration and Local Government the only and responsible? Please turn on the microphone for Ribbena! So - do Members have objections (Interface: "You can all turn on!" ) that the draft law is passed only to the Commission of State Administration and Local Government as the commission responsible?
ParlaMint-LV_2016-09-08-PT12-373-U20	No, I wanted to speak against this draft law in substance.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-09-08-PT12-373-U21	You wanted to apply to speak against? Thank you. ‘ Inguna Rībena, Member, has applied to speak against’. I'm sorry! The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. A.Kamiņš: “It’s nothing!” ) Inguna Silver. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. J.Urbanovich: “Ingun, you don’t know!” ) Council Regulation (EC) No 1257/96 of 20 June 1996 concerning humanitarian aid (OJ L 163, 2.7.1996, p. 1).
ParlaMint-LV_2016-09-08-PT12-373-U22	Hello! Instead of changing the substance of the remuneration system, which, in essence, has been established for years, although it is called the single remuneration system, revising the substance, creating a new precedent: amendments to the law in honor of one institution. In my opinion, it is very unacceptable that we highlight one institution and now define it as the absolute saviour of the world, and how the importance of this bill is shown - it is said that the State Revenue Service is now the real mess in the country, which creates the conditions for the existence of the state and for the performance of functions. I think God doesn't give it, because when we get to the operating table, it becomes clear to everyone that a qualified surgeon is the one who further determines how we will live in the world as a whole. At a time when we want to see good education for children and young people, we understand how important a professional teacher is. At a time when a fire strike occurs, it becomes clear to everyone that without a professional firefighter there will probably not be any safety anywhere in the world, let alone street safety and professional police. Instead of reviewing the entire remuneration system, we once again create another exception. ‘ From the heart of Latvia’ is against the creation of such exceptions. We are clearly a merciocratia. But the meritocracy in such a primitive sense that simply knowledge and a good reward... and only if there is a good reward, then the official will work in good faith and loyally against the state, and I think that there is an absolute lack of understanding of how the duties of any official, any official, must be fulfilled at all. Therefore, our call is not to support this kind of bill. And also do not support the legalisation here once again of the system that has developed. There are very many institutions which are far from able to pay their employees even their remuneration, which is a fixed maximum remuneration on the salary scale. The conditions are created here that those institutions whose budgets have been set up for years will now have an advantage and will be able to raise salaries for so-called essential staff, once again, in contrast to those who work, say, in the police or fire service. With regard to educators, the opposite is happening: some educators' salaries are even declining. There is a situation here that budgets are not based on the principle that all have been evaluated and that the budget is adequately allocated to it. There is a very unequal treatment between the budgetary authorities in that there is a very different amount of work to be carried out than they have the budgetary resources to pay the salary. On behalf of the Heart to Latvia, I call for this draft law not to be supported and finally to do the work that has not been done for years - to review the existing so-called uniform remuneration system and to set up a remuneration system in which really every post is assessed according to its competence, the result of the work and the importance that this post is occupying in the common administration system. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-09-08-PT12-373-U23	Thank you, Member Silver. Mr Dolgopolova, do you want to talk about it? ‘ For” applied to speak Member Sergey Dolgopolov.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-09-08-PT12-373-U24	Well, first of all, I would like to say that my proposal was to refer this draft law to the Commission of Public Administration and Local Government only. If this is not to be supported, I do not quite understand that, because I think there is a substance for discussion here. To a large extent, Mrs Silver is right, but, as you say in the East, the long road starts with the first step. This time, the Cabinet of Ministers has drafted a proposal. Good or bad - this must be appreciated by the Members. And nowhere is said that this proposed norm will be unanimously supported in the way it is supported in the Cabinet. Therefore, I think if we really want to do what you are proposing, to change the remuneration system, where there are really a lot of serious problems, that work must start. I therefore call for support for the referral of this draft law to the Commission so that we can initiate this case. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-09-08-PT12-373-U25	Thank you. One Member has spoken against, one for. And now we have to vote. Please call me! We will vote in favour of handing over the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Compensation of Officials and Employees of State and Municipal Institutions” to the Commission of the State Administration and Local Government, establishing that it is the committee responsible! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 76, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The next item is "On own-initiative proposals tabled". On the agenda - draft decision “On the rejection of a collective application of 12 199 Latvian citizens “Renewing the Real Victory Square of Riga”. The commission of mandates, ethics and applications has submitted its own proposal – the draft decision “On the rejection of a collective application of 12 199 Latvian citizens “Renewing the Real Victory Square of Riga”. Do Members object to the inclusion of this own-initiative proposal on the agenda of today's sitting? There is no objection by Members. The draft decision is therefore on the agenda. Mr. Schnores, you didn't want to talk about inclusion? Yeah, so not about inclusion... Yeah, thank you. On the agenda - draft decision “On the way forward of the 10 207 collective application of Latvian citizens “On Latvia, Free from GMO””. The Commission for Mandates, Ethics and Applications has submitted its own proposal – the draft decision “On the way forward of the 10 207 Latvian citizens’ collective application “On Latvia, Free from GMO””. Do Members object to the inclusion of this own-initiative proposal on the agenda of today's sitting? There is no objection by Members. The draft decision is therefore on the agenda of the sitting. The next item is entitled ‘On the granting of leave’. For unpaid leave granted to Member Julija Stepanenko on 16 and 17 June this year. The Saeima Bureau informs that Ms Jūlija Stepanenko's application has been received with a request to grant her unpaid leave on 16 and 17 June this year. The Saeima Bureau has granted leave and shall inform the Saeima thereof. For unpaid leave granted to Roman Mežeckis on 8 September this year. The Saeima Bureau informed that it had received an application from Member Roman Mežecks requesting him to be granted unpaid leave on 8 September of this year. The Saeima Bureau has granted leave and shall inform the Saeima thereof. On 7 and 8 September this year, Mr Ingmars Līdak was granted unpaid leave. The Saeima Bureau has received an application from Member Ingmars Līdaka requesting him to be granted unpaid leave on 7 and 8 September of this year. The Saeima Bureau has granted leave and shall inform the Saeima thereof. For granting unpaid leave to Member Inese Lībiņa-Egnerė from 31 October to 3 November of this year. The Saeima Bureau has received an application from Member Inese Lībiņa-Egnere to grant her unpaid leave from 31 October to 3 November of this year. And we have to vote in favour of granting leave. Please call me! We will vote for granting unpaid leave to Member Inese Lībiņa-Egnere from 31 October to 3 November of this year! Please vote mode! Please get the result! It's not about - 80, it's against and refrains from - it's not. Consequently, leave is granted. The next item on the agenda - Election, approval, appointment, dismissal or dismissal of officials, expression of trust or distrust. On the agenda - draft decision “On approval of the delegated representative of the Latvian Academy of Sciences Baiba Rivža as part of the Higher Education Council”. On behalf of the Commission for Education, Culture and Science - Member Askolds Kļaviņš.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-09-08-PT12-373-U26	Good afternoon, honourable Members, here we are. The representative of the Latvian Academy of Sciences at the Higher Education Council was Juris Ekmanis until he passed away forever. In his place, the Academy of Sciences has proposed Professor Baiba Rivju. The Minister for Education and Science has also supported this candidacy, and her candidacy has been supported by our commission. This deadline is not long - only until 21 December of this year, because then the entire composition of the Council as a whole will be re-approved. Please support Professor Baiba Rivge's candidacy.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-09-08-PT12-373-U27	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote for the draft decision “On approval of the delegated representative of the Latvian Academy of Sciences Baiba Rivža as part of the Higher Education Council”! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The decision has been taken. On the agenda - draft decision “On approval of Līga Grīnbergs as a judge of the Land Registers Division of the District (city) Court”. On behalf of the Legal Commission, Mr Valery Agešin, Member.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-09-08-PT12-373-U28	At the meeting of the Legal Commission of the Saeima on 7 September of this year, the draft decision “On the approval of Līga Grīnbergs as a judge of the Land Registers Division of the District (city) Court” was reviewed. The members of the Commission have unanimously supported the draft decision. On behalf of the Saeima Legal Commission, I invite you to approve Līga Grīnbergs as a judge of the Land Register Division of the district (city) court without any limitation of the term of office.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-09-08-PT12-373-U29	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote for the draft decision “On the approval of the Līga Grīnbergs as a judge of the Land Register Division of the District (City) Court”! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The decision has been taken. Dear colleagues, Members Melgailis, Kleinberga, Viļums, Bondars, Ainars Latkovskis and others are asking for changes to the agenda of the Saeima sitting and to include the draft decision on the election of the Member Rihards Melgailis to the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy. Are Members opposed to the amendment of the agenda? There is no objection by Members. The agenda has been amended. Members also ask for changes to the agenda of the Saeima sitting and include the draft decision on the election of the Member Rihards Melgailis to the Committee on Mandates, Ethics and Application. Are Members opposed to this amendment of the agenda? There is no objection. The agenda has been amended. On the agenda - draft decision “On the approval of Kristīne Vinte-Korme as a judge of the Land Register Division of the District (City) Court”. On behalf of the Legal Commission, Mr Valery Agešin, Member.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-09-08-PT12-373-U30	At the meeting of the Legal Commission of the Saeima on 7 September of this year, the draft decision “On the approval of Kristīne Vinte-Korme as a judge of the Land Registers Division of the District (City) Court” was reviewed. The members of the Commission have unanimously supported the draft decision. On behalf of the Saeima Legal Commission, I call on Kristīne Vinti-Kormi to approve the judge of the Land Register Division of the district (city) court without any limitation of the term of office.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-09-08-PT12-373-U31	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote on the draft decision “On the approval of Kristīne Vinte-Korme as a judge of the Land Register Division of the District (City) Court”! Please vote mode! Please get the result! It's not about 80, it's against 1, it's not. The decision has been taken. On the agenda - draft decision “On approval of Kristīne Jandava as a judge of district (city) court”. On behalf of the Legal Commission, Mr Valery Agešin, Member.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-09-08-PT12-373-U32	The draft decision “On approval of Kristīne Jandava as a judge of a district (city) court” was reviewed at the sitting of the Legal Commission of the Saeima on 7 September of this year. The members of the Commission have unanimously supported the draft decision. On behalf of the Saeima Legal Commission, I call on Kristīne Jandava to approve the judge of district (city) court without any limitation of his term of office.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-09-08-PT12-373-U33	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote for the draft decision “On approval of Kristīne Jandava as a district (city) court judge”! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The decision has been taken. On the agenda - draft decision “On Release of Karlis Starasas from the position of judge of Kurzeme Regional Court”. On behalf of the Legal Commission, Mr Valery Agešin, Member.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-09-08-PT12-373-U34	During the meeting of the Legal Commission of the Saeima on 7 September of this year, the draft decision “On the release of Karls Stāras from the position of judge of the regional court of Kurzeme” was reviewed. The members of the Commission have unanimously supported the draft decision. On behalf of the Saeima Legal Commission, I call on the Saeima to release from the office of judge of Kurzeme Regional Court from October 1, 2016 due to reaching the age of granting a pension. I would like to add that in 2014 judge Stastastas was awarded 1st grade of recognition of the Ministry of Justice and Golden Fountain for a long-standing self-free job performance and significant contribution to the development of the judicial system. Thank you to Mr Stastas for his work.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-09-08-PT12-373-U35	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote for the draft decision “On Release of Karlis Stastas from the position of judge of Kurzeme Regional Court”! Please vote mode! Please get the result! It's not about - 85, it's against and abstains. The decision has been taken. On the agenda - draft decision “On approval of Inese Kalvane as a member of the State Audit Council”. On behalf of the Legal Commission, Mr Valery Agešin, Member.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-09-08-PT12-373-U36	The draft decision “On approval of Inese Kalvane as a member of the Council of the State Audit Office” was reviewed at the sitting of the Legal Commission of the Saeima on 7 September this year. Members of the Commission have unanimously supported the draft decision. On behalf of the Saeima Legal Commission, I call on Inese Kalvani to confirm his membership of the Council of the State Audit Office. The decision of the Saeima shall take effect on the day following its adoption.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-09-08-PT12-373-U37	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote for the draft decision “On approval of Inese Kalvane as a member of the State Audit Council”! Please vote mode! Please get the result! It's not about - 86, it's against and refrains from - it's not. The decision has been taken. On the agenda - draft decision on the election of Member Rihards Melgailis to the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy. Please call me! We will vote on the draft decision on the election of the Member Rihards Melgailis to the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy. Please vote mode! Please get the result! It's not about - 83, it's against and refrains from - it's not. The decision has been taken. On the agenda - draft decision on the election of the Member Rihards Melgailis to the Commission for Mandates, Ethics and Application. Please call me! To be put to the vote on the draft decision on the election of Mr Rihards Melgailis to the Committee on Mandates, Ethics and Application! Please vote mode! Please get the result! It's not about - 85, it's against and abstains. The decision has been taken. The next item is Members' requests. On the agenda - Member Andreja Elksniņa, Valeria Agešina, Arthur Rubika, Jānis Tutina, Ivana Ribakova, Borisa Cileviča, Vladimira Nikonova, Igora Zuveva, Mihaila Zemlinska and Zenta Tretjaka's request to the welfare minister Janis Reiram "On the abolition of the liquidation of the social care centre “Kalkūni”". The Saeima Presidium has received Members Elksniņa, Agešina, Arthur Rubika, Tutina, Ribakova, Cileviča, Nikonova, Zujev, Zemļinsk and Tretjaka's request to welfare minister Janis Reirs, about the abolition of the liquidation of the social care centre "Kalkūni" and it is handed over to the Committee on Petitions. The next item is "Provision of draft legislation". On the agenda - draft decision “Amendments to the Law of the Museum of Occupation of Latvia”, third reading. Member of the Commission for Education, Culture and Science Raivis Dzintars.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-09-08-PT12-373-U38	Dear Chairman of the Saeima. Dear colleagues, We work with amendments to the law of the Occupation Museum of Latvia at third reading. The commission responsible has received 10 proposals. 1. is the proposal of Mr Ritvars Jansons, who has been supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-09-08-PT12-373-U39	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-09-08-PT12-373-U40	2. - Member Janson's proposal. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-09-08-PT12-373-U41	Partly. So Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-09-08-PT12-373-U42	3. - Member Janson's proposal. It has been partly supported and included 6. - on a proposal from the committee responsible.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-09-08-PT12-373-U43	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-09-08-PT12-373-U44	4. - Member Viļuma's proposal. Not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-09-08-PT12-373-U45	Let us start a debate. Name to Member Juris Villums.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-09-08-PT12-373-U46	Very honourable Speaker of the Saeima! Ladies and gentlemen! First of all, I would like to emphasise that the Group of the Association of the Regions of Latvia is in favour of putting in place the necessary infrastructure for the successful functioning of the Latvian Occupational Museum as soon as possible. The title of the law quite clearly indicates that it applies to the Museum of Occupation of Latvia, but the law itself includes a broader term, namely “memoral complex of the victims of Soviet occupation”, which in turn consists of two parts – memorial memorial of the already mentioned Museum of Occupation, including the new building envisaged, and the victims of Soviet occupation. All this together, as I said, is this memorial complex. If the first part of the complex is broken enough, the usefulness of the new building of the museum, colour, location and other aspects has been discussed, with the result that I hope that the building and building of the museum could be crowned with a relatively balanced end solution, then the second part of the complex - a memorial memorial to the victims of the Soviet occupation - remains personally too many unanswered questions. The first contests for the appearance of this memorial (only for the appearance!) was also held during Minister Demakova's term of office. The sketch of the idea is to create a red wall with a imitation of a prescribed pocketstick, as well as a parking place underground. The original idea has already changed, transformed, but still no one can really say what this memorial will look like and what its real function, so to speak, added value will be. Of course, there is also no place for the costs that will be required for this memorial. One of the sums mentioned by the Minister for Culture exceeded several million euros. Ladies and gentlemen! As I said at the beginning, on my own behalf and on behalf of the whole Group of the Regions of Latvia, I call on you to support the reconstruction of the building of the Museum of Occupation of Latvia, including the creation of a new building, and to resume the full operation of the museum as soon as possible. That is why I am calling for the construction of a memorial attached to it to be postponed at least for the time being. The representatives of the Occupation Museum have confirmed that their successful operation is fully possible without the construction of an additional memorial. In other words, I call for the avoidance of new complexes. Please support my proposal!
ParlaMint-LV_2016-09-08-PT12-373-U47	We are continuing the debate. Name of Member Janina Kursīte-Pakulė.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-09-08-PT12-373-U48	Dear colleagues, If you don't want things to happen, you can always find excuses: a house, a building, not that coloring, not that ornament, not something else. I think that postponing the construction of a memorial means that... You saw the picket, too. Indeed people, professionals, work, the next exhibitions are ready. I don't think the Occupation Museum would just look in the past. I am convinced that it is a museum that looks at the future as well, including all our countries and also Latgale in the future. Therefore, please do not support Mr Viļuma's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-09-08-PT12-373-U49	Thank you. So Mr Viļuma is no longer willing to speak in the debate. I closed the debate. Does the rapporteur have anything to add before the vote?
ParlaMint-LV_2016-09-08-PT12-373-U50	Yeah. It is just that the Commission has decided to support the implementation of the whole project, which is incompatible with Mr Viļuma's proposal. I therefore call for the proposal not to be supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-09-08-PT12-373-U51	Thank you. Please call me! Let us vote in favour of 4. - Member Juris Viļuma's proposal! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The proposal is therefore not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-09-08-PT12-373-U52	5. - Member Viļuma's proposal. Not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-09-08-PT12-373-U53	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-09-08-PT12-373-U54	6. - a proposal from the committee responsible. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-09-08-PT12-373-U55	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-09-08-PT12-373-U56	7. - The proposal from Member Ritvars Janson. Partly supported and included in proposal 8.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-09-08-PT12-373-U57	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-09-08-PT12-373-U58	8 / 8 - a proposal from the committee responsible. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-09-08-PT12-373-U59	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-09-08-PT12-373-U60	9. - The proposal from Member Ritvars Janson. Not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-09-08-PT12-373-U61	Let us start a debate. Name to Member Ritvar Janson.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-09-08-PT12-373-U62	Dear colleagues, In the last two sittings of the Committee on Education, Culture and Science, it became very clear that the draft law clearly states where the reconstructed Occupational Museum will be located. That is why this annex is redundant and I withdrawn this proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-09-08-PT12-373-U63	Thank you. The proposal has therefore been withdrawn.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-09-08-PT12-373-U64	And finally 10. - a proposal from the committee responsible. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-09-08-PT12-373-U65	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-09-08-PT12-373-U66	Consequently, all the proposals have been examined and I call on my colleagues to support the draft law at third, final, reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-09-08-PT12-373-U67	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote for support for the third, final reading of the draft law “Amendments to the Law of the Occupational Museum of Latvia”! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 57, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The law has been passed. (Applause) On the agenda - draft law “Amendments to the Law on State Administration Structure”, first reading. On behalf of the Commission of the State Administration and the Municipality, Member of the Commission of the Republic of Lithuania, Ms Nelli Kleinberga.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-09-08-PT12-373-U68	Dear colleagues, The proposed amendments to the law aim to make the administrative contract process faster and more efficient. These amendments provide for the withdrawal of the procedure for the harmonisation of administrative contracts by imposing on the Authority only a copy of the administrative contract for five days... within five working days from the date of conclusion of the contract, send to the higher body for information. Such arrangements will not only facilitate the conclusion of administrative contracts, but will also enable the higher authority to assess the administrative contract and, if necessary, to decide whether to cancel or amend it. The draft law in the committee has been discussed and supported for consideration at the Saeima sitting. Please support the draft law at first reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-09-08-PT12-373-U69	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote for support for the first reading of the draft law “Amendments to the Law on State Administration Equipment”! Please vote mode! Please get the result! It's not about - 83, it's against and refrains from - it's not. The draft law at first reading has been supported. Please set a deadline for the second reading of the proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-09-08-PT12-373-U70	The deadline for submitting proposals for the second reading of the draft law - 3 October of this year.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-09-08-PT12-373-U71	Thank you. Proposals are due by 3 October of this year. The next item is "Review of draft decisions". On the agenda - draft decision “On consent of the Saeima to reallocation of appropriations established by the Law “On the State Budget for 2016”. On behalf of the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission, Member Imants Debtor.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-09-08-PT12-373-U72	Good morning, colleagues! On behalf of the members of the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission, I invite you to support the proposal of the Cabinet of Ministers on the reallocation of appropriations by redistributing the saved money from the State Revenue Service building in Riga, Talejas street, the rent of premises, which is 250 889 euros, in favour of the Central Electoral Commission - electronicisation of municipal ballot papers. That's... This reference is made to "the introduction of an electronic electoral organisation service" and, to be clear, it is not an electronic vote, i.e. so that the results of the vote can be counted more quickly and checked more easily. On behalf of the Commission, I call for support for this reallocation.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-09-08-PT12-373-U73	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote for the draft decision “On the consent of the Saeima to reallocation of the appropriations established in the Law “On the State Budget for 2016””! Please vote mode! Please get the result! Not by - 82, not by - and refrains. The decision has been taken. The next item is "Harmonisation of own proposals". On the agenda - draft decision “On the rejection of a collective application of 12 199 Latvian citizens “Renewing the Real Victory Square of Riga”. Member Vitaly Orlov on behalf of the Commission for Mandates, Ethics and Applications.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-09-08-PT12-373-U74	Thank you, Presidium. Honourable Members! On May 5, 2016, the Saeima received a collective application from 12 199 Latvian citizens “Renewing the Real Victory Square of Riga”. On June 8, 2016, the Commission for Mandates, Ethics and Application of the Saeima heard a representative of the application, who justified two suggestions made in the application. The first is to install posters and indications on the Riga Victory Square, on which historical information about the Victory Square would be written, and the second - to restore the Riga Victory Square in its original form in 1930s. After hearing the representatives of the application, the commission decided to instruct the Riga City Council and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs to provide information on the restoration of victory square in its original form in 1930. Riga City Council reported that it was impossible to restore the Victory Square in its original form, realizing the design of the 1939 architectural competition, because the urban situation changed significantly. During the post-war period, the Stone Bridge, the Latvian National Library building and the infrastructure of this library located on Mūkusalas street, the Radisson Blu Hotel, and the Latvian Railway History Museum have been built in this territory. In the territory of the current Victory Park there is built Victory monument, reconstruction of separate private houses, construction of multi-storey residential buildings, Press house and Swedbank administrative building, as well as construction of an internal quarter. At the same time, a building complex of the University of Latvia is being built on the opposite side of the railway, a new administrative centre of the city of Riga, as well as an international bus station and the construction of a subway, but due to the development of the international project Rail Baltic there is a new bridge across the Daugava and the reconstruction of railway lines. All these buildings have significantly changed the construction of the territory included in the 1939 architectural competition. In order to implement the solutions offered by this competition, a number of these facilities should be dismantled. The Ministry of Foreign Affairs informed that the agreement between the Government of the Republic of Latvia and the Government of the Russian Federation on social protection of the military pensioners of the Russian Federation residing in the territory of the Republic of Latvia and members of their families was approved at the Saeima by the Law of 24 November 1994 “On the Treaties of the Republic of Latvia and the Russian Federation signed in Moscow on 30 April 1994”. Article 13 of the Arrangement provides for the mutual maintenance and maintenance of memorial buildings and places of mass burial of the parties. In the process of drafting and implementing the agreement, the Contracting Parties have recognised that these conditions also apply to the monument in Pārdaugava. Article 15 of the Agreement provides for the Contracting Parties to refrain from uncoordinated unilateral conduct on matters governed by that Agreement. As a result, when voting on 29 June 2016 (six for and one against), the Commission supported the draft decision “On the rejection of a collective application by 12 199 Latvian citizens “Renewing the Real Victory Square of Riga”, as well as decided to write a letter to the Riga Council and the Ministry of Culture asking to evaluate the possibility of installing information signs on the Victory Square. Please support the prepared draft decision.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-09-08-PT12-373-U75	Thank you. Let us start a debate. Name to Member Edvin Schnorem.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-09-08-PT12-373-U76	Dear Chairman of the Saeima. Dear colleagues, The initiative supported by 12 000 people, which Mr Orlov's Commission is calling for to be rejected, consists, as he said, of two proposals. First of all, it intends to install information posters on the damage caused by the occupation regime to Latvia by the army of the occupation of the USSR. And secondly, the authors of the initiative call for a solution to restore the area of victory in its original form. The draft decision drawn up by the Commission, on which we will be voting immediately, is intended to reject it all as a basis for mentioning, as Mr Orlov has already said, the opinion of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and the Riga City Council. When we read these two opinions, we see that there is only about the second proposal of the initiative, which is about restoring the area of victory. There is no word there on the first proposal, although the commission of Mandates, ethics and applications also asked for an opinion on it. So neither the Riga City Council nor the Ministry of Foreign Affairs have opposed the informational placement of posters on occupation. So why do we propose that we reject all this? In my opinion, the initiative is fully supported, because thousands of Latvian citizens were killed because of the USSR army and the check, tens of thousands were deported. That would be said in these posters. This is the very minimum we can do for the memory of these victims. They do not even have a polite monument to these victims, as we have just heard. But we have a huge memorial to the occupying army in the very center of Riga, and we are afraid to add information about what this army has done to us! It's such an impression that we still live under this occupation army. At least in your consciousness. With regard to the second point - about the restoration or, in other words, the removal of the USSR monument - the opinion is therefore sought from two organisations - the Riga City Council and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. But what do the oppressed think? In my opinion, it would be only ethical if the Commission for Mandates, Ethics and Applications asked them the same opinion - those that this army released (footsteps!) and who received this “dismissal” as no one else. The fact that the Riga City Council objects - this, I think, does not surprise anyone here, they also find the existence of the Latvian Occupational Museum obviously hard to tolerate. The reference of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs to the 1994 agreement with Russia, which allegedly obliges Latvia to maintain this monument, is quite questionable. And Poland is an example. Poland has similar arrangements with Russia in 1994, but monuments of the USSR are dismantled there, because Poland interprets this agreement differently. It is a matter of political will and interpretation, not a matter of treaty, because this monument is not mentioned in the agreement approved by the Saeima. I therefore believe that the draft decision of the panel chaired by Mr Orlova is unprepared and unfounded. I call for the 'no' vote.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-09-08-PT12-373-U77	Thank you. Dear colleagues, Members Smilten, Abu Meri, Judins, Kalniņš and Viņķele are asking to continue the sitting of the Saeima on 8 September without interruption - until all items on the agenda are examined. Do Members have objections? There is no objection by Members. So the sitting is continued without interruption. We are continuing the debate. Name to Member Alexander Kirštein.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-09-08-PT12-373-U78	Dear President, Honourable Members! I would like to say that the so-called treaty concluded and approved by the Saeima in 1994 did not include this monument as a memorial. I took part in the Vover-led Latvian delegation as Chairman of the Foreign Affairs Commission at that time. The Russian delegation was led by Zotow. Yes, the Russian side very much wanted this monument, but only burials were agreed. So the memorial - it's what shows or expresses the sadness of the dead and the fallen. Tell me how an aggressive group of invaders that drives the machine shows you some sadness? This memorial was not a memorial. I am surprised by the strange actions of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs in declaring, that is, in fact lying that it was confirmed in 1994. I'll tell you what the truth is. The Russian Embassy came several times with a proposal to add a memorial plate with the names of fallen Soviet officers, and then this monument would really have become a memorial. In due time... the process was quite lengthy. Started in Purgail's time... Then, I remember, representatives of the Russian Embassy visited other city council presidents as well, but this did not support them. I think Andris Arkgals also rejected it. As a result, this plate was not applied. If such a plate were to be applied to the fallen so-called "librators" of Riga, then it would have turned into a memorial. What did the Ministry of Foreign Affairs do, and what do we not know, more precisely, in most Members? Two years later, a secret letter was sent, noting that the Ministry of Foreign Affairs agrees that this is a memorial. So instead of presenting the authors and preparers of this letter to the Public Prosecutor's Office about the betrayal of the state, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs tells us stories that it has appeared as a memorial in the treaty. So it's not a memorial, just like the Limbaži robbers who were taken there, like the tanks in Dobele. They are not memorials; they are collected as quickly as possible as the signs of occupation, which have been placed with Moscow's message to show who is the owner here. These 12 199 signatories, however, are not any children who think that the area will be restored completely, although it is, of course, presented in this way - one against one. So the Commission should start to see how to restore this monument to the victory over Bermont and what can be created there. What can be done with these monuments? Maybe Gulbya... I also do not want to say here, for example, that Gulbja's monument, which was a woman with a child, is disloyal or should not be anywhere else. Because at first these two were not intended at all. Those who have studied history know that the so - called liberators were tied later. But these are details. The fact is that the Red Army is being honoured and, as the previous speaker said, it imitated that it was a member of an anti-hitleric coalition. So when entering Latvia as a Hitler's ally... But what did this army do after the war? I'll just say one thing. The Conference of the KGB Scientific Research Commission was just held in Riga. Very interesting facts about the Latvian Central Council, which was, after all, a Western ally. After the war, the Red Army Tribunal arrested all 77 members of LCP in Latvia and sentenced them for 25 years, three sentenced them to death. So we see what the Red Army is and what monuments we praise here. If we cannot remove these brutally rude and primitive aggressors who lead the machines, then my proposal is to build on the other side in order to have a balance, a monument to the German soldiers who freed Riga, say, in 1941. Because if Riga had not been freed, then the Latvian nation would have gone on the same skuju path, in my opinion, where the soldiers went to the Soviets. The kings once had more than the Finnish population. They're gone. We know that the arrests of 14 June would have been followed by the next arrests. So hundreds of thousands of people would have been destroyed and the Latvian nation would never have been. Now we build a monument on one side and take off the two afterwards. If we have... We also have people who say, “You know, let’s not believe the monuments of history, let’s not believe the cultural heritage.” Then restore Adolf Hitler's stream! If we have a cafe “Lenningrad” if we know that the ideology of Marks and Lenin has destroyed 65 million people in the territory of the former Soviet Union, then why do we not restore the historical stream of Adolf Hitler? And the rest? Now it's hypocrisy and stupidity. That is why the commission should start working on this issue, and remove this shameful symbol of Moscow, which demonstrates who is the owner in Riga. And let's not pretend we can do anything here! I therefore call for the vote to be taken against. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-09-08-PT12-373-U79	I closed the debate. Does the rapporteur wish to add something on behalf of the Commission? No, the rapporteur does not want to add anything. Please call me! We will vote for the draft decision “On the rejection of the 12 199 collective application of Latvian citizens “Renewing the Real Victory Square of Riga””! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 59, for - 17, for - 1. The decision has been taken. On the agenda - draft decision “On the way forward of the 10 207 collective application of Latvian citizens “On Latvia, Free from GMO””. Member Vitaly Orlov on behalf of the Commission for Mandates, Ethics and Applications.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-09-08-PT12-373-U80	Thank you, Presidium. Honourable Members! On 10 May 2016, the Saeima received a collective application from 10 207 Latvian citizens about Latvia, free from GMOs. On the basis of the first paragraph of Rule 131.4 of the Parliament’s Rules of Procedure, the Saeima Bureau decided at its meeting on 23 May this year to refer the above-mentioned application to the Committee for initial evaluation. On 9 June 2016, the Commission held a meeting on the initial evaluation of the collective application, in which it heard the authorised representative of its applicants. She supported the request made in the application to ban the cultivation of genetically modified crops throughout the country. The notifier reported that the adverse effects of genetically modified organisms on human health and the environment have been demonstrated by scientists from different countries and indicated that, in accordance with the Directive of 11 March 2015 of the European Parliament and of the Council, Member States have the possibility to prohibit the cultivation of genetically modified organisms on their territory. As on 9 June 2016, the Saeima handed over to the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy the draft law “Amendments to the Law on the Movement of Genetically Modified Organisms” and it is in essence closely related to the collective application, the Commission for Mandate, Ethics and Application decided that the Saeima’s draft decision on the referral of the application to the Committee for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy will be prepared for the next initial evaluation of the collective application. As another argument to the need for a complete ban on GMO cultivation in the territory of Latvia, the applicant said that currently, according to the Law on the Movement of Genetically Modified Organisms, some municipalities in their territory may allow their cultivation. When examining this information, the Commission of Mandates, Ethics and Applications found that the law, on the contrary, already provides an opportunity for municipalities to ban the movement of GMOs in their territory. The Commission together with the Legal Bureau of the Saeima prepared a draft decision of the Saeima on a collective application of 10 207 Latvian citizens “On Latvia, Free from GMO”. At its meeting on 5 July 2016, the Commission supported this draft decision and decided to instruct the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy to evaluate the possibility of prohibiting the cultivation of genetically modified organisms in Latvia and, if such a prohibition is deemed necessary, to decide on appropriate amendments to legislation. Please support the prepared draft decision.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-09-08-PT12-373-U81	Thank you. Let us start a debate. Name to Member Artus Neminis.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-09-08-PT12-373-U82	Hello, dear colleagues! I would like the Saeima to show respect for 10 207 Latvian citizens who have signed a collective application for this particular case. It is very good that the Commission for Mandates, Ethics and Applications has decided to move this application forward to the Commission. But I think 10 207 Latvian citizens deserve respect also in the sense of how their collective application is presented here from Latvia's main tribunal. And in this case, I am talking about the previous speaker, Vitaly Orlov. I think that this way of presenting is absolutely inadequate and that Mr Orlov has serious problems with articulation, with discipline, with the inability to speak in Latvian and... ( The drug is getting more noise. Sub-words: “Uow!” ) I am very sorry! I really do not understand what Mr Orlov is talking about, and I would like to...
ParlaMint-LV_2016-09-08-PT12-373-U83	Mr. Neighbours, I am reprimanding you.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-09-08-PT12-373-U84	I'm so sorry, but...
ParlaMint-LV_2016-09-08-PT12-373-U85	I am reprimanding you. Please continue the debate and follow the Code of Conduct for Members of the Saeima.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-09-08-PT12-373-U86	Yeah. Therefore, I call on the other members of the Commission for Mandates, Ethics and Applications: next time there will be a speaker from the Commission for Mandates, Ethics and Applications, please put forward another person, so that the rest of Latvia can understand what is said from this Chamber on behalf of the Commission for Mandates, Ethics and Applications! Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-09-08-PT12-373-U87	You are once again reprimanded, Mr. Neighbours. I closed the debate.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-09-08-PT12-373-U88	Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-09-08-PT12-373-U89	Does the rapporteur wish to add something on behalf of the Commission? No, the rapporteur does not want to add anything. Please call me! We will vote for the draft decision “On the way forward of the 10 207 Latvian citizens’ collective application “On Latvia, Free from GMO””! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 87, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The decision has been taken. ( The utterances: “Urra! ”) “ Bravo!” ) Dear colleagues! The agenda of the sitting has been examined. I would like to inform you of the questions put by Members. Members Zarins, Agešins, Arturs Rubiks, Tutins and Ribakovs submitted the question “On the proposal of the Ministry of Economics to differentiate the OIC payment between different groups of users”, which is submitted to Minister of Economics Arvils Aseradens to reply. The name of the question to the Member Ivars Zarins. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. S.Absolute intermediates.)
ParlaMint-LV_2016-09-08-PT12-373-U90	Hello, colleagues! In order to restructure the negative impact of the electricity mandatory procurement component on the competitiveness of Latvian manufacturing companies resulting from the implementation by the Ministry of Economics of an unthinking and short-sighted energy policy, the Ministry of Economics has now proposed to the Government to approve a solution that will ensure a reduction of the OIC payment to individual operators at the expense of other companies. In order to address the concerns that this is another unthinkable decision of the Ministry of Economic Affairs, which is being implemented in the interest of certain narrow economic interests, please provide an answer as to how the Ministry of Economics intends to implement it and whether, when drawing up its proposal for the differentiation of the OIC in order to ensure the competitive advantage that individual economic operators need, the Ministry of Economics has taken into account the expected impact of the introduction of its energy efficiency measures, which may be no less damaging than the OIC component. As a result, the whole of this proposal can prove pointless and only create additional burdens for the other companies. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-09-08-PT12-373-U91	Thank you. Members Elksniņš, Adamsons, Tretjaka, Zemļinskis and Zujevs submitted a question to Members “On the mechanisation project of the Latvian army” that we submit to Minister of Defence Raimonds Bergmanis for a reply. Members Elksniņš, Agešins, Arturs Rubiks, Tutins and Ribakovs submitted a question to Members about the company “The service of rolling stock” that we hand over to the Minister of Transport Uldis Augulis for reply. Dear colleagues, There is one more: a more pleasant statement. Members of the semi-circle and round anniversary celebrated this summer and this autumn Nikitta Nikiforovs, Jānis Tutins, Inga Bite, Inguna Rībena, Artis Rasmanis, Viktors Valainis, Valdis Skujiņš, Sergey Dolgopolovs and Veiko Spolitis, and we warmly welcome them. (Applause) Thank you. Time to register the presence of Members. Please call me! Please check-in mode for Members! While preparing the results of the registration, the word for notice to Sergey Dolgopolov.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-09-08-PT12-373-U92	Dear colleagues, This is not an invitation to a banquet. This is an invitation to take part in the short meeting of the Commission of the State Administration and Local Government, which will be held literally immediately after the closing of the sitting of the Saeima. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-09-08-PT12-373-U93	Thank you. Name of the Secretary of the Saeima Gunaras Kūtris to read the results of the registration.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-09-08-PT12-373-U94	Dear colleagues, Currently not registered: Inga Bite, Lolita Čigāne, Gundars Dauge, Rihards Kols, Armands Krauze, Kārlis Krēsliņš, Inese Laizāne, Inese Lībiņa-Egnere, Ingmārs Līdaka, Romanas Mežeckis, Edgars Putra and Jānis Vucāns.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-09-08-PT12-373-U95	Thank you. I'm closing the meeting.
