ParlaMint-LV_2016-09-15-PT12-374-U1	Good morning, honourable Members! I invite you to take your seats in the Chamber. Let's start the sitting of the Saeima on 15 September. Before starting to discuss the agenda of the Bureau meeting, proposals for amendments to the Bureau agenda should be considered. The budget and financial (tax) commission asks for changes to the agenda of the sitting and the draft law “Amendments to the Law “On State Revenue Service” is included in it. Are Members opposed to this amendment of the agenda? ( Interface: ‘ Yes! ’ ) Members have reservations, so we must vote. Please call me! We will vote for amendments to the agenda of the sitting, including the draft law “Amendments to the Law “On State Revenue Service””! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For -9, for -6, for -68. Consequently, the draft law is not included on the agenda of the sitting. The Commission of the State Administration and Local Government is asking to make changes to the agenda of the sitting and to consider the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Remuneration of Officials and Employees of State and Local Government Institutions” as section 2 of the agenda – “Review of Draft Laws”. Are Members opposed to this amendment of the agenda? There is no objection by Members. The agenda has been amended. The Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy asks for changes to the agenda of the meeting and to include the draft law on public procurement. Are Members opposed to this amendment of the agenda? There is no objection by Members. The agenda has been amended. The Committee on Defence, Home Affairs and the Prevention of Corruption is asking for changes to the agenda of the meeting and to include in it the draft law on the processing of aircraft passenger data. Are Members opposed to this amendment of the agenda? There is no objection. The agenda of the sitting has been amended. The Legal Commission asks for changes to the agenda of the sitting and to include in it the draft law “Amendments to the Criminal Procedure Law”. Are Members opposed to this amendment of the agenda? ( Interface: ‘ Yes! ’ ) Members have reservations. We have to vote. Please call me! We will vote for the agenda of the sitting to be amended, including the draft law “Amendments to the Criminal Procedure Law”! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For -6, for -12, for -66. Consequently, the agenda of the sitting is not amended and the draft law is not included on the agenda of the sitting. Members Āboltiņa, Gaidis Berzins, Bite, Elksniņš, Kūtris and others are asking for changes to the agenda of the sitting and to include the draft law “Amendment to the Law on Higher Education”. Are Members opposed to this amendment of the agenda? There is no objection. The agenda of the sitting has been amended. Members Krauze, Dzintars, Adamovičs, Gaidis Berzins and Brigmanis are asking for changes to the agenda of the sitting and to exclude from it paragraph 2 of the draft law on the retirement pensions of municipal police officers. Are Members opposed to this amendment of the agenda? ‘ Against” applied to speak by Andrejs Klementyevs.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-09-15-PT12-374-U2	I think we are starting to write a new parliamentary history today. It has never been before for coalition Members to put forward at the last minute a proposal to exclude a bill drawn up by a completely different group, other Members, and to do so without warning and without justifying their request. The draft law is prepared on the basis of a request of 9000 citizens, citizens, to resolve this issue of retirement pensions. We prepared this bill very carefully throughout the summer, coordinated it with public organisations. For us, the opinion comes from the Ministry of Finance, we also have a letter from Prime Minister Kučinska about this problem. I do not know why we cannot refer the draft law to the Social and Labour Commission today and resolve all the issues and improve the drafting in the Committee. Yesterday at the Commission for Social and Labour Affairs, we looked at the draft law “The Law on the Service of Public Probation Officials and Employees’ Pensions”. A completely similar theme, exactly the same risks as the local government police. Why do we move one group forward with the support of the Minister of Justice, but the local policemen who risk their lives and health cannot get a fair, open discussion in the Commission? Why the ruling coalition is excluding this issue from the agenda today is unknown. Is it normal that democratic principles are violated, that opposition Members not only are not given the right to table a bill, but are excluded from the agenda by a majority? Are we not going to some already authoritarian regime where the ruling coalition in its closed sittings not only divides budgetary quotas, but also regulates Members' actions by means of draft laws? Tell me one mistake in this bill we submitted! Show me one problem where there is no coordination with the executive or with the municipalities! Then I will withdraw my signature myself and work with my support team, who wants the municipal police to receive the same social guarantees as the State Police, the State Probation Service and the SAB employees. That is not right, Members! We have just received the new version of the Satversme and the new version of the Saeima order roll. You read it! If we do, then we will not get a fair discussion and open negotiations here in Parliament at all. We worked openly, we took part in almost all the sittings where this issue was raised, and as a result, without explaining it to us, only by a majority of votes excluded it from the agenda. Show me where I was wrong with this bill! Show me the point that is not in line with social policy in Latvia! Show that a municipal police officer is not worthy to receive service pension, but an employee of the State Probation Service who is under the supervision of the Ministry of Justice - yes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-09-15-PT12-374-U3	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote for changes to the agenda of the sitting, excluding from it the draft law on retirement pensions of municipal police officers! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 48, for - 37, for - 1. The agenda has been amended. The draft law is excluded from the agenda of the sitting. ( INTERPRETATION FROM THE GROUP: “Democracy! ” ) The next item is the Bureau's reports on draft laws submitted. The Saeima Bureau proposes that the Member Elksniņa, Urbanoviča, Agešina, Arthur Rubika and Ribakova's draft law on amendments to the Law on Value Added Tax be referred to the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission, stating that it is the committee responsible. Do Members have objections? ‘ Against’ applied to speak to Member Edgars Putra.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-09-15-PT12-374-U4	Good morning, colleagues! Although the aim of this draft law is, of course, to reduce these costs - the VAT chapter, which relates precisely to management - it is said clearly and lightly in Annex III to Directive 2006/112 that this management fee is not included here, and that means that we cannot, unfortunately, apply the reduced VAT rate to this management measure. However, there is also good news. I think that this is particularly good news for harmony and for Riga. The residential heating program immediately opens, and 166 million are available for the next planning period. It is Riga that has so far been the one that has used this programme most passively, so... As experience shows, this bill is falling sharply just after the implementation of the measures of the apartment building insulation programme in the particular house. I think that this will be even twice as much as a benefit as a reduction in the VAT rate, which we unfortunately cannot make because it is a directive of the European Commission, and by voting in favour, we would actually go the way that is an infringement procedure that has already been proposed, because we did not have this rate in place for the management fee. I therefore call on Members not to support this draft law.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-09-15-PT12-374-U5	Thank you. ‘ For” applied to speak Member Andrejs Elksniņš.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-09-15-PT12-374-U6	Highly honored Speaker of the Saeima! Dear colleagues, To a large extent, the position of the Greens/farmers' Union is indeed surprised by the fact that all the directives should be taken over in full, that they are rigid, and all the more so that it is absolutely unable to read the specific requirements of the directive and find the right words in it that, however, it is possible to apply a reduced rate of VAT in the situation in question. All the more... Mr. Putra, maybe you weren't in politics at that time... In 2004, for example, the Union of Greens/ Farmers considered, and also made public, that increasing the flexibility of European Union directives was a necessary life for the European Union even before the accession of the new Member States and was updated through the enlargement process. Increasing flexibility would be necessary to avoid uncontrolled, free interpretation of the conditions. What is the objective of this particular draft law? Set the reduced rate of value added tax for residential administration services in order to promote the social well-being of people living in Latvia. Indeed, when you read correctly, Mr Putra, the directive is correctly translated, it is possible to derogate from the process of applying these rules with regard to the introduction of a reduced VAT rate. Therefore, my fellow Members, I call on you to support our proposal and review this issue and introduce a reduced rate for housing management services.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-09-15-PT12-374-U7	Thank you. One Member has spoken for, one against. We have to vote. Please call me! Let us vote for the draft law on "Amendments to the Law on Value Added Tax" to be passed on to the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission, according to which it is the committee responsible! Please vote mode! Please get the result! On - 36, against - 9, refraining - 43. The draft law has not been passed on to the commission. The Parliamentary Bureau proposes that the draft law on “Amendment to the Law on Higher Education” presented by Member Āboltiņa, Gaida Berzina, Bite, Elksniņa, Kūtra and other Members be referred to the Education, Culture and Science Commission, stating that it is the committee responsible. ‘ Solvita Āboltiņa, Member, has applied to speak about’.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-09-15-PT12-374-U8	Good morning, honourable colleagues! As you can see, this bill has been signed by all the groups - both positions and opposition. Because this is a good example of the fact that there are issues on which we all agree. The question is about the uniform examination of lawyers at Latvian universities. Since the beginning of the 1990s, when the free market economy developed, the number of law study programmes in universities founded by private individuals increased. In a very large number of Latvian universities, a lawyer’s qualification can be obtained, and at the end of this university each young person receives the same type of diploma, which records that his qualification is a lawyer or a legal adviser. However, the existence of these many universities and their access to legal education have not led to the same increase in quality. Unfortunately, there is a huge difference between graduates of different universities. Both the Legal Commission has observed it in its activities, as well as... We have often also heard the Prosecutor-General expressing how difficult it is to fill vacancies, let's say, at the Prosecutor-General's Office, if enough people come to a competition, to a position where there is a sufficiently competitive salary, but it turns out that very much of them are not able to carry out this simple test, which is often similar to the tests carried out by future lawyers when they enter the university. And so, for a long time, there's been this public discussion about the fact that a state that guarantees a person's diploma should also take responsibility for the fact that a person is competitive at the end of a university. So the result of these discussions is both the Saeima Legal Commission and the Judicial Policy Sub-Commission... The discussion has also been held in Jurista's Word, which has also been discussed by university representatives. Now it has finally been decided that lawyers will be the first to pass such a uniform exam, and an amendment to the Law on Higher Education will be made, and this rule will be open. So if there is a need to introduce such a uniform exam in another profession, this amendment will allow it to be introduced in other professions as well. So this amendment, as I said, has been discussed for a long time and has been supported by both the Ministry of Education and Science and the Ministry of Justice, supported by student associations, representatives of universities, representatives of the public prosecutor's office, and so it has been prepared and, as you can see, it also has political support. Now that we decide to hand it over to the commission, I would like to ask... Other amendments are also necessary in the Law on Higher Education, and the Commission for Education, Culture and Science is working on a comprehensive set of amendments to the law. Let us perhaps allow this amendment to enter into force as soon as possible, because there will probably be a need for a transitional period, a time to implement it! So that I call on you to support this draft law, but other proposals, recommendations on other subjects, to submit those amendments to the University Law prepared by the Commission. So thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-09-15-PT12-374-U9	Thank you. Do Members object to a draft law being passed on to the Commission? Members ask for a vote. Please call me! We will vote in favour of handing over the draft law “Amendment to the Law on Higher Education” to the Commission on Education, Culture and Science, which states that it is the committee responsible! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 77, for - no, for - 5. The draft law has been passed on to the Commission. On the agenda: reports by the Bureau on own-initiative proposals submitted. The commission of mandates, ethics and applications has submitted its own proposal – the draft decision “On the way forward of the collective application of 10 480 Latvian citizens “The Land of Latvia for Latvian Citizens””. Do Members object to the inclusion of this own-initiative proposal on the agenda of today's sitting? There is no objection by Members. The draft decision is therefore on the agenda of the sitting. The Commission for Mandates, Ethics and Applications has submitted its own proposal – the draft decision “On the way forward of the 10,237 Latvian citizens’ collective application “To make cancer a treatable disease”. Do Members object to the inclusion of this own-initiative proposal on the agenda of today's sitting? There is no objection by Members. The draft decision is therefore on the agenda of the sitting. The next item is entitled ‘On the granting of leave’. On 8 September this year, Mr Kārlis Krēsliņš was given unpaid leave. The Saeima shall inform the Bureau that it has received an application from Member Kārlis Krēsliņš requesting that unpaid leave be granted on 8 September of this year. The Saeima Bureau has granted this leave and shall inform the Saeima thereof. For unpaid leave granted to Hosam Abu Meri from 13 September to 15 September this year. The Saeima Bureau has received an application from Mr Hosama Abu Meri, Member, requesting unpaid leave from 13 to 15 September this year. The Saeima Bureau has granted leave and shall inform the Saeima thereof. On 6 October this year, Arvīds Platoper was granted unpaid leave. The Saeima Bureau has received an application from Member Arvīds Platoper, requesting that unpaid leave be granted on 6 October of this year. We must vote in favour of granting leave. Please call me! We will be voting for granting Member Arvīds Platoris unpaid leave on 6 October this year! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 88, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. The decision has been taken. The next item is "Provision of draft legislation". On the agenda - draft law “Amendments to the Law on Remuneration of Officials and Employees of State and Local Government Institutions”. On behalf of the National Administration and Municipal Commission - Member Viktors Valainis.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-09-15-PT12-374-U10	Highly honored Speaker of the Saeima! Colleagues! We have received the draft law presented by the Cabinet of Ministers “Amendments to the Law on Remuneration of Officials and Employees of State and Local Government Institutions”. In essence, this draft law provides for a gradual equalisation of the monthly salaries starting with the positions that are criticised. The State Revenue Service is set up as a pilot institution for the project to ensure competitive remuneration. After evaluation of the results in 2017, including analysis of performance indicators, a decision will be taken to extend the system to other institutions. In order to reduce, at least in part, the risk of a high level of staff drain from public administration, a solution is proposed for the institution to identify especially important or key positions, the number of which should not exceed 5 per cent. This is taken from good practice in the private sector - from the number of employees in the institution whose monthly salaries can be determined by a coefficient of up to 2, while not exceeding the monthly salary set by the Prime Minister. The implementation of the proposed solutions must respect fiscal neutrality, i.e. increasing the monthly salaries does not give rise to additional funding from the state budget. While working on the draft law commission, an explanation from the State Chancellery and the Ministry of Finance was also requested about why the State Revenue Service is selected for this pilot project. The explanation was provided, received by the Commission and was also discussed and confirmed as justification with the Legal Office. The Commission has examined the draft law and is calling for its support at first reading and for its urgent nature.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-09-15-PT12-374-U11	Thank you. So we must vote on the urgency first. Please call me! We will vote in favour of establishing the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Compensation of Officials and Employees of State and Local Government Institutions” as urgent! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 78, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The draft law has been declared urgent.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-09-15-PT12-374-U12	The request would be to support the draft law at first reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-09-15-PT12-374-U13	Let us start a debate. Name of Member Inga Bite.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-09-15-PT12-374-U14	Good morning, dear colleagues! Lack of money is a very good excuse to continue not to solve painful and long-standing problems. ‘ Too little salaries for officials!” - it has already become a slogan to excuse every error and omission or even badness that could exist in the public sector, because there are, however, "too low wages". What can be asked of those who receive “too low wages”?Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, 2400 euros on paper - this is the “too low salary” for which it is not possible to find either the Head of the State Revenue Service or the Head of the Insolvency Administration in the second competition. This salary may not be enough, but please explain it also to the teachers who have received this year's “essential” wage supplement - EUR 680 on paper after several years of fighting! Moreover, even today - on 15 September - many teachers do not know how much they will get for their work in September. But they work, and I could not say that their work is less important or less responsible for the work of public officials. But good. Let's go! Let us assume that officials have low wages and must increase them. However, honourable colleagues! It is not at all the main or the only one and, I would like to say, not even the biggest problem that exists in the public administration at present. No less important problem is the motivation to work so that people can see and realise that their work has a purpose, a purpose and that they can do something in their work. It's a work sensation. The feeling that the work done does not disappear somewhere seems to have disappeared in the political corridors – the study of the State Chancellery - an analysis of the reduction of the number of officials in the public administration. It's security that it will be possible to do something. And that is freedom from political influence. These are arguments why - not just because of salary! - people do not want to work in public administration. There are issues that need to be addressed and which can also be addressed without additional funding being requested, and I call, colleagues, on this to continue to do so and do not think that by increasing wages we will solve all the problems in public administration. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-09-15-PT12-374-U15	Thank you. The name of the Member, Andrejs Elksniņš.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-09-15-PT12-374-U16	Highly honored Speaker of the Saeima! I do not really understand why the remuneration of the employees of the State Revenue Service should now be seen as being separate from the general, universal system of remuneration of the employees of the State Administration, which has clearly proved in recent years that the single remuneration system has failed in absolute terms. At the moment, untie one single category and link it to the possible appointment of the Director-General of State Revenue Service or related officials in the state administration - there is absolutely no justification for this. I call for a number of proposals to be put forward in this draft law, both for the review of the coefficients and, more generally, for the revision of the model (for the single remuneration system), so that we can assess which sectors should be imposed, which sectors should be taken away, and not for what reasons: we are taking this draft law and the voluntarily are starting to develop absolutely wrong practices - one separate category from the overall public administration, let us say so. The Ombudsman has previously expressed his views on these issues, fully considering that this kind of approach is not justified. And for this moment, we really... I believe that this issue requires in-depth, substantial discussions on a serious reform, not the way it is now proposed.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-09-15-PT12-374-U17	I closed the debate. Does the rapporteur want to add something on behalf of the Commission?
ParlaMint-LV_2016-09-15-PT12-374-U18	On behalf of the Commission, it could be said that this study on remuneration in the private and public sector is available in an annotation, and it follows from this that, at present, the remuneration of the posts for which we set this pilot project in the private sector differs by 36 per cent for the performance of similar duties. That would be all. I call for support to be given to this draft law at first reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-09-15-PT12-374-U19	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote for support for the first reading of the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Compensation of Officials and Employees of State and Local Government Institutions”! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The draft law at first reading has been supported. Please specify the deadline for the submission of proposals and the time for the discussion of the meeting of the Saeima at second reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-09-15-PT12-374-U20	The deadline for submitting proposals is 15 minutes - by 9.45 p.m. And please set a review time for today's sitting.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-09-15-PT12-374-U21	Thank you. So the proposals are due by 9:45 a.m. on 15 September, the deadline is 15 September at the meeting of the Saeima. Thank you. On the agenda - draft law “Amendment to the Law on Land Management”, third reading. On behalf of the National Administration and Municipal Commission - Member Aldis Adamovičs.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-09-15-PT12-374-U22	Dear President, Colleagues! See the draft law “Amendment to Land Management Law” at third reading. One proposal has been tabled in the Commission, which has been supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-09-15-PT12-374-U23	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-09-15-PT12-374-U24	I would remind you, then, that the amendment provides for the right of local authorities to prohibit the presence on hazardous ice both in local bodies and in coastal areas. I would like to explain that this decision can be announced by the municipality through the publication in the local newspaper, by issuing a notice in the municipality's premises and by publishing a website on the Internet. Request for support at third reading
ParlaMint-LV_2016-09-15-PT12-374-U25	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote in favour of the third, final, reading of the draft law on Land Management! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 87, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The law is passed. On the agenda - draft law “Amendment to the Law on Change of Name, Surname and Ethnicity”, third reading. On behalf of the Legal Commission, Mr Andrejs Judin.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-09-15-PT12-374-U26	Dear colleagues, Draft Law No 519 “Amendment to the Law on Change of Name, Surname and Ethnicity” is under consideration at third reading. I would like to remind you that the draft law proposes to address two problems. This concerns two issues. The first question is related to the rights of a person who has Latvian origin but does not have Latvian citizenship and who does not stay in Latvia, and the opportunity to change his nationality. We did not have much discussion on this proposal, the proposal has been supported, incorporated into second reading, and there will be one clarification proposal that we will be discussing.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-09-15-PT12-374-U27	Members support proposal 1.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-09-15-PT12-374-U28	If I may, I would like to say about Amendment 1 if we are starting to speak in this way. Proposal No 1. It was presented by the Minister for the Interior and is of a technical nature. It's editorial. So the commission has supported it. Please support me. Proposals 2, 3 and 4 are very similar in content and concern the second question, the second problem. In the Legal Commission, we discussed these proposals, but I would like to remind you of the substance of the matter. When we examined the draft law at second reading, we supported a proposal with a new... an additional opportunity - to change the nationality of Latvian citizens, whose parents, grandparents are not Latvians of origin, but who belong to Latvian culture and want to publicly consolidate their Latvian nationality. This possibility was intended to be ensured if the prerequisites defined by law were met: a person has Latvian citizenship, he has lived in Latvia for at least 15 years and - thirdly - he has the highest degree of knowledge of Latvian. Thus, it was intended to provide an opportunity for a person to be self-identify and strengthen his or her membership of the Latvian people, if there are certain prerequisites. The State, in turn, undertook to recognise and respect this choice. So, as I said, three proposals have been put forward that propose to withdraw from the second reading. These proposals are similar and we discussed with the proposers at the Legal Commission last week. So... The discussion was attended by two applicants. First of all, the proposal to withdraw from this provision was submitted by the Legal Office. Given that the representatives of the Legal Bureau do not have the opportunity to tell the court what the arguments are, I believe, on behalf of the Commission, that they should be informed of the arguments which led the Legal Office to propose to waive the principle that we approved. The legal office’s arguments were as follows: The concept of nationality is not defined by law. The draft law changes the system by providing, in addition to the existing system for the replacement of the nationality record, a new that changes the concept of nationality. So - the concept of nationality is not defined, but the bill changes the concept of nationality. Second. The recording of nationality has no legal meaning except this importance: identification and naturalisation of the population of citizens. Go on. Europe does not talk about nationalities. Talking about nationality. Europe's path is not to register its nationality, and Latvia should follow this path: it is necessary to refuse to register its nationality at all. Next. It is not clear what is the legitimate aim of the proposal to change nationality, taking into account individual identity. Go on. The Legal Bureau indicated that it was not understandable why the nationality could be changed to “Latvian”, but that it could not be changed to another nationality. Go on. The argument was expressed that it is not understandable what the child's nationality will be if a person changes nationality to “Latvian”. Go on. It was not clear to the law firm what to do if the parents could not agree on the child’s nationality. Go on. The question was whether the grandparent would have the right to return to the country of origin of the grandparents. And there was also a question of what to do if an official refuses to register his nationality. I mean, how can it be appealed? All this was not clear to the Legal Office. We have discussed, and these questions were, of course, answered, and I would like you to have the relevant information as well. Thus, it was stressed that a person of nationalities will be able to change according to his wishes if the above prerequisites exist, namely, citizenship of Latvia, 15 years of age, the person understands the state language, sense of belonging to Latvian culture and wants to publicly consolidate it. In particular, the function of an official is technical. His duty is to strengthen, record, if the person so wishes, and if it is found to be in conformity with the requirements laid down. Thus, there is no reason to worry about officials who are not intended to be granted the right to verify how much a person belongs to Latvian culture. The question of the orphanage was inconceivable, as it is now possible that parents have different nationalities and cannot agree on the child’s nationality. It is already successfully addressed and can continue to be successfully addressed. The question of the possibility for grandchildren to return to the so-called nationality of origin demonstrated that the Law Office perceives all this rule as a kind of game, namely, although they can change their nationality, but should not forget their nationality as well. Of course, the goal is different and it is not appropriate. That is what we were talking about in the Commission. Next... ( The box “For the Commission! ”) ) On behalf of the Commission, I directly informed the Commission of what had been discussed, and I think... I just told you what the arguments were for those who proposed to exclude. Now I am talking about the arguments put forward in relation to the proposals that have been tabled. Go on. In relation to the question of why it is not proposed to change nationality. Well, we discussed, and I think that the Law Office also had a clear and understandable fact that if a person has Latvian citizenship, he has lived in Latvia for 15 years and knows Latvian language, it does not give reason to write in documents that he is German or Polish by nationality. That's what we talked about. Well, of course, it was also pointed out: the fact that a new system is being proposed does not mean that the proposal we supported at second reading is bad. I'm not going to talk about the legitimate goal now. I will take the opportunity to debate this. Go on. In the context of this proposal, the Commission was given the floor to Mrs Ribena. And she pointed out three essential facts that make it important to rule out the norm. In particular, she stressed that the boundaries of the Republic of Latvia proclaimed in 1918 were set on an ethnic basis. Latvia is the populated area of the Latvian nation. The term ‘motherland’ includes the principle of genetic nationality. The draft law, on the other hand, talks about belonging to Latvian culture, but Latvians are looking at people who turn away from their father's nationality, and in general, as Mrs. Ribena pointed out to us, the ethnic moment is at genetic level. Consequently, the question is about genes and nothing can be changed. Consequently, the Legal Commission, when examining and hearing these arguments, has decided to support the first... - I'm sorry! - decided to support proposal 2.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-09-15-PT12-374-U29	Let us start a debate. Name to Member Ingmars Lydak.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-09-15-PT12-374-U30	Hello, dear colleagues! First of all, thank you to the commission responsible for supporting this proposal. I hope that you too will support it. Look, well, I'm not really sorry that, let's say, Mr. Judine's passport would record "Latvian". I'm really sorry. But I am very sorry for the officials of the Office of Citizenship and Migration Affairs who will now have to check the eligibility of the “Latvian” application for this entry - whether or not he belongs to Latvian culture. I accept that an official of the Office of Citizenship and Migration will have to watch the corresponding applicant dances his handball, check how many folk songs this person has learned, and this could also be a little too hard for the official. Mr Judina suggests in his next proposals that a person's Latvian language skills should be verified in accordance with the regulations of the Cabinet of Ministers. I think that in this case, another regulation of the Cabinet of Ministers will have to be drawn up unless you support my proposal on how to determine whether or not a person belongs to Latvian culture. Better still. Mr. Judine has then corrected his proposal, and now the official will have to check whether or not the appropriate applicant feels part of Latvian culture. You see, Mr. Judin, those feelings are so complicated. For example, it would be very difficult for you to determine what my true feelings are about you. ( The utterance: “Love! ”) ) You can understand, of course, what these are, if I am standing here, but they are not finally demonstrated. And therefore, this criterion, too, - the membership of Latvian culture or people's feelings - cannot in any way serve as a verifiable fact, then perhaps even appeal if a person suddenly is offended that his feelings will not be properly evaluated. My feeling at this point is that my proposal is to be welcomed, and that will only be good. Let us not teach officials to make decisions based on feelings. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-09-15-PT12-374-U31	Thank you. The name of the Member, Andrejs Judin.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-09-15-PT12-374-U32	First of all, I want to repeat once again that no tests are foreseen to determine the extent to which a person feels this belonging. This is a matter for the individual himself. And although the Legal Bureau had a different opinion on the proposal, the Legal Bureau also pointed out that this issue was a matter of self-identification. If a person thinks that he is a Latvian, then neither you nor me nor anyone else has reason to doubt his attitude. So I think it wouldn't be hard for officials to work here. The other thing. I do not think that this is right: to reduce this issue to individuals. It doesn't matter if you're sorry or you're sorry... there are or there are no objections to my passport. There is no question here about me or someone else; there is a question about principle. And I will allow you to quote what Mrs. Reynolds said. In fact, at the Legal Commission she pointed out that in the 19th century, when defining the state border, she did not ask anyone: “How do you feel?” But he asked, “Who are you by nationality?” That's right! In the 19th century, in the census of nationalities, the man was asked, “What language do you speak?” I studied those documents, and I saw, for example, one such document, where one of Matrena Ivanova says: “I speak Latvian.” And who is she? She's a Latvian. And nothing that she is Matherine, nothing that she is Ivanova! Man determines himself. That was the case in the 19th century. And that was exactly 1918. But during Soviet times, the situation changed: the country had decided that it could tell you exactly who you are. I call for a return to the basic principle. Go on. I want to take the opportunity to introduce you to one publication. In particular, the well-known Latvian lawyer Egils Levits published his opinion on the subject this week. I admit that not everyone is a lawyer, not everyone reads “The Name of the Judge”, but there are very important opinions that I very much hope will help you to understand better. I will not be able to read the entire article, but some of the themes published by Levit may help you to understand the situation better. Levite writes that although it may seem at first sight that this draft law on the change of nationality record concerns a small technical issue, in fact it is about issues that are important for understanding Latvia's state. This indirectly touches on the issue of Latvia as a national state and Latvians as its basic nation or state. Role of the national state. Levite writes that Latvia's country - alongside the general, all democratic and legal countries shared tasks that unite us with other Western European countries - is also a very specific task that only Latvia has to perform. The state of Latvia must be a guarantor of the existence and development of the Latvian nation through centuries. It is through this specific task that the state of Latvia is different from any other democratic, legal, socially responsible state in Europe and around the world. Latvian nation is one of the goals of our country's existence. What is Latvian nation - asks Levit. Their identification factors are the Latvian language and Latvian culture in the broadest sense. These are objective criteria. The subjective criterion is the individual's sense of belonging to the Latvian nation, self-consciousness as a Latvian. The origin of a person usually determinates his personal identity, thus also his national identity, which includes him in his people as a basic community of communication. Next to this, however, there are also real situations. Firstly, the origin of a person may also not coincide with this individual nationality of its country as a result of environmental education and training. Second, a person born and raised as a Gentile may grow into a nation of his own. The nationality record does not confer any rights or advantages on a person. This has practically no legal consequences. But that matters. This is a legally fixed public ownership statement. In Latvia, taking into account our history, there is a voluntary opportunity to prove your nationality publicly by recording it in the relevant documents. If such an opportunity exists, it should also be given to those people whose parents or grandparents are not Latvians, but who objectively and subjectively regard themselves as Latvians and want to publicly confirm it. ( The utterance: “Time! ”) ) I ask for a few more minutes to finish!
ParlaMint-LV_2016-09-15-PT12-374-U33	Mr. Judine, how much extra time will you need? Would it be enough for two minutes, combined with the second speaking time?
ParlaMint-LV_2016-09-15-PT12-374-U34	Yeah. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-09-15-PT12-374-U35	Do Members have objections? ( Interfaces: “No! ”) “Let’s talk!” ) There are no objections. Please continue!
ParlaMint-LV_2016-09-15-PT12-374-U36	Levite also noted in his article: “... the desire not only to actually own them, but also to publicly confirm them, is understandable and supportive. Therefore, in accordance with the above principle of the national state enshrined in the Constitution, which is one of the fundamental principles of the constitutional identity of Latvia, it would be desirable to promote the positive attitude of these people towards the Latvian nation, also by adapting the relevant legislation.” That's Levite. I don’t know if you convinced or convinced this opinion, but I think if we claim that Latvia is a national country and if there are people who, by their origin, are not Latvians, but want to become Latvians, it’s wrong to say to them: “No. Carrots are carrots, potatoes are potatoes.’ Think for yourself. But when I think and read the Constitution, paying attention to what I have written in the preamble, I do not think that the state should put any obstacles on those people who want to choose their nationalities according to their own feelings. I would therefore ask for proposals 2, 3 and 4 not to be supported. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-09-15-PT12-374-U37	Thank you. The name of Member Inguna Reibena.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-09-15-PT12-374-U38	Yeah. Ladies and gentlemen, I spoke about 18 minutes ago from the parliamentary tribunal about this being one of the most absurd draft laws ever seen in the Saeima, and I was hoping that Mr Judine understood it at the time. You can, of course, simplify things, but do you really have any limits? I would only be happy if as simple and as mechanical as the number of Latvians could increase, as the authors of the bill have intended without any previous discussion with the public. I can only admire the ambitions to visualize those basic principles of the Latvian nation's ethnic self-confidence and morality, to which it has kept all its life. These principles have lasted seven difficult centuries of political captivity and 50 years of occupation. And there suddenly they are declared old and unrighteous! It seems that there are no limits to this process. Taking the absurd proposal from Mr. Judine, I will say this: well, let's take in Latvia, say, 20 million immigrants, let's teach Latvian, let's diagnose their belonging to Latvian culture, and - Latvian is ready! And no longer will the challenges of demographics be addressed. And how could this belonging be diagnosed? With the meter on his hand, is he running the ants over the bones, singing “Sun, Thunder, Daugava”? Absurd! The ryeflower can write in its passport that is a poppy, but the ryeflower field will therefore not remain a poppy field, rather the opposite - it will be a poppy field with the name and virtue of the poppy. You are talking about belonging to Latvian culture, but the mentality of the Latvian people has developed in such a way that Latvians are looking at people who turn away from their fatherhood. On the other hand, people who have learned Latvian and have done good for Latvia are treated with great respect. Those Latvians who tried to assimilate in Germans in order to raise their individual level of comfort were despised by the Latvians calling the Krklu Germans, and now we are offered, if you can say so, such a Krklu German law. The authors of the draft law promise that people who feel part of the Latvian cultural environment will no longer be excluded from it because of their ethnic background. What does that mean? Is it known that some non-nationals in free Latvia have felt more excluded from the Latvian cultural environment than they wanted? Our cultural environment is traditionally multinational. All the most important ethnic minorities have been represented at the Constitutional Meeting. Does Inese Galante, Gidons Kremers, Glebs Panteļejevs and many people feel excluded from Latvian culture without being Latvians? In the real Latvian culture environment, nationality belongs to the fateal and sacred categories that remain constant throughout human life and disobedient to choice. I doubt that other nations are different. The borders of the Republic of Latvia proclaimed in 1918 are set on an ethnic basis and do not coincide with the historical borders of the population and the inhabitants. The territory of Latvia is the populated territory of the Latvian nation, or the homeland, and the word “motherland” already includes the genetic principle of nationality. Humanity has been identified for thousands of years and continues to determine the people's nationality. To name this principle as outdated - it is very deep. The very basis on which Latvia's existence as a national state and territorial indivisibility are based is then declared obsolete. Almost 100 years ago, Latvians have designed their national state as a political social form of their existence in their country of origin. Now everything is turned upside down. It follows that it is not the nation that constructs its own country, but it is the country that constructs the Latvian nation administratively. Ethnic Latvianism for hundreds of years has been a sacredness of Latvians, which can only be inherited, not chosen. According to the bill, ethnic Latvian citizenship would in future be much easier to obtain than the nationality of each other's respected country. I'll finish right away. One paragraph. Adopting such a law...
ParlaMint-LV_2016-09-15-PT12-374-U39	Do Members have objections... One moment, Mrs. Reaveen! Do Members have reservations that Member Ribena continues, combined with the second speaking time?... ( The box “Let it speak! ”) ) Thank you. Keep going!
ParlaMint-LV_2016-09-15-PT12-374-U40	By adopting such a law, the State of Latvia arbitrarily issues a licence to grant Latvian nationality at its discretion. The next logical step could be a bill on the cases in which a person can be deprived of a Latvian nationality. That, of course, I say once again, is absurd! That is why I am calling for support for this proposal by Mr Līdaka, the National Union and the Legal Office of the Saeima, which was also supported by Members within the Commission. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-09-15-PT12-374-U41	Thank you. The name of the Member, Andrejs Elksniņš.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-09-15-PT12-374-U42	Dear colleagues, Of course, it was very interesting to learn a lot about young Latvians and about a very valuable discussion in the style of Gebels, but the question here is absolutely different. What had Mr. Judin offered for the second reading, and on which did we also debate in the Saeima Legal Commission before the second reading? We talked about the fact that criteria such as “belonging to Latvian culture”, “knowing and wanting to publicly consolidate their belonging to Latvian people” are absolutely abstract concepts, abstract categories that cannot be determined in absolutely any way. All these arguments were put forward at second reading. And, as we see today, representatives of several political groups, as well as the Legal Bureau... one for one reason, the other for the other has tabled this proposal that that provision should be excluded. Why not? Because we can't... First of all, Mr Judin, when he tabled this proposal, he did not foresee how we will measure that Latvianism. A line? We're gonna see it after the nose? Get him over the fire or don't jump? Are you doing something else in your free time? In essence, the question is simply legal. This requires criteria and technical conditions of this kind, which could be implemented, for example, by delegation to the Cabinet of Ministers. In particular, it must be said how we will measure their Latvianness and their belonging to Latvian culture. Otherwise, without the regulations of the Cabinet of Ministers, we cannot introduce any rules. There is absolute and simple clarity on this issue. We cannot fulfil that desire... and formulate it in such a way that this provision can be applied. Without abuse, clear, understandable criteria for officials to understand what is required of them in a given situation. In the absence of any replies to these questions, this provision cannot be supported. Thus, indeed, honourable colleagues, perhaps we will respect each other's time, stop breaking the slices here, which is bigger Latvian, who is smaller Latvian, we will end up analysing the history of Latvia's creation and so on, and we will support proposal 2, 3 and also rule out this norm, and move on to the next issues.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-09-15-PT12-374-U43	The name of the Member is Going to Spolitis.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-09-15-PT12-374-U44	Dear colleagues, I was fascinated by the analogy with the ryeflower and the poppy. After all, the rye flower can remain a rye flower and the poppy can remain a poppy in that rye field. But no one can deny neither the cornflower nor the magon to associate himself and call himself the rye field. What do I mean by that? In particular, we are currently living in a world governed not only by Latvian legislation, but also by the legislation of the European Union. Mr Judine, in my opinion, made it very clear, and I do not want to refer here to the figures of Benedict Anderson or Ernest Gelner's study, which very clearly shows how language communities developed and left the opportunity to self-identify in the 19th century. In this case, I can also remind you that in the 1920s and 1930s it was not only about self-identification, but also about changing the name. This is still very successful for our own neighbours in Estonia. Mrs. Ribena knows the same Theodore Zaļkalns, who was Greenberg, we also had Rožkalns, which was Rozenberg in the past. So it's absolutely normal and people's own choice. Therefore, I do not want to expand my story here, but I will be brief, because after all, we are here in the Saeima, adopting the preamble to the Constitution. And if we have adopted the preamble to the Constitution, then it is very logical that we go further and reject the lards of the Soviet Socialist Republic of Latvia in national policy. Thank you. I call for proposals 2, 3 and 4 not to be supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-09-15-PT12-374-U45	Name to Member Juris Villums.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-09-15-PT12-374-U46	Very honourable Speaker of the Saeima! Ladies and gentlemen! Latvians and non-Latvians! First of all, I would like to say that this provision was, however, supported at second reading, and I think that only such editorial changes should be made to the third reading, rather than we now have to return to the issue that we have decided once again, and now we have to start the debate again from the beginning. I think that really, at third reading, the choice made by colleagues at second reading should be respected, and now we should not return to it. I will remind you of what I said at second reading. I don't understand what Latvians fear. I was just in Ireland, where I spoke to Latvians living there. Many of them made such an observation that, for example, Poles who travel to Ireland are able to come together and work together, cooperate, seek common solutions in business and so on, and so on. The Latvians who have gone to Ireland somehow come together in their own corner. Whether this is a single syndrome that we have out of which has survived for centuries or something else, I don't know. Next thing I want to say. If we take a purely historical look at the way, for example, in the border of Latvia was once granted this nationality, we see that in the border of Latvia, those who did not speak Latvian correctly sometimes did not give the national “Latvian”, but gave either the national “Belarusn” or “polis”. By the way, the “polis” of nationality was very often given because all Catholics were related to Poland at the time, so the Catholic was political regardless of whether he was able to speak Latvian or in a Latvian form - Latgalian. I myself know several people who have a national “Belarus”, but who know Latvian and are loyal to the state of Latvia. I would even say that it is very acceptable for this person to vote in favour of the National Union; at least so far he has voted in favour of the National Union. But he is not given the opportunity to become a Latvian! Well, I really don't understand what the National Association is afraid of (Interface from the National Association: “From stupidity!” ), and why the National Association does not want the number of its supporters to increase, rather than just remain at its current level - below 20 percent. I call, however, for proposals 2, 3 and 4 to be rejected. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-09-15-PT12-374-U47	Thank you. The name of Member Ilze Viņķelis.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-09-15-PT12-374-U48	Good morning, colleagues! I continue with the subject: what do we fear and how do we measure? Mr. Elksniņš expressed concern about the use of a measuring instrument to determine a person's belonging to Latvian culture. I would like to say that the advocates of this proposal from this troupe used very much today self-proclaimed and self-predicted concepts, which are also unmeasurable. If, when it comes to traditional Latvian folk values, they also include in their statements claims that contain references to what the Latvians despise, then I conclude from this that obviously something contempt is also perceived as virtue; it is, in my opinion, a rather strange construction. And when we talk about whether we have to measure the feeling of belonging at all... Why? Is the country a big mom or policeman who interferes with a person's self-reported feelings? What is the purpose of doing this? Nothing needs to be measured, that is the principle of self-declaration. If a person feels that he is a member of the family, let us be happy about it and let him feel that way, not fear that it will not be legally measurable! So I think this bill has a symbolic meaning: it says that we are open, we are not afraid and we are happy for someone who feels that he is a Latvian. I call for this proposal not to be supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-09-15-PT12-374-U49	Name to Member Janis Dombrava.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-09-15-PT12-374-U50	Colleagues! Inguna Rībena has already expressed and supported all these arguments in relation to the change of nationality, but I would like to emphasise in particular Mr Spolitis and Mrs Viņķele: it is also possible to self-identify the people to whom he belongs at the moment, but this can only happen on the grounds of parents' or grandparents' nationalities. For example, Mr. Veiko Srollišs can choose whether he belongs to the Estonian people or to the Latvian people - he has a right to choose. But he cannot imagine that he wants to belong to the Chinese, and the next day he will become such. And in response to a reply by Mr. Viļuma about the National Association, I would like to say that Latvian citizens support the National Associations regardless of nationality - both Latvians, Lithuanians, Ukrainians and Russians - those people who feel that they belong to Latvia love our land. And these people do not need a change of nationality. They feel that they belong to Latvia and are proud to belong to a particular nationality. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-09-15-PT12-374-U51	The name of the Member is Going to Spolitis, for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-09-15-PT12-374-U52	Thank you, John, for reminding me of my second part of the nationality. It really is - I can choose either one or the other, but it is my own free choice. In this case, perhaps I want to be and self-identify as a European, while there is no European nationality, and so I do not have such a possibility, John. There's another question here. If a child born in the Armenian, Ukrainian family wants to self-identify as a Latvian, why not deny it? I therefore call for proposals 2, 3 and 4 not to be supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-09-15-PT12-374-U53	Thank you. I closed the debate. Does the rapporteur wish to add something when expressing the Commission's general opinion?
ParlaMint-LV_2016-09-15-PT12-374-U54	Expressing the Commission’s common view (Dep. A.Elksniņš: “I invite you not to support it!” ), I would like to recall what you have heard. In particular, the proposal does not provide for any checks. I see that colleagues have ignored this during the debate. On behalf of the Commission, I would like to remind you that the project provides that the right to change nationality is for a person who has lived here for 15 years and is a citizen of Latvia, so it is probably out of place for those 20 million who will come and ask for something. On behalf of the Commission, I would also like to draw attention to the presentation of a proposal from the Ministry of Justice that supported this concept, but for political reasons it was withdrawn. We can vote. ( Interface: How does the Commission call for a vote?) ) The Commission endorsed proposal 2. The Bible says: “He that is walking in the way of
ParlaMint-LV_2016-09-15-PT12-374-U55	Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-09-15-PT12-374-U56	(Interjection: ‘And?’) ) Then I call for action to be taken. On behalf of the Commission, I call for action to be taken probably by conscience.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-09-15-PT12-374-U57	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 2. - The motion tabled by Member Ingmars Līdak! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 58, no, 24, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The proposal is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-09-15-PT12-374-U58	The proposal is identical and supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-09-15-PT12-374-U59	There is room for debate on the proposal, but as proposal 2 has been approved, then proposal 3 and 4 can no longer be put to the vote. But the debate on this proposal is possible. Let us start a debate. The name of Member Inguna Reibena.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-09-15-PT12-374-U60	Only a small illustration from an interview with sculptor Gļeb Panteļev - the monument of Oscar Kalpaks, the author of the "Black threshold" commemoration mark of the corner house and many of the authors of the monuments that are still important to us. The question "The Independent Morning Newspaper": "Barishnikov explains himself as an American citizen of the world, even though he was born a Riga, Russian. Perhaps he is truly a citizen of the world. You can also be identified as Russian with difficulty. Who are you?” And Gleb Pantheliev answers: “As for Barishnikov, yes, he is a citizen of the world. But there are things that are given at birth and they cannot be ignored. You cannot ignore, for example, gender.” Although we will soon be offered to do so! ‘ You can, of course, change it artificially, but... Another thing is ethnic origin. As if it may be abandoned because of the current historical situation, it is, in my opinion, a bad taste and hysterism. Barishnikov has never abandoned his ethnic background, even though he lives in America for half a century and calls himself American. But he never travels to Russia - obviously he has reasons to decide. Another thing is what your behaviour imperatives are, how you perceive reality and history. I too have ambitions to be a man of the world, and I too can think and decide cosmopolitanly. But my wife Olga [sculptor Olga Šilova] laughs at me: there is one thing that will always be able to say that you are a Russian – you will definitely have a couple of doors on the farm to which the handle turned up. Yes, it is! I'm not a joker or a mess, I'm fine on the farm. In my scale of values, the handle plays a small role, but it is my slender element. My friends Latvians laugh: they came to the Russian sauna near Gleba. These ethnic things certainly appear somewhere... The painter Jānis Zemīte said: In the 1980s he took a orphan from Nicaragua, a little great - you know, there is a Martin Zemite. John had several children, all grew up in one family, everyone was raised in the same way, but Martin was: he saw the ball, and he remained literally crazy - this Latin American passion was in the genes! So you don't have to worry about it, and you don't have to spawn it – ethnic moment is at genetic level." ( End quoted) It was an interview in the Independent Morning Newspaper in August.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-09-15-PT12-374-U61	Thank you. I closed the debate. Therefore, Proposals 3 and 4 are also supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-09-15-PT12-374-U62	Okay. So it was a debate on 2. ... I got it...
ParlaMint-LV_2016-09-15-PT12-374-U63	The debate was on the third proposal...
ParlaMint-LV_2016-09-15-PT12-374-U64	Yes, then Proposal 4. We actually also supported it.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-09-15-PT12-374-U65	The Commission is supported. And it is not put to the vote.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-09-15-PT12-374-U66	Yeah. 5. - the proposal by Member Judina that the right to change may be exercised once. Not supported. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. L. Cigan: “Vote!” ) Council Regulation (EC) No 1257/96 of 20 June 1996 concerning humanitarian aid (OJ L 163, 2.7.1996, p. 1).
ParlaMint-LV_2016-09-15-PT12-374-U67	Members ask for a vote. However, proposal 5 cannot be put to the vote. It cannot be put to the vote because proposal 2 has been approved. Consequently, Proposal No 5 cannot be put to the vote. I can't vote!
ParlaMint-LV_2016-09-15-PT12-374-U68	So, as I have understood, we will not vote in favour of Amendment 5. You can talk about next, huh? 6. - the motion by Member Motion proposing a new version for the fourth paragraph of Article 3.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-09-15-PT12-374-U69	This proposal, too, cannot be put to the vote.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-09-15-PT12-374-U70	This proposal is therefore not supported. But on behalf of the commission, I would like to draw attention to the fact that...
ParlaMint-LV_2016-09-15-PT12-374-U71	That's... First of all, Mr Judine, to make it clear: this proposal, too, is not to be voted on, but it is possible to have a debate on it.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-09-15-PT12-374-U72	Yes, but during the commission meeting, unfortunately, we had to discuss with the Bureau of Legal Affairs. And their opinion, unfortunately... Unfortunately, the opinion of the Legal Bureau is not quite correct in my view this time. Yes, it is true that we supported today motions 2, 3, 4 and took out the fourth paragraph of Article 3. But we discussed what is offered in the commission. I hope you will also understand the problem. Is that so? Proposal No 6 proposes a new version of the part. That is a recast. We are voting on the proposals, on proposals 2, 3 and 4, not on any concepts. This issue was not decided by the Commission. We have discussed, and you have to decide, but Amendment 6 is about recasting. To say that it cannot be voted because Members have conceptually different thoughts, it is not right because it is a different version. We have the right to exclude the fourth part, which was in second reading, and to support the new option proposed.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-09-15-PT12-374-U73	So this proposal, I stress once again, is not a vote. The name of Member Lolita Chigan.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-09-15-PT12-374-U74	Dear Chairman of the Saeima. Dear colleagues, I would like to speak in favour of this proposal because it will obviously not have the opportunity to vote on it. However, a debate may take place. I would like to say that, without voting in favour of this proposal and in support of the previous proposals - Mr Līdaka, the National Association and the Office of Legal Affairs - we have interrupted for some people in Latvia the dream that lasted only between the second and third reading of this draft law. Many of this troupe spoke instead of others today. And I also consider it my duty to talk to other people from here, in response to what some colleagues have said. Dear colleagues, There are people in our society who have not been registered in the register that their nationality is Latvian, but who feel that they belong to Latvian culture, who understand Latvian, have spent their entire lives here and who were waiting for the adoption of this law at third reading, so that they can go and register in the register that they are Latvian. We will stop their dream today, and that will not be possible. In this way, the Saeima has refused to show that we are open, that we supported the so-called concept of open Latvian, where a person can grow into Latvian and become a Latvian, if he feels so. And as for other people, I just want to answer what Mrs. Ribena said: my sons also become crazy when they see the football ball, but they are registered with a "Latvian" in the register. Dear Mrs. Reynolds, that still does not mean anything in itself! ( A Fraction’s Unity Appreciates.)
ParlaMint-LV_2016-09-15-PT12-374-U75	The name of the Member, Andrejs Judin.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-09-15-PT12-374-U76	Yes, I think it will be easier for me to speak in my own name, of course. I am going to talk now, not about the content, but about the legal technique. This is a serious matter, and it is a serious indication. Colleagues, I would like to emphasise once again: we can support proposals 2, 3, 4 and exclude the fourth part. That was done. But this does not prevent me from proposing another version of the fourth part. Each of you can support the exclusion in the second part and vote in favour of the offer. That's logical. I am very sorry that the Legal Bureau does not understand this, because there is a legal question here, which is self-evident: the basis for the groundwork. Does our Legal Bureau make sure that there are arrangements to comply with the legal technique, or is it doing anything else? I cannot, of course, force it now to allow the vote, but we will certainly be discussing it yet. ( Intercretion: “Rightly! ” ) Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-09-15-PT12-374-U77	Thank you. I would like to emphasise that the work of the Legal Bureau has been of high quality and the Saeima has already made its decision on this provision once. Consequently, Proposal No 6 cannot be put to the vote. Seventh.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-09-15-PT12-374-U78	Proposal 7 has not been supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-09-15-PT12-374-U79	And neither can it be put to the vote. As with 8.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-09-15-PT12-374-U80	And also the proposal 8 is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-09-15-PT12-374-U81	This proposal, too, cannot be put to the vote. All the proposals have been examined.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-09-15-PT12-374-U82	Yeah. We have examined all the proposals. Please support the draft law at third, final, final reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-09-15-PT12-374-U83	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote in favour of supporting the third, final reading of the draft law on the change of name, surname and nationality! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 85, for - 3, for - 1. The law has been passed. On the agenda - draft law “Amendments to the Law on Credits”, second reading. Member Guntis Kalniņš on behalf of the Legal Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-09-15-PT12-374-U84	President of the Saeima! Members! The Legal Commission watched amendments to the Law on the Interior. I would remind you that amendments to the first reading were submitted in two articles - Article 3 and Article 9, while no proposal to second reading was submitted in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 95 of the Rules of Procedure. So please support the progress of the draft law towards the third reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-09-15-PT12-374-U85	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote in favour of the second reading of the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Credits”! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 88, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. The draft law at second reading has been supported. Please set the deadline for the third reading of the proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-09-15-PT12-374-U86	Please submit your proposals by 20 September.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-09-15-PT12-374-U87	Thank you. Proposals are due by 20 September of this year. On the agenda - draft law “Amendments to the Law on Society and Foundations”, first reading. On behalf of the National Administration and Municipal Commission - Member Ainārs Mežulis.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-09-15-PT12-374-U88	Dear colleagues, The Commission of the State Administration and Local Government has examined the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Society and Foundations” submitted by the Cabinet of Ministers. These amendments to the law concern associations whose activities are directed against the sovereignty of Latvia and security of Latvia; they are intended to restrict the activities of such associations, to stop it, and to ensure transparency of the funds of these associations. And the Commission decided to support the draft law and to direct it to first reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-09-15-PT12-374-U89	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote in favour of the first reading of the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Society and Foundations”! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 88, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The draft law at first reading has been supported. Please set a deadline for the second reading of the proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-09-15-PT12-374-U90	The deadline for submitting proposals is November 1, this year.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-09-15-PT12-374-U91	Thank you. Proposals shall be submitted by 1 November of this year. Dear colleagues, The Commission of the State Administration and Local Government has requested to declare a break in the sitting of the Saeima for 60 minutes after the examination of item 11 of the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Associations and Foundations”. Since this coincides with another break - half an hour's next break - would it be acceptable for the chairman of the commission and the commission if this break were to be announced for an hour, combined with another break? ( Interface: “There is no objection! ” ) So there is no objection? Thank you. The decision has been taken. Please call me! Please check-in mode for Members! While the results of the registration are being collected, let us listen to the announcements. The name of Member Silvia Symph.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-09-15-PT12-374-U92	Hello, colleagues! Communication to the Social and Labour Commission The Commission meeting will take place 30 minutes after the end of the Saeima meeting and will take place on Jēkaba iela 10/12, office 106, not in our commission premises. Please remember! Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-09-15-PT12-374-U93	Name to Member Sergey Dolgopolov.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-09-15-PT12-374-U94	Dear colleagues, The meeting of the National Administration and Municipal Commission will take place immediately in the premises of the Commission. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-09-15-PT12-374-U95	Thank you. The name of the Member Dzintārs Zaķis.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-09-15-PT12-374-U96	Hello, ladies and gentlemen! The Group of Members shall meet immediately with the Georgian Parliament in the Committee on Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy. A meeting with Georgia's ambassador. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-09-15-PT12-374-U97	Thank you. Name of the Secretary of the Saeima Gunaras Kūtris to read the results of the registration.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-09-15-PT12-374-U98	Dear colleagues, Not registered at the moment: Hosam Abu Meri, Boris Cilevičs, Gundars Dauge, Inese Laizāne, Roman Mežeckis, Igors Pimenovs, Edgars Putra... Yes, thank you, Mārtiņš Schics... Yes, John Trupovnieks... Yes, John Wucan... Not applicable.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-09-15-PT12-374-U99	Thank you. Interruption until 11.30 a.m. ( Interruption) ( Interruption)
ParlaMint-LV_2016-09-15-PT12-374-U100	Ladies and gentlemen, I call for seats to be held in the Saeima's Chamber. Let's get back to the Saeima sitting after the break. On the agenda - draft law “Amendments to the Law on the Movement of Alcohol Drinks”, first reading. On behalf of the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy, Member Ingmārs Līdaka.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-09-15-PT12-374-U101	Dear colleagues, The pleasure to start work immediately after a break with the draft law “Amendments to the Law on the Movement of Alcohol Drinks”. So let me remind you that this is an initiative of the Ministry of Health, which was recognised by the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy as good enough and led to consideration in the Saeima. Consequently, these amendments to the Law on the movement of alcoholic beverages were examined by the Commission at first reading. They essentially impose restrictions on the sales volumes of beer and fermented beverages (not spirit drinks). I therefore call for support for this draft law at first reading, with the idea that the deadline for the submission of proposals will be about three weeks, and it is clear that there will also be more discussions with industry over this period on possible nuances, figures, volumes, percentages and other things worthy of clarification.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-09-15-PT12-374-U102	Thank you to the rapporteur. Please call me! We will vote in favour of the first reading of the draft law “Amendments to the Law on the Movement of Alcohol Drinks”! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 67, for - no, for - 1. The draft law at first reading has been supported. Please set a deadline for the submission of the proposals for second reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-09-15-PT12-374-U103	13 October.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-09-15-PT12-374-U104	Thank you. Proposals are due by 13 October this year. On the agenda - draft law “Amendments to the Arbitration Law”, second reading. Member of the Legal Commission Gaidis Berzins.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-09-15-PT12-374-U105	Dear Chairman of the Saeima. Dear colleagues, I would remind you that some time ago, the Saeima passed the Arbitration Law, the purpose of which was to regularise the legal framework of arbitrations, as well as to eliminate situations that were discussed in the public much - the fact that arbitrators are not qualified, the fact that the arbitral tribunals are not present at their designated legal address and other issues. I would like to point out on behalf of the Commission that during the period of operation of this Law the number of arbitral tribunals has actually decreased by more than half. This has happened during the planned renewal process. The Legal Commission together with the Subcommittee on Judicial Policy shall follow the application of this Law, identifying certain technical issues regarding the supervision of the activities of arbitration courts, which were addressed by proposing a version of the first reading, which was supported. On the other hand, at second reading, the Commission received three technical proposals. 1. is a proposal from the Legal Commission, which has been supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-09-15-PT12-374-U106	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-09-15-PT12-374-U107	2. There is also the Commission's proposal, which has been supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-09-15-PT12-374-U108	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-09-15-PT12-374-U109	On the other hand, there is a proposal from the Legal Office. Also technical, which is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-09-15-PT12-374-U110	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-09-15-PT12-374-U111	We have therefore examined all the proposals. On behalf of the Commission, please support the draft law on Amendments to the Arbitration Law at second reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-09-15-PT12-374-U112	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote in favour of the second reading of the draft law on amendments to the Arbitration Law! Please vote mode! Please get the result! It's not about - 80, it's against and refrains from - it's not. The draft law at second reading has been supported. Please set a deadline for the third reading of the proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-09-15-PT12-374-U113	The deadline for submitting proposals is 20 September this year.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-09-15-PT12-374-U114	Proposals are due by 20 September of this year. On the agenda - Draft law on Amendments to the Law on International Assistance, first reading. Member Ojārs Ēriks Kalniņš on behalf of the Commission on Foreign Affairs.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-09-15-PT12-374-U115	Thank you, Presidium. Honourable Members! We work with document No 2236. Currently, eight Latvian civil experts participate in the OSCE-led special observation mission in Ukraine and are largely deployed in Luhanska and Doņecka. The security situation in these regions is complex and civilian experts carry out their tasks under high security conditions. It is possible that, in future, our civil experts could also work on other missions. This draft law is designed to establish that social rehabilitation services are also available to civil experts upon their participation in the international mission. This will ensure that the current arrangements and mechanism for the provision of social rehabilitation services to military and home system officials with special ranks after return from the mission will also cover civilian experts. The Foreign Affairs Commission examined and supported this draft law before the first reading. I call on the Saeima to support this at first reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-09-15-PT12-374-U116	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote in favour of the first reading of the draft law on "Amendments to the Law on International Assistance". Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 84, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The draft law at first reading has been supported. Please set a deadline for the submission of the proposals for second reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-09-15-PT12-374-U117	The deadline for submitting proposals is 15 September of this year.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-09-15-PT12-374-U118	This year... Is that so? I'm sorry, today is September 15!
ParlaMint-LV_2016-09-15-PT12-374-U119	September 26th.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-09-15-PT12-374-U120	Thank you. Proposals shall be submitted by 26 September of this year. On the agenda - Draft law on the Protocol on Montenegro's accession to the North Atlantic Treaty, first reading. Member Ojārs Ēriks Kalniņš on behalf of the Commission on Foreign Affairs.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-09-15-PT12-374-U121	We work with document 2300. On 2 December 2015, the NATO Foreign Ministers meeting decided to invite Montenegro to open accession negotiations in NATO. This process was successfully concluded on 19 May 2016, when NATO Foreign Ministers solemnly signed the Montenegro Accession Protocol. The ratification process has now begun and Montenegro will become a member of NATO 29 when this is over. The Foreign Affairs Commission examined and supported this draft law before the first reading. I call on my colleagues to support this at first reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-09-15-PT12-374-U122	Thank you. Please call me! Let us vote in favour of the first reading of the draft law on the Protocol on the accession of Montenegro to the North Atlantic Treaty! Please vote mode! Please get the result! It's not about - 86, it's against and refrains from - it's not. The draft law at first reading has been supported. Please set a deadline for the submission of the proposals for second reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-09-15-PT12-374-U123	September 26th.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-09-15-PT12-374-U124	Thank you. Proposals shall be submitted by 26 September of this year. On the agenda - draft law on public procurement, first reading. On behalf of the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy - Member Romanas Naudiņš.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-09-15-PT12-374-U125	Dear colleagues, In the Commission we have prepared for the first reading a draft law on public procurement (document No 2377). The draft law takes over, in particular, the requirements of the European Parliament and Council Directive of 26 February 2014 on public procurement, as well as the proposals made during the review of the current framework. I'll list some of them. The draft law increased the price of the contract for the threshold from which the law applies in order to reduce the administrative burden on customers. New procurement procedures - the innovation partnership procedure and the negotiated tender procedure - have been introduced, as well as procedures for applying other procurement procedures have been facilitated. The draft law also extended the application of the criteria for selecting the most economically advantageous offer, changed the model for determining the most economically advantageous offer. It is also planned to publish all procurement contracts and amendments thereto on the website of the contracting authority in order to ensure greater transparency and transparency in the presentation of contracts and their amendments. Provision is also made for the introduction of a deposit regulation. And there are many other important things and innovations in procurement to sort out this area. I ask colleagues to support the draft law at first reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-09-15-PT12-374-U126	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote in favour of the first reading of the draft law on public procurement! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 87, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The draft law at first reading has been supported. Please set a deadline for the submission of the proposals for second reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-09-15-PT12-374-U127	Let us wait until September 29.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-09-15-PT12-374-U128	Thank you. Proposals shall be submitted by 29 September of this year. On the agenda - draft law on aircraft passenger data processing, first reading. On behalf of the Commission for Defence, Home Affairs and Anti-Corruption - Member Kārlis Sergeant.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-09-15-PT12-374-U129	Good morning, colleagues! I propose the draft law on aircraft passenger data processing. The terrorist attacks in the world over the last 15 years have demonstrated the relevance of the terrorist threat and countries have a duty to pursue a targeted, mutually coordinated and unified counter-terrorism policy. At present, one of the most important additional risk factors for the security of the Member States of the European Union remains the activity of foreign terrorist fighters, namely Syria or North Africa, which constitutes a threat. This law provides for the establishment of a Passenger Name Record, which will be directly able to prevent it, will be able to contribute to the fight against international terrorism, as well as against international organised crime, which uses transport to carry out different criminal activities. As early as 9 September 2012, the European Commission adopted a decision granting funding under the European Community Programme "Prevention of and Fight against Crime" to facilitate the establishment of Passenger Information Units in the Member States of the European Union and in December 2012 launched a call for projects in which Member States were able to submit project applications with a view to facilitating the functioning of law enforcement authorities. The Information Centre of the Ministry of the Interior also participated in this competition and received appropriate funding. On 2 January 2014 the implementation of the project “Establishing a Passenger Name Record System in Latvia” co-financed by the European Commission has started. The draft law was developed within the framework of that project and is based on the draft directive of the European Parliament and of the Council on the use of the Passenger Name Record for the prevention, detection, investigation and prosecution of terrorist offences and serious crimes, which was approved by the European Parliament on 14 April 2016. What does this draft law provide? The draft law provides for the processing of passenger data for analysis of serious and particularly serious crimes. The legal reception of passenger data will allow law enforcement authorities to identify persons who have not previously been identified, i.e. those who have not previously been suspected but for whom the selection of passenger data according to the selected data selection elements and the resulting outcome from the aircraft passenger data record could indicate that they may be involved in such offences. Consequently, the draft law will oblige air carriers to send data to the aircraft passenger register. The Security Police will be the manager of the aircraft passenger register, and the Information Centre of the Ministry of the Interior will be the holder of the register, thus guaranteeing high standards of personal data protection. Provision is also made for anonymisation of these data and pre-control by the prosecutor, requiring their receipt. I would add that various types of information systems have already been in place in more than 60 countries to obtain data on passengers. Passenger record systems are already in place in the UK, France, Denmark, Belgium, Sweden, Finland, the Netherlands, Estonia and Lithuania. I would add, of course, that it will impose certain obligations on both passengers and airlines. Maybe you'll have to spend more time on check-in flights. The discipline may be greater with expenditure paid mainly by the country, but, of course, that such a system is necessary for our security, so please support the draft law at first reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-09-15-PT12-374-U130	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote for support for the first reading of the draft law on aircraft passenger data processing! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 83, for - 1, for - 1. The draft law at first reading has been supported. Please set a deadline for the submission of the proposals for second reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-09-15-PT12-374-U131	Deadline for the submission of proposals for second reading - 26 September.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-09-15-PT12-374-U132	Thank you. Proposals shall be submitted by 26 September of this year. The next item is "Review of draft decisions". On the agenda - draft decision “On the consent of the Saeima to reallocation of appropriations established in the Law “On the State Budget for 2016”. On behalf of the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission, Member Imants Debtor.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-09-15-PT12-374-U133	Hello, colleagues! We are looking at the draft decision “On the consent of the Saeima to the reallocation of the appropriations established in the Law “On the State Budget for 2016”. It is planned to re-allocate EUR 132 964 from the sub-programme ‘Projects under the Instrument for the auctioning of emission allowances’ to ‘grant to private learning institutions’. I would remind you that the state has completed a three-year programme of support for families with children, but in those municipalities where there are queues of problems in pre-school institutions, with the aim of putting things into order for children of pre-school age and access to education during this period, the state has invested more than EUR 20 million in this support programme. And in 2015... In these five months to complete the school year... So, in total, EUR 3 million 279 918. I would remind you that, in the budgetary process, we initially allocated 2.3 million to these needs, and then there was an appropriation of 780,000. And now that the programme has come to an end, it is clear that this amount of EUR 132 964 is needed to cover these costs in full. In order to clarify how these additional expenditures are made, I will list a few figures. In January, the number of children in private preprimary schools was 7995, in May - 9007. The increase is therefore 1012 children. Child care or childcare service. The number of children in January was 1797, in May - 2233. The increase is obvious. It is to be hoped that the regulatory obligation for local governments to solve this problem at the root, so that parents have to entrust their child while they are going back to work is - as far as possible there is! - All right. And a number of further amendments to the legislation are working to make things even better. But now, on behalf of the Commission, I am calling for this reallocation to be supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-09-15-PT12-374-U134	Thank you. Let us start a debate. Name to Member Alexander Kirštein.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-09-15-PT12-374-U135	Dear President, Honourable Members! As the previous speaker said, we are actually completing a very excellent programme of tens of millions. In the budget and financial (tax) commission, when deciding on this last distribution of money, I asked, as a relatively cheap person, how many pre-school institutions are active in the state language and how many (per cent) institutions are active in foreign languages, and, of course, representatives of the Ministry of Education and Science were extremely confused and said that they did not have such data. That is, the question was very simple. How much does the state finance the training of children in foreign languages? The representatives of the Ministry of Education and Science were unable to respond and promised us a reply in a week's time in the Commission. Now I got this answer from the Ministry of Education and Science. Remember, the question was: How many kindergartens are studying or doing in foreign languages? The answer is this: we give you the breakdown of pupils by language of instruction, including evening, change, and non-public institutions of general education. Not for kindergartens... There's no reason it's written that minorities... In Russian and Polish, 27.66 percent study, which means that Russian and Polish schools or kindergartens are the same, or there is half a half. But we didn't get an answer for kindergartens. Thus, I had an idea to find out what Kārlis Šadurskis, a classical of Latvian ideas on these issues, says. And, you know, I found a very accurate answer that I want to quote from you. Karlis Šadurskis said that it is not possible to finance a two-language luxury education system in any of Europe's prosperous countries. The Latvianisation of education will make it possible to bring teachers' salaries closer to the average level in Europe, with a coefficient of 1.2-1.3 of the average wage in the public sector. In Latvian circumstances, today they would be about 1000 euros or 700 lats. I think none of us in the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission would object... Today we do not have this EUR 1000 for teachers. Mr Šadurskis said that the transition to state-funded education in Latvian must be done gradually - from 2015 in all schools in the state only in Latvian, and from 2016 in Latvian from 1st and 2nd onwards, it successively makes a complete transition to the Latvian-language learning process; it is important that children of five-year-olds and six-year-olds are trained in order to be able to start school in Latvian without effort. It is time to continue the Latvianisation of the educational process. The only disaster is that the Minister of Education and Science, Kārlis Šadurskis, said this in 2013. Now it's 2016. I am, of course, calling for this time, since this programme is being concluded, to support this reallocation of appropriations, but I hope that the education reform next year will already be completed, the Minister of Education and Science, Kārlis Šadurskis, will keep his name and we will be able, under other circumstances, to share this money with those schools that really demand and teach children in the language of the country. Thank you for your attention. I call for support.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-09-15-PT12-374-U136	Thank you. I call for a debate on the subject. The name of the Member, New York.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-09-15-PT12-374-U137	Hello, colleagues! I am, of course, surprised that the question of appropriations for kindergartens is turning into a question of where children are studying. Because this is really about parents who both work and pay taxes having a place to leave their child from the age of one and a half until the start of primary education. There is no question here about whether they are Polish, Russian, Latvian or any other kindergartens. It is a question of people having a place to leave their children. Consequently, I call for an end to all kinds of speculation on this subject and for support for appropriations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-09-15-PT12-374-U138	Name to Member Alexander Kirštein, for the second time. But I really call for you to talk about the draft decision on the Saeima's agenda.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-09-15-PT12-374-U139	Yeah. One sentence. If we give money and speak here, then let us follow the convention that we have ratified here. This is the Framework Convention on the Protection of National Minorities, Article 14(3) of which states clearly and precisely. All that is in this Convention is addressed "without prejudice to the acquisition of official language or to the acquisition of education in that language". Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-09-15-PT12-374-U140	I closed the debate. On behalf of the Commission, I ask the rapporteur to clarify once again the substance of the question.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-09-15-PT12-374-U141	Everything has been said. Redeal money into a closed programme. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. S.Absolute intermediate call sign.) On behalf of the Commission, I call on you to vote in favour of this draft decision.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-09-15-PT12-374-U142	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote for the draft decision “On the consent of the Saeima to reallocation of the appropriations established in the Law “On the State Budget for 2016””! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 87, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The decision has been taken. The next item is "Harmonisation of own proposals". On the agenda - draft decision “On further progress of 10 480 Latvian citizens’ collective application “Latvian land for Latvian citizens””. Member Vitaly Orlov on behalf of the Commission for Mandates, Ethics and Applications.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-09-15-PT12-374-U143	Thank you, Presidium. Honourable Members! On April 18th, 2016 the Saeima received a collective application from 10 480 Latvian citizens “Latvian land for Latvian citizens”. On May 5, 2016, the Commission for Mandates, Ethics and Applications of the Saeima heard a representative of the applicants of the said document, who justified two suggestions made in the application. The first is to maintain Latvia's agricultural and forest land in the ownership of Latvian citizens and to put an end to its sale to foreigners and international investment funds. The second is to announce a popular vote in order to establish that in Latvia agricultural and forestry land can only belong to Latvian citizens or businessmen who are Latvian citizens. On 18 May 2016, the Commission held its first initial evaluation meeting, to which an authorised representative of the applicants was invited. He reported that the time for the end of the transitional period until which Latvia could ban the sale of land to foreigners had been extended twice: for the first time - when the European Union entered the European Union, for the second time - until spring of 2014. For more than a year, various working groups have been working and discussions have been held on possible amendments to the law on the privatisation of land in rural areas. At the time, when discussing restrictions, it was recognised that the Treaty of Accession to the European Union precludes the restriction of the land market. In order to resolve this issue, it must be put forward at European level. If Latvia simply adopts a law that land can only belong to Latvian citizens, then the European Union will initiate infringement proceedings. The only legal way is through legislation to ask for a revision of the Treaty of Accession to the European Union. Latvia has already adopted several amendments to the law on the privatisation of land in rural areas, which restrict free trade of agricultural land. For example, the purchase of land requires appropriate education or experience in agriculture. The collective submission is of the opinion that this is discrimination and should not be allowed. In other European Union countries, this issue has also been addressed at different levels, from farmers' organisations to parliaments. For example, in Hungary, Romania, Bulgaria various laws were prepared, but wherever restrictions were developed, they were contrary to European Union regulation. In Lithuania, in the summer of 2014, 80 percent of its members voted against the sale of land to foreigners, but the vote was not valid, because there was no quorum. The rules vary from one EU country to another. For example, investment funds can buy land in Germany. But the British government is being accused by agricultural organizations of the free purchase of land. The representative of the applicants expressed a strong position and pointed out that the problem is not only in Latvia, therefore it is necessary to talk about it. The basic idea is current: the legitimate path must be taken: the government must give its mandate to the people and hold a popular vote, as well as start negotiations at European Union level. The Commission continued its assessment of the application on 20 July 2016. Representatives of the Ministry of Agriculture, the Ministry of Economics, the Association “Agricultural Saeima” and the Council of Cooperation of Agricultural Organisations took part in the meeting and expressed their views. The Ministry of Agriculture reported that in 2014 it submitted amendments to the law regarding criteria to be set for potential buyers of land. However, the European Commission has proposed an infringement procedure against Latvia because it is dissatisfied with these criteria. As regards the possibility to ensure that only Latvian citizens can buy land, the Ministry reminds that Latvia has joined the Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development, committing not to create obstacles to the free movement of capital. The farmer family provided information that about 15 percent of Latvia's land belongs to foreigners. There are separate regions where 30 per cent of the total area of the municipality belongs to foreign funds. It considers that it is necessary to establish strict criteria for the acquisition of land. The State should not worry about the infringement procedure, as its proposal is a duty of the European Commission. The Ministry of Economy took the view that a proposal such as that mentioned in the collective submission did not meet the requirements of the European Union. The Ministry believes that other, alternative, means should be sought that are in line with the European Union's position. In addition, further aid solutions should be sought or legislative amendments should be considered that would set requirements rather than limits. The Cooperation Council of Agricultural Organisations informed that all farmers in the European Union are fighting for the land to remain their property. The Council took the view that holding a referendum is a waste of time and money. Consequently, on 3 August 2016, the Commission unanimously supported the draft decision “On further progress of the 10 480 Latvian citizens’ collective application “The Land of Latvia for Latvian Citizens””. Please support the prepared draft decision.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-09-15-PT12-374-U144	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote for the draft decision “On the way forward of the 10 480 Latvian citizens’ collective application “Latvian land for Latvian citizens””! Please vote mode! Please get the result! It's not about - 85, it's against and abstains. Decision adopted. On the agenda - draft decision “On the way forward of the 10,237 Latvian citizens’ collective application “To make cancer treatable disease””. Member Vitaly Orlov on behalf of the Commission for Mandates, Ethics and Applications.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-09-15-PT12-374-U145	Dear the Bureau and honourable Members. On 27 May 2016, the Saeima received a collective application from 10,237 Latvian citizens “To make cancer a treatable disease”. On 29 June 2016, the Commission for Mandates, Ethics and Applications of the Saeima heard a representative of the applicants, who justified the proposal made in the application to provide sufficient funding for the oncology sector in the state budget and stressed that the situation in this sector in Latvia is dramatic. In 2014, the number of oncological patients oncology increased by 49 percent compared to 2002. On January 1, 2015, the number of cancer patients in Latvia had reached almost 80 thousand. Modernisation of this area is necessary because, as has been mentioned, cancer treatment options in Latvia have dropped significantly and there are no innovative methods and medicines available in Western Europe. A specific programme is needed in the oncology sector. The Ministry of Health must develop this and the government must ensure appropriate funding of the state budget. In its meeting of 3 August 2016, the Commission of Mandates, Ethics and Applications, based on the opinion of the Public Health Sub-Commission of the Social and Labour Affairs Commission, the Ministry of Health and representatives of the society supporting oncological patients, supported the prepared draft decision “On the further progress of the Latvian citizens’ collective application “To treat cancer”” and decided to instruct the Ministry of Health to develop oncological diseases diagnostic and treatment programme by 1 December of this year, as well as to provide the necessary funds for the implementation of the programme in the state budget 2016. Please support the prepared draft decision.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-09-15-PT12-374-U146	Thank you. Let us start a debate. The name to Member Romuald Harvest.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-09-15-PT12-374-U147	Dear Chairman of the Saeima. Colleagues! Every year 10,000 people of Latvia become ill with oncological diseases, six thousand leave the world. At this moment there are 74 thousand people with oncological diseases in Latvia. This is a number similar to the number of Liepaja residents, it is huge! It can affect...
ParlaMint-LV_2016-09-15-PT12-374-U148	Just a minute! Colleagues, I call for the negotiations to be interrupted. Respect the speaker in the troupe!
ParlaMint-LV_2016-09-15-PT12-374-U149	... may affect any of us and any of our loved ones. Unfortunately, the situation in this area is dramatic! The treatment of cardiovascular diseases in Latvia is more or less arranged, clear, and as a result of the recent achievements of scientific and medical practice, the wide implementation of invasive cardiology has achieved really good results, whereas oncological patients are treated without such a system, there is no clarity. When you become ill or suspect that you are ill, you remain one of your fears, of your disbelief that you will be helped properly, and of your depression. As a result, society, in understanding this, is beginning to revolt slowly, and oncology societies, which pointed out this problem, came to the Saeima at the beginning of the year, and, at the suggestion of Irina Januma, the chairman of the association for the support of breast cancer, we - the 27 members of this parliament - have set up a group for the support of oncology patients. The oncology was declared a priority under the leadership of Minister Anda Chakša with a strong discussion with the Ministry of Health (which failed in the course of the previous Minister). We came to the conclusion that this Tuesday, at the sub-committee on Public Health, the Ministry confirmed that yes - it would be ready to develop and reform such a programme in the field of investigation and treatment of oncological patients by actually realising the so-called green corridor: within 10 days a person suspected of having an oncological disease would be investigated without being sent to specialists, without standing in queues, simply by sending a family doctor, and then followed by further treatment if a diagnosis of an oncological disease was confirmed. I invite you to support this application from Latvian citizens. This coincides with our position and understanding of this problem, as Members, and it also coincides with the declared readiness of the Ministry of Health to develop such a programme. Moving this amount to oncology (in addition to 34 million, which is also provided for there), would, of course, move this problem from the point of death, would give our people hope that the treatment of oncological diseases will not really be an end in itself, a tragedy, hope for an extension of life and an improvement in its quality.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-09-15-PT12-374-U150	Thank you. I closed the debate. Does the rapporteur wish to add something on behalf of the Commission? I don't want to. Please call me! We will vote for the draft decision “On the way forward of the 10,237 Latvian citizens’ collective application “For cancer to be treatable”! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 88, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. Decision adopted. The next item is "Provision of draft legislation". On the agenda - draft law “Amendments to the Law on Remuneration of Officials and Employees of State and Municipal Institutions”, second reading. The draft law has been declared urgent. On behalf of the National Administration and Municipal Commission - Member Viktors Valainis.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-09-15-PT12-374-U151	Colleagues! We work with the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Remuneration of Officials and Employees of State and Municipal Institutions”. 12 proposals have been received. 1. - the Group's proposal. There is no support in the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-09-15-PT12-374-U152	Let us start a debate. Name to Member Sergey Dolgopolov.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-09-15-PT12-374-U153	The High Saeima! To be honest, the 1st motion tabled by the Group SAVES cannot be seen separately from the others, because there is a great difference in conceptual terms between what the Cabinet of Ministers has presented from what the Saeima should do in our view. What is it? Background. As you know, for many years we have been under the Law on Remuneration of Officials and Employees of State and Local Government Institutions. That law works badly. This was also noted by the social partners when speaking to the government. Naturally, this law should be reviewed, making this system flexible, attracting their work results, making this system fit for the modern requirements that exist all over the world, not only in Latvia. But it has happened that the situation in the State Revenue Service dictates a requirement to make quick, urgent decisions, and therefore the Cabinet of Ministers has announced a competition for the position, probably recording the old remuneration provided for in the above-mentioned remuneration law, but we obeyed it at the beginning, but then quite loud enough to say: “No, we will change it, and the Director-General of the State Revenue Service or the Director-General will receive much more detailed and more serious remuneration corresponding to the functions performed.” As a result, an appropriate draft law appeared, which was examined by both the Commission and Parliament. What is the difference between what the Cabinet offers and what the Group offers? First. The Cabinet of Ministers proposes to amend the text of the law, thus introducing into the common system a stone embedded exception that concerns SRS. It would be better, as well as the Cabinet of Ministers mentions, to instruct and allow the Cabinet to carry out a pilot project, on the basis of which the results could also amend the law itself, which is really necessary. This approach, it turns out, is too heavy for the Cabinet. It seems to me that, in general, pilot projects, especially in the remuneration system, should be a practice of all activities. We are experimenting with the salaries of educators, we are immediately willing to introduce a new model into the entire system, but people who feel and enjoy their system on their own do not yet understand the nature of that system. Here would be a pilot project, let's say, in one city school and in one rural school. The same applies to medical claims. Now the hands have not yet been made: and so was the one that appeared. The principle difference from what is offered by the Cabinet of Ministers is that with the help of transitional provisions, the Cabinet of Ministers is given a mandate to create this pilot project, to determine the SRS or any other institution which it chooses to take appropriate reform measures, and then to submit to the Saeima appropriate amendments to the Law on Remuneration of Officials and Employees of State and Local Government Institutions. It would be logical, it would be right, not to change the system from a legal point of view. And finally. By adopting amendments of this kind, as proposed by the Cabinet of Ministers, I would very much like you, my fellow Members, to be very aware that all responsibility for this action is transferred immediately from the Cabinet of Ministers to the legislator's shoulders, and that it would not be wrong to remember by voting - in support or not. I call for support to be given to this proposal 1 and also to the other proposals, which constitute a coherent and serious framework. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-09-15-PT12-374-U154	I closed the debate. Does the rapporteur wish to add something on behalf of the Commission?
ParlaMint-LV_2016-09-15-PT12-374-U155	In examining this proposal and the next proposals, the Commission decided, however, to follow the path proposed by the Cabinet. This proposal was therefore rejected. On behalf of the Commission, I call for no support.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-09-15-PT12-374-U156	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote in favour of 1. - the Group's proposal! Please vote mode! Please get the result! On - 36, against - 47, refraining from - 2. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-09-15-PT12-374-U157	2. - the proposal of the Group "From the Heart to Latvia". Not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-09-15-PT12-374-U158	Let us start a debate. Name of Member Inguna Silver.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-09-15-PT12-374-U159	Dear colleagues, I would like to remind you once again of the purpose of this law, namely the law on the uniform remuneration system in public and municipal institutions. The aim is to ensure that equivalent conditions are met in determining the remuneration of officials of these institutions. What is being done now? Are we really creating a level playing field in public administration with such amendments, with one institution being highlighted outside all other public administrations? How, for example, is a procurement specialist in the State Revenue Service, in the state administration system more important than procurement specialists in border guard, police, medical institution? I don't think so. And where else are the technical staff! If we compare how this salary affects any technical worker... What do we create with that? We are creating a precedent: we will also stand in the queue by other public administrations with the same motivation - that they are important too, that they also have difficulties filling up staff and that they also need some specific remuneration system. The second question. Is it really true that none of those who sit in the hall have ever experienced serious reforms in their professional work? It would then be easy to find an answer that the quality of work does not change at all only by increasing remuneration. I also know very well the specifics of the work of the State Revenue Service, respect these specialists. With this reform, the basic number of specialists will increase their salary by about 17...80 euros (I am not talking here about leading employees). But do you really understand... Is that so? If one of you has led an institution and carried out just one reform, then you understand what it means to change the working environment, change the quality of work. I understand that it starts with a clear vision, which is what we want to achieve, what will be the result we want to achieve, and that it is only then that we are reform. However, here the amendment proposed to Parliament is as follows: let us simply increase our pay, and then let us see the quality of the other work at once. Once again, I draw your attention to the fact that, above all, such hysterical amendments to the law do not reveal serious work of the legislator. This shows once again that it is subject to the same hysterical functioning of the executive. I call for the creation of such exceptions and precedents in legislation not to be supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-09-15-PT12-374-U160	Thank you. I closed the debate. Does the rapporteur not want to add anything on behalf of the Commission? Please call me! We will vote in favour of 2. - the proposal submitted by the Group "From the Heart to Latvia"! Please vote mode! Please get the result! On - 35, against - 47, refraining from - 1. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-09-15-PT12-374-U161	The next proposal is the proposal from the Group on the Heart for Latvia. Not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-09-15-PT12-374-U162	Let us start a debate. Name of Member Inguna Silver.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-09-15-PT12-374-U163	Well, it is a pity that you, Mr Valaiņš, did not do what you promised at the committee meeting - to say how good this proposal is and that you will continue to move this proposal forward by working on amendments to the law. Well then I say this is a good proposal. This was acknowledged by the committee at its meeting today. But the difficulty was that time was not enough for the proposal to be incorporated into the version drawn up by the Commission. What is the nature of the proposal? The nature of the proposal is as follows: by creating this new exception that the coefficient of 2 increases the salaries of special employees, the Group of the Heart for Latvia wants the society to know... to the public... in order for each institution to make public on the Internet information on these posts - write the reasons why the post in question has been chosen as a specific post in the institution concerned and make logical reference to this fixed remuneration as well. Today, each institution must make its wages public. So there's a name and a salary there, but there's no reason why it's about a post and why this post is special. It was very specific to us that the Commission could not devote a few minutes to incorporating this proposal as a good proposal, as has been acknowledged, into legislation. Now you have to wait some time. There will once again be a new draft law, which hopefully will incorporate this proposal. Why such a lad? Why is that indifference to society and to those who work in public administration? I am asking for support for the proposal of the Group from the heart to Latvia. Let us make the information public!
ParlaMint-LV_2016-09-15-PT12-374-U164	Thank you. I closed the debate. Will the rapporteur add a note on behalf of the Commission?
ParlaMint-LV_2016-09-15-PT12-374-U165	The Commission has examined this proposal. It was... Let's say that, partly good. The first part was not really to be supported, but the second part was to be supported, and that could then be led by the commission in another such draft law, which is also in the commission responsible. On behalf of the Commission, I call for no support.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-09-15-PT12-374-U166	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote in favour of 3. - the proposal submitted by the Group "From the Heart to Latvia"! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 8, for - 51, for - 24. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-09-15-PT12-374-U167	Next, Mr Valaiņa's proposal. The Commission is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-09-15-PT12-374-U168	Let us start a debate. Name of Member Inguna Silver. So a technical mistake. Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-09-15-PT12-374-U169	5. - the Group's proposal. There is no support in the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-09-15-PT12-374-U170	Let us start a debate. Name to Member Sergey Dolgopolov.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-09-15-PT12-374-U171	Listen carefully to this proposal. It is similar to what has been tried to incorporate into the law. The difference is only one place. It is a task to carry out a pilot project not only with regard to the State Revenue Service, but also to allow it with regard to other posts in state and municipal institutions. This is the right step in the right direction for reform, but the only solution is another one. Because here it is embedded in the law itself, not so that it is then compiled and best practice developed as a rule of law. There's a big difference here. Because we immediately offer a finished product that has the force of the law. I therefore call for support for the proposal, which is much more flexible and gives the Cabinet an appropriate margin of discretion.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-09-15-PT12-374-U172	Thank you. I closed the debate. Is the rapporteur... So the rapporteur does not want to add anything. Please call me! We will vote in favour of 5. - the Group's proposal! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 22, for - 55, for - 9. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-09-15-PT12-374-U173	6. - the proposal of the Group "From the Heart to Latvia". Not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-09-15-PT12-374-U174	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-09-15-PT12-374-U175	7. - The proposal from the Legal Bureau of the Saeima. The Commission was supported and was justified by the fact that such a rule in the draft law was not necessary, i.e. that there would be no additional funding from the budget. This is self-evident, and such a norm is not necessary in the draft law.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-09-15-PT12-374-U176	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-09-15-PT12-374-U177	8 / 8 - the proposal of the Group "From the Heart to Latvia". Not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-09-15-PT12-374-U178	Let us start a debate. Name of Member Inguna Silver.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-09-15-PT12-374-U179	These amendments thus introduce a new rule that posts of particular interest within the institutions can be subject to higher salaries - up to a factor of 2. Our proposal is that it would be important for Parliament to receive a report from the Cabinet of Ministers by 1 September next year - how this norm has worked, how it has affected the turnover of staff, how it has improved the quality of work, and so on. In our view, it is quite normal practice that the legislator, when giving some tasks to the executive, also follows the implementation of the executive rules. If the requirement for implementation of the norm was that it was necessary for the public administration to be able to work in a better quality, to be able to complete itself with qualitative frames, then it would be quite normal that the executive not only is able to inform the legislator about how this norm works. I therefore ask for such a completely logical, normal legislative request to the executive to report on the outcome of its work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-09-15-PT12-374-U180	Thank you. I closed the debate. Does the rapporteur not want to add anything? Please call me! We will vote in favour of 8. - the proposal submitted by the Group "From the Heart to Latvia"! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For -8, for -47, for -27, for -27. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-09-15-PT12-374-U181	The next is the proposal from the Group on the Heart for Latvia. There is no support in the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-09-15-PT12-374-U182	Let us start a debate. Name of Member Inguna Silver.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-09-15-PT12-374-U183	Since the Group of the Heart of Latvia was in principle against creating such a hasty, hysterical exception rule, our proposal is that by the end of next year, the executive should submit to Parliament a new draft law, which would have set out its functions, results and also its remuneration. Consequently, the entire remuneration system in the public administration would normally be reviewed. But so that this work can be done, it cannot be done without a function of audit. If you have read the agreement that the Prime Minister has concluded with the Latvian Chamber of Commerce and Industry, the Employers' Confederation of Latvia, the Latvian Academy of Sciences and the Local Government Union, then you know that this agreement, which, as a big goal, provides for a large economic breakthrough, also provides for the establishment of a motivational remuneration, but a function audit should be carried out before that. In our opinion, once again, the Cabinet of Ministers has been given the task of preparing the report, evaluating all the functions that the state administration needs, then understanding what employees need and what funding is needed. Only in this way - based on such an assessment! - it is possible to draw up a quality remuneration law. Otherwise, any remuneration law will not again be based on either the functions to be performed or the result to be achieved. I call for support to be given to the proposal of the Group from the heart to Latvia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-09-15-PT12-374-U184	Thank you. I closed the debate. Does the rapporteur not want to add anything? Please call me! We will vote in favour of 9. - the proposal submitted by the Group "From the Heart to Latvia"! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 29, for - 50, for - 6. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-09-15-PT12-374-U185	Next, Mr Valaiņa's proposal. This is supported by the Commission. In essence, it provides that by 31 December 2017, the Cabinet of Ministers must submit to the Saeima a draft law on the improvement of the system of remuneration of officials and employees of state and municipal institutions.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-09-15-PT12-374-U186	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-09-15-PT12-374-U187	11. - the Group's proposal. Not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-09-15-PT12-374-U188	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-09-15-PT12-374-U189	And also 12. - the proposal of the Group "From the Heart to Latvia". Not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-09-15-PT12-374-U190	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-09-15-PT12-374-U191	All the proposals have been examined. I call on the Saeima to support the draft law at second, final, reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-09-15-PT12-374-U192	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote for the support of the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Compensation of Officials and Employees of State and Municipal Institutions” in the second, final, reading! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 60, against - 28, refrains - not. The law is passed. Dear colleagues, The agenda of the sitting has been examined. I would like to inform you about the question and the answer that we are going to have today. Regarding the question to Member Zarina, Agešina, Arthur Rubika, Tutina and Ribakova, the Minister for Economics, Arvilas Asheraden, about the Ministry of Economics' proposal to differentiate the OIC payment between different user groups, the written reply received by the applicants is not satisfied. The Minister informs that due to the visit of the Deputy Minister of Economics of Belarus to Latvia it is not possible to attend the oral response. Regarding Member Elksniņa, Adamson, Tretjaka, Zemlinska and Zuvėv, Minister of Defence Raimonds Bergmanis, the written reply received about the Latvian Army Mechanisation Project is not satisfied. The Minister informs that due to a previously planned visit to the Republic of Lithuania it is not possible to attend the oral response. Regarding Member Elksniņa, Agešina, Arthur Rubika, Tutina and Ribakova, Minister of Transport Uldis Augulis, the written reply received about the company “The service of rolling stock” is satisfied. Therefore, today's replies to Members' questions will not take place at 17.00. Members' questions have been received. Members Silver, Maya, Platoper, Symfa and Balodis have asked Members about the draft law on public procurement, which is submitted to the Minister of Finance Dana Reizniece-Ozola. Members Elksniņš, Agešin, Potapkin, Adamson and Urbanovich have asked Members about the mechanisation of the National Armed Forces, which we are submitting to Prime Minister Maris Kučinskis. Members Elksniņš, Adamsons, Tretjaka, Zujevs and Niconovs have submitted the question “On the mechanisation project of the Latvian army”, which we submit to the Minister of Defence Raimonds Bergmanis. Please call me! Please check-in mode for Members! Dear colleagues, Now is the time for very pleasant statements. Today our 61st anniversary is celebrated by our colleague, Aivars Maye, and this summer's 50th anniversary was celebrated by Ingmārs Līdaka. We warmly welcome them both. (Applause) Thank you. Name for reading the results of the registration to Gunārs Kūtris, member of the Saeima Secretary.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-09-15-PT12-374-U193	Dear colleagues, Currently not registered: Hosams Abu Meri, Solvita Āboltiņa, Boriss Cilevičs, Gundars Dauge, Inese Laizāne, Atis Lejiņš, Romanas Mežeckis, Igors Pimenovs, Jānis Trupovnieks and Jānis Vucāns.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-09-15-PT12-374-U194	Thank you. I'm closing the sitting.
