ParlaMint-LV_2016-10-27-PT12-382-U1	Good morning, honourable Members! I invite you to take seats in Saeima's meeting room. Let's start the meeting of the Saeima on October 27th. Before examining the agenda adopted by the Saeima Bureau, the amendments tabled should be considered. The Budget and Finance (Tax) Commission requests that the draft decision ‘On the appointment of Gunta Razāne as Vice-President of the Financial and Capital Market Commission’ be placed on the agenda of the sitting. ‘ Against” applied to speak Mārtiņš Bondars.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-10-27-PT12-382-U2	Madam President, Dear colleagues and respected colleagues! I ask you to postpone the examination of this matter until the Ministry of Foreign Affairs has sent the results of a service inquiry into the eligibility of Gunta Razāne for this post, given that there has been an illegal activity involving Mrs Razāne directly or indirectly. However, this position requires a perfect reputation. After assessing Mrs Razane's candidacy, neither the Head of the Bank of Latvia nor the Minister of Finance had access to information about these events, namely illegal handling of public funds, and so we would need to make a balanced and information-based decision, and in fact we could do so if the Ministry of Foreign Affairs sent us a service report, and then we would be absolutely clear about what has happened. Thank you, colleagues. I call for a 'no' vote!
ParlaMint-LV_2016-10-27-PT12-382-U3	Edgars Putra, a Member, has applied for the floor.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-10-27-PT12-382-U4	Good morning, colleagues! Mr Bondara, once again we mix potatoes with sweets. We are voting for today... The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. M.Bondars: “You are voting!” ) We are today voting in favour of the approval of Gunta Razāne as Deputy Head of the Financial and Capital Market Commission and not in favour of the approval of Andra Razāns. I therefore call for support for the inclusion of this paragraph on the agenda.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-10-27-PT12-382-U5	Thank you. One Member has spoken against, one for. We have to vote. Please call me! We will vote for the draft decision on the appointment of Gunta Razāne as Vice-President of the Financial and Capital Markets Commission to be on the agenda for the sitting! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 76, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Consequently, the agenda of the sitting has been amended and the draft decision has been included on the agenda of the sitting. Members Kaimiņš, Bondars, Ruks, Šics, Elksniņš, Urbanovičs and others are asking to include in the agenda the draft decision “On the impact of the parliamentary investigation commission on corruption, lobbying, organised crime and smuggling on tax collection and the investigation of economic and financial crimes, as well as on the assessment of personal responsibility of officials of the Ministry of the Interior, the Ministry of Justice, and other state institutions in respect of public interests and principles of good governance”. ‘ Regarding” please speak to Member Artuss Kaimiņš.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-10-27-PT12-382-U6	Good morning. I would like to thank all 15 Members who signed this draft decision. Thank you all. I think it would be a lot more people to sign, but it had to be done quickly. And 15 people have signed up. Thank you again. This issue, honourable colleagues, is about fairness. And I ask you all to support the progress of this draft decision on the agenda of today's sitting, because I know that the FAO is a free vote and that the National Union also has a free vote. What is the vote for the Solvita Party, I do not know. But there's something to talk about. And the first thing to talk about is that this parliamentary committee of inquiry has not done its job. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. V.Spolitis displays the final report: “Artus! Artus!” ( ) What are we doing if a person has not done his work? We look at his, so to say, pay for this job. The person who has led this commission has said in the media that he bears political responsibility. And now, my friends and colleagues, there is the question: what is political responsibility? Is it political responsibility to say, "Yes, I take political responsibility and continue to sit where I sit!" And yelling at me? The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. V.Spolitis displays the final report.) I don't think so. Is it a political responsibility in the decision-making power of Latvia? If one of the hundreds of elected members (but probably not, with a soft mandate, however) says so, it is obviously the introduction of a mandate, but we can only ask and encourage here. What I ask of you, what I urge you, what the other 14 signatories are doing - we ask for an opportunity for those Members who were involved, namely the Commission President and the Secretary, to repay this money in the public budget, which is EUR 14 500. We ask for political responsibility, and let him now interpret how he understands it. Colleagues, please support the progress of this draft decision on the agenda of today's sitting so that we can continue to debate this matter, because there are people here who have something to say. And also Article 13 of the Parliamentary Commissions of Inquiry Law determines what Mr President has not done. The content of this final report is below every criticism. It has not been signed for nothing. The Secretary has not even signed! And the other two members of the Commission - Mr Baloža and Mr Dombrava - have not signed, because they are, I think, ashamed of signing such a poor quality material. Thank you, colleagues. Please support me.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-10-27-PT12-382-U7	Do Members object to the inclusion of the draft decision on the agenda of the sitting? ( The box “Yes! ”) ; “No!” ) Are there any objections? There is therefore no objection and the draft decision is on the agenda of the sitting. The next item is the Bureau's reports on draft laws submitted. The Council of the Saeima proposes that the draft law on procurement of public service providers presented by the Cabinet of Ministers be referred to the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy, stating that it is the committee responsible. Do Members object to a draft law being passed on to the Commission? There is no objection. The draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Saeima Presidium proposes that the draft law “Law on European Political Parties and European Political Funds” presented by the Cabinet of Ministers be referred to the Legal Commission, as well as the Commission of State Administration and Local Government, establishing that it is the committee responsible. Do Members object to the referral of the draft law to the commissions? There is no objection. The draft law has been passed on to the commissions. The Saeima Presidium proposes that the draft law “Amendment to the Law of the State Border of the Republic of Latvia” presented by the Cabinet of Ministers be referred to the Commission for Defence, Home Affairs and Prevention of Corruption, stating that it is the committee responsible. Do Members object to a draft law being passed on to the Commission? There is no objection. The draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The next item is "On own-initiative proposals tabled". Consequently, the report of the Saeima Bureau on the own-initiative proposal submitted. Members Kaimiņš, Bondars, Ruks, Šics, Elksniņš, Urbanovičs, Symfa, Tretjak, Kūtris, Adamsons, Zujevs, Raimonds Rubiks, Bite, Silver and Jakimovs have submitted a draft decision “On the impact of the Parliamentary Investigation Commission on the collection of corruption, lobbying, organised crime and smuggling of taxes and on the investigation of economic and financial crimes, as well as on the assessment of the personal liability of officials of the Interior, the Ministry of Justice, the Ministry of Finance and other public institutions in respect of the principles of public interest and good governance”. Are Members opposed to putting this own-initiative proposal on the agenda for this sitting? ( From the medicine, ‘ Yes! ’ ) Consequently, Members have reservations. We must therefore decide to put this own-initiative proposal on the agenda for the next sitting. Does Mrs Straujuma want to speak? ( From the drug: “No! Accidentally!” ) Accidentally... Does Mr. Neighbour want to talk? Are you going to discuss the inclusion of the 'yes' or 'no' on the agenda for the next sitting?
ParlaMint-LV_2016-10-27-PT12-382-U8	Okay. Good afternoon!
ParlaMint-LV_2016-10-27-PT12-382-U9	Please, Mr. Neighbours, will you talk about the inclusion of "or "no" in the next current... Is that so?
ParlaMint-LV_2016-10-27-PT12-382-U10	I will say 'no'. I mean, 'no'. I am already talking about it.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-10-27-PT12-382-U11	Mr. Neighbours will speak against. Please! ‘ Against” applied to speak Member Artus Kaimiņš.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-10-27-PT12-382-U12	Yes, I think now that the only way that Unity can do right now is to play your favorite game football.lv. Well, you’ll now “fake” this event on the next extraordinary sitting that is on Monday? And then what will you do? Yeah, yeah, with this book, we can live... Yeah, by 6 p.m. you read that book, then it's no longer valid, Solvita. Dear colleagues, The procedure provides: if you do not support it at the moment and if there are objections - and there are objections - and there is no more to do there - then there is an extraordinary sitting, in an extraordinary sitting we will consider... Guess what will happen in an emergency sitting? ( Milestones.) There won't be... There will be reservations again. After that... the procedure provides for a subsequent referral to the panel. Which commission? That's what we can figure out now. Maybe you can hand it over to the Sports Commission, Solvita? ( Merry laughter.) Maybe yes. Maybe Solvita can use a red book... Tell me which commission will then come up with this question about your group member who, in my opinion, is a two-member king and is not... The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. V.Spolišs intermediates, he shows the final report.) What do you show me those papers you don't sign?Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, You're not ashamed?Oh, no, no, no, no, no, You're not ashamed?Oh, no, no, no, no, no,
ParlaMint-LV_2016-10-27-PT12-382-U13	Mr. Neighbours, I am calling you not to talk to the grass, but to continue.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-10-27-PT12-382-U14	I'm not talking to him, I'm just saying my opinion. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. V.Spolitis: “On the hospital, Artus! To the hospital!’ ) Yes, as far as hospitals are concerned, I think that this issue will also be discussed in the Committee on Mandates, Ethics and Application. Dear colleagues, I do not know which commission we will see this question afterwards. It will be either Orlov's commission - the commission of mandates, ethics and applications - or... I don't know... or really the Sports Sub-Commission... What is the degree of nihilism? In any case, I know that you are ashamed of your group member. You are ashamed that he has not done so. But you don’t already have options: you have to stand as a football “sow”: “Now we’ll watch out for what’s going on!” Watch out! How long will you protect him? Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-10-27-PT12-382-U15	Please call me! We will vote for the draft decision of the Saeima “On the inclusion of the Parliamentary Investigation Commission on the Impact of Corruption, Lobbying, Organised Crime and Smuggling on Tax Collection and the Investigation of Economic and Financial Crimes as well as the Evaluation of Personal Responsibility of Officials of the Interior, the Ministry of Justice, the Ministry of Finance and other state institutions in Respect of the Principles of Public Interest and Good Governance” on the agenda of the Saeima's next regular meeting! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The draft decision is therefore on the agenda of the next sitting of the Saeima, i.e. 3 November. The next item on the agenda - Election, approval, appointment, dismissal or dismissal of officials, expression of trust or distrust. On the agenda - draft decision on distrust for the Minister of Education and Science Kārlis Šadurskis. Mr. Elksnins, will you speak on behalf of the applicants? So on behalf of the applicants. The name of the Member, Andrejs Elksniņš.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-10-27-PT12-382-U16	Highly honored Speaker of the Saeima! Dear colleagues, The majority of the Saeima has literally recently confirmed the declaration of the government led by Maris Kučinskis. The Union of Greens/Farmers, Unity and National Association have agreed to establish a government that will be based on targeted reforms discussed with social and cooperation partners, increasing the return of valuable human and Latvian resources to the economy and achieving a higher quality of public life. The priorities for government work defined by the coalition are: reforms in education and science, state security and national identity, quality of family life and social security. Dialogue with society plays an important role in the implementation of government works, emphasising the significant role and participation of every Latvian citizen in the development of the country. Reforms bring change and a new reality, so society must be involved in their implementation and be made aware of the benefits. Those honourable colleagues are quotes from the government declaration by Māra Kučinska. The statement of the government led by Kučinskis states: agree on a long-term solution for pre-school teachers financing. Minister of Education and Science of Kučinskis-led government, Shadurski, has failed to fulfil this commitment. Initially, there were promises for kindergarten teachers who work with children under five years of age and who are paid by municipalities that the reform of teachers' salaries will apply equally to all educators, but later there were derogations that pre-school educators should still be provided with a wage increase for municipalities. This violates the right to fair remuneration and does not imply good governance. This has been recognised by the Ombudsman. By shifting the burden of responsibility to municipalities, it is imperative to increase the salaries from the current 420 euros per 30-hour load to 560 euros per 40-hour load without any additional public funding... In essence, the lack of funding led municipalities throughout Latvia to increase their salaries to a minimum, and to do so at the expense of reducing the rates of teachers. The approach of the Minister for Education and Science to increase the burden on kindergarten teachers by reducing the salary for one hour of work for the people who take care of the most important - our children - does not encourage and is not in line with the government declaration's commitment to improving people's quality of life. Dear colleagues, Declaration by the government led by Maris Kučinskis promises targeted reforms discussed with social partners. The Minister of Education and Science, Shadurski, by introducing a new model of remuneration, ignores the OECD's criticism of unacceptable differences in the remuneration of teachers who perform the same work. Discriminate between cities by establishing a different ratio of the normal number of pupils to one monthly rate of education. The EUR 9 million earmarked for teachers' pay remains undistributed at 1.7 million, and the Ministry of Education and Science initially tried to channel these funds to other functions than teachers' salaries. Money was simply stolen to pay the educator! The Ministry of Education and Science operates on the principle of branch disruption. In addition to negotiations with the social partners, attempts have been made to secretly direct important decisions relating to the education sector (e.g. amendments to the General Education Law on National Gymnasium and the takeover of special educational institutions from local governments, first class training for six-year-old children and others). The EUR 9 million left over from teachers' salaries is EUR 1.7 million. In 219 schools, salaries grew only 72 percent, while teachers received fewer jobs. Moreover, not all schools with an average increase in salaries received higher salaries for each teacher. Rural schools are currently facing an even worse situation than they were before. Especially in schools where the number of pupils is below a hundred, wages are decreasing while rates or loads are falling. In the past, there was one teacher against eight students, now one against 10. As a result of the reform, 1632 educators in Riga receive lower salaries from 1 September (86 per cent of cases are reduced educators’ workload; 27 per cent of cases are reduced educators’ pay for a rate of 30 hours; 56 per cent of cases are related to a reduction in the educators’ work quality allowance). Teachers learn the true amount of remuneration only a month after the reform! Results of the reform in Daugavpils city. The reform is not based on wage increases, but on changes in the wage calculation system. Wages fall by 22 percent of the city's educators, 14 percent... The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. E.Smilten’s intermediate shoutings: “Evil!... “) Wages are declining by 22 percent of the city’s teachers, 14 percent of wages remain constant, the remaining 59 percent are rising, and at the expense of increased load. Daugavpils State Gymnasium. minus one teacher, minus 37.06 euros (average salary). Daugavpils Unit Primary School. minus EUR 12.21 (average salary). Daugavpils City Municipality... In return, the Unity Group... Congratulations to you on this! the novads of Ikšķiles, Tyneu's primary school. Teachers have at least 30 percent lower salaries. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. E.Smilten: “How many teachers?” ) Imagine that teachers come to work practically for the minimum wage! Tell the teacher Medne. In order to prevent the dramatic reduction of wages, an extraordinary meeting of the Council was convened in the morning. Members decided to increase funding for teachers from the municipal budget; this would help to avoid wage cuts. If the dome could not afford it, the Tynezi primary school would have to be closed. the novads of Cesvaines. Cesvaine boarding school. minus six educators. the novads of Dundagas. Mazirbe boarding school. My two educators. Appendix - 0.69 cents. the novads of Rēzeknes. Tiskadi special boarding school. We're nine educators. Salaspils 1st Middle School. On average, the cost is falling by EUR 89. Dagda. Aleksandrov boarding school. minus EUR 49.88. The Gymnasium of Ludza City. minus one teacher, minus EUR 9.79. Talsu State Gymnasium. minus EUR 40.07. The Pļaviņas Municipality Gymnasium. minus nine lecturers. State Gymnasium of Jānis Eglitis Preiļis. minus one teacher plus 5.3 euro - increase in average cost. Ernst Glik Alūksne State Gymnasium. minus four teachers, minus 34.37 euros - average salary for teachers. Kārlis Šadurskis announced the Latvian Radio on 1 September: “No teacher’s salary should decrease after the introduction of a new model for teachers’ remuneration.” These are the names of the Minister of Education and Science! ‘ For beneficiaries of higher wages, the increase in pay will be lower." But he knew that the greatest salaries of educators would fall! The Ministry of Education and Science also knew clearly that rural municipalities would not close schools with only 20 students. The number of hours involved in the load and the ratio of the normal number of pupils depending on the population density - this is a nightmare that an official has dreamed of! But the problem of bringing children from rural areas to schools in the city has actually been neglected. At the same time, the Minister of Education and Science does not conceal the reduction in budget funding for boarding schools. This will lead to their closure in the coming years. The result of the education reform: 440 educators were released from work in Latvia in general. 108 educators have expressed a wish to appeal to the Constitutional Court. It is not a reform of teachers' salaries, it is in fact a reform of "packed" teachers' dismissals, and the Minister has no courage to recognise it. In addition, the Minister has arranged between Riga and other local and local government schools, educators, students and teachers. Dear colleagues, The next point of the government declaration led by Maris Kučinskis: “Reforms in education and science are a priority for the work of the government.” The Minister of Education and Science, Šadurskis, intends to reduce state-funded budget places in universities by almost 5500 students in the next three years and to direct the funds to the salaries of academic staff needed for the reform of teachers' salaries. The Minister of Education and Science has had too little correspondence with the educators. In future, the increase in the remuneration of academic staff, which certain teachers deserve, will be ensured at the expense of state-granted higher education. Only after the budget was presented to the Saeima did the Minister of Education and Science wake up, and this time, not even the Minister of Education and Science, but the Head of Government has already made a promise to solve the resulting problem. However, the Latvian Students' Association has just stated that it does not believe in the above Prime Minister's promises, it will hold protests. And they have a lot of misunderstanding about why this question about the allocation of funding was postponed to the meetings of the Cabinet of Ministers. Moreover, according to the priorities of this government's work, reforms in education and science... There is no smell of reform in education, moving towards state-funded higher education, as is the case in Estonia, Germany, Sweden, Denmark, Finland and the Czech Republic. At the same time, the Minister of Education and Science does not worry why, for example, in Daugavpils district only 44 percent of graduates participate in higher education institutions. It just doesn't interest him. Dear colleagues, The declaration by the government led by Maris Kučinskis also deals with national security and national identity. In the future, honourable colleagues, the State Service of Quality of Education will assess whether a teacher working in an educational institution is not loyal to the Republic of Latvia and its Constitution, as well as to the Preamble of the Satversme. The proposed regulation does not comply either with the State Security Guidelines or with the Constitution itself. Undoubtedly, it is an approach to the freedom of expression and diversity of opinion of educators. In order to silence any person who permits to be wrong in school in Latvia, the Ministry of Education and Science links this initiative with combating different opinions, although with various methods one should teach a person to think critically, not simply to reinstate the correct answers, as Šadurskis is trying to prove to us all now. What is it about the right attitude? These amendments are, in fact, a step towards a political state! A teacher with whom an employment relationship has been terminated, if he has not been loyal to the Republic of Latvia and its Constitution or has not fulfilled his duties, will not be able to take up the post of a teacher for five years after the termination of his employment legal relationship. In fact, the penalties provided for by the Criminal Law will apply. Moreover, the proposed amendments are so poorly prepared that even the Minister of Education and Science itself is not clear with which... according to what provision of the Labour Act he will apply those amendments. Will Section 101 of the Labour Law be activated with all explanations, suggestions and receipt of support of the trade union? Or will regulation in Section 115 of the Labour Law be taken into account that it is established in fact by courts in our country? Moreover, the Ministry of Education and Science itself, working on these amendments, despite the fact that the loyalty criterion has already been incorporated in 2015, has so far not developed any quality criteria for both educational work and recommendations for teachers to implement the education guidelines in practice. How's it going to work? Nobody knows. Dear colleagues, representatives of the ruling coalition. The vote on the suitability of Mr Šadurskis, the Minister for Education and Science, for the post to be held, is a vote on the success of his duties. Each of you comes from a city, a city. The most unpopular minister in the government does not want to speak a clear language. Šadurskis has deceived boarding schools, pre-school teachers, school and gymnasium teachers, university teachers and students. Šadurskis has built rocks in the budgets of all municipalities and in the work indicators of all municipalities. The Minister has failed to implement any reform or has failed to implement any of the points contained in the statement of the Government of Kučinski. The Minister is not loyal to the Constitution of the Republic of Latvia, does not represent the interests of the state of Latvia and the people living in Latvia. His words are just a lie. I call for support for the draft decision. ( FROM a fraction DECLARES: “Right! ” ) Council Regulation (EC) No 1257/96 of 20 June 1996 concerning humanitarian aid (OJ L 163, 2.7.1996, p. 1).
ParlaMint-LV_2016-10-27-PT12-382-U17	Let us start a debate. Name of Member Inga Bite.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-10-27-PT12-382-U18	Dear Chairman of the Saeima. Colleagues! Sir Shadursky! I have to say: Minister Kārlis Šadurskis' work as Minister of Education and Science, in my opinion, is similar to repair at Krišjāņa Baronas Street, Riga. Repair is necessary, but performance and the way it is done give the impression of either non-professionality or badness. Even before you entered the ministerial position, you disrespectfully treated the educators, claiming that they only strike after - without a real foundation. Unfortunately, today we see that the attitude has not changed. On 1 September of this year, on the first day of the school, when the teachers started their work, you claimed in the Latvian public media (and I quote here): “The recipients of the high salary will, until now, benefit less than a percentage, but they will benefit. Wages should not fall." These are your words on September 1, this year. In these days, you are saying that the objective of the reform was not to raise wages, but to sort out the school network as if it had not been. As a minister of education and science, you should know that for this moment more than 400 teachers have lost their jobs in Latvia. You should also know what is provided for by the Labour Act, namely that the employee must be warned of changes in working conditions at least one month in advance and that the teachers also work on the basis of an employment contract. With regard to the arrangement of the school network, this was in no way possible this year, as you came up with a reform in the middle of the summer. It was not possible to assess the school network and decide on its arrangement by 1 August, which was the latest time to warn teachers and students and their parents. In accordance with the Labour Law, an employee should also be warned of the reduction of salary. However, we know that the teachers' real wages they will receive for work in September this year only learned in mid-October - almost two weeks ago. That means - with retroactive effect. And here I would like to say that any of the thousands of teachers whose salary has decreased can now turn to the courts of the Republic of Latvia to recover this difference from the country. Dear colleagues from the Union of Greens/Farmers! I would like to draw your attention to the fact that, in general, in order for teachers to receive salaries for the work done in September this year, the Prime Minister and the Office of the Prime Minister had to be involved in the crisis regime. The minister of education and science could not have dealt with this for some reason. According to the Minister of Education and Science, teachers' qualifications only play a role when the teacher is in front of the classroom and delivers his subject. At the time when the teacher prepares his hours, at the time when he consults the students, at the time when he reviews the reports, project works, class works and homework, qualifications are irrelevant. At least this is reflected in the existing reform and the existing remuneration system. The specific competence of the Ministry of Education and Science officials is reflected in the annual load of professional education teachers, from which we see that the officials of the Ministry of Education and Science are not aware that there are weeks in vocational education institutions, but teachers still work. In particular, after your current offer, the teacher has to work for 44 weeks a year by teaching the contact hours. And if he does not reach the contact hours all these 44 weeks (e.g. this week, when there is a general school holiday), he does not collect the necessary teacher load. However, the reform of teachers' salaries is not the only "heroic" of the Minister for Education and Science! We have seen an intention to send students to school from six years of age. This was not discussed with parents, with any experts or studies in this regard. I can say that studies carried out on this in other countries show that at the age of six, the child is ready to learn knowledge, but is not ready to sit for 40 or 45 minutes at school. More! A child is not ready for this even at the age of seven. And here I want to ask Mrs. Viņķele. You always talk so much about research and the need for research, but it is obvious that this applies only to others. When it comes to your colleagues and members of the party, they do not have to come up with any research or justify their ideas. Why is that? The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. R.Ražuks intersacrements.) The plan of the Ministry of Education and Science in the coming years is to introduce a competence approach in education. Perhaps this should be linked to the start of schooling at the age of six, but it should be said that the progress that you, Minister, point out and to which you are encouraged at the moment, namely, the reduction in the number of schools, the pooling of schools and, as a result, the creation of more classes, is contrary to this approach - the competence approach. The competence approach cannot be implemented if there are 30 students per teacher class. In the public media a few days ago, Mr Shadursky, you made a mental diagnosis (which I will not repeat here from the parliamentary tribunal) for those who do not invest in higher education... Perhaps you are right about this diagnosis, just to understand whether you were thinking about yourself or about the finance ministers, Dan Reinner-Ozol, or about Prime Minister Maris Kučinski, or about the entire government. You encourage immediate dismissal of teachers who are not loyal and who create mistreatment... Mr Šadurskis, I think that you have shown that you are not loyal to Latvian educators and your attitude towards the education system in Latvia is wrong, so I think this is our right - to forgive you. Thank you. ( A round of the LRA fraction.)
ParlaMint-LV_2016-10-27-PT12-382-U19	Name of Member Solvita Āboltiņš.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-10-27-PT12-382-U20	Dear colleagues, Dear Mr. Minister of Education and Science, In all times, reforms have meant and continue to mean inconveniences, and most people around the world are sceptical about change and rather reluctantly accept it. Latvian society is also no exception, we love to criticise everything, but when someone comes with some kind of change offer, we say, “Oh, God, protect it, but not it!” Only a few of our politicians are brave enough to be able to get through and yet to drive reforms forward. The driver of change must have the courage to do so. As we know, politics loves those who do nothing more. Those who change the system, or even try to change it, are usually at risk and risk their political careers. Both factual and emotional criticisms appear, so the ability to reform is something that should be seen as a top-level testimony to the politician in today's Latvia. Many in Latvia know that reforms are vitally necessary in our country, but they fear to show political will. We often compare ourselves with Estonia and Finland. However, if we look at where the basis for this success lies, the key to this success in these neighbouring countries, then we can see that there is simply a courage and a will to reform. Their reforms are going much faster in practically all areas of national importance and their societies have achieved a much higher level of prosperity. Describing the situation in the field of education in Latvia, I will quote economist Oleg Krasnopjorov: “We have shifted the largest share of the national budget to education among the Member States of the European Union, while both student learning achievements and the quality of higher education are modest. There are many teachers - there are nine pupils per teacher in Latvia; there are more than 12 in Estonia and Finland (although the population density is even lower than in Latvia; however, the educational achievements are better). Teachers have low salaries..., there are few young teachers, both in view of the Latvian age structure and in comparison with other countries of the European Union. Today's unparalleled content of teaching, which is still focused on weakening rather than thinking and creating; 21 separate subjects that form a fragmented view of the world rather than a general picture. Very long summer holidays go hand in hand with overload and burning during the remaining nine months (this is also true for educators). As a result, Latvian students are most late in the European Union, more than half complain about boring hours and a third feel unhappy at school.” That's the end of the quote. UNIFORM, it would be much more convenient to avoid reform. It would be much more convenient for Minister Šadurskis to remain silent on the issues of the problems and to continue, unfortunately, the Unity itself over many years to keep quiet, do nothing and pretend that reforms can be made sometime after one election, after the other... and maybe not at all. We already see what is happening in health at the moment. We are boldly amending the government's planned action plan and reforms in health, which are as necessary as education, after the elections. Because, under God’s protection, these reforms will also be unpopular. And if someone tries to stick to them and arrange this system, it will become as unpopular as Karlis Shadurskis. ON THE other hand, there is clear support for reforms in education and health. Mr Šadurskis has a clear support, not because we are once again defending our party, but because we are clearly standing up for major changes in the country that cannot finally be postponed. They can't really be postponed anymore. The countries left behind are lagging behind. Currently, Latvia's gross domestic product accounts for 64 percent of the European Union's average GDP. We are behind Estonia by 12 percent, we are behind Lithuania by 11 percent. We must be clearly aware that the education system is an important factor in Latvia's future growth of gross domestic product, so that we are more competitive. Yes, not everything in the new education reform is as smooth as planned. Although the majority of schools - 72 percent - have received more funding, there are teachers who have reduced salaries and, of course, it is painful for every person who has reduced salaries. But we are aware that there is a need to optimise the school network throughout Latvia, as it has been done in Estonia and Finland... and these results indicate that this can be achieved, and there is no other way of making reforms less painful. Yes, we must continue to explain to the public that, by investing additional money in health, we are investing in our future, but we are also investing in reforming the school network. That is how we invest in our future too. And we must also remember that raising teachers' salaries is just one aspect of the reform. The Ministry of Education and Science is currently making one of the most ambitious changes at all times by introducing competence-based education. It basically means to break down the century-long tradition in which the teacher tells the teaching material at the table and the student, sitting in a bench, learns it. A student who learns to think, cooperate, seek answers and acquire skills to use knowledge should be at the heart of the learning process. We are in a process of major change. And why is there a relationship between these changes? Why are they opposed by a party that defended the referendum that Russian should have the second official language? Why is there a party to change in our country that did not support the adoption of the preamble in our Constitution, by which we strengthen our values? Why is a party against change that did not condemn Russia's aggression in Crimea? Why did a party fight these changes so much for morality? Probably everyone can answer the question, find himself a answer to that question. I'm not going to tell you. Everyone has their answer, why did they stand up for this and why we have been watching this Kremlin's beautifully prepared performance for a long time - how what Kārlis Shadurskis is doing was degraded step by step. That is the whole result we are seeing at the moment - this is a request for a depression. Here, too, each one probably has an answer. ( INTERPRETATIONS FROM THE GROUP: ‘ Orders! ’ ) However, we are facing changes and I am sure that the public will view this initiative positively one day. Because Latvia started in 1918, but Latvia does not end today. And we wish Latvia the life of the sun in our anthem and other songs. We want to see competitive, educated young people living in our country who love their country and are proud of their country. We want us to be competitive in Europe to be proud of us. To be proud not only of our artists and actors and singers, but also of any young person who could say: “I come from Latvia and have received education in Latvia.” I therefore call for support for the reform and not for the request for a democracy to be supported by Mr Šadurskis. ( A Fraction’s Unity Appreciates.)
ParlaMint-LV_2016-10-27-PT12-382-U21	The name is Mr. Wallary Ageshin.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-10-27-PT12-382-U22	Hello, honourable Members! When discussing education problems, it is important to distinguish professional dialogue from political rhetoric, because the work of teachers is extremely responsible and complex in every way. In fact, all coalition parties have recorded in their programmes that education is a priority issue. It cannot be said that the government does not pay attention to this. But who has come out of it? The failure to operate the system for officials of the Ministry of Education and Science over several years has led to a sad situation in the field of education. We therefore need to make a strong assessment of the work of the Ministry, because our aim is to help the executive to identify and solve the problems in the field of education. Unfortunately, bearing in mind the specific nature of Mr Šadurskis's communication with society, distrusting the Minister at the moment is the only opportunity to hold an open and broader discussion on education issues. Such a discussion was to be conducted without delay, as there are several extravagant reforms on the Ministry's agenda following the reform. It is clear that there are serious problems in the operation of the education system. The teacher's salary model has now become a hot coupel once again. People in Latvia as a whole are confused because, after all, they have heard that millions have been allocated and that the reform has been carried out. As though some teachers received more in their salary, some of the new calculations were an unpleasant surprise: how so?Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. Three years in the Ministry of Education and Science counted and seven times measured after the parun, but when it was finally cut, it became clear that the duvet was too short. There is no doubt that the ideal options for such a heavy and complex system are not easy to achieve, but emotions must be put aside and the shortcomings must be corrected step by step. No teacher's salary should have fallen since the introduction of a new model for teachers' remuneration. But the result: there are many victims throughout Latvia. I therefore call on the Saeima to ask the government to deal with teachers' salaries. The amendments to the Education Law on the dismissal of unloved teachers and heads of educational institutions also raised justified questions and discussions in society. The draft law provides for the employer to immediately terminate the employment relationship with the head of the educational institution or the educator if it is established that the person is not loyal to Latvia and its Constitution or that the educational process creates a wrong attitude towards himself, others, work, nature, culture, society and the state. A person whose employment relationship has been terminated for the reasons set out above will not be able to serve as a teacher for a period of five years. I would like to emphasise that these amendments have little connection with the next year's budget and there are very high risks of a broad interpretation of the amendments and control mechanisms. Is loyalty a question of next year's budget? At the same time, the amendments raise a number of issues, such as how the process of catching unscrupulous educators will be ensured. I would like to remind the Minister that people working in the sector are opposed to this approach. For example, the Latvian Association of Education and Science Employees (LIZDA), as well as the Latvian Association of Education Managers (LiVA), objected to the specific amendments of the law. In the opinion of LIVA, it is neither appropriate nor proportionate for the employer to terminate the employment relationship with the educator without delay. Inga Vanaga, the president of LIZDA, also said that the amendments in this wording jeopardise the professional freedom of teachers. Incidentally, if the employer wants to dismiss the teacher, it can be done now based on Section 101 of the Labour Law. I think that with these amendments, the Ministry of Education and Science is trying to influence teachers. I believe that the education system must not be linked to combating opinions. Otherwise, let us wait for the thought police and the ministry of truth. Do we want to create a uniform robotic crowd that will not be able to think or analyse critically and draw logical conclusions? Should all then follow the stencils and the uniform dogma? Do we come back to times when we have to speak, not what we think, not what we see, not to tell us what we see, but to produce a truth that we can doubt in the number of people who are made redundant? I don't want teachers to see witch hunting! If we continue in this spirit, teachers can follow other professions as well. And we do not need to force our truth upon all in power! These issues require a more professional debate. Questions also arise regarding the extension of the school year. ( The drug has increased noise. The head of the sitting shall be knocked down by means of a hammer.) Does the Ministry of Education and Science still intend to implement this idea? Can you confirm, Minister, that it has the appropriate material security? If this is planned for summer, please answer: Will you personally run your students along the beach? And who's going to set up conditioners in all school offices? If the office is located, for example, on the sunny side, then it is not possible to work there already in May. This proposal lacks logic. On the ambitious reduction in the number of study budget places. The Ministry of Education and Science intends to reduce the number of state-funded budget seats by almost 5.5 thousand over three years. However, no additional funding for the increase in the salaries of university teachers has been provided. Only promises to do so have been heard. Therefore, it is no wonder that this idea has led to indignation in society as a whole and among students, and they are already holding protests. But if students go on the streets, they are likely to be joined by teachers. To leave the situation in self-flow is very risky, as it threatens to flow young people from the country and will significantly harm the education system and science in Latvia. It is only part of the education and science challenges that cause anger and frustration in people. I can also mention that the education system in the country is too regulated and bureaucratic. There is still no clarity about the government's programme for educators "60+", which can remain unemployed as a result of reforms. If reforms in the field of education are to really be implemented, the most important thing must be to restore the prestige of the teaching profession. I would like to hear the Minister's clear view and the relevant action plan: point 1, point 2, point 3. I will vote in favour of distrust to the Minister for Education and Science, Kārlis Šadurskis, but at the same time I believe that responsibility should be sought not from one minister, but from all the political forces that support unwise reforms in the field of education. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-10-27-PT12-382-U23	The name is Mr. Vilnis Ķirsim. ( INTERPRETATIONS FROM THE GROUP: “Speak about Riga! ” ) Council Regulation (EC) No 1257/96 of 20 June 1996 concerning humanitarian aid (OJ L 163, 2.7.1996, p. 1).
ParlaMint-LV_2016-10-27-PT12-382-U24	President-in-Office of the Saeima, very much. Colleagues! There is a lie, there is a big lie, then comes (from the fraction HARGE: “And then comes the Cher!” ) statistics, and then the calculations of the remuneration of Riga teachers come with Usakov. Colleagues, I call on you not to look for any profound meaning here, but it is clear that this demand for a depression is politically motivated and that the feet grow in the Riga City Council, where Riga's gentlemen realized already in the summer that the result of this government's reform... will be that teachers in Riga will increase their salaries. That on average the increase will be 45 euros, or five percent. Clearly, you can't allow this because, as you know, one of the... One of the basic post-posts of Riga is that there is a guilty government at all the bad things that happen in the country; that the government can't do anything good. And that, of course, the government, not the Riga City Council, is also guilty of all the sorrows of Riga. Here we go! Here is the plan A: let's go to the Constitutional Court, let's challenge reform in the court, and it won't have to be! An extraordinary sitting is convened in which we decide - let us really go. Although still to this day, no one has gone to the Constitutional Court. And why are you going? Well, it's a little funny to go and judge for giving you the money. Well, quite embarrassing. And here's the plan B. ( Internouncing call.) Yes, plan B: let's re-allocate money from one Riga school, from one Riga teacher to the other. Those who receive more will be satisfied, they will remain silent, they will not say anything. On the other hand, those who will be less will be dissatisfied. Here, Mr. Usakova, with his journalist's skills and excellent PR capabilities, changes the public idea that the reform reduces the salaries of educators in Riga. So imagine that Riga gets five percent more money. This means that by dividing it very simply, linearly, each teacher could raise the salary by five percent. But no! In the best schools in Riga and in reality, there is no increase in wages. So there are obviously some reasons why this increase was shifted to other schools. All right, let's take it! Then for these teachers, Riga and, in fact, the best teachers of the country, wages would remain unchanged. But no! Interesting! For them wages fall in relation to the previous year. So the Mayor of Riga not only does not give them this increase, but still takes away and transfers to other schools so that everyone can say that in Riga teachers have reduced salaries. Imagine how earthly a politician needs to be if he is ready to share his best teachers in order to achieve his political goals, so that his best people can then run away! Well, and, of course, the Minister shows figures where the problem is. THAT is why nothing remains but a demand for a ministerial resignation, in the hope that this will somehow change the focus of attention. Dear colleagues, The mayor of Riga is not only incompetent (Interface: “Excuse!” ), he is also a saboteur and a bad liar. And if someone has to step back in this situation, then it is Mr. Ušakov, not Mr. Shadursky. ( A Fraction’s Unity Appreciates.)
ParlaMint-LV_2016-10-27-PT12-382-U25	Member's name is Laimdota Straujuma.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-10-27-PT12-382-U26	Dear colleagues, Sir, I express my support for the Minister and call on the Saeima to vote against distrust. The Minister has completed the reform of teachers' salaries. Yes, there is a group of dissatisfied ones, and you can always find what can be done even better. But we forget that the Minister has brought an additional 47 million in the sector. ( INTERPRETATIONS FROM THE GROUP: “Where did they remain? ” ) Calculate! ( FROM a faction: “We have already counted! ” ) This is what Mr. Chersch said earlier. Calculate, and then you will see - 47 million are in addition to teachers' salaries. Go on. In the Commission on Sustainable Development, we have listened to the Minister's further ideas, and I fully support what is intended to be both to increase scientific funding, to reform of higher education and to change teaching content, thinking about creativity and not just about incarnation. As Zenta Mauriņa said, nothing does anything. If anyone does, there is always someone who is against this. Dear colleagues, The Minister works. Let us support him if necessary and let him work. Once again, I call for the 'no' distrust to be put to the vote. Thank you. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. J.Urbanovich: “But millions of them needed more detail!” ) Council Regulation (EC) No 1257/96 of 20 June 1996 concerning humanitarian aid (OJ L 163, 2.7.1996, p. 1).
ParlaMint-LV_2016-10-27-PT12-382-U27	Name to Member Valdis Kalnozols.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-10-27-PT12-382-U28	Hello, brothers and sisters! This draft decision confirms that we have a major problem: a weak system of motivation for officials. In practice, this draft decision shows that we have this system which contributes to failure. Whoever doesn't do it, it's not wrong. Don't do it better! The system of motivation of public officials does not encourage the attraction of the best specialists. This is also demonstrated by the search for the SRS manager. Only a few heroes are trying, as they say, to go through this blackmail campaign. If such an incentive system were to be in business, the companies would have gone bankrupt a long time ago. Not for nothing the Employers' Confederation of Latvia, the Chamber of Commerce and Industry of Latvia invites to change this system of motivation for state officials. We have the following proposals that we will put forward after the adoption of the budget. I have a question for SAVE. WHY do not love a thoughtful and educated people? The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. J.Urbanovich: “Go on?Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, “ A educated, thinking nation is a nation of masters. An uneducated, unthinking nation is a nation of servants. In ancient times, thousands of years ago, Confucius said: “If you have plans for a year, institution rice. If you have plans for decades - institution trees, if you have plans for a hundred years - to educate the people!” Why are these attacks on Shadurski, who is trying to improve the motivation system for teachers? Why is the Riga City Council headed by SASKA trying to destroy the thinking of the children of Riga, to destroy the Riga Shah School? The lack of common goals, dreams, visions in the country actually leads to what we have today: leads to an effort to fight each other, not to go together towards the goal. And this draft decision also confirms this: we are not moving together towards the goal, but trying to fight each other. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-10-27-PT12-382-U29	Name to Member Aldim Adamovich.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-10-27-PT12-382-U30	Good morning, honourable colleagues! I'll give you a couple of minutes to express my opinion, because however, 15 years have been in school, and 10 years in the post of director. There are, of course, two main reasons for the request for a commission. These are amendments to the Education Law related to loyalty. And I want to say today that any student, any teacher, school director, any Latvian citizen must be loyal to the state, loyal to the Constitution and other laws. And I think it should be raised from early childhood. What Mr Shadursky started to do in 2004, namely, to introduce Latvian language training in schools of non-nationals, I think has produced results. Because today, about half the number of young people, students who acquired knowledge in languages other than the state language has decreased. I think that, as we continue, we will really raise loyal young people for our future Latvia. The second reason, of course, is the much discussed wage reform. I want to support the Minister: to continue this and not stop it, because we will see real results in two or three years' time! I don't know, unfortunately or fortunately, but right now, 10 percent have been left to municipalities... broken down, and 13 percent distributed to school management. I know schools where really teachers may have reduced their salary, but at the same time directors and deputy directors have increased by 150. It is therefore a full responsibility of local government and school management. In conclusion, I would like to give you some figures, because we are talking around all the time. In major cities next year's targeted grant for general education institutions, so teachers working in general education schools are as follows: in Jurmala the annual increase is 420 thousand, in Valmiera - 204 thousand, in Jēkabpils - 300 thousand, in Liepaja - 744 thousand, in Daugavpils, called by Mr. Elksniņš - 1.03 million. Finally, I want to stop at three municipalities, whose Mr. Elksniņš did not mention: Viļāni - there is an increase of 84 thousand (about seven rates per month), the city of Rezekne - 384 thousand (about 30 rates per month), and Riga - next year's growth for general education schools is 3.6 million (about 300 rates). Therefore, my colleagues, I would ask you not to support the breakdown of Karl Shadursky. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-10-27-PT12-382-U31	Thank you. The name of the Minister of Education and Science, Kārlis Shadurskis.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-10-27-PT12-382-U32	Very honourable Speaker of the Saeima! Honourable Members! Mr. Elksniņš spoke on behalf of the applicants, and here I think of a quote from Mihail Bulgakov. A.Elksniņš: “Religious literature!” ): Here we are once again dealing with the so-called case of lying. There was much speculation about Daugavpils. I have heard such speeches that this gentleman is going to start in Daugavpils municipal elections. Of course, there will be benefits for the Saeima, just a little pity for the Daugavpils. ( Merry laughter.) No good work should remain unpunished - it seems SAVE, seeing that Latvian educators will receive a much higher salary next year. And, in fact, colleagues, in my opinion, this request has nothing to do with the reform of teachers' salaries, nor with the quality of the Ministry of Education and Science or my work. The employer is the municipality (general education). The Ministry of Education and Science transfers a target grant to the municipality - one figure - and the municipality allocates it to schools. Mr. Čiršas talked about strangeness in the municipality of Riga. Some gentlemen in the Riga City Council, according to their own known principles, distributed money by subtracting some, giving others, and then blames the Ministry of Education and Science for the lack of the best schools in Riga. And it's not enough just as much as they re-allocate. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. E.Smiltene: “Watch!” ) And if we are talking about figures, the total target grant in Riga increased by 5.2 million. The Ministry of Education and Science, in clear figures, showed the public this little trick by redistributing... Well, maybe we should say, fraud, incompetentness or badness. Well, I won't say that so that everyone can draw conclusions. I'll tell you that's a trick. When this little trick was discovered, Riga's gentlemen came with a few explanations, namely, about the replacement of absent teachers and the provision of payment for educators' sickness sheets. Yes, indeed, for this purpose, Riga City Council has allocated 2.1 per cent of the targeted grant. It is absolutely irrational, and this amount cannot be used for this purpose, because the real amount is 0.03 percent previously used by the Riga City Council, but not under the leadership of these masters... So here money will remain a couple, which apparently will then be used (I don't know again what principles)... Well, to pay different premiums at the end of the year. Maybe those who... All right, let's not speculate! Probably fair - as everything the Riga City Council does. In one word, when... Yes, 5.2 minus 2.1. COLLECT, get out quickly in your head if you can! You know, you know, I know! So, there's more. As Mr Chersh said, even linearly divided, this 5.2 minus 2.1, but all should become more than the best schools. Yeah. And when this little cunning was shown in clear numbers, Mr. Ushakov was so outrageous that he immediately called after the demission. For one thing, I would like to pay tribute to the SAA: for the discipline that prevails in this group, because the chef's order was executed the next morning and this request was made. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. I.Zariņš: “We have unity, you have no harmony!” ) Mr Agešin spoke about the need for a professional discussion and a distinction between it and political rhetoric. I will quote a saying in the language in which I heard it, and then I will translate it into: “Discussion is for Scholars. Politician has their agent.’ The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. A. Elksniņš: “Develop him!” ) And the discussion can really only take place in an academic environment. ENHANCED politicians have a job that they are trying to carry out. And here, I think it is clear that I am not interested in the reform of education, but only in the honour of my boss Ushakov's mundier. Well, according to the speeches that have been made, it may also be of interest to keep unspeakable teachers in the education system. Is this the result of a contractual relationship between the Union and the Kremlin (Ironic intermediates from the Group: "Of course!" ) or not who knows. I just hope that the treaty with the United Russia does not contain any secret annexes - like the Hitler-Stalin Pact. ( Ironically intersense from the fraction: “Yes, yes! ” ) Dear colleagues! As regards the quality of education in Latvia, I want to make a clear sign of equality with the standard of living, well-being and security of Latvian society, because our education today is our economy tomorrow, and therefore the level of the well-being of our people in Latvia. There is a lot to do in the further development of the education system, and it depends on both the content of education (we are currently working on the content based on the competence approach and it will be introduced by class group starting from 2018/2019. the school year), which - I am sure - will be our good work for the centenary of Latvia. The development of the education system depends on the qualifications of the educators and on the stimulation of appropriate quality work, including material stimulation. We are currently developing a new model of the quality level system for teachers, which must be approved in the form of regulations of the Cabinet of Ministers already in spring next year. The first step in the reform of teachers' salaries we have carried out and in cooperation with the Latvian Education and Science Workers' Union and other social partners we will carry out continuous monitoring of the implementation and implementation of this model, as well as the details that will be needed. Of course, quality depends on the development and arrangement of the school network. Here we have a lot of easy and more difficult negotiations with Latvian municipalities. I look forward to a constructive dialogue in order to offer a platform for these negotiations on the part of the Ministry. By the spring of next year we will create an optimal school network map for each of 119 local governments in Latvia and offer to discuss it with local governments. This map will include not only a definition of a defined school network, but also a purely economic and financial calculation of how much money a municipality can save by cleaning up a school network and by not spending half-empty or a quarter of full-filled schools in the municipality; how much more money it will require for the transport of children (of course keeping primary school as close as possible to residence); what will be the benefit of the state budget by saving the salaries of teachers and by sorting out the school network. We have full confidence that every full-time teacher will be able to earn more than EUR 1000 in wages, not before, but after tax. Our educators really deserve it. We have a lot to do in front of us. We have a clear plan of how to work and, honourable colleagues, honourable employers, Members, I have no doubt that there will be a lot of discussions, there will be a lot of politically motivated criticism. I very much look forward to a constructive assessment and analysis of the work. And it's probably true that if you want to do something good at your time in your sector, where you have to work for some time (for me, in the field of education)... I do not hope for great popularity in this area, but at this point in time I want to do a lot good together with my colleagues at the Ministry of Education and Science, together with you Members. And I believe that in Latvia, we can end up beating about the quality of our education, but we can reap the fruits of the work that our people have long deserved. ( A Fraction’s Unity Appreciates.) Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-10-27-PT12-382-U33	Thank the Minister. The name of the Member, New York.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-10-27-PT12-382-U34	Hello, colleagues! Someone said in his speech that reforms are always embarrassing. Maybe it is. But let us now talk about this particular reform of the salaries of educators. We all have a very short memory. At first, we all talked about the fact that the changes will be very important and affect the principle of "money follows a child". This principle remains, it still exists. Money continues to follow children. What then changed as a result of the reform of teachers’ wages? The calculation model, pricing and so on changed, but this principle remains. It is therefore difficult to talk about reform, in my opinion. The reform is defined as a change to improve something. Did it improve this time? Well, it probably depends on where you live or where your constituents are. If we are talking about Riga, then it seems that the result of the improvement is: 52 percent of teachers' salaries either did not change or decreased. We heard here that this is because the municipality redistributed some funds. But the law allows this to be redeployed. Just as he allowed last year, he would allow next year, but to a lesser extent. Its redistribution could not have led to a situation where 52 percent of teachers’ wages were reduced or not changed. You see, it's not a reform at all, it's a cosmetic change. There is still a great deal to be done to call it a reform. Unfortunately, it is already becoming a special feature of the Ministry of Education and Science... the offers coming from the Ministry. It was with the commencement of training from the age of six, when the draft law was directed to the Cabinet of Ministers, stating that from 2018 all children must start learning from the age of six. Without any change in educational content, school infrastructure that is not suitable for six-year-olds, and so on. We are talking about the absence of a complex approach to the education system as well as to any other sector of health and so on. Consequently, I think that this request for resignation is justified. It is logical, it is the result of the work and failure of the Ministry of Education and Science and Karlis Šadurskis. I ask you to support this draft decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-10-27-PT12-382-U35	Name to Member Alexander Kirštein.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-10-27-PT12-382-U36	Dear President, Honourable Members! ‘ I am not loyal to this country, I despise him, and I despise this regime as well.” Who has said that? You're gonna say Rubik. No, no! This has been said by teacher Vladislavs Rafaļskis from 40. Russian Secondary School in 2012 Radio Baltkom. Do you think something serious happened? School principal Jeļena Vediščeva announced that she would consult with lawyers, whether the teacher could tell them something like that, or whether he could teach the children that he did not trust the country. Of course, lawyers, former members of the PSPP, admitted that we have freedom of expression and that there is nothing terrible there. As a result, Director Jeļena Vediščeva, who was the executive director, is now the director. How is this possible in the independent state of Latvia more than 20 years after the recognition of independence? Very simple. There was no deokupation in Latvia as such. And we know that there were about one million civilians or colonists here, call out what you like better. About 600,000 of them remained, half of them having acquired citizenship. What, then, is unloyalty? Many don't understand. Thus, in these schools, where Russian is mostly spoken, there is a clear non-recognition of the Satversme and the state, denial of the fact of occupation, use of historical books published in Moscow with the praises of the PSKP, USSR, Lenin and Stalin, it is a non-recognition of the 2004 educational reform. Apparently, the group now wants some kind of revenge... This is a demonstration of the state language, because the parents of Russian school children call the radio and complain that in their schools teachers do not understand the state language. The Russians complain! It is 9 May, the honour of the Red Army - the armies that occupied Latvia as an ally of the chitleric Germans - which, of course, these teachers do not teach children. Is there a direct budgetary impact? He said it wasn't. Yeah. We know that about 30 teachers had to be laid off a long time ago. So it has an impact on the budget. I think that their salaries could be used to give the best teachers. I would therefore wish Mr Šadurskis not only to “white” Kārlis, but to withstand the fight, complete the reforms and withstand the fight not only with enemies, but also with Viņķelis, the head of the Education, Culture and Science Commission, whose radio in Baltkom told Russian a few days ago that she did not know what loyalty is, and that such laws would create hatred and divisions in Latvian society, if, here, the directors of Latvian schools could criticise the state or officials, but Russian school directors would let go of it. Mrs. Viņķele must have been confused that it is only about respect for the Constitution, and the Constitution says everything, starting with the language and with the principles that teachers must adhere to. I call for the proposal to be rejected and for Mr Šadurski to be supported. Thank you for your attention. ( A fluctuating from the VL-TB/LNNK fraction.)
ParlaMint-LV_2016-10-27-PT12-382-U37	Thank you. Honourable Members! Members Smiltēns, Abu Meri, Adamovičs, Loskutovs and Brigmanis are asking to continue the sitting of the Saeima without interruption until the examination of the draft decision on distrust to the Minister of Education and Science Kārlis Šadurskis. Do Members have objections? ( Impressions: “No! None!’ ) Thank you. There is no objection. So we are continuing the debate. The name of Member Arvīds Platoper.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-10-27-PT12-382-U38	President-in-Office of the Saeima, very much. Colleagues! I would like to express my views on the request made by the Minister for Demission, in isolation from the political shoes that we are starting here, defending our views from the point of view of our parties, vision, view, or understanding. I have been inspired by what the Minister said (in English) that, however, these issues should be discussed professionally. Yes, I completely agree with that. And Mr. Nunozole mentioned a very beautiful quote that a nation needs to be educated if you want to develop a nation. I want to quote one another, much more influential and stronger. Confucius said: “If you have made an error and understood it, and corrected it, it is no longer a mistake.” Our greatest disaster is that we are constantly wrong. Mrs. Āboltiņa mentioned that she should finally start taking up education. But from the early 1990s... In 1992, when Mr. Piebalgs was a minister, the Academy of Music was invited... University teachers were invited to tell us what structural changes should be made in the ministry, because we moved to other values, programmes and content. Unfortunately, the party in power at that time, both the ministers and the Members of the Saeima, have practically ignored the recommendation of professionals, which Mr Shadursky says now, that there is still a need to do. Professionals can do this! Unfortunately, there are no professional people working in the Ministry because our proposal was - in 1992, the Ministry of Education and Science, to develop criteria for an official of the Ministry. And we had a proposal regarding content and all other methodological matters related to education in all schools in Latvia - that is, we had a request for teachers... there to choose people who have worked for at least 10 years in a normal school. Unfortunately, to this day it has not been fulfilled - I understood it yesterday, when we met the minister in the group. And now try to understand what would happen in private business if there was a person who has a mathematician profession but who has to do it, let's assume what chemical-related production has nothing to do with that industry! He doesn't have this professional skill. All the disaster is not already in the Minister's request for resignation; all the disaster is that we still do not want to understand that fundamental reform must first be carried out, so there must be a vision of what education should be. The solutions proposed are, unfortunately, that... We are always talking about the idea of training six-year-old children, saying that we will start right away. There's no base! We do not have material conditions for the normal residence of five-year-old and six-year-old children. We do not want to do this, but we are already making a reform. We are now working on content. Dear Members, well, go into that education at last and start thinking! You are educated people! In order to achieve something, there must be knowledge; there must be a system by which we lead. We are now doing one thing, because an official from Denmark brings something, and the minister has no chance of abolishing it, because those ministerial officials who have been working and have been undertaking this reform for two years, which Mr Shadurski is trying to complete now as a minister, are already unable to do anything. But they don't have signatures. And I said, how can it be that we don't have professional knowledge, there's no competence that we're so worried about now when we can't do something. One official goes to Belgium, works for 10 years, and I'm trying to tell you that four or five items are now needed in high school to have knowledge. Well, take it, please, normally any country! Latvian journalist Veinberga radio told you, Minister! Take at least Finland's example if you can't figure out your own in 25 years! Create this system, supplement, edit and then improve! So first of all, we need to create a system. The disaster in this system is that we are reforming, but we have no money. Those 45 million, I'm sorry! - comes from having to work more. The reform would have been right if the load had remained 21 hours and the money had increased. Unfortunately, this possibility is not available. And by the end, I really don't want to delay... If we do not carry out immediately normal, professional reforms in education, so that in many countries where children start to learn from the age of five, and create a material base so that they can work normally and not reform now and say that we will start doing something with 2018... First of all, we have to make sure that we are prepared for all these five-year-old children in Latvia and not just those who are studying in a kindergarten. 30 percent of our children don’t visit kindergartens at all. And we have a school network... I think that is simply an act of inaction. I would very much like to see the names given yesterday by the director of the Alūksne Secondary School to be played here from the Saeima Tribunal. The economic chaos that continues in the country has led to the loss of loyalty of the population. Walk along the border and listen to what the ordinary citizen, who cannot normally exist, speaks about you, Members, and the government. I'm not going to talk about pensions. And here's the whole of our “kitchen”, the inability and - I want to emphasise once again - the unprofessionality... Since 1997 some universities have not been invited to participate in content development. And I personally have great concerns because Europe has now allocated 34 million to content change and education of interest. I want to see those people because there is no name for those who will then develop their content. Those who have never worked at school? I mentioned a small example to the Minister yesterday: how can it be that the Ministry publishes and approves books that teach our children, who have created authors who have never worked at school in school? Do you need any evidence? Please! Come to me, I'll tell you. It's a situation I don't know where else there's... I think maybe there is only Africa. Thank you for your attention. I believe that the Minister did not do everything, did not put officials in the ministry normally, because they were unable to do so. I understand him very well. He says a signature, he answers. But in fact, all officials who were not able to prepare a normal reform for the Minister within two years have to bear their responsibilities. Thank you for your attention. ( Fractional NSL and fractional circles.)
ParlaMint-LV_2016-10-27-PT12-382-U39	Name to Member Sergey Dolgopolov. Colleagues, I call for the negotiations to be interrupted and for seats to be held in the Saeima's Chamber.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-10-27-PT12-382-U40	The High Saeima! Today, key words were made - "reform", "political will", "political courage". However, the words “ common sense”, “professionality”, “analysis” remained unspeakable. To be honest, it seemed to me that this was exactly what the Minister of Education and Science was talking about today. Reforms really are a painful thing, but when talking about reforms, it is unlikely that it would be logical and wise - to stop with various types of insults, names: “You are the agents of the Kremlin, you are idiots, you are fools, you are loyal or irresistible... “ I am saying, ‘ It didn’t say! ’ ) And so on. It forgets what we have started talking about today. Examples include: We are talking about millions of people in general education. Okay. Very good! We forget, however, that the field of education was, and is, a servant of two masters today. It is not logical that municipalities provide economic activity, but cannot be appointed without coordination with the Ministry by the Director of any school. In recent years, no nomination submitted by the municipalities had been rejected from the Ministry, but this norm exists in the law. Consequently, the funding allocated to educational institutions is also shared. Much can be said about - that municipalities should optimise the school network, pay salaries for teachers, school directors and so on - but there is no single system here, because the target grants for teachers' salaries are granted by the Ministry. However, the issues of school maintenance and the existence of schools are addressed as such by local governments. The first thing we need to do if we are talking about reforms in the field of education is to give back the full amount of education to the local authorities (Dep. S.Absolute intermediates.) while maintaining the Ministry only two things - content, namely training programmes and control of quality. That would be logical and correct. This leads to another problem that has also been voiced today. The Ministry had proposed to start training for children from six years of age, because 12 grades, or 12 years spent in school benches, are too many years... However, the question is not about age - when to start, when to end - but about content. It should start with - what is the content of the education we want to give children; how we want to educate students. Today it was also about the fact that the Ministry, here, offers municipalities to optimise the network for the deployment of educational institutions as such. But the educational institution in each specific place is not only the provider of the services - the provider of the training process; the educational institution in each specific place is the most direct link between the country, the student and the family. And so here it is not just in money, because what the school network is like, how it works, how it is able to fulfil exactly this state function - it depends to a large extent on what we want to achieve from that. Unfortunately, instead of being reasoned against his critics, Mr Shadursky had fallen to the same point today, well, you forgive me, very black, I would say, to the argumentation if that could be called the argumentation. That was not an argument, Mr. Shadursky! It seems to me that every person in any position may be wrong and may have success or failure. But not only should we be called, we should also be self-critical in this area. That's why I thought... Today, to be honest, I am very disappointed by your speech. I think it will be much more serious and much more constructive. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-10-27-PT12-382-U41	Name to Member Juris Villums.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-10-27-PT12-382-U42	Very honourable Speaker of the Saeima! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr. Shadursky! Mrs. Applet! You mentioned that the sector needs reforms. I think none of those present denys that either. However, both I and the industry believe that reforms must be unhurried, debated, transparent. What happened here today, from the pub... Mr Dolgopolov has already said that there was, by nature, neither a discussion nor an argument, but there were insults, insults from SASCAN and Unity. Today we do not decide what is happening or is not happening in Riga. We are deciding whether the Minister is fit for office. If the Unity considers that there is no order in Riga, please speak to your partners in the National Association, which runs the Ministry of Environmental Protection and Regional Development and which is responsible for the activities of municipalities, and let the Minister act. If we return to the activities of the Minister of Education and Science, then I would like to mention not only Riga, as I said, but also small schools. All planning documents state that children from grades 1 to 6 must receive education as close as possible to home. No funding was foreseen for this purpose within the framework of the reform. In small schools, directors have not been full - time, Mr. Adamovich. Local governments are trying to save what is to be saved: they pay to directors, including deputy teachers in larger schools, as well as to staff, pre-school teachers and teachers. Local governments also have boarding schools. And it seems that this will have to be done even more in the new year. The Minister of Education and Science has repeatedly recognised that with the funding of education alone, we cannot keep people in the regions. You can agree that this must be a united government. Obviously Mr Shadursky does not succeed in persuading his colleagues in the government. And as long as it cannot be done, the territory of Latvia is bleeding. Each closed school, including the small school, is also a step closer to the objectives of the Kremlin mentioned by the Head of the National Security Commission. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. S.Absolute intermediates.) Regarding study places in higher education and strengthening the principles of loyalty-negotiability, it is necessary to agree to what Asskolds Klaviņš, a member of the Greens/Farmers' Union, said: this is a public breakdown. In my opinion, all the criticisms listed today concern not only the Minister, but also a large part of the staff of the ministry, and this has already been mentioned by Mr Platoper. Even the same 1.7 million, which was not actually distributed by the Ministry. And that justification in the commission given by Mr. Shadursky did not convince me. Therefore, if we are talking about the necessary reforms, I call on the Minister to start with the order of the staff of the Ministry. I believe that not only the Minister, but also most of the staff of the Ministry, would have to be dismissed. I call for the vote in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-10-27-PT12-382-U43	Name of Member Inguna Silver.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-10-27-PT12-382-U44	Hello, dear colleagues! Latvian policy is characterized by the fact that it has a great deal of cynicism, narrow interests, calculated, it is a policy in which Excel tables endure everything, but behind which people forget. And I'm very sorry for many of you who don't seem to have enjoyed such a special favour and special attitude during school and a special value - a very good teacher. Because - I don't understand how the hand can be raised to reform, that the teacher starts working on September 1, without knowing what salary he will have to receive?Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. How can there be a reform that has a contract with an educator that ultimately reduces his salary?Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. How can there be reform against educators, especially against educators in boarding schools?Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, You've never been there before and you don't understand what that means - to work with children with special needs, behavioral disorders. This work requires very much motivation, great self - worth, and endless love. I invite you to go to one of Latvia's boarding schools, enter the classroom, talk to these educators and feel the special love that these people emit, working for 15, 20 and 30 years in an environment where they receive most of them from children perhaps only some kind of contempt, reproach, quite a lot of rudeness. But they give them love for their children, because only by love they are able to bring these children back to society! I have been in many boarding schools and I have seen it: a child who has been in a general education school three years ago and has not gone to school (may have had very great difficulties in bringing him to school at all), has been in boarding school for three, four or even five years, has become a young person who has already been motivated to live, is able to find his place in life and is proud of his teacher and his school. Therefore, I cannot support in any way the reforms which provide that the law can simply state in a sad way that the state will no longer fund these boarding schools, and do not call into question the next steps. What will happen to the 2000 children who are in boarding schools today? Yes, it is right that the municipality should pay for every child. Today, however, municipalities are not motivated to give up any child, because money follows the child. So the child who does not go to school today because of social or perhaps other circumstances will not go to school even after this great reform has been implemented. We met with the Minister of Education and Science yesterday in a political group, and one of my fundamental questions was: Why is it not possible to realise the basic goal of education itself - to create a motivated, creative, life-prepared personality? Because all the works must be focused on leaving the school for a young man who truly loves his country, who wants to work here, who sees his perspective. Why do we not manage to organize a job in this way? Because, on the one hand, we really have people who are not professional: they have not worked at school, they have not run hours and they do not understand what teaching work means, and they do not understand how to create the right education system. But on the other hand, once again, there are these cynical interests: “It does not affect me, maybe I will not gain any benefit from the same, but it is enough for me to simply do the Excel tables.” I really call on you: considering all the next steps, come up with these steps to the end of the education reform, and then start moving. For if we cut the salary for teachers today, promising that after a year with quality premiums we will raise this salary again, will anyone believe it again? Will those who leave school today believe? And, unfortunately, its motivation has been given first of all to those educators who really work with the heart and soul professionally in hours that are able to prepare excellent children, the winners of the Olympics, the winners of scientific competitions and so on. We in the Group of the Heart for Latvia are in favour of this decision to request a commission. We support this primarily because we respect our society, especially teachers. Thank you. ( Fractional NSL and fractional circles.)
ParlaMint-LV_2016-10-27-PT12-382-U45	Name to Member Ivars Zarins.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-10-27-PT12-382-U46	Hello, colleagues! It was not difficult to guess what today will be the discussion on what ground it will be on - that we will not talk about the substance, because coalition (Dep. S.Bobs and depots (See A. Downlinks.) Try to channel this discussion on a completely different scale, so that we do not have to talk about these growing problems in the education sector. Instead, we are talking only about Riga or about geopoliticals. It is not difficult to see (or perhaps you are not in the course) that these problems that have arisen in the education sector are not only related to Riga. They are everywhere in our country. Avoiding to talk about them, you now acknowledge that this request for resignation is justified because you have no counter-opinion. For many years, I have tried to explain to you. S. Āboltiņa: “Speaked anecdotes?” ) - and I have finally explained - that it is not artificially created fiscal beauty, but people - creative and susceptible - who will be able to create values that will be able to lead our country to prosperity. For a long time, you didn't want to hear that. You were interested (and this was what you also promoted) in making people gray and obedient. And that's the grey mass you've made. At the same time, you have to ask: why would it be useful for you? Because it is easier to manipulate such people, it is easier for you to remain in power, do nothing and enjoy your permissiveness and irresponsibleness. But the whole process also has its own side, the shadow, with which you are now facing: it is general poverty. The country is trapped in poverty. And now that you have brought the country to the trap of poverty with your approach, you understand that there is something to be done about it. But it is very difficult to get out of the field right now. What you're doing is you're trying to give some semi-tree solutions now. Even these same reforms in the field of education. Yes, it is really right that we must, at last, build not these gray, obedient people who simply turn back what someone has put in them, and obey or believe in everything you are telling them, but those who start to think creatively and critically. Competence-oriented education is needed. Education reforms are needed. But how are they done? They are made from the wrong end. Because what is important is if we really want to reform and achieve an appropriate remuneration system for teachers - we must first understand what this optimal structure is. Colleagues, if you remember, we ourselves, here in the Saeima, confirmed the task well, and one of the ones responsible for this task - Mr Shadurski - talked about the tasks that need to be carried out. I remind you: one of the tasks you had to fulfil is the creation of an optimal school network. That is right: before we start to re-allocate salaries at all, first we understand what the structure we need to finance is. So what you are doing is trying to reform some kind of remuneration on the wrong structure. You create a huge mess, a huge misunderstanding. And the most important thing you do is you make this process endless, because... If now the next step... Assuming that we have a democratic, parliamentary state and the Constitution here, and you will fulfil the task assigned by the Saeima and prepare the optimal school network, this means that you will have to re-make all this gesture with teachers' pay again. And again, everything that the education system and teachers now experience, trying to do in it... they will have to go through this again. Everything will change again! I believe that this is not the way to work with the education sector, and that is why I have also signed up to this request for resignation. You have to start from the foundations, otherwise you'll be like that saying: the economyy or the group is paying twice, but the fool is paying all the time. You're making one big fool out of the education sector now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-10-27-PT12-382-U47	I closed the debate. Please call me! We will vote for the draft decision “For distrusting the Minister of Education and Science Kārlis Šadurskis”! Please vote mode! Please get the result! It's not about - 35, it's against - 57, it's not. No decision has been taken. Please call me! Please check-in mode for Members! Time for notifications. Dear colleagues, Together with the President of the Baltic Assembly, Janis Vucanas is invited to the opening of the exhibition dedicated to the 25th anniversary of the Baltic Assembly in the lobby of the Saeima in just a few minutes. Name for the statement to the Member Gaid Burns.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-10-27-PT12-382-U48	Colleagues from the Legal Commission! I would remind you that the meeting of the Legal Commission will take place in five minutes' time in the Commission's premises.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-10-27-PT12-382-U49	Name for reading the results of the registration to Gunārs Kūtris, member of the Saeima Secretary.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-10-27-PT12-382-U50	Dear colleagues, Currently not registered: Boriss Cilevičs, Jānis Kžads, Armands Krauze, Inese Laizāne, Romanas Mežeckis and Sergejs Mirskis.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-10-27-PT12-382-U51	Thank you. Interruption until 11.30 a.m. ( Interruption)
ParlaMint-LV_2016-10-27-PT12-382-U52	Honourable Members, I call for seats to be held in Saeima's Chamber. We're going to keep the Saeima sitting. On the agenda - draft decision on the appointment of Gunta Razāne as Vice-Chairman of the Financial and Capital Markets Commission. On behalf of the Commission for Budget and Finance (Tax) - Member Edgars Putra.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-10-27-PT12-382-U53	Hello, honourable Members! The Budget and Finance (Tax) Commission has examined the proposal by the Minister of Finance, Dana Reizniece-Ozola, and the President of the Bank of Latvia, Ilmārs Rimšēvičs, about the Vice-Chairman of the Financial and Capital Market Commission – Guntas Razāns. The Commission has supported this proposal. I believe that the candidates are suitable for the post to be held, and therefore, on behalf of the Committee on Budgets and Finance (Tax) I call for support to be given to this draft decision at the sitting of the Saeima.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-10-27-PT12-382-U54	Thank you. Let us start a debate. The name of the Member, Martin Bondar.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-10-27-PT12-382-U55	Dear colleagues and honourable colleagues! I would like to quote to you what Mrs Razane said in the Group of the Regions of Latvia during the meeting. And I want you to really listen to every word. ‘ Mr Bondara, I really will allow me to go in and not comment this time, because you know very well what talk is now in public space because of the money that my husband has received from me. I just wouldn't want to pour extra oil in this case. One public institution - the Ministry of Foreign Affairs - could use some more, say, my sentences." ( End quoted) You can see this meeting with Mrs. Razāne on the Facebook page of the Association of the Regions of Latvia, which is still - at this moment too! - available. I would like to say that every Latvian citizen who follows social and political events has a view of Inga Koļegova's compliance - compliance! - a post of high public official. Mrs Razane, on the other hand, was unable to answer this question, as she herself had problems with compliance with the post she had to hold. I would also like to draw your attention to the fact that this is not the only issue on which Mrs Razane was, in fact, unable to make her point of view clear. When we came to the Group of the Association of the Regions of Latvia, we asked her to show her personality, her experience and her vision of what the Financial and Capital Markets Commission should be doing. Speaking about personality. When she asked Mrs Razane why she agreed to be the deputy head of the Financial and Capital Markets Commission, she was unable to answer that question. Mr. Cushner... Mr. Kušner, from the Bank of Latvia, who had come with him, said that they had methods that made it difficult to give up a job. The second issue, of course, concerns professional activity. I hope that Mrs Razane will not only tell you that she has been in the financial sector for many years, that she has worked very much in many financial institutions, but will also tell you why she has not been on the board of any of these financial institutions. That is an essential question. Because basically the posts occupied are middle-level management posts. And finally. On the vision of the future functioning of the Financial and Capital Markets Commission. When she asked this question, Mrs Razane replied: "I have not met the Head of the Financial and Capital Market Commission. We haven't divided the spheres, so I can't talk about this.” My answer, colleagues, is this. In view of all the above, I have a request and a proposal to vote against Mrs Razane's candidacy for this post because she does not meet. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-10-27-PT12-382-U56	Name to Member Edgars Putras.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-10-27-PT12-382-U57	Mr Bondar, I will not repeat those potatoes and sweets. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. M.Sic.) I will remind you of one another, a very bright quote that Mrs. Techere said at the time: “The rooster may sing pretty, but its eggs still lay chicken.” ( Merry laughter.)
ParlaMint-LV_2016-10-27-PT12-382-U58	I closed the debate. Please call me! We will vote on the draft decision on the appointment of Gunta Razāne as Vice-Chairman of the Financial and Capital Markets Commission! The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. J.Urbanovich: “On chickens!” ) Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 78, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The decision has been taken. The next item is "Provision of draft legislation". On the agenda - draft law “Amendments to the Postal Law”, third reading. On behalf of the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy, Anrijs Matīss.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-10-27-PT12-382-U59	Hello, Madam President. Dear colleagues, So we are working on the draft law on Amendments to the Postal Law (No 561/Lp12) at third reading. The Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy examined two proposals received. The proposal was received from the Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Transport, Edgars Tatars, and was supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-10-27-PT12-382-U60	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-10-27-PT12-382-U61	Proposal No 2 is also a proposal from Parliamentary Secretary, Mr Tatar, who was also supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-10-27-PT12-382-U62	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-10-27-PT12-382-U63	All the proposals have therefore been examined. Request to support the draft law at third, final, reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-10-27-PT12-382-U64	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote in favour of the third, final, reading of the draft law “Amendments to the Postal Law”! Please vote mode! Please get the result! It's not about - 85, it's against and abstains. The law has been passed.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-10-27-PT12-382-U65	Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-10-27-PT12-382-U66	On the agenda - draft law “On real estate at Skolas iela 3, Riga, transfer to Latvian Medical Association”, third reading. On behalf of the Commission for Social and Labour Affairs - Member Romualds Ražuks.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-10-27-PT12-382-U67	Dear Chairman of the Saeima. Colleagues! The Social and Labour Affairs Commission of the Saeima reviewed and prepared for the third reading the draft law “On transfer of real estate to the Latvian Medical Association at Skolas iela 3, Riga”. Five proposals were received. 1. - the proposal from the Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Finance, Mr Putra. Not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-10-27-PT12-382-U68	Let us start a debate. Name to Member Vital Orlov.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-10-27-PT12-382-U69	Thank you, Presidium. Honourable Members! I draw attention to the draft law “On transfer of real estate at Skolas iela 3, Riga, to the Latvian Medical Association”. Members of the political group SASKAŅS voted to see the issue of transfer of property at Skolas iela 3 not by the Legal Commission, as usual, but by the Commission of Social and Labour Affairs, in order to improve the process of transfer of property and to allow doctors to perform delegated functions of the state in accordance with the laws and regulations of the Latvian Medical Society. We therefore support the proposal of Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Finance, Edgars Putra, which is the first proposal. If the Commission's version is supported... if the wording created and supported by the Commission is adopted, illegal State aid will arise, according to the Ministry of Finance. And if one of the interested parties submits a complaint to the European Commission, the European Commission will take a decision on the incompatibility of the measures with the internal market of the European Union and the Latvian Medical Association, all state aid provided, together with penalty interest calculated from the date on which the aid was granted, will be reimbursed to the Latvian State. Such a letter from representatives of the Ministry of Finance was distributed at the commission meeting. Several companies have already been registered at Skolas iela 3 which are not in any way related to medicine, such as SIA “Aukļu paslauss”, association “Latvia for Tibet”, the Confederation of Independent Trade Unions of Latvia, the Association of Latvian Travel Agents and Operators”, and others, which are in no way related to medicine and delegated functions of the state. I would stress that if the version approved by the Commission is adopted, then according to the principle “which is not prohibited, it is allowed” the Latvian Medical Association will be able to, for example, open a Skolas iela 3 healthy food restaurant, where the same healthy and very dear colla would be offered. I call for support for proposal 1 and do not support the Commission's drafting.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-10-27-PT12-382-U70	The name of the Member, Einer Cylinskis.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-10-27-PT12-382-U71	Honorary Speaker of the Saeima! Dear Members, Thus, in this proposal - proposal 1 - the Ministry of Finance has urged in line with the state aid rules... Moreover, commercial aid also applies to associations and foundations, not only to economic operators. In particular, the Latvian Medical Association has the right to carry out complementary economic activities to a limited extent, as well as to transfer real estate to other entities for the performance of delegated state functions. Thus, if there is an association or any other body carrying out the delegated functions of the State in question, it may be there, while for the others it is not prohibited, but that activity should be complementary (as the Ministry of Finance pointed out, 20 per cent). However, these conditions for State aid do not change in any way nor are they removed if we do not include them in the law. And this is definitely something that the Latvian Medical Society has to take into account. And when transferring this state property to the Latvian Medical Association, it can be taken into account in the adoption and transfer act. And so we cannot actually vote or vote. That will be the same as it is. I felt in the Commission that this should be discussed again. The majority of the Commission considered that they could move forward in the same way. I accept this view, but this in no way - whether we accept it or reject it - does not change the existence of state aid conditions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-10-27-PT12-382-U72	The name to Member Romuald Harvest.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-10-27-PT12-382-U73	Dear colleagues, The Latvian Medical Association is one of the most serious and reliable social partners of our Parliament, with whom we have worked for 25 years. The Latvian Medical Association performs many functions in other countries under the responsibility of national ministries - education, certification of specialists, support and advice of other associations such as nurses' association. The history of this property in Skolas iela 3 about transfer or transfer to Latvian Medical Association will continue for years. At the same time, a whole series of similar laws were adopted - on the transfer of the Latvian Front building to the society “Public Council of the People’s Front Museum”, on the transfer of the building at Kramu iela 3 to the association of members of the barricades of 1991, on the transfer of property to the association “Jews in Latvia”. After all, by implementing historical honesty, the truth, we handed over to the Council of Jewish Communities of Latvia property without asking who will be there, who will not be there. This system works perfectly. I myself had the honour to return the People's Front building to the Old Town Street, because the museum was included in the Latvian National Museum of History... I do not understand what other duties can be imposed here on the Latvian Medical Association, what restrictions. Why is this necessary by distributing a social organization that is superior to what I have called a whole head trial, and who cares for this building for 25 years without asking for any funds from the State? Of course, if we impose any restrictions and provide an opportunity for financial control bodies to terrorise the Latvian Medical Association, it will not sign this agreement or invest in the repair of the building. The building will gradually become unusable, it will not be able to continue operating, it will turn into a slum, and it will be sold to a private... a legal person. I call not to support the proposal of the Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Finance, Edgars Putra, and not to apply a different, separate attitude to the Latvian Medical Association compared to other non-governmental organisations.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-10-27-PT12-382-U74	Thank you. I closed the debate. Does the rapporteur wish to express the opinion of the Commission?
ParlaMint-LV_2016-10-27-PT12-382-U75	The Commission's view is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-10-27-PT12-382-U76	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote in favour of 1. - A proposal from the Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Finance, Edgars Putra! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 26, for - 37, for - 22. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-10-27-PT12-382-U77	2. - Proposal by Mr. Edgars Putra, Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Finance. Not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-10-27-PT12-382-U78	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-10-27-PT12-382-U79	3. - Proposal by Mr. Edgars Putra, Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Finance. Partially supported, included 4. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-10-27-PT12-382-U80	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-10-27-PT12-382-U81	4. - The proposal of the Commission on Social and Labour Affairs. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-10-27-PT12-382-U82	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-10-27-PT12-382-U83	5. - Proposal by Mr. Edgars Putra, Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Finance. Not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-10-27-PT12-382-U84	Let us start a debate. Name to Member Artus Neminis.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-10-27-PT12-382-U85	Mr Putra has a very logical proposal. The proposal reads as follows: “The wording of Article 3 of the draft law shall read: “The immovable property referred to in Section 1 of this Law shall be transferred to the State if the Latvian Medical Association ceases to exist or if the immovable property is no longer used for the performance of the tasks specified in Section 1 of this Law.” “ That’s logical! The State shall give the association, the association shall cease to exist and shall return it to the State. No, no! Such a logical proposal is rejected. Please support this proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-10-27-PT12-382-U86	Thank you. I closed the debate. What will the rapporteur add on behalf of the Commission?
ParlaMint-LV_2016-10-27-PT12-382-U87	The Commission called for this proposal not to be supported, because we did not support 1. - A proposal from the Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Finance, Edgars Putra. As regards the situation in which the Latvian Medical Association would cease to exist, it is already included... And this is one of the prerequisites for the adoption of such laws, including the transfer of real estate at Skolas iela 3 to Latvian Medical Association. If the Latvian Medical Association ceases to exist, the property is returned to the state.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-10-27-PT12-382-U88	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote in favour of 5. - A proposal from the Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Finance, Edgars Putra! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 27, for - 38, for - 21. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-10-27-PT12-382-U89	All the proposals have been examined. On behalf of the Commission, I call for support for the draft law at third, final, reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-10-27-PT12-382-U90	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote for the transfer of the draft law “On Real Estate at Skolas iela 3, Riga, to the Latvian Medical Association”! Please vote mode! Please get the result! It's not about - 66, it's 22, it's not. The law was adopted on the agenda – draft law “Amendment to the Latvian Administrative Violations Code”, third reading. Member Guntis Kalniņš on behalf of the Legal Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-10-27-PT12-382-U91	Hello, honourable Speaker of the Saeima! Colleagues! The Legal Commission reviewed and prepared for the third reading the draft law “Amendment to the Code of Administrative Violations of Latvia” ( draft law No.544/Lp12, which includes draft law No.657/Lp12). Seven proposals have been received. 1. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. The Commission is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-10-27-PT12-382-U92	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-10-27-PT12-382-U93	Proposal No 2...
ParlaMint-LV_2016-10-27-PT12-382-U94	So... Or on proposal 2? The second proposal wanted to be discussed, yeah?
ParlaMint-LV_2016-10-27-PT12-382-U95	Yeah... 2. - a proposal from the Minister of Justice, Mr Rasnač. The Commission was not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-10-27-PT12-382-U96	Let us start a debate. Name of the Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Justice Janis Iesalnieks.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-10-27-PT12-382-U97	Hello, Members! In order not to delay your time, I will immediately talk about both motions 2, 3 and 7, which are all tabled by the Minister of Justice and which are all inextricably linked, because they are the same. Currently, there are two articles in the Latvian Administrative Violations Code that talk about violations of insolvency law. One of these articles is Article 166.35 on non-submission of an application for insolvency proceedings. The implementation of this Article is currently monitored by the State Revenue Service and the State Police. And the other is Article 166.36 - about the violation of the provisions of insolvency proceedings or legal redress proceedings. At present, its enforcement is monitored by the insolvency administration. These three proposals of the Minister of Justice provide for this first article of the LAPC, namely the article on failure to submit an application for insolvency proceedings, to be transferred from the competence of the State Police to the insolvency administration, while maintaining the competence of the State Revenue Service in this article. It should be recalled that this second article - about violation of the provisions of insolvency procedure or legal protection procedure - was transferred from the competence of the State Police to the insolvency administration on 1 January 2015. In the past, the State Police initiated a couple of cases a year after this article, whereas the Insolvency Administration initiated 113 cases after this article in 2015. It's more than fifty-fold growth! This is because the insolvency administration, as a responsible, supervisory authority, is the primary authority that receives information about irregularities in insolvency proceedings and can therefore operate much more quickly... respond much more quickly to these violations. Both Latvian entrepreneurs and foreign investor organisations have long encouraged supervision of insolvency proceedings to be concentrated in the hands of one state institution, including this article of the Latvian Administrative Violations Code on failure to submit an application for insolvency proceedings from the State Police for insolvency administration. This is also provided for in the Guidelines for the Development of Insolvency Policy adopted by the Government in September. It is also supported by the State Police. It should be recalled that this is not the first attempt to carry out this work. Last time, when the Legal Commission rejected the transfer of this GAPC item within the competence of the insolvency administration, the Council of Foreign Investors in Latvia very strongly criticised the Saeima's inability to resolve. One can understand the scandal that has been voiced in the Saeima about the efficiency of the operation of the insolvency administration so far, but, as recently recognised by representatives of foreign investors in the Crime Prevention Council, since the administration has changed its management, the activities of this institution have improved significantly over the past six months. And foreign investors say that. It is possible that the most visible recognition of the Ministry of Justice's reforms in the area of insolvency is an organised campaign by the Minister of Justice of some unfair work in the area of insolvency. Therefore, I call on Members of the Saeima to listen to the arguments of Latvian businessmen and also foreign investor organisations, allowing the police to focus on criminal investigations (in addition, a special unit is being created in the police at the moment for combating complex economic crimes), while this administrative supervision should be concentrated in the hands of the responsible authorities - the insolvency administration - and therefore supports the proposals of the Minister of Justice - proposals 2, 3 and 7. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-10-27-PT12-382-U98	Thank you. The name of the Member, Andrejs Judin.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-10-27-PT12-382-U99	Dear colleagues, As has been rightly pointed out, we are working again with this proposal. Another completely different draft law put forward the same proposal. In the Legal Commission, we discussed a lot and did not support it. And now we see the same proposal again in another draft law. I would like to say that none of my fellow Members said that it was wrong, wrong in substance or that it would in no way be acceptable. In theory, everything is logical and correct. And in principle, it will certainly ever be supported. Maybe. But maybe not. This depends to a large extent on the amendments to the insolvency law. It is necessary to adopt legislative amendments at the beginning. When we are absolutely clear about the role that insolvency administration will play, what role will be played by the Association of Certified Administrators of the Bankruptcy Process of Latvia, then we will also be able to determine who is to be punished and who is to be punished. Here we see an attempt to solve the problem from the other end. It is very good that there are guidelines which are significant and shape the way forward. But we had a meeting of the Legal Commission some time ago, relatively recently, about a month ago. We discussed what legislative proposals to support, because these concepts are very different. We do not want to allow the situation to be changed in the beginning and, after it has to be decided on the amendments to the law, it will be used as an argument: “Look! It is very important that the specially created working group working under the insolvency law completes its work. As soon as there is clarity with the law, we will also decide on amendments to the ADRC. For the moment I am not calling for your support or support. You can abstain, because we cannot really push this issue forward at the moment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-10-27-PT12-382-U100	Thank you. Name of Member Inga Bite.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-10-27-PT12-382-U101	Dear colleagues, If someone fails to do his job, we usually either release him from work or reduce his workload in some way. What are we currently trying to do with the Bankruptcy Administration? We are trying to impose another obligation on an institution that is not already dealing with its own duties, another obligation in another law, and another obligation in another law, in the hope that it may be more appropriate for them to deal with the supervision of insolvency administrators. Dear colleagues, In conceptual terms, I believe that the main thing that the insolvency administration should do and focus on is the supervision of the activities of insolvency administrators. And that's why it's our job to get this institution as free as possible from any other functions and tasks so that it can carry out its main task qualitatively. This is an additional job that Mr Rasnač proposes to impose on the Insolvent Administration. It has not been supported by the Commission, and I do not support it either. Once again, let us not place additional tasks on an institution that is already not dealing with what it has been tasked with! Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-10-27-PT12-382-U102	Thank you. I closed the debate. Will the rapporteur add something?
ParlaMint-LV_2016-10-27-PT12-382-U103	No, there's nothing to say. The Commission did not support this.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-10-27-PT12-382-U104	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote in favour of 2. - the proposal submitted by the Minister of Justice Dzintars Rasnačs! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 31, for - 34, for - 23. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-10-27-PT12-382-U105	3. - the proposal of the Minister of Justice, which is related to proposal 2 and was not supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-10-27-PT12-382-U106	Do Members want to vote on proposal 3? ( The box “No! ”) ) Members do not want to vote on proposal 3.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-10-27-PT12-382-U107	4. - the proposal of Minister for the Interior Kozlovsky, but it has been withdrawn by letter No.1282522. 5. The President of the Council of Ministers of the European Union, the President of the Republic, the President of the Republic, the President of the Republic, the President of the Republic, the President of the Republic, the President of the Republic, the Grand Duchy of Luxembourg, the Grand Duchy of Luxembourg, the Grand Duchy of So the 6th proposal, which is a proposal from the Legal Office, is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-10-27-PT12-382-U108	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-10-27-PT12-382-U109	The proposal concerned previous proposals made by the Minister of Justice and was not supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-10-27-PT12-382-U110	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-10-27-PT12-382-U111	I ask colleagues to support the draft law at third, final, reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-10-27-PT12-382-U112	Please call me! We will vote for the support of the draft law “Amendment to the Latvian Administrative Violations Code” in the third, final, reading! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. The law is passed.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-10-27-PT12-382-U113	Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-10-27-PT12-382-U114	On the agenda - draft law “Amendment to the Law on Vocational Education”, first reading. On behalf of the Commission for Education, Culture and Science - Member Valdis Skujiņš.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-10-27-PT12-382-U115	Dear Chairman of the Saeima. Colleagues! The Commission for Education, Culture and Science has received the draft law “Amendment to the Law on Vocational Education” approved by the Cabinet of Ministers of the Ministry of Education and Science. This law is very long ago. The second paragraph of Article 31 of the Law states: ‘The Ministry of Education and Science and the Ministry of Industry shall determine the number of state-funded places in vocational education programmes accredited by state, local government and private educational institutions’. However, according to this law, professional secondary education programmes and vocational education programmes may also be implemented by colleges, including state university colleges. This article of the law, however, does not refer to it, so it needs to be improved. The Ministry of Education and Science therefore proposes that an article of this Law be expressed in the following form: “The Ministry of Education and Science and the Ministry of Industry may determine the number of state-funded places in vocational education programmes accredited by state education institutions (including state universities), as well as in vocational education programmes accredited by state universities colleges, municipalities and private education institutions.” At its meeting on 19 October, the Commission for Education, Culture and Science examined the draft law and decided to support it. We ask you to support this at first reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-10-27-PT12-382-U116	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote in favour of the first reading of the draft law “Amendment to the Law on Vocational Education”! Please vote mode! Please get the result! It's not about - 85, it's against and abstains. The draft law at first reading has been supported. Please set a deadline for the submission of the proposals for second reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-10-27-PT12-382-U117	Proposals may be submitted by 1 November.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-10-27-PT12-382-U118	Thank you. Proposals shall be submitted by 1 November of this year. On the agenda - draft law “On a limited liability company “Bulduri Secondary School of Gardening”, second reading. On behalf of the Commission for Education, Culture and Science - Member Askolds Kļaviņš.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-10-27-PT12-382-U119	Hello, honourable Members and those present! The Education, Culture and Science Commission worked with the draft law “On a Limited Liability Society “Bulduri Secondary School of Gardening”. The Legal Bureau has submitted six proposals. All these proposals are purely technical and editorial. We have supported all these proposals. 1. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-10-27-PT12-382-U120	Let us start a debate. Name to Member Ivars Zarins.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-10-27-PT12-382-U121	Hello, colleagues! However, I call for attention to be paid to this draft law. Now that we see the whole picture of how it will look, there are sound questions. In particular, Proposal No 1 concerns Article 1 and it is said that the purpose of this Law is to ensure the continued operation and financing of a limited liability company ‘Bulduri Secondary School of Gardening’. If you look at how this action will be financed, then a very interesting thing emerges. In particular, when it comes to funding (that is Article 4 on the same proposal), it was mentioned initially, at first reading, that this activity would be provided by the state. At second reading, it appears that the state will finance the professional activities implemented by secondary school and the minimum cost of implementation of the education programmes, as defined by the Cabinet of Ministers, per person. When we look at how it is intended to be financed further, we see an interesting indication: this activity can be financed by selling its property too. So we create a situation where it is clear that this organisation itself will not have enough money to finance its activities and will have to sell its assets. And maybe this is the real, real goal, why such an interesting law is being made at all. What does this law do? This law will repeal the Bulduri Law on Gardening... So, one moment... Transitional provisions... ( Pause.) (See the box below.) ... on Bulduri Gardening... for this company... capital shares and real estate. In particular, in the absence of this law, amendments to the law should be made in order to dispose of these property, it should be decided by the Saeima. Now, this law, in turn, offers such an elegant opportunity - similar to the one that Citadele sold at the time - will now be able to sell its shares... will be able to sell the real estate of that company. In particular, the Senate of the Latvian University of Agriculture will decide that it is necessary to dispose, and of course the government, the Cabinet of Ministers, will simply say: “Well we accept.” On the same basis as the sale of Citadele. After all, no one will answer for anything. Very good! 116 hectares will be conveniently sold to anyone. My question is: is that not really the purpose of this law? In any case, we will follow this.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-10-27-PT12-382-U122	The name of Member Ilze Viņķelis.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-10-27-PT12-382-U123	Colleagues! The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. J.Urbanovics: “The suspicions are ruining a person!” ) This is a classic provocator move. It is being said that the Czechs have also acted like this. You take a little bit of truth, put on something, encircles something, describe something there, and then come. — Dep. I.Zariņš intermediates.) ... Follow me! That's the kind of job we've got here, and we've got to keep track of each other. But with that half-truth of truth, you come and talk about the huge theory of conspiracy. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. J.Urbanovich’s intermediate shout: “Stand... !” ) This school is saved. There is a certain public opinion, and a group of interests - in this case gardeners - has taken the view that this school should maintain traditions and exist. Oh, my God, thank God. - is ready to take part in the Latvian University of Agriculture. And for the legal presentation to be clear and for the school to have predictable financial flows, it is necessary to create this law. And with regard to the property, I call on you, Mr. Zarins, if you have energy, to look at and explore once properly what has happened there and how these laughing money have been rented out. This law is on the contrary! - ensure that the State retains control over its assets. And even if something is ever going on and the school needs to be reorganised, the property comes back under the supervision of the State and any action relating to disposal or non-disposal can be taken, so to speak, only through government. And the government, as we know, we have coalitions. And as one another is being supervised (Dep. I.Zariņš intermediates: “You will be able to do the same!” ), in this case... like in the Riga City Council... And everything else... The law is for the sake of - quite the contrary! - provide the public with confidence that the property will be managed with care. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-10-27-PT12-382-U124	I closed the debate. Will the rapporteur add a note on behalf of the Commission? Please call me! We will vote in favour of 1. - The legal office's proposal! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 87, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The proposal is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-10-27-PT12-382-U125	2. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. The Commission was in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-10-27-PT12-382-U126	Let us start a debate. Name to Member Ivars Zarins.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-10-27-PT12-382-U127	Mrs Viņķele, I will read for you specifically the second proposal. So you said that all of this would remain, that the property would not be offended. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. J. Viļums: “Ivar, come to the commission!” ) Lasau, which you will now accept: ‘Real estate belonging to a limited liability company ‘Bulduri Secondary School of Gardening’, which is listed in the Annex to this law... “ All of you are in the supplement, over 116 acres [more than 116 acres]! ” ‘... to be used for the needs of this educational establishment as well as for income from the provision of education at that educational establishment.’ So, so that they can also be sold. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. I. Viņķelis ir dep. K.Sergeant’s transcripts.) That's how... And this sale procedure is specifically described, it has been changed (Dep. I.Viņķelis: “Rent!” )): Until now, to sell them, a decision of the Saeima was needed, and then it should be widely discussed, whereas now it will not be discussed at all. Simply the Senate of the Latvian University of Agriculture will take a decision, which the government will quietly approve. And that's it! Then he will ask, “Why did you do this?” - “Well, the Senate decided!” The Senate, in turn, will say, “We have been approved by the government!” And there will be the same thing with “Citadel”: no one will answer for anything. And for some good, this land will be sold.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-10-27-PT12-382-U128	Name to Member Carl Sergeant.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-10-27-PT12-382-U129	Hello! ( Internouncing call.) No, no, no, I simply have to tell Mr Zariņš that profit can be achieved not only by selling land but by managing land. If these 116 hectares are managed normally, there will also be profits. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. I.Zariņš: “And what's hindering it now?” ) And if we remember old times, then... I think here in the hall there is also one other person who has participated in the legendary Burkan Balls of the Bulduri Gardening techniques. ), because this technique was one of the largest carrot growers and every autumn it was noted. So I don't need to, Mr. Zarins, look for something to sell right away... Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. You can find it in the Riga City Council!
ParlaMint-LV_2016-10-27-PT12-382-U130	I closed the debate. Will the rapporteur add a note on behalf of the Commission? No, no? The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. A. Kaimiņš: “What did the commission say?” ) Please call us! We will vote in favour of 2. - The legal office's proposal! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 89, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. The proposal is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-10-27-PT12-382-U131	3. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. The Commission is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-10-27-PT12-382-U132	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-10-27-PT12-382-U133	4. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. The Commission is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-10-27-PT12-382-U134	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-10-27-PT12-382-U135	5. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. The Commission is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-10-27-PT12-382-U136	Partially supported, included 6. - the Commission's proposal. Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-10-27-PT12-382-U137	And six. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-10-27-PT12-382-U138	Proposal No 6 It has been presented by the Education, Culture and Science Commission. This is supported by the Commission. All the proposals have been examined. Please call me! We will vote in favour of the second reading of the draft law “On a Limited Liability Society “Bulduri Gardening Secondary School”! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 88, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. The draft law at second reading has been supported. Please set a deadline for the third reading of the proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-10-27-PT12-382-U139	Proposals should be submitted by 1 November of this year.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-10-27-PT12-382-U140	Thank you. Proposals shall be submitted by 1 November of this year. On the agenda - draft law “Amendments to the Law on the Movement of Alcohol Drinks”, second reading. On behalf of the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy, Member Ingmārs Līdaka.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-10-27-PT12-382-U141	Hello, dear colleagues! You gotta get in first, huh? So for your attention, the second reading - “Amendments to the Law on the Movement of Alcohol Drinks”. The commission responsible has received seven proposals. 1. is a proposal, drawn up by the responsible Commission itself, which clarifies the term "small distillery" in order to facilitate the development of the activities of small winemakers. So please support this.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-10-27-PT12-382-U142	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-10-27-PT12-382-U143	2. - a proposal drawn up by the committee responsible. It complements the list of small winery products.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-10-27-PT12-382-U144	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-10-27-PT12-382-U145	3. - the Commission's proposal on the same subject. Please support me.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-10-27-PT12-382-U146	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-10-27-PT12-382-U147	And then we come to the main aim of the original amendment of this law - the restriction on the marketing of large beer bottles. I would remind you that this draft law was drawn up by the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy at the initiative of the Ministry of Health. The aim was to limit the sale of cheap surrogate chocolate products, sometimes called ‘bumble beers’, in large packages. Large packaging means two litres, one and a half litres, so above a litre. The original version stated that over one litre of packaging, over one litre of volume, no beer with any alcoholic content could be sold. And a beer with an alcohol content of more than 7.5 percent may not be sold in half a litre to one litre. To avoid confusion, I would remind you that this regulation does not apply to glass, ceramic and wood or metal packaging. So what journalists have once also said is that now the big champagnes will now be banned, the big ones, let's say, the whiskies will be banned... None of this is intended as these articles are normally contained in glass packaging or may be in clay packaging. So, Proposal 4. It has been presented by Ingmars Līdaka. That has been supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-10-27-PT12-382-U148	Let us start a debate. The name to Member Roman Money.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-10-27-PT12-382-U149	Good afternoon, dear colleagues! The Commission had a wide-ranging debate on the fourth proposal tabled by Mr Līdaka. Seven Members supported it, three voted against. I call for this proposal not to be supported, because in this way, we step backwards from the legislative text that we originally supported, namely, that we banned beer trade, strengthened beer trade, volume units from one litre to the top. That was the original version. On the other hand, with Mr Līdaka's proposal, we do not only ban the reinforced beer, which is above 5.8 per cent. But all that is less than 5.8 percent is also allowed to be bottled in two litres, three litres, and ten litres. Colleagues, I call for this proposal not to be supported. ( Interface: ‘ Vote! ’) ) On the other hand, I call for support for proposal 5, which is partly supported by Mr Debtor's proposal, as it would further reduce the absolute alcohol content of beverages to 5.8 per cent, thus reducing it from 7.5 per cent to 5.8 per cent in the previous version. Thank you, colleagues. So I am calling for it not to be supported, to be voted against the Commission's decision.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-10-27-PT12-382-U150	Name to Member Ilmar Latkovsky.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-10-27-PT12-382-U151	Very honourable Speaker of the Saeima! Colleagues! I will also call on the Commission not to support this proposal and vote in favour of the next proposal, which would prohibit any beer in PET bottles of more than one litre. It is already in itself a compromise - these PET bottles - but I call on us to respect also the interests of producers, yes, because they themselves... they have declared themselves to be equal in this matter. They depend on these two target groups - beer drinkers. One group of men in the years of power, who are under pressure, perhaps 24 hours a day. The question is, will they stop drinking if they take away this big beer? Well, maybe... In most cases, neither. And the other group. If it's the light beer we're going to make, then maybe it'll be very pleasant for the beginners... Let's say, to attract them? On the other hand, many may not begin to do so. The bans are not too popular, they are always torpedoed with questions: “Are there complex and alternative solutions? And how else will you entertain this audience? And if there's no such solution, then leave it up to us, and we'll offer a milder mill - below 5.8 percent... !” And if these men said so far they need two to four bottles a day, then... Well, well, now it's going to be cheaper -- four-five... And if there are shares, then... These pictures are very good. Well, “Apinitis” made by Estonians... That's seven percent... Two litres - €1.65. Estonian - We're not allowed if we walk below those percentages at the bottom. The Estonians once again are dealt with in terms of alcohol. ‘ Optima, Lithuanian manufacturer - 4,2... Well, in the campaign two liters - 16 cents. We leave these, Lithuanians. And “Miezinis” - 4.7 percent, 2.35 litres, 1.59 euros. Made in Latvia. Whether Latvians are producers, I don't know, but they are produced in Latvia. Let's leave these too. And if the price is converted to the litre there, then “Miezinis” is 68 cents per litre, “ Optima” - 8 cents per litre... Well, you can't compete here with tap water, but... All right, it's a share price, but without a share of good water it's hard to compete with this beer. Dear businessmen, what is this? What is it about the pot? But - well, the interests of producers really should be respected. But then I would like to ask the producers a first question before we talk about your interests. Is your business really holding on to the consumption of this mill and this target group? Otherwise, there will be bankruptcy? Well, hardly that kind of business would be quite a perspective, and then we have to think about a change of orientation... change your business orientation. For your argument is: “They will drink anyway, and it will not be saved. Then let's better drink this light beer, and leave us... Because they are hopelessly lost people!” Maybe they're not all hopelessly missing people. And here comes to my mind a historical comparison. 17th and 18th century. Latvian farmers are dying hard. And then the Hernhues come. Yes, that enlightenment really comes, and then there is an alternative solution - they, farmers, come to the Brothers' congregations. And the taverns complain to the manormen: “Our taverns will fail – farmers no longer drink! Our business is dead!” The Monasteries themselves are unfortunate - alcohol breaks are going to fail. You know, businessmen, today the Hernhues are reborn as well! Very little, but in Vidzeme at Rauna... And those men, by the way, admit that they have consumed heavy alcohol ever. Today they have arranged themselves and their surroundings. But if you go a little further, you walk men with two litres. So if your business is still too dependent on people's cheap drinking, then really it's not a promising business. But... Well, okay. Rainis said, “There will be something that will change.” And we respect our interests and ask economic operators: "How long is the transitional period necessary for the introduction of this light mill and for its equipment to be still in place? Say it to the third reading! Six months? Year? Half a second? That would be a lot." But now I am calling for this proposal to be rejected and for the next one - Imants Debtor's proposal, which is also a compromise in itself.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-10-27-PT12-382-U152	Thank you. The name of Member Lolita Chigan. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. J.Urbanovich: “You also drink?” ; dep. J.Adamson: “Brewer!” ) Council Regulation (EC) No 1257/96 of 20 June 1996 concerning humanitarian aid (OJ L 163, 2.7.1996, p. 1).
ParlaMint-LV_2016-10-27-PT12-382-U153	Dear colleagues, I would also like to ask you not to support Mr Līdaka's proposal, because this proposal substantially undermines the Commission's initial commitment to denying the sale of alcohol in these extremely large packages. I do not want to compete with them; however, a small story from my side too. This summer, I was in a regional store where I was in front of a man - a great, fertile man who had picked up two huge alcohols, a strong beer, a bottle and was going to pay for them. At the time the husband gave the seller the money, a little crying girl ran into the store and said: “Dad, you ripped my bag again to buy you alcohol.” Mr Līdaka's proposal will allow this gentleman to continue to buy large quantities of alcohol bottles. Please don't support me!
ParlaMint-LV_2016-10-27-PT12-382-U154	Name to Member Ingmars Lydak.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-10-27-PT12-382-U155	Yes, honourable colleagues, I am delighted that there are so many experts in this area. Some of us were also forced to listen to the television screens. They were both professionals in its field and not just experts. Three words on how this proposal was made. This proposal, let me say, was made in close cooperation with the Association of Food Producers. This is their compromise offer, which I do not deny. Given that food producers, however, are paying taxes rather hard, I do not think that their opinion would not be worth hearing. Where do I see problems in my proposal? In my proposal, I see one problem: the restriction on quality wine in the paper package. If this proposal is adopted, a proposal on paper packaging will be submitted in the package, with exceptions, as non-restrictive. As for the proportionality of the restriction, consider that what is destined to be shot will not be lost. And in this case, I don't think we're going to teach these rural men or city men in some way without offering them such a product. I think these men - according to their ability to count the last deposit quite hard - will once again find their way to the canoe. At the moment, this path has grown up with hives, because men simply go to the official store, drink the official two-liters. But these fortified two-liters will not be available. Second. Consider what happened, say, on the Lithuanian market after the adoption of a similar strict restriction: the strong wine packed in plastic containers became very popular there (in 18-19 degrees). People figured it's getting better. Traders offered it, producers were able to produce it very quickly. The result was rather sad because the beer industry was to a certain extent destroyed, but some cheap wine, which is the same surrogate chocolate, got a new breath. With regard to these economic calculations, I am also quite concerned about the fact that in recent years the volume of beer produced in Latvia has increased by almost 25 percent... Of course, this does not mean that alcohol consumption has decreased. This means that this beer produced in Latvia has been replaced by another product. Well, most likely, when you see statistics, this is the increase in these cheap fortified wines and also the rise in the strong alcohol. I do not think we need to look at this problem on just one plate. We also need to look at this market, because we can make our producers even less competitive. That would not be desirable. I would like to remind you once again: this proposal is really brought here... Latvian Trader... I am sorry, the proposal of the association of food producers. Well, I've been a postman this time and I also defend this proposal. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. L. Čigāne: “Caucass!” ) Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-10-27-PT12-382-U156	Name to Member Artus Neminis.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-10-27-PT12-382-U157	Well, do you understand now that we need the law of lobbying? Ladies and gentlemen, look from me to the right: Ingmars Līdaka - the first lobbyist in Latvia right now! ( Milestones.) No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, This is lobbying that you are currently doing, Mr Līdaka. Gustavs Zatlers, son of Zatlers, comes to the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy, with an empty sniff bottle and presents it (Interfaces.) ... and presents this event: “Look at this, we have these production lines installed. What are we going to produce there?’ These are their problems. I am sorry, Mr Līdaka, you are a member of the Saeima, you are not a lobbyist. Lobbyists don't talk from this thing. But you're talking. So choose... Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. Who pays you a salary? Latvian taxpayers, not lobbyists. Right? That's right! ( Milestones.) So I think it's wrong... Don't fix it! This Cēsu alus lobby, which is being voiced here today from the parliamentary tribunal, has another proof that the register of lobbyists in the country is necessary, because then we could also record Mr Līdaka there. I call on you not to support Mr Līdaka's proposal, but to support Mr Debtor's proposal, which is indeed a compromise, as my neighbour Latkovsky said. Work on the Law on Lobbying is still waiting for us. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-10-27-PT12-382-U158	Name to Member Carl Sergeant.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-10-27-PT12-382-U159	Good afternoon! Undoubtedly, this proposal by Mr Līdaka is a step in the right direction, but if I have to appreciate it, then maybe this step... I would have liked it to be a little wider and more qualitative, because I think, by prohibiting these so-called two-litre beers (up to 5.7 percent), we have forgotten a second category, that is, the so-called alcoholic cocktails, which are also being sold in large bottles, but these cocktails are just five degrees strong. And, for example, Mr. Zatler, mentioned earlier, a junior who talked about his production... Cesis brewery produces such a mystical long drank called Cesis John, which now seems to me to be the most popular alcoholic drink in Latvia for three years, and not because this drink is very high quality. If Mr Zatler, for example, asked him to live this one-and-a-half litre live, I think he would protect, disdain and refuse, because an unaccustomed person can also get into the coma after that. So, of course... I think we should talk not only about degrees, not just about packaging, but also about quality, because no one can convince me that beer that can be bought... Two litres by 18 cents that it's been standing next to the beer. Well, it's not standing next to the beer! It is coloured water, with a few grams of alcohol added to its strength. These drinks must be combated, not by quality fermented beer or quality fermented cider.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-10-27-PT12-382-U160	Name to Member Ingmars Lydak, for the second time. ( The transcripts are: “It’s enough! ” ; “Two words!” ) Council Regulation (EC) No 1257/96 of 20 June 1996 concerning humanitarian aid (OJ L 163, 2.7.1996, p. 1).
ParlaMint-LV_2016-10-27-PT12-382-U161	I'm really quick. I will just try again now to tell you what is planned in the current version. In the current version: above half a litre - may not sell stronger than 7,5 per cent, above one litre - nothing, only wine may. So I say once again: market players, producers, beer producers are very concerned that this already in Latvia, fortified wine 0.75 and a litre of packaging, will benefit very much, which would not be right. So in my proposal, the wine is included. Under 5.8 degrees there are no restrictions, above 5.8 degrees - more than a litre of packaging may not be sold. Mr 2nd proposal of the debtor states that more than 0.5 litres may not be sold in principle. And this, in my opinion, once again puts the same cheap wine and some other surrogate chocolates in an even more advantageous position than the previous version. Because in practice... Do what your mind tells you to do.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-10-27-PT12-382-U162	The name to Member Roman Money, for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-10-27-PT12-382-U163	Dear colleagues, I will remind you of what is said in the Law on Excise Duty on Alcohol Drinks. Wine is separated to us as a product, and wine can only be produced from grapes. Fortified wine, on the other hand, we are classified with other alcoholic beverages. In this regard, at third reading, we, the Commission, will further clarify the wording and supplement it with other products - intermediate products - which are also laid down in Latvian legislation, for example, martins and other light drinks, which should also be excluded from the market if they were filled in plastic bottles. So, Mr Līdaka, there is no reason for concern. The edit has been written correctly. Let's take the first steps towards banning these big plastic bottles. Thank you, colleagues. The request does not support Mr Līdaka's proposal. ( Dep A. Berzins: “Watch, vote! Let's vote! Have a drink!” ) Council Regulation (EC) No 1257/96 of 20 June 1996 concerning humanitarian aid (OJ L 163, 2.7.1996, p. 1).
ParlaMint-LV_2016-10-27-PT12-382-U164	I closed the debate. Please call me! Let us vote in favour of 4. - The motion tabled by Member Ingmars Līdak! Please vote mode! Please get the result! About -6, against -42, abstaining -34. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-10-27-PT12-382-U165	5. - The debtor's proposal. Partly supported. This is obviously a voteable one. That is something to be voted on now.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-10-27-PT12-382-U166	Do Members want to vote on Amendment 5? ( The box “Yes! ”) ) Members wish to vote. Please call me! We will vote in favour of 5. - Imants Debtor's proposal! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 65, for - 4, for - 10. The proposal is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-10-27-PT12-382-U167	6. - Asheraden's proposal of the Minister for Economics of the Prime Minister regarding advertising bans did not constitute aid, but that does not mean that it has been rejected in substance. A more precise, legally correct version will therefore be drawn up for the third reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-10-27-PT12-382-U168	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-10-27-PT12-382-U169	And finally 7. - the proposal for transitional provisions by the committee responsible. It has been developed by the Commission responsible. Please support me.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-10-27-PT12-382-U170	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-10-27-PT12-382-U171	I therefore ask for support at second reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-10-27-PT12-382-U172	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote in favour of the second reading of the draft law “Amendments to the Law on the Movement of Alcohol Drinks”! Please vote mode! Please get the result! It's not about - 85, it's against and abstains. The draft law at second reading has been supported. Please set a deadline for the third reading of the proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-10-27-PT12-382-U173	November 3.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-10-27-PT12-382-U174	Thank you. Proposals shall be submitted by 3 November of this year. On the agenda - draft law on public procurement, second reading. On behalf of the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy - Member Romanas Naudiņš.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-10-27-PT12-382-U175	The Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy Commission of the Saeima has examined and prepared for consideration at the Saeima’s second reading of the draft law “Law on Public Procurement”. Dear colleagues, 42 proposals have been received. 1. - a proposal from the committee responsible. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-10-27-PT12-382-U176	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-10-27-PT12-382-U177	2. - a proposal from the committee responsible. It is also supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-10-27-PT12-382-U178	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-10-27-PT12-382-U179	3. - the proposal by Ms. Inguna Ribena. It is also supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-10-27-PT12-382-U180	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-10-27-PT12-382-U181	4. - the proposal from the Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Finance, Mr Putra. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-10-27-PT12-382-U182	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-10-27-PT12-382-U183	5. - the proposal from Member Reynolds. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-10-27-PT12-382-U184	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-10-27-PT12-382-U185	6. - the proposal by Member Inguna Silverba. Not supported. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. I. Silver: Vote! ) Council Regulation (EC) No 1257/96 of 20 June 1996 concerning humanitarian aid (OJ L 163, 2.7.1996, p. 1).
ParlaMint-LV_2016-10-27-PT12-382-U186	Members ask for a vote. Please call me! We will vote in favour of 6. - the proposal tabled by Member Inguna Silverba! Please vote mode! Please get the result! About - 28, against - 50, abstaining - 3. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-10-27-PT12-382-U187	7. - The motion from Member Ingmars Līdak. Not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-10-27-PT12-382-U188	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-10-27-PT12-382-U189	8 / 8 - a proposal from the committee responsible. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-10-27-PT12-382-U190	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-10-27-PT12-382-U191	9. - a proposal from the committee responsible. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-10-27-PT12-382-U192	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-10-27-PT12-382-U193	10............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - The proposal from the Member Krauze. Not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-10-27-PT12-382-U194	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-10-27-PT12-382-U195	11. - Member Silver's proposal. Some support has been given, as proposed 9.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-10-27-PT12-382-U196	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-10-27-PT12-382-U197	12. - the proposal for a Group Unity. Proposal 9 has been partly supported and included.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-10-27-PT12-382-U198	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-10-27-PT12-382-U199	13. - the proposal from Member Chigan. Some support has been given, as proposed 9.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-10-27-PT12-382-U200	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-10-27-PT12-382-U201	14............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - The motion from Member Ingmars Līdak. Not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-10-27-PT12-382-U202	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-10-27-PT12-382-U203	15............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - a proposal from the committee responsible. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-10-27-PT12-382-U204	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-10-27-PT12-382-U205	16. - The proposal from the Member Krauze. Partly supported, included in proposal 15.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-10-27-PT12-382-U206	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-10-27-PT12-382-U207	17. - a proposal from the committee responsible. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-10-27-PT12-382-U208	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-10-27-PT12-382-U209	18. - Līdaka's proposal. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-10-27-PT12-382-U210	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-10-27-PT12-382-U211	19. - The proposal from the Member's neighbor. Not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-10-27-PT12-382-U212	Let us start a debate. Name to Member Artus Neminis.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-10-27-PT12-382-U213	Okay. I have to apologize for not being on this commission. I was on a mission, couldn't defend my proposal. The proposal is based on the fact that in our country there are 33 000 alimony non-payers, those who do not pay alimments to their children. These are both men and women. And the state of 3.2 million a year spends so that these children have this money. On the other hand, the Maintenance Guarantee Fund gains back only about 360 thousand a year. The proposal for a neighbourhood is based on the fact that these unscrupulous people... Of course, there are always exceptions, but mostly these people hide and avoid contact with the Maintenance Guarantee Fund. My proposal is as follows: if it is established that a candidate or tenderer, a natural person or a legal person, or a member of an association of such persons, a member of a participant or a shareholder of such persons has been recognised as a debtor within the meaning of the Law on the Maintenance Guarantee Fund, he may not participate in public procurement because the public procurement is carried out by the State. It is the taxpayers' money that is spent on a person who does not keep his child. The amount he does not seem to pay is from EUR 112 per month. This is just one of the proposals. The rest of the proposals are currently under discussion in the Ministry of Justice, with Mrs Kucin at the forefront, we have set up a working group that makes proposals so that these people, who are indecent and who do not pay their children maintenance, cannot drive - to exercise their driver's rights. Of course, with exceptions. You won't be able to drive a ship - the ship's driving right will not be able to get... There will also be no pilot licences, no hunter's licence and no other extras. This is just one of the proposals because, in my opinion, if you are unable to account for your child, you cannot also participate in public procurement. That is the essence of this proposal. I appeal, please, to support it, because children are our future. We don't have to keep that thing if the parents themselves aren't honest: they're hiding, they're rewriting cars into other people's words... They don't own any paper, but they actually drive two or three-year-old cars, and it's the other way around. There are, of course, also exceptions. Please support this proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-10-27-PT12-382-U214	I closed the debate. Will the rapporteur explain the opinion of the panel?
ParlaMint-LV_2016-10-27-PT12-382-U215	Yes, thank you, colleagues. The Commission has therefore not received any support for this proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-10-27-PT12-382-U216	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 19. - Member Artusa Nemiņa's proposal! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 15, for - 48, for - 17. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-10-27-PT12-382-U217	Proposal 20 is partly supported and included in proposal 21. So...
ParlaMint-LV_2016-10-27-PT12-382-U218	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-10-27-PT12-382-U219	21............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - a proposal from the committee responsible. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-10-27-PT12-382-U220	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-10-27-PT12-382-U221	22. - the proposal for a Group Unity. Not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-10-27-PT12-382-U222	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-10-27-PT12-382-U223	23............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - The motion from Member Ingmars Līdak. Not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-10-27-PT12-382-U224	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-10-27-PT12-382-U225	24. - Member Silver's proposal. Not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-10-27-PT12-382-U226	Members don't mind... Let us start a debate. Name to Member Ilmar Latkovsky.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-10-27-PT12-382-U227	Colleagues! On the background of attractive themes, when there were really six cameras that filmed... ( Dep. A.Kamiņš: “I have, Ilmar! I have it!” ), I think, is even more important. It's no less important... Even more important than these exciting issues, where we wanted to judge someone in public or talked about alcohol. Public Procurement Act... Why did that law begin? There are two cornerstones: one is the lowest price criterion, which is too dominant and inhibits the quality of tenders, and the other is these destructive complaints. And this point, this proposal, concerns the lowest price. Low price, dumping, envelope wages, low quality... Therefore, it does not lead to competition. There is an objection that now - even now! - it is possible to avoid only the lowest price criterion, but practice shows that 80 per cent or even 90 per cent of purchases are a criterion of this lowest price, because preparers simply do not make efforts to develop other criteria. And this is not just about pencils! Again, there is an objection: what will we then develop very complicated criteria and bureaucracy for all pencils? Small purchases, from 4000 to up - up to 42 thousand... construction - even more... This proposal is indicated to us by businessmen, the Employers' Confederation of Latvia, the Chamber of Commerce and Industry of Latvia, the IT industry. At present, 46 per cent of these tenders in the IT sector are awarded to one tenderer. This proposal calls for more restraint on the possibility of choosing only the lowest price. That is the essence of this law! It retains the possibility of excluding all this bureaucracy from the pencils and various other very elementary and simple things. And if we do not support this move, we do not, in fact, support one of the cornerstones of this law. So that I call for support for this proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-10-27-PT12-382-U228	I closed the debate. Will the rapporteur add a note on behalf of the Commission?
ParlaMint-LV_2016-10-27-PT12-382-U229	On behalf of the Commission, colleagues, the request does not support this proposal. The municipality also objected to this version. In my opinion, the regulation that has been originally laid down is sufficient for the commissions to assess those procurements which have a highly professional technical specification and, if prices are identical, to choose the lowest price, after evaluation of the technical specification, of course. Thank you. The request shall not be supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-10-27-PT12-382-U230	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote in favour of 24. - the proposal tabled by Member Inguna Silverba! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 25, for - 13, for - 36. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-10-27-PT12-382-U231	Proposal No 25 - Mr Līdaka's proposal. Not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-10-27-PT12-382-U232	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-10-27-PT12-382-U233	26. - the proposal for a Group Unity. Not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-10-27-PT12-382-U234	Members shall not object. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. S. Apple: “Vote!” ) Members ask for a vote. Please call me! To be put to the vote on 26. - the proposal submitted by the Group's Unity! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 33, for - 9, for - 34. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-10-27-PT12-382-U235	27. - Līdaka's proposal. Not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-10-27-PT12-382-U236	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-10-27-PT12-382-U237	28. - Member Silver's proposal. Not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-10-27-PT12-382-U238	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-10-27-PT12-382-U239	29. - a proposal from the committee responsible. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-10-27-PT12-382-U240	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-10-27-PT12-382-U241	30. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-10-27-PT12-382-U242	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-10-27-PT12-382-U243	31. - the committee responsible's proposal. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-10-27-PT12-382-U244	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-10-27-PT12-382-U245	32. - The proposal from the Member Krauze. Partly supported and included in proposal 34.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-10-27-PT12-382-U246	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-10-27-PT12-382-U247	33. - The motion from Member Ingmars Līdak. Partly supported and included in proposal 34.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-10-27-PT12-382-U248	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-10-27-PT12-382-U249	34. - a proposal from the committee responsible. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-10-27-PT12-382-U250	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-10-27-PT12-382-U251	35. - Member Silver's proposal. Not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-10-27-PT12-382-U252	Members shall not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-10-27-PT12-382-U253	36. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-10-27-PT12-382-U254	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-10-27-PT12-382-U255	37. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-10-27-PT12-382-U256	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-10-27-PT12-382-U257	38. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-10-27-PT12-382-U258	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-10-27-PT12-382-U259	39. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-10-27-PT12-382-U260	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-10-27-PT12-382-U261	40. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-10-27-PT12-382-U262	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-10-27-PT12-382-U263	41. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Proposal 42 has been supported and included.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-10-27-PT12-382-U264	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-10-27-PT12-382-U265	And 42. - a proposal from the committee responsible. It's supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-10-27-PT12-382-U266	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-10-27-PT12-382-U267	Colleagues! All the proposals have been examined. Request to support the draft law at second reading
ParlaMint-LV_2016-10-27-PT12-382-U268	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote in favour of the second reading of the draft law on public procurement! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 88, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. The draft law at second reading has been supported. Please set a deadline for the third reading of the proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-10-27-PT12-382-U269	Let us wait until 10 November.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-10-27-PT12-382-U270	Proposals shall be submitted by 10 November of this year. Thank you. The agenda of the sitting has been examined. With regard to the replies to Members' questions scheduled for today, I would like to inform you that the written responses received to Members' questions to Uldis Augulis, the Minister for Transport, about the project to modernise diesel trains, are satisfactory, and so today's replies to Members' questions are no longer available. Members Elksniņš, Orlovs, Agešins, Zemļinskis and Ribakovs submitted the question “On the procurement contract with the company “A26” that we submit to the Minister of the Interior. Members Silver, May, Schiffe, Kūtris and Platopers put the question “On the first round of the A-hull of the Clinical University of Paula Stradiņš Hospital”, which we submit to the Minister of Finance. Members of Parliament put the question ‘On structural reforms and health infrastructure’ to silver, May, Schiffe, Curry and Platoper. We give it to the Minister for Health. Please call me! Please check-in mode for Members! Honourable Members! I informed you that the 35th session and 22nd session of the Baltic Assembly would take place tomorrow in this hall. The Baltic Council. So please make sure that your workplaces do not leave personal matters. Thank you. And now the statements. The name of Member Lolita Chigan!
ParlaMint-LV_2016-10-27-PT12-382-U271	Dear Members of the Commission on European Affairs. The meeting of the European Affairs Commission will now take place in the Red Chamber. Let's get started! Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-10-27-PT12-382-U272	Thank you. The name of Member Ilze Viņķelis!
ParlaMint-LV_2016-10-27-PT12-382-U273	Colleagues! I would remind you: the meeting of the Commission for Education, Culture and Science immediately on the premises of the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-10-27-PT12-382-U274	Thank you. Name to a member of the Secretary of the Saeima. The results of the registration.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-10-27-PT12-382-U275	Dear colleagues, Currently not registered: Boriss Cilevičs, Raivis Dzintars, Jānis Kžads, Askolds Kļaviņš, Armands Krauze, Inese Laizāne, Romanas Mežeckis, Sergejs Mirskis and Jānis Trupovnieks.
ParlaMint-LV_2016-10-27-PT12-382-U276	Thank you. I'm closing the sitting.
