ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-17-m0.u1	Good morning, fellow MPs! Today is going to be a tough day. I'm asking you to come into the hall, take jobs, get ready for work. The Secretary of the Supreme Council, please inform the deputies that we are starting our work. Heads of factions, please call the deputies to the hall. Colleagues, we're going into the hall. Dear colleagues! Please come into the hall and prepare for registration.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-17-m0.u2	Good afternoon, fellow countrymen! Please take your seats. We've worked hard enough this week, made a number of important decisions, including constitutional changes, the issue of the IMF bloc, the World Bank. Today, a number of important issues need to be consolidated and worked out. I've prepared statistics today, and we have three times as many laws passed during this period as we did in the last Supreme Council. We've adopted 250 pieces of legislation. Please, Your Honor, take your seats. Ladies and gentlemen, please take your seats. I'm asking you to turn on the "Council" system for the registration of Ukrainian national deputies in the hall. [[10:21:43]] 302 national deputies are in the hall. I declare the morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine open. Dear colleagues, before we begin our work, I would like to announce a moment of silence. Just a year ago, just a year ago, in the sky above Ukraine, the terrorists of the pro-Russian Boeing plane of Malaysia Airlines were beaten. Then 298 innocent people were killed. It was a terrible tragedy, a terrible terror, a war crime, a crime against humanity. And I now urge all to honor the memory of innocently dead people for a moment of silence. [[A Minute of Silence]] Thank you. Please sit down. Dear fellow national MPs, distinguished compatriots in the Islamic world, the month of Ramadan ends, and today the entire Muslim community, together with it, the citizens of Ukraine who practice Islam, celebrate the festival of Uraza-Bayram. In this difficult time for Ukraine, the Muslim Umma, like the entire Ukrainian people, demonstrates the dignity and, in the pursuit of peace, does everything possible to preserve the sovereignty and territorial integrity of the state. On behalf of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, on behalf of my fellow national deputies, I welcome all the citizens of Ukraine who practice Islam, with the completion of the sacred month of Ramadan and the celebration of Uraza-Bayram. Dear colleagues, to pay special tribute to the people of the temporarily occupied areas of the Crimea who practice Islam, I will add to Crimean Tatar: "Injustment-Bayram iniz hairli ol Sun." With the festival, dear fellows! [[Applause]] Dear fellow national MPs today celebrate the birthday of our fellow national deputies. Let's welcome the birthday of Sergio Volodymyrovich Ljovczyn, Dennis Sergiyevich Omelyanović and Hennadia Leonidovich Cekiti. Welcome, fellows, to your birthday. And today it is the birthday of Ukrainian Justice Minister Paul Petrenko. Hello. [[Applause]] Dear colleagues, Arsenius Petrovich Yacenuk, Prime Minister of Ukraine, is taking part in the meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Let's welcome the minister. Let's welcome the Prime Minister. [[Applause]] And members of the Cabinet of Ministers. I would like to invite Prime Minister Arsenius Petrovich Yatsenuk to the floor. A statement in the "hour of questions to the government". After the speech, I suggest that we start working on the laws immediately, and we have many issues that need to be addressed. Thank you, colleagues. Then, from the second hour, we will ask questions if you wish.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-17-m0.u3	Mr. Head, the country's distinguished MPs of Ukraine! A great coalition, all factions of the coalition! I will begin by thanking you for voting yesterday. Of course, we needed to conduct these votes faster, but yesterday this was a vivid example of when Parliament unites, when Parliament assumes responsibility for the fate of the country, then Parliament can make the appropriate decisions. So thank you again for the active cooperation between the Ukrainian government, which is formed by the Parliamentary Coalition, and the Supreme Council of Ukraine. And right here, there's really no sound, well, nothing. Dear friends, that's what we went to America with. [[Video recording broadcast]] [[Applause]] I would like to report to the Supreme Council of Ukraine on a government trip to the United States of America, Canada and Great Britain. In Ukraine, together with our American partners, a decision was made to hold the first investment forum between Ukraine and the United States. Realizing the complexity of involving foreign investment in Ukraine today in connection with Ukraine’s state of war with the Russian Federation, we should do the same work. So now we have a program with the International Monetary Fund, with the World Bank. But usually this program is aimed exclusively at stabilizing the fiscal budget. And we need to create jobs for Ukrainians. We need to increase wages, we need to make the Ukrainian economy strong and efficient. The only way for Ukrainians to get a job so that we can raise social standards, so that Ukraine can demonstrate a truly effective outcome on the path of reform, and that we can become part of the only large united free peoples' family, including the European Union, is, of course, foreign investment. That's why the government delegation went to the United States for the First Investment Forum. Let me tell you a little bit about what the results of this forum are, but I'm going to start with political things. There was a meeting with the President of the United States of America, Barack Obama, Vice President of the United States, Joe Biden. The person responsible for our contact in the development of Ukrainian-American relations is Secretary Pricker. The President of the United States has expressed his full support for the Ukrainian people in our fight against Russian aggression and in our fight for our Ukrainian European future. [[Applause]] The people of the United States, along with the Ukrainian people. And we highly appreciate the level of our bilateral cooperation between Ukraine and the United States. As part of the investment conference, we already have our first achievements. You should show us what Ukraine is. Because, you know, when any of our foreign partners turn on television, they usually see Russian bandits and terrorists taking over parts of the territory of Donetsk and Lugansk regions, well, of course they're talking about illegal annexation of Crimea. But we control 93 percent of our territory. We have incredible potential. We have one of the strongest countries in Europe. And we have demonstrated that we have been able to contain both Russian aggression and continue to move step by step on the path of complex reforms, realizing that everything is very difficult, realizing that rapid results cannot be achieved. But if it is a daily job, this daily work has its results, and it will produce its fruits. After the Americans communicated with our government delegation. I would like to, you know, ask you, honourable members of Parliament, to applaud the members of the government you have appointed. They worked 10 out of 10. [[Applause]] The Americans were surprised at all. Because they have a previous record of communication with previous Ukrainian governments. Not only are we surprised because the government speaks English. Not only were they surprised by the concrete results of reforms in the country. Not only are we surprised because we have good cooperation between government and parliament. And it's also surprising that everyone came on time, that every question in the Ukrainian delegation was answered, and that after each meeting with the Ukrainian members, the government is the result, and you can ask and get clear information about what the government is doing. So, in our investment conference, several agreements were reached. We focused on cooperation in the following areas. First, it's energy. Second, it's an agricultural sector. Third, it's infrastructure. And the fourth is privatization. By infrastructure. One of America’s largest companies, with considerable experience, is already working in Ukraine. It's Cargill, and it's decided to invest more in Ukrainian infrastructure and build a terminal with a trans-shipment plus 4 million tons in total about $100 million. The corresponding memo has been signed. And there's going to be a new terminal at South Port. The other one. Infrastructure Minister Andriy Pivovarski has signed an open-air agreement with our American partners. We need to have competition in the aviation market. We have completely lifted all restrictions on our bilateral flights between Ukraine and the United States. And this will allow you to increase the number of flights, improve the quality of the airline, and reduce the cost of airline tickets. The deal was signed. [[Applause]] IT. Ukraine is one of the key countries in the world to develop the IT network. Unfortunately, so far we're working on an outsourcing system. However, that potential of Ukrainian youth working in the IT system is highly appreciated by our American partners. And one of the key American funds in Horizon Capital has decided to invest and develop Rozetka.ua, namely, an Internet store and invest considerable money in the development of this project. Energy. We have a few achievements in energy. First of all, last year, thanks to our American partners, we were able to diversify gas supply to Ukraine and, once again, if we were previously completely dependent on Russian gas, we are now buying about 70 percent of gas in the member countries of the European Union. [[Applause]] The goal set by the Ukrainian government: 10 years later, Ukraine must become a fully energy-dependent state, we must come off Russian dependence. [[Applause]] Oleg Valeriyovich tells us what should be 5. We're doing all the tasks that the coalition gives us. That's why in order to accelerate this process, we need to increase the volume of natural gas. So the government is offering a package for your consideration of changing rates and tariffs in the energy sector. I remind you that this will not apply to joint activities. Joint activities should tax 70 percent, since joint activities are gas deposits that were under questionable schemes drawn from public companies and copied to private companies. However, any company that wants to invest in Ukraine for the purpose of increasing the volume of natural gas production will receive preferential tax treatment. And we hope that if we, on the one hand, increase our own output thanks to the new tax policy in the energy sector and with our American and European partners, we will launch energy efficiency programmes: reducing energy consumption, warming, modernization and new boilers, the goal of Ukraine's energy independence can be achieved over five years. But we must do this together, dear friends. [[Applause]] In energy, we also have a signed memorandum with the US branch of River Stone on increasing the volume of natural gas for Ukrainian industry and for Ukrainian economy. The head of NAC Naftogaz Ukraine also signed an appropriate memorandum with Frontera. Frontera is an American company that will start building LNG terminals and start supply of natural gas to Ukraine through the construction of LNG terminal. In the agrarian sector. In the agricultural sector, we have one of the key forms of our cooperation with the Americans. Ukraine is a state that can actually dictate its conditions in the world’s agrarian markets. Together with the United States of America, we can determine the overall food policy of the world. We need a lot of investment to do that. And as part of U.S. cooperation, Ukraine needs new technology and new technologies. For the acquisition of new technology, our American partners are looking at long-term funding issues at very low interest rates for modern and quality American technology for Ukrainian agriculture through the United States EXIM Bank. Now this process is being worked out and I hope that the Ukrainian agricultural sector will be able to get cheap and long loans for quality foreign technology. And the next step that we've discussed with our Canadian friends is the construction of factories in Ukraine in production with Americans and Canadians of Ukrainian-American and Ukrainian-Canadian agrarian technology. The agrarian state will have its potential to increase fertility, to increase competitiveness and to show the whole world that we are not livestock, and we are a country that is willing to sell added value, are ready food products, and to capture the external markets accordingly. Privatization. [[Applause]] And here I am asking members of Parliament to make a decision at the next session of Parliament on a transparent and honest privatisation of a number of Ukrainian objects. You are well aware that this thousand state - owned property that is now under control, not by the State, but by individual management, is also part of the country’s corruption. And in order for the Ukrainian economy to become effective, we must leave to the state what the state needs directly. This is a matter of national security and defence and of infrastructure that cannot be transferred into private hands. Everything else needs to be sold publicly and transparently. Now Americans and Europeans are going to see how privatization is going to go. The government has decided to privatize a number of energy objects. This is Centrenerego, this is Odessa Airport, this is Sumihimprom, this is a couple of skyscrapers. And I would like to express my position on how this should be sold. This should be sold without fictitious terms: who can participate in a privatisation competition, who cannot participate in a competition. This should be sold on principle: who paid more – who got the property. And it has to be sold under the conditions of the necessary social package for the employees of enterprises, in order for people to know that the new owner will guarantee them appropriate social standards. I do not want Ukrainian privatization, the new Ukrainian privatization, to repeat the old rules when the same oligarchs redistribute property, and Ukraine's reputation will be undermined. The first privatisation of Odessa Airport and Centrenerego should be carried out in the same way as the privatisation of Chrysoires. [[Applause]] I cannot help but overlook, dear friends, and the issue of military and technical cooperation, and the implementation of reforms in the country at all. Those who watched the investment conference must have seen the statement by Vice President of the United States Joe Biden. At least in my political history, I don't recall any such performance by a world political leader of that magnitude. That level of unprecedented support and not just support, but faith in the Ukrainian people and in all of us that we have really changed, that we really want to build a new country by new rules and standards, that we are not in words, but we are fighting corruption, that we want transparent and honest privatization, that we want the law-enforcement system in the country to fight the bandits, and that we have planted them in prisons, that we really, after such a revolution and after such an upsurge in the Ukrainian people, will do what the people of Ukraine demands of us and that the Western world is waiting for us. I've never heard that before. But now, after those good words from the President of the United States and the Vice President, we need to continue these reforms. Every day we need to prove that we are, indeed, on the path of reform, that we are ready for change. The more we do, the more we get. So let us do much to gain more for Ukraine and the Ukrainian people. The United States is helping us reform the police. And the new Ukrainian police, who appeared in Kiev, is just the first step. Then there'll be Lviv, then there'll be Dnipropetrovsk, then there'll be Harks. And the President of the United States and I discussed that the support for police reform would continue with our American friends. The U.S. is now training our National Guard. And I raised the question of increasing aid to the Ukrainian National Guard and to the Ukrainian Armed Forces of Ukraine. In order for Ukraine to win, we need to win on two fronts: the first front, in the war with Russia, and the second front, in the war against corruption and in the war against the Ukrainian reforms. As part of my next visit, I went to Canada. Canada had a meeting with the Prime Minister of Ukraine and Canada. Let me give you the best greetings from one of the most powerful Ukrainian diaspora is the Canadian diaspora in. [[Applause]] A world convention of Ukrainians The president of the World Assembly of Ukrainians has also arrived in Ottawa, has been doing much to ensure that the Ukrainian issue is on world radar, and that Ukrainian diaspora around the world is doing everything to help Ukraine, not in words, but in action. We signed a second after the European Union agreement to create a free trade zone. [[Applause]] Talks have been concluded between Ukraine and Canada on the creation of a free trade zone that lasted for almost seven years. What does this covenant give us? Canada has decided to open, in fact, the full liberalisation of its market for Ukrainian industrial and industrial goods. You know very well that Russia has closed its markets for Ukrainian industrial goods. We got a new market, we got a Canadian market. [[Applause]] There's a lot to be done to modernize the Ukrainian economy, because frankly we have to say the same thing, tomorrow we can't take this market, because we're behind in our technology, we're too far behind. That is why the part of the agreement provides for direct technical assistance to modernize the Ukrainian industry. The faster we upgrade the Ukrainian industry, the faster we go to both the Canadian and the European markets. Also during the negotiations, it was decided that the relevant rules of the free trade area would be applied asymmetrically. Canada's market is open, practically, completely, only 70 percent of Ukraine's market is open, and then we have a transition period of up to seven years to adapt to the Ukrainian economy. Canadians also help us reform the Ukrainian police. And 5 million Canadian dollars were spent on police reform. And we hope that this amount of money will be increased in order for the new Ukrainian police to reach every city and town. It's a real reform that people feel. It's a real protection for people. And our Western partners are helping us to do that. Helping the Ukrainian army. Canada also decided to send Canadian military personnel to train the Ukrainian army to resist Russian military aggression. [[Applause]] Great Britain. British Prime Minister David Cameron, who, by the way, won the election with his party, no one predicted that he would win the election campaign after David Cameron's government had carried out the same complex and unpopular reforms in Britain as they are now, the government of David Cameron won for the first time in 30 years a single-party majority. He also gave you, by the way, greetings, I mean Cameron. [[Applause]] Three main issues were discussed, apart from the implementation of the Minsk Accords, except for assistance in reforming the Ukrainian economy. The first issue concerns the entire civilized world and the European Union. Russia started a hybrid war. In addition to the military attack on Ukraine, there is another attack and there is another weapon -- it's an information weapon. Goebbels-style propaganda is now one of the main weapons that the Russian Federation is spreading in the world. And that's why we're starting strategic communication with our British partners, and we're actually changing the communication system, both in Ukraine and abroad. The opposition to Russian information aggression is essential to what we're going to do with our British partners. We must speak the truth and show this truth on all world channels. The other one. This is a work to reform the Ukrainian economy, including reform of the State Tax Administration and Customs. You know that the government is negotiating the transfer of individual customs to the British authorities. They had experience in individual countries, both members of the European Union and in other countries, regarding customs administration. And we're waiting for the conclusion of the negotiations and to hand over a few customs to the British company to show that we have not only a new culture of customs communication, but that the revenues of those customs that operate by the old corrupt Ukrainian officials and those customs that will be transferred to the administration of the respective British company are significantly different. In addition, there will be, as of now, British experts are in Ukraine, and we want to carry out a full and comprehensive reform of the tax administration. I've had a conversation with our tax administration manager, and I think the best way, first of all, is to shorten the tax administration, and more specifically, the State Fiscal Service doubles, increase the corresponding wages and maximize the contacts between the taxpayer and the tax administration. Electronic governance in the tax system. The less you talk to the taxpayer, the less you pay bribes. You can't hand over bribes on the Internet. [[Applause]] And so is the question of reform in the public service as a whole. I've asked all our partners that we're often asked how to do better to fight corruption. The fact that there is today does not please me, frankly. The judge was arrested, and another court takes him into custody. The first deputy and head of the State Service were arrested in extraordinary circumstances, and in a few days, the court is again on bail. This is not the way to fight corruption. It's a simulation. Therefore, the main problem that is now in the country's judicial system is the judges themselves. [[Applause]] Until we replace the whole body. I would like to stress, my fellow officers, that we can't replace the entire body, the entire country's judiciary -- we're not going to have any real results in the fight against corruption. And I've heard dozens of times, including the speeches of our European friends, that it's unconstitutional, that we need to be more considerate, that the judges are assigned to constitutional terms. I support, I support, the rule of law in Ukraine. But the rule of law cannot be based on hundreds, thousands of bribes, and envelopes distributed to judges. And then these judges release criminals from prison. [[Applause]] So, the Honourable Supreme Council of Ukraine, in the last week, the government has visited 3 of the 7 countries of the Great Seven. I'll be honest with you: we'll be accepted and helped as long as we show results every day. And it depends on us both the level of support within the country and the level of support outside it. They gave us a loan of trust. A credit of trust was given to us by the Ukrainian people. And it's not because we're English, it's not because we're talking. And because Ukraine and the Ukrainians proved during the revolution that it was a European nation worthy and strong. Because Ukraine and the Ukrainians proved that no one expected us to stop the Russian army, but we held it back because we have a strong nation. Let us demonstrate that we have strong political responsible people who have been appointed by the people of Ukraine both in Parliament and in the Cabinet of Ministers and in the office of the President of Ukraine. We have to show that we do everything we promise. We have to prove that this reform plan is complex, I realize, even during yesterday's vote, everyone has some political goals and priorities, it happens before the elections. But when we joined the European coalition here after the elections, we had only one goal and one priority is our country. And it must remain the only goal that unites Parliament, the President, and the government. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-17-m0.u4	Dear fellow national MPs! You and I have plenty of routine. And now, according to the Rules, there's supposed to be an 11-hour parliamentary request. I want to make a suggestion that we move on to the agenda to the direct adoption of laws. [[Applause]] And please, Your Honor, support this initiative by voting. Please take your seats and prepare for the vote. [[B in m in s a l in]] There's an offer, my dear colleagues, based on the fact that at 11 o'clock the "government hour" is about to come to an end, a proposal is now being made to move on to the agenda. Please prepare for the vote for this proposal. National deputies, please. [[B in m in s a l in]] Colleagues, take your seats! Proposal: To begin consideration of day-to-day issues by voting on laws. Vote please, colleagues. Go to law review. And now I'm going to tell you what laws are ready for our consideration. Let's vote, colleagues. [[10:56:46]] For-195 Let's do it again. Again, colleagues. Attention! Attention! Take your seats, take your next position. Now, according to the Rules, we have 11 to 11.30 readings, parliamentary requests. There is a proposal to replace the parliamentary requests at 11 o'clock and immediately move on to the drafts, once the bill has been finalized, to announce the parliamentary requests. Please, colleagues, take your seats. Vote. Please, colleagues. Vote. [[10:57:44]] For 211 Colleagues, come on, I think. I'm asking the faction leaders. The questions will follow the laws. The questions will follow the laws, and we work without interruption until the second hour, and we adopt laws, and we end up making inquiries and closing meetings. And "Variance," of course, "Variance" is sacred to the members of the Supreme Council, I mean, according to the regulations. Let's do it again. Colleagues, start consideration of daytime issues at 11 p.m. Vote please, my friends. Laws, review of laws. Please vote. [[10:58:52]] For 213 Clearly, colleagues, there will be no effective vote, I see, in this mood. So, please, please. No, we're not going to be able to ensure effective legislative voting. I'm asking, Your Honor, so from 11 to 11.30, I'm now going to announce an opportunity to read the questions. But I'm asking all the faction leaders and groups, gather their deputies at 11:30, let them take up their jobs, and we'll start reviewing the laws. That is: military laws, state budget, textbooks, non-taxation of public organizations, the announcement of local elections, 2662-1 on military civilian administrations -- we have a lot of questions. Please announce, Oksano Ivanovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-17-m0.u5	People's Deputies Ask: Viktor Razwadowski to the Minister of Health of Ukraine, head of the Zitomir District State Administration, for the inadequacy of establishing a calculated dental facility based on the dental department of the district hospital in the Romani district of Žitomir district. Viktor Razwadowski to the Minister of Education and Science of Ukraine, the head of the Žitomir District State Administration for the reorganization of the Mirapol Public Education School I-II graduated from the Romani region, the Žitomir region. Stanislava Berezhkin to the Minister of Education and Science of Ukraine on the need for teaching at the general educational institutions of the "Protection of the Motherland" class. Stanislava Berezhkin to the Minister of Infrastructure of Ukraine for the repair of the National Motorway N-14 Alexandrovka-Kirovograd-Mikolayev. Andrija Gordjeeva to the first deputy head of the National Fiscal Service of Ukraine to investigate the activities of Zemplin Partners LLP, which has signs of tax evasion and the legalization of income derived from crime. Groups of National Deputies (Romanova, Semimenacha, and others) A total of 5 deputies) to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, the Minister of Finance of Ukraine, for the braking of the signing of the Agreement on border crossing points with the Republic of Poland. Mikoli Skorika to Prime Minister of Ukraine on the critical situation with debt to sanatorium and health institutions of the village type Sergiyevka Bilgrod-Dnistrovski district of Odessa region, in front of electricity suppliers, utilities, food and others due to the lack of funding for the housing of displaced persons from the ATO zone. Zlata Ognievich to the Deputy Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Culture of Ukraine, on the identification of overriding powers by the leadership of the Department of Culture and Tourism of the Kharkiv District State Administration. Mikoli Skorak to the Attorney General of Ukraine, Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine, temporarily acting as Head of the State Financial Inspectorate of Ukraine for the abuse of office by officials of the Government Pension Service of Ukraine in the Vinicki region, particularly in the Ladzhina Correctional Colony, in the conduct of economic activity. Julia Yooffe to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the need to verify the possible abuse of office as director of the Rubižan University of Technology, Poraj Košica. Oleg Berezuk to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the verification of the facts of the offence and the provision of information. Victoria Sumar to the Attorney General of Ukraine, Head of the Security Service of Ukraine for the verification of the legality of the activities of the Ukrainian Security Service in the Hmelnicki district regarding the S.H.I.E.L.D. "Vynkovetske Milk", TOV "Vynkovetski Sirzvod". Sergei Martinjak to the Minister of Education and Science of Ukraine for the provision of school buses to the general educational institutions of the I-IIth degree of accreditation in the villages and villages of the Volin region. Sergey Larina to the head of the National Commission, which regulates national energy and municipal services in terms of the quality of natural gas supplied to consumers from the distribution pipelines of the Open Shareholders Association of Kirovogradgaz. Alexander Abudillon to the Head of the Security Service of Ukraine on the lack of a proper response from the central authorities of Ukraine to the appeal of Eugenia Vashteshina from the village of Selec Dubrovicki district of Ravensk for the purpose of searching for her son, the mobilized Oleg Vashteshina, who disappeared while performing a combat mission under the Ilowaysk Donetsk region. Alexander Abdullin to the Minister of Defence of Ukraine on the inaction of the Ministry of Defence of Ukraine when considering the appeals of Eugenia Vashishina from the village of Selec Dubrovicki district of Ravensk for the purpose of searching for her son, the mobilized Oleg Vašššin, who disappeared while performing a combat mission under the Ilowaysk Donetsk region. Sergey Larina to the Minister of Agriculture and Food Policy of Ukraine on the dispersion and degradation of the land of the Kirovgrad branch of the State Agricultural Enterprise "Centre of Certification and Expertise of Seed and Garden Material". Helen Sotnik to the Attorney General of Ukraine for violating the terms of the pretrial investigation and for failing to carry out a special investigative investigation into officials who are wanted and involved in the beating of persons in Maidan, illegally obtaining funds from the State Budget of Ukraine. Lilia Greenevich and Victor Yelensky, head of the Kiev City Administration on the negative consequences of building a residential and office complex between Mikilska-Slobydska Street and Brovarski Prospect in Kiev. Nina Yužanina, head of the Ukrainian State Road Agency, Minister of Infrastructure of Ukraine, on the issue of financial security for the development of Ukraine's road economy. Dmitry Stóžuk to the Ministry of Health of Ukraine on the elimination of constitutional rights violations in the city of Vinnica. Dmitry Stóžuk to Minister of Energy and Coal Industry of Ukraine on the report of Minister Vladimir Demšin on overcoming corruption and fulfilling the requirements of Ukraine's Lustration Act within the Ministry of Energy and Coal Industry of Ukraine. Eugene Dejaja, Minister of Defence of Ukraine, Minister of Education and Science of Ukraine, on the admission of participants in an anti-terrorist operation to higher educational institutions for a distance form of education. David Macharyan to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the use of the budget provided for in the 2015 State Budget for Ukraine to ensure the fulfilment of commitments in the area of construction, repair and maintenance of road transport in the Mikolaiiv region. Alexander Trelyakov to the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine on the urgent use of measures to ensure the implementation of the fifth part of article 135 of the Ukrainian Code of Land and the speeding up of the regulatory settlement of land implementation during the execution of the executive operation. Andrija Vadaturski to the Minister of Social Policy of Ukraine for the provision of sanatoriums for disabled persons (195 people) to the Pyrogova sanatorium in Odessa. Alexander Drozdik to the Deputy Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Regional Development, Construction and Housing of Ukraine, on the reconstruction of clean-up facilities in the town of Vistnica Černiewice. Alexander Drozdicka to the executive responsibility of the Head of the State Water Agency of Ukraine regarding the need to complete the construction of a coastal dam in the town of Vidinka Czernovetsek oblast. Anton Herashchenka, head of the National Fiscal Service of Ukraine for information on the payment of taxes to retail networks in 2014. Anton Herashchenka to the head of the Kyiv City State Administration for the deliberate extension by the responsible individuals of the Kiev City State Administration of information on ration contracts and passports for the connection of temporary buildings in Kiev. Dmitri Kolesnikov to the Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine on the political persecution of supporters of the political party "The Opposition Block". Dmitry Kolesnikov to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the obstacles to the implementation of the State Geological Economic Assessment of Useful Fossils. Victoria Voytzicka to the Attorney General of Ukraine, Head of the National Commission for State Regulations in the Field of Energy and Utilities, Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine, Head of the Security Service of Ukraine on violations in preparing a series of energy enterprises for privatisation in 2015. Victoria Voytzicka to Minister of Energy and Coal Industry of Ukraine, acting as Director-General of the Public Shareholders Association of Centrenergo for the purchase of coal from the occupied areas of Donbas. David Makarian to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the legality of the conduct and the results of the tenders by the Daughter's firm Mikolayevski oblavtodor. Vladimir Aresonkova to the Minister of Ecology and Natural Resources of Ukraine for information on the construction of new objects near the MDF plant on Sverdlov Street in the city of Korosten in the Žitomir region. Vladimir Aresonkov to the Prime Minister of Ukraine to approve the granting of benefits to citizens affected by the Chernobyl disaster, taking into account the average monthly total income of the family. Vasil Gulyav to the procurator of the Odessa district for the obstruction of parliamentary activity by officials of the Illích city council of the Odessa region. Alexander Suprunenka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the use of appropriate institutional and legal measures to provide housing benefits to citizens affected by the Chernobyl disaster. Artura Martovicki to Prime Minister of Ukraine for compensation for the loss of land tax benefits in 2015. Mikli Kucher to the Office of the Prosecutor of the Vinnitsk Region, the Office of the Ministry of Internal Affairs of Ukraine in the Vinnitsk Region for the conduct of an internal affairs review of officials and the Prosecutor's Office of the Trostiansky District of the Vinnitsk Region. Vasil Nimchenk to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the long-term and improper investigation of criminal conduct in connection with the illegal incarceration of the Open Shareholder Society of the Zitomirvodbud. Helens Ledovian and Helen Boyko to the Ministry of Health of Ukraine regarding the payment of medicinal products for bronchial asthma. Dmitra Dobrodomov to the Lviv City Head, Head of the Ministry of Interior of Ukraine in the Lviv Region, Director of the Department of State Architectural and Construction Inspection in the Lviv Region, on the illegal construction of a residential building and the arbitrary capture of the land at the address of: Konductorska Street, 16 in the city of Lviv. Igor Shurma to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, Head of the Ukrainian Security Service, on the legality and regularity of financing of Odessa State Administration officials at the expense of the U.S. Government. Igor Shurma to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the inadmissibility of delaying appointment to the post of Chief of State Fiscal Service in the Lviv region. Dmitra Dobrodomov, head of the Lviv District State Administration, Lviv City Head, for the public transportation of military personnel, participants in the antiterrorist operation in Lviv and Lviv region. Romana Macola to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the legality of the actions of the officials of the Prosecutor's Office of the Kyiv-Svetoshin district of the Kyiv region regarding the refusal to appeal to the court for illegal decisions of the Gathnian Rural Council. Olesia Long to the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine on the need to take action to protect the rights and legitimate interests of airlifters on the Chernobyl AES and their families. Olesia Long to the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine for clarification in the definition of age pension conditions for persons who worked or lived in areas of radioactive pollution. Andrija Gordjeeva to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the introduction of legal and regulatory acts by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine in accordance with the Ukrainian Law on the introduction of new investment opportunities, guaranteeing the rights and legitimate interests of business entities for the conduct of extensive energy-generating activities. Paul Rizanenka to the Barišev village head for taking steps to ensure the realization of the housing rights of the residents of the hostel. Paul Rizanenka to the head of the Antimonopoly Committee for the purpose of carrying out an investment competition to identify an investor for the implementation of a multi-housing construction project in the 3rd Microregion IV of the residential area and to deprive them of the possibility of obtaining additional housing and transferring them to the communal property of the local community of Brovary because of the improper actions of the officials of the Brovari Municipal Council of the Kyiv Region. Groups of National Deputies (Pavlova, Galchenka, Sphenova) to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Economic Development and Trade of Ukraine, Minister of Finance of Ukraine on the need for a transparent and well-founded mechanism for the mining of iron ore. In a few minutes, we'll continue. Excuse me, we're moving on. Paul Rizanenka to the head of the Antimonopoly Committee of Ukraine for the verification of the investment competition for the identification of an investor for the implementation of a project for the construction of a multi-housing building on the territory of the 3rd Microregion IV of the residential area and the denial of the possibility of obtaining additional housing and transferring them to the municipal property of the local community of Brovary because of the unlawful actions of officials of the Brovari Municipal Council of Kyiv Region. Groups of National Deputies (Pavlova, Galchenka, Sphenova) to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Economic Development and Trade of Ukraine, Minister of Finance of Ukraine on the need for a transparent and well-founded mechanism for the mining of iron ore. Andrija Shipka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the non-admission of violations of the rights of the working group of the Dnipropetrov State Financial Academy. Andrija Shipka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, the head of the National Commission for State regulation in the fields of energy and utilities for the reduction of electricity consumption tariffs, which are spent in tax and tax-based cooperatives, garden societies. Groups of people’s deputies (Moses, Dobrodomov and others) A total of 7 deputies) to the Attorney General of Ukraine, Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine, on the implementation of measures to halt the construction work in the forest and the illegal logging of the forest within the administrative district of the Hodesov Rural Council and the Forest Council of Kiev-Svetoshin region of Kiev. Vladimir Ariev to the temporary duty of the head of the State Financial Inspectorate of Ukraine to immediately check the information on the expenditure of 28 million dollars by the State Reserve Agency of Ukraine and the State Penitentiary Service of Ukraine in the conduct of public procurement procedures. Vladimir Ariev to the head of the State Fiscal Service of Ukraine regarding the improper examination by the State Fiscal Service of Ukraine of a parliamentary appeal concerning the unlawful actions of officials of the tax police who have signs of corruption and the pressure on the enterprise of the Society with limited responsibility of Tavr Plus. Igor Alekseyev to the head of the Ukrainian Antimonopoly Committee for the Enforcement of Economic Competition Law Enforcement Subjects. Jacob Besbach to the Office of the Attorney-General of Ukraine, the Authorized Supreme Council of Ukraine for Human Rights, the Ministry of Justice of Ukraine, the Ministry of Internal Affairs of Ukraine on the need to carry out a comprehensive examination of the circumstances set out in Vladimir Patlay's appeal to take possession of his property. Jury Bublika to the Attorney General of Ukraine, Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine, Head of the Security Service of Ukraine on additional material incentives for some government officials at the Ministry of Agriculture Policy and Food and the Ministry of Infrastructure of Ukraine. Bogdan Onfrik to the Prime Minister of Ukraine to address the issue of partial financing for the construction of a sewage collector in the town of Zastavna Cherniewecka. Bogdan Onfrica to the Head of the Ukrainian Security Service for the Illicit Reparation of VAT for 2013-2014 by the Associations with Limited Responsibility of Letavitza and Grand Time. Alexander Revega to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the need to increase the consumption of natural gas for the benefit categories of pensioners, veterans and disabled persons. Alexander Revega to the Minister of Justice of Ukraine for the prejudiced execution of justice and for the violation of the oath by the judge of the head of the Cosyatian District Court of the Winnick district of Valery Sieczko. Helen Sotnik to the Attorney General of Ukraine for the conduct of a criminal investigation with regard to prosecutors, the Ukrainian Security Service, who participated in the special operations of the Civil Service and the Public Service on 5 July 2015. Alexander Suprunenka to the Director-General of the Ucrobanprom State Concert on the transfer to the municipal property of the Kyiv territorial community of preschool school No. 331 on the street of Dniprožinska, 110. Groups of National Deputies (Kirala, Opanasenka, and others) A total of 6 deputies) to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, head of the State Fiscal Service of Ukraine, for the introduction of an electronic system for the calculation of excise goods. Anatoly of Denisenka to the Minister of Economic Development and Trade of Ukraine, the Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine, for strengthening state control in the field of metallurgy operations in order to prevent deliberate damage to energy objects by stealing metal structures. Anatolia Denisenka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the settlement of the issue of the issue of the provision of family information for the provision of state social assistance, benefits and subsidies. Jaroslava Dubnević to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the approval of the Order of Assignment and the payment of one-time cash assistance in the event of the death or disability of a volunteer as a result of the injury sustained during the provision of volunteer assistance in the ATO zone. Jaroslava Dubnewich to the Ukrainian Defence Minister for the Special Forces of the 56th Special Brigade. John Rybak to the Minister of Finance of Ukraine on the need to allocate funds to restore the functioning of the state fire rescue post in the village of the city-type Nepolokovica of the Kitzman district of Cherniewsky region. Ivan Rybak to the Deputy Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Regional Development, Construction and Housing of Ukraine, Minister of Finance of Ukraine for the State Budget of Ukraine for the continuation of the construction of the Lužana Kitzman Water Force of Montenegro. Yurya Pavlenko to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the unsatisfactory state of the hot diet organization of students in public schools in the area of radiation pollution in the Gitomir region. Jurya Pavlenko to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the need to resolve the problems of the regional communities of the Malin district of the Žitomir region. Alexia Lensky to the Attorney General of Ukraine, Minister of Health of Ukraine, on the urgent use of response measures aimed at attracting officials of the Kirovograd Regional Anti-Tuberculosis Hospital in the village of Ivano-Blade Kirovograd region, involved in numerous violations of the Constitution and the legislation of Ukraine on health issues that led to the death of patients, the infection of severe forms of tuberculosis, to the responsibility established by Ukraine’s legislation. Dmitri Linka to the director of the Kyivtransparkservis Community Company for the inspection of parking lots in Kiev for the availability of any documentation for the provision of parking services. Vitalia Gudzenka to the State Executive Service of Ukraine for the enforcement of the decision of the Kyiv District Administrative Court of 21 July 2014 prohibiting the transport of industrial waste to the Society with additional responsibility for the "Uzin Sugar Combine". Vitalia Gudzenka to the head of the Kyiv District State Administration to address the issue of access to information on the order of use in Uzin Bilocerkow district of Kiev. Natalia Kraljevska to Prime Minister of Ukraine on the urgent use of measures to address the problems of internally displaced persons in the Spanca sanatorium, located in the village of the city-type Sergiyevka Odesk district. Maxime Chicken to Finance Minister of Ukraine for an additional donation to District No.25 in Dnipropetrovsk. Bogdan Dubnevich, head of the Ukrainian State Fiscal Service for Excise Funds in Lviv and Desert. Bogdan Dubnevich to the Lviv City Head for the organization of child health services in the educational institutions of Lviv. Dmitra Špenov and Igor Šurma to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the use of urgent measures to prevent the liquidation of the Kharkiv National Academy of Opera and the ballet of the name Lysenka. Dmitra Sphenov and Igor Shurma to the head of the Kyiv City State Administration on the illegal construction of the sports complex of the National Aerospace University, which causes a social explosion among the residents of the Solomonian district of Kiev. Groups of National Deputies (Herachenko, Jonah, and others) A total of 4 deputies) to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, the Head of the State Service for War Veterans and the participants in the anti-terrorist operation to provide information on the status of a participant in hostilities in connection with participation in the ATO by senior officials, executive heads and local self-government bodies. Jury Bublika to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, the Attorney General of Ukraine, on the existence of corruption in the activities of the Chief Government of the State in the Poltav region in the transfer of supplies to state property and the granting of permission to produce technical documentation to private persons. Irina Herashchenko and Vladimir Arjev to the head of the Supreme Qualificational Commission of Judges of Ukraine, the Head of the High Council of Justice on the verification of the existence of grounds for bringing the judges of the Irpine City Court of Kiev to justice, their dismissal from positions of office in connection with the acquittal of Peter Melnik, which raises doubts about their objectivity, honesty and integrity. Vladimir Melnicken to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for the allocation of additional subsidies from the State budget of Ukraine for the financing of the construction of the socio-cultural sphere of the Nouvelles region. Mikoli Tomenka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the need to ensure proper financing of the fire parts in the Chernobyl alienation zone. Mikli Tomenka to the Minister of Education and Science of Ukraine on an unjustified delay in the issuance of bachelor's diplomas from higher education institutions in Ukraine. Alexander Kodola to the head of the Ukrainian Security Service for the restoration of the violated rights of demobilized military personnel of the 1st Tank Brigade. Anton Kisse to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the use of urgent measures to address the situation in the area of the road by connecting the "Cannes-Alexandrovka" of the Tarutin region of the Odessa region, which is located in the Republic of Moldova. Anton Kisse and Vasil Brenzowich to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for the creation of a central executive body for the formation and enforcement of national policies in the sphere of international relations and for the protection of the rights of Ukrainian national minorities. Gregory Times to the Attorney General of Ukraine, Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine, Minister of Education and Science of Ukraine, on the violation of the rights of students in the Glbian Professional List of the Montenegrin Region. Gregory Times to the Minister of Justice of Ukraine, the head of the Ukrainian Pension Fund for failure to execute a court decision. Jury Lewchenka to the Attorney General of Ukraine, the head of the Kyiv City State Administration, the head of the Kyiv District Council on the use of urgent measures to respond to the criminal negligence and service abuses of officials of the authorities and local self - government regarding the improper maintenance of residence No. 30 on the street of John Kudri in Kiev, which greatly harms its inhabitants and the local community of the city. Alexander Marchenka to the Attorney General of Ukraine on corruption in the central office of the Attorney General's Office and the Prosecutor's Office of the Kyiv Region. Alexander Marchenka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the assessment of the threat to Ukraine's energy independence. Jaroslava Markevich to the Minister of Finance of Ukraine on the provision of information on how to use budget funds, passports of budgetary programmes, reports on the implementation of budget programmes, budget enrollment and reports on its implementation for 2013, 2014, 2015. John Sporish to the head of the Road Service in Vinnitsky district on the question of repairing the street area of Lenin in the village of the town type of limestone in the Tomaspil district of Vinnitsk. Sergey Kaplin to the temporary duty of head of the State Financial Inspectorate of Ukraine to verify the purpose of the use of municipal property, including the asphalt plant of the Municipal Company of the Poltava City Road and Exploitation Office, when leased to the Limited Responsibilities Society. Jury of Derevyanka to the Head of the Ukrainian Security Service, head of the Ukrainian State Fiscal Service, regarding the provision of information on the number of cases of smuggling detected and discontinued at the customs border of Ukraine, as well as on measures taken to prevent and combat such facts. Igor Guza to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the need to allocate funds for the repair and maintenance of roads in the Volin region from the State Budget of Ukraine. Igor Guza to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the regulation of the current Ukrainian legislation on the use of agricultural defence land and the need to prepare a decree on the use of defence land for another purpose (in particular agricultural land). Andrija Illenka to the Deputy Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Regional Development, Construction and Housing of Ukraine, Minister of Social Policy of Ukraine, Head of the Kyiv City State Administration, temporarily acting as Head of the Right District in Kiev of the State Administration to review the appeal of invalids of the Yulia Mironuk Group and Alexia Minuyenko and to help improve the comfortable living conditions in the Kurchatova residential building, 25/37 in the right-wing district of Kiev. Andrea Illenka to the head of the Kyiv City Public Administration, the first deputy prosecutor of Kiev City, the head of the Department of Police of Kiev, acting as the head of the Consumer Protection Inspectorate in Kiev, temporarily acting as the head of the Right District in Kiev, the State Administration for the consideration of a collective appeal by residents of the Righteous District of Kiev regarding the operation of a entertainment establishment in the territory of Mayakovsky, 22-24. Ruslana Demczak to the Deputy Minister of Education and Science of Ukraine, the head of the apparatus for directing educational subsidies from the current capital expenditure. The Gennady of Chekita to the head of the Kyiv City State Administration for the non-elimination of the general educational institutions of the curatorship institute and the associated reduction of the salaries of teachers. Irina Sisoyenko to the Minister of Defense of Ukraine for preventing the spread of viral diseases among the military and civilian population of Ukraine. Oleg Osuhovski to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, the Attorney General of Ukraine, the Secretary-General of the Council of National Security and Defence of Ukraine, the Head of the Ukrainian Security Service, the Minister of Internal Affairs, the Head of the National Environmental Inspectorate of Ukraine on the elimination of the environmental disaster in the region of Goschensk, Ostroski, Zdolbonov and Rivensk. Oleg Osuhovski to Prime Minister of Ukraine on the organization of compliance with the Ukrainian Anti-Corruption Act. Vladimir Parasuka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for the lifting of the ban on residents of multi-story buildings in the establishment of individual heating. Vladimir Parasuka to the Attorney General of Ukraine, Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine, on the verification of the circumstances of the beating of a police officer by the head of the Yavorów District Department of the Ministry of Internal Affairs of Ukraine in the Lviv region of Igor Mucha and its inaction. Taras Batenka to the Attorney General of Ukraine, Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine on the complete inactivity of the Mikolai District Department of the Ministry of Internal Affairs of Ukraine in the Lviv region in the conduct of a criminal investigation No.1214140250000844, was launched on 18 July 2014 on the basis of the fact that the coastal protection strip of the Mikolai district of Lviv was arbitrarily captured and forgotten. Taras Batenka to the head of the Lviv Road Service in the region for the provision of a list of construction, capital, and current repairs to the general use of local roads through the Premyśljanski, Mikolayivski, and Złoczów regions of the Lviv region, which were already repaired and planned for 2015. Oleg Kulinić, head of the Ukrainian State Service for Geodesy, Cartography and Cadastre for the Land Transfer of the Reserve Fund to the Garkushin and Petrits Rural Councils, who were responsible for the State Enterprise "The Ivanenka Agricultural Enterprise". Oleg Kulinić to the Minister of Social Policy of Ukraine for the provision of a free car for the disabled of the 2nd group war. John Melniczuk, head of the Ukrainian State Property Fund, on compliance with the terms of the sale during the privatisation of the state property of the žmerinian stock company Express. John Melniczuk to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the provision of information on criminal conduct regarding the national MPs of Ukraine VIII. Yuri Boyka and Yuri Pavlenko to the Attorney General of Ukraine on political persecution by the law enforcement agencies of Ukrainian citizens in the Gitomir region. Vadim Krivenk, head of the Ukrainian State Service on geodesy, cartography and cadastre regarding the misconduct of officials of the State in the Corstos region of Žitomir. Igora Artushenka to the Minister of Interior of Ukraine, Deputy Attorney General of Ukraine, on the investigation of the illegal prosecution of Zaporozky Euramydan on 26 January 2014. Groups of National Deputies (Artushenka, Medunice, and others) A total of 5 deputies) to the National Migration Service of Ukraine regarding the operation of the Single National Demographic Register and the provision of guidance to social protection authorities. Alexander Kodola to the Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine for the objective investigation of criminal conduct as a result of the abuse of office by former officials of the Seminal District State Administration of the Chernigiv region. Yurya Miroshnicka and Yuri Pavlenko to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the criminal inaction of officials of the Ministry of Health of Ukraine. Roman Semenha to the Head of the National Bank of Ukraine on the activities of the corporate non-state pension fund of the National Bank of Ukraine. Roman Semenha to the Minister of Social Policy of Ukraine on how to calculate the size of the housing subsidy. Dmitri Schenchev to the Attorney General of Ukraine, the Ministry of Ecology and Natural Resources of Ukraine for the proper examination of the facts of the long and extensive violation of the rights of the territorial community of the village of Čkalovsk Chuguiwa district of Kharkiv region and the facts of the violation of Ukrainian environmental legislation by the Private Association "Agrocombinat" Slobožanski". Irina Suslowy to the Deputy Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Culture of Ukraine, Prosecutor-General of Ukraine, Minister of Interior of Ukraine, temporarily acting as Head of the State Financial Inspectorate of Ukraine for investigating the illegal activities of the Director-General of the Lviv Opera Theatre and the ballet of the name Kruschelnický – Edera Tadija Evstachowic. Mikhail Golka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Social Policy of Ukraine, Head of the Ukrainian Pension Fund for Repayment of Pensions. Mikhail Golka to the Attorney General of Ukraine, Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine, on the verification of the falsification of public hearing decisions on administrative and territorial reform in the Ternopil region. Alexander Dombrovski to the head of the National Bank of Ukraine, the director of the trust fund for guaranteeing the contributions of natural persons, the authorized person of the fund to guarantee the contributions of natural persons to the temporary administration of the private shareholding company DELTA BANK for payment by the Fund to guarantee the contributions of natural persons, the contribution (deposit) to the private shareholding company Delta Bank by citizens of the Coast of Ghana, the Coast of Mikola Ivanovich and the Coast of Jaroslav Mikolajovich. Alexander Dombrovsky to the Minister of Defence of Ukraine, Minister of Interior of Ukraine, Head of the Ukrainian Security Service, Acting Commander of the National Guard of Ukraine for the establishment of military personnel of the National Guard of Ukraine, No. 3008 of the National Guard of the Ministry of Internal Affairs of Ukraine, Sergey Mikolaiovich, who served in the area of anti-terrorist operations in the area of Donetsk and Lugansk regions, and with whom he lost contact on 14 October 2014. Sergija Leshchenka to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the legality of logging and construction on the Kiev waterfront dam by relatives of Ukrainian national deputies: Yuri Boyka, Eugene Bakulin, Alexander the Jury and others Edward Matviyczuk to Odessa District State Administration, Odessa City Department of the Ministry of Interior of Ukraine in Odessa, Odessa City Council on the need to take effective measures to address the collective appeal of residents of the Kyiv district of Odessa on the organization of the trade in alcoholic beverages in addition to apartment buildings, playgrounds and educational facilities, as well as a comprehensive incentive area at the address of buildings Nos. 3, 5, 5-A, 7, 9, 11, 11-A on the Avenue of Deaf. Eduard Matviychuk to the Ministry of Health of Ukraine, Ministry of Social Policy of Ukraine, Odessa District State Administration, Odessa City Council on the need for an objective review of the address of the resident of the Odessa district of the first group of Black Jaroslava Stanislavina on the provision of comprehensive medical and social assistance. Groups of National Deputies (Solvara, Besbach and Matviychuk) to the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, the Ministry of Energy and Coal Industry of Ukraine, the Ministry of Health of Ukraine, the Ministry of Environment and Natural Resources of Ukraine on the need for careful study of the circumstances and the purpose of establishing the Chernobyl Biosphere Reserve in the territory of the alienation zone. Jury Wozniak to the Attorney General of Ukraine, Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine, Head of the Ukrainian Security Service, Head of the National Property Fund of Ukraine for the conduct of a review of the Society's economic activities with limited responsibility, Design and Construction Bureau, Ukrainian Engineering for the establishment of, in the last acts, signs of criminal offences. Jury Wozniak to the Attorney General of Ukraine, Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine, Head of the Ukrainian Security Service, Head of the State Property Fund of Ukraine, on the task of damaging the interests of the State and the creditors of VAT, the "Rivna plant of tractors". Vasil Janicki to Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Finance of Ukraine, on the need for the construction of a preschool facility in the village of the Grand Jóludsk Volodymyrecki region of the Plain region. Mr. Vasil Janicki to Prime Minister of Ukraine, Deputy Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Regional Development, Construction and Housing of Ukraine for the implementation of the project "Implementation of solid household waste collection in the private sector of the city of Dubrovnik of the Plain Region and suburbs" as the winner of the All-Ukrainian Project Competition and Program for the development of local self-government in 2013. Mikhail Papiev to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for information on Social Advertisement: "The Subsidia is simple." Valentina Didić to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the illegal activity of the TTK AUTOGRAPH AND non-faith and inadequate verification of the subject’s management by the Office of the Ukrainian Inspectorate in the Dnipropetrovsk region, which sees corruption activities. Sergio Rudika to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the practice of using ATO status to avoid illustrations. Sergija Rudika to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the biased attitude of the government towards the repair of roads N-01 Kyiv-Smark in Tekline-Smila-Kosari and N-16 Zoldanosza-Cherkas-Smila-Umanus on the Cherkasa-Smila-Nosacs. Andrija Shinkovič to the Minister of Infrastructure of Ukraine on the need for State support for the repair of rural roads in the Hmelnicki district. Andrija Šinkovič to the Minister of Infrastructure of Ukraine for the restoration and adjustment of the timetable of trains in the Hmelnicki district. Jury Lewchenka to the Minister of Education and Science of Ukraine on the urgent solution to the problem that has arisen as a result of the delay in teaching institutions of Ukraine with the issuance of educational documents to its graduates, which is a gross violation of the constitutional right of citizens to education. Ruslan Sidorovich to the Attorney General of Ukraine regarding the provision of information on the course of criminal investigation according to Oxana Babska and Svetlana Gojko on the illegal withdrawal of funds from card accounts opened in the PAT KGB "Privatbank". Ruslan Sidorovich, head of the Public Shareholders Association, Commercial Bank Private Bank, on the use of measures to recover illegally withdrawn funds collected for the treatment of ATO fighters Sergey Babski and Dennis Gojko from card accounts opened in the PAT KB "Privatbank". Robert Gorvato to the Minister for Economic Development and Trade of Ukraine on the implementation of cross-border cooperation projects and the creation of conditions for exploration of a mutually beneficial partnership between the border areas of the Carpathian Euroregion (Ukraine, Poland, Slovakia, Hungary, Romania). We finished reading the MP's questions. Ladies and gentlemen, please come into the hall. Ladies and gentlemen, once again, I invite you to the hall to continue to discuss matters of order. In particular, we will consider the appointment of elections to local councils. So I'm asking everyone to come into the hall right now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-17-m0.u6	Dear fellow national MPs! Please take your seats. Dear colleagues, we're taking our seats. There is a proposal to begin consideration of matters of the order of the day. Colleagues, please take your seats. Please, colleagues, we're taking our seats. Dear colleagues, please take your seats. There is a position to be included in the agenda, please concentrate on 2381a, 2229a, 2335a, 2382a, 2352a. This is the inclusion in the agenda of the day session. There is a proposal for these laws to be put into the order of the day session and ready to vote it today in the hall. As you wish. Please take your seats. So, respectable colleagues, what we have is 2381a, 2229a and 2335a, 2382a, 2352a to put in order of the day and to make decisions on readiness. Please give me a signal vote. Signal vote. Please give me a signal vote. Signal vote, colleagues. The laws given to you in your schedule, the agenda, 2381a, they are all written down for you. Please, for my proposal, a signal vote. Dear fellow national deputies, 2662-1 stands in line for the day’s decision in chapter II of the second reading. Please, Your Honor, this is about getting into the agenda and making a decision, this is what it's all about. Colleagues, please, vote for inclusion in the agenda and decision-making. Please vote on my proposal. We're voting on my proposal. Please support this proposal. Many of the laws that are here are already adopted, in the order of the day. [[11:51:50]] For 226 Decision taken. Yes, colleagues, another 2714a. There's an offer to just put it into the agenda, listen. This is the order of the day session – 2714a. Come on, colleagues, please, prepare the apparatus. 2714a give to the deputies, we shall now vote. 2714a, 2307a, 2943a, 2389a, 2353a, and 2688a I'm asking you to get help on these numbers, this is the inclusion in the agenda of the day session, quickly. And I'm going to read it right now in the process of dealing with agenda issues. Do you have a deal? So we can take it all into the day. Let's do it, dear fellows, so my proposal, which has just been a signal, 2381a, 2229a, 2335a, 2382a, 2352a, is to be included in the agenda for decision-making. And I ask the apparatus to prepare a case for those laws. Help for the MPs, we'll vote for them, too. Please vote. This is the inclusion in the agenda and the decision-making process, which is that we've just voted in the emergency room and we've got 226. Please vote. Vote. No plugins. Please vote. [[11:54:15]] For 205 Obviously, there are no votes. Then please prepare a report, seven 2714a, 2307a, 2943a, 2389a. It's a faction of the Radical Party. Please explain to your fellow MPs what you mean by these laws. And I'm going to continue to suggest that we support the inclusion in the agenda again. It's government and presidential. Now, look, what we're not including right now is the National People's Deputies' Honorary Fellows: 2381a is about the State Budget (for increased costs for defence and security); 2335a is about books, what Svetlana Mikhailovna said yesterday. Let's now vote on this, these five laws, the government-presidential laws, and then we'll go back to the laws that are now being passed by the MPs. Please, Oleg Easy, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-17-m0.u7	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. Dear Vladimir Borisovich, distinguished colleagues of the national MPs! We certainly support and vote for the laws aimed at strengthening the defence of the army. And at the same time, we propose to support the chapter's list of drafts for inclusion in the agenda, I stress. These are bills 2714a on the bankruptcy of natural persons; 2307 on the introduction of a full state monopoly on lottery activity, because today Russian companies are working there; 2943 on copyright protection under Zlata Ognović; 2389 on the draft decree on the increase in salaries for military personnel serving in the ATO zone. It's inclusion in the agenda to allow you to work. So all the bills are meant to protect the country. Please support, vote and consider government bills.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-17-m0.u8	There's no objection, colleagues! There is no objection to the proposals made? Let's do it again. Dear colleagues, please have another law on bankruptcy of individuals, from Self-Help. And Alexiev will now call from the Peter Prashenko Block. Please give me a call. I'll decide my own name: 2688. Please, who? Sidorovich? Please, Sidorovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-17-m0.u9	Vladimir Borisovich, 2353a's request to include the same in the list of drafts for inclusion in the agenda. And we vote it all together.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-17-m0.u10	Roger that. 2353a, Sergey Alekseev.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-17-m0.u11	Good afternoon, dear colleagues. I'd like to ask you, this bill is already in the voting order of the day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-17-m0.u12	Thank you, colleagues. Then here's the next offer. Attention! Take your seats. 2381a, 2229a, 2335a, 2382a, 2352a for adoption, for inclusion in the agenda of the session and for decision-making (this is the Presidential Office), plus for inclusion in the agenda of the session: 2714a, 2307a, 2943a, 2389a, 2353a and 2688. It's just for inclusion in the agenda. Please, Your Honor, I ask you to vote. It's a day-to-day inclusion. [[11:59:18]] For 224 Colleagues, please, let's mobilize. Take your seats. Please, colleagues. 2662 daily, 2228 also included. I'll tell you all about it. It's just that we're making a proposal for inclusion in the agenda. Please vote, colleagues. We support my offer, the offer I made. [[12:00:06]] For 235 Decision taken. Now, colleagues, may I have your attention? In the first reading, we have laws to consider: 2148a (this is the local election, the decree), 2013, 2230, 2300a, 2315a, 2315a-1, 2315a/D, 2228, 2635, 2229a, well that we have just included for the agenda. Next: 2109a, 2109a-1, 2662, this is the second reading, I'm saying 2662-1.2278a, 2406, 2049, 2781 and 2087a. Then 2214a and 2280a and 2280a-1. Please, Lilia Mikhailna Grinevich.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-17-m0.u13	Dear colleagues, we cannot conclude the day without voting without considering two necessarily bills. This is a bill relating to the transfer of funds saved by the Supreme Council for textbooks for students at number 2335a. [[Congrats]] And also Bill 1850-1, which deals with the re-establishment of land tax benefits for educational institutions and reserves. Please include him in today's agenda.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-17-m0.u14	Thank you. It's suggested to consider another 1850-1, but, Lilia Mikhailovna, question 2335a on the textbooks, we just voted. It's on, and we'll look at it. It's over. Yes, today. That's how we voted it. Please, the election order is ready. Oleg Lazko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-17-m0.u15	Dear Volodymyr Borisovich, distinguished colleagues! I ask you, two very important bills that stood in order yesterday. Sadly, their hands did not reach them. For us to vote today, to include them in the debate, and to vote. 2276 – on the exemption from pre-primary and educational taxation. Especially from paying taxes on the ground. This is the second reading, the bill is ready to be considered. And 2004 is about reducing tax pressure on taxpayers, second reading, ready to be considered. In today's conditions, when a catastrophic economic situation, I propose to consider these bills to support small and medium-sized businesses. And to free children's kindergartens and schools from paying land taxes. Plus, I support Mrs. Lilia Greenevich, 1850-1 on exemption from the land tax of educational institutions, national parks, etc. Two bills: 2276, 2004 on tax reduction.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-17-m0.u16	2276. And another 1850-1, 2276 and 2004. Please, this proposal for this sequence of issues that I have just announced, please vote, please. Please vote on my proposal. Please, colleagues. Please vote. Vote please, Your Honor. Please be supportive. [[12:04:24]] For 227 Decision taken. I think so. Please, Your Honor, the first important question is: 2148th draft Order on the appointment of alternate councillors and village, village, city heads in 2015. Please, the head of the committee, Sergey Vlasenko. And let's work hard, lots of laws.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-17-m0.u17	Good afternoon, dear fellows! In fact, the question is not as simple as it seems. On the one hand, it's a completely technical procedure to record that election date, which is already established by the Constitution. Yet, in view of the totally specific situation that has resulted from Russian aggression, this issue has technically become a political one. At its meeting, the committee carefully considered all possible options for the adoption of this decision. You know that a separate bill has been introduced to define areas where elections can be held. However, technically today it is absolutely impossible to establish areas in which the total security of citizens can be ensured, territories where elections can take place in accordance with the Organization’s standards of security and cooperation in Europe. Therefore, after a few hours of discussion, the committee suggests that you consider the next Supreme Council decree. I would like to point out once again that the position of the committee has been balanced. She was unanimously supported. But the committee understands that there may be other thoughts in the room. And in principle, committee members can share these thoughts. We had five choices. We propose one, voted unanimously by the committee. Order on the appointment of local councils and village, city, city heads in 2015. In accordance with article 85, part one, paragraph 30, of the Constitution of Ukraine, the Supreme Council of Ukraine decides: to appoint alternate members of the local councils and village, village, city heads, except as defined in paragraphs 2 and 3 of this Order, on Sunday, October 25, 2015. Item 2. According to paragraph 1 of the first part of article 3 and part of the fifth part of article 8 of the Ukrainian Law on the Protection of the Rights and Freedoms of Citizens and the legal regime in the Interimly Occupied Territory, the next election of members of the Supreme Council of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea, all local councils and all rural, rural, urban and urban heads in the temporarily occupied territories of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea and the city of Sevastopol shall not be appointed or carried out in accordance with paragraph 1 of this Order. Item 3. In connection with the Russian Federation’s military aggression against Ukraine, the inability to meet the standards of election of the Organization for Security and Cooperation in Europe, the avoidance of the terrorist threat, the need to ensure the security of Ukrainian citizens living in the areas of Donetské and Lugansk, the successive election of deputies of all local councils and all rural, rural, urban, temporary occupied areas of the individual areas, cities and villages of the Donetské and Lugansk region, determined in accordance with the Ukrainian Supreme Council Regulation of 17 March 2015 on the definition of individual areas.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-17-m0.u18	Please continue.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-17-m0.u19	the cities, villages and villages of Donetské and Lugansk region, which have a special order of local self-government, as well as areas of areas of areas, cities, villages and villages of Donetské and Lugansk region, where the jurisdiction of the military and civilian administrations is not assigned or implemented in accordance with paragraph 1 of this Decision. Item 4. The election of local council members and village, village, city heads who are not appointed and not held in accordance with paragraphs 2 and 3 of this decision will be appointed by the Supreme Council of Ukraine in accordance with special law and under the terms established by such special law, subject to the termination of the temporary occupation of the relevant part of the territory of Ukraine and the armed aggression of the Russian Federation against Ukraine, ensuring compliance with the standards of election, security and cooperation in Europe and the security of Ukrainian citizens living in the respective territories of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea, the Donetské and Lugansk region and the city of Sevastopol. The Central Election Commission, in the order established by the Ukrainian legislation, shall take steps to provide financial and material and technical support for the preparation and conduct of the elections referred to in paragraph 1 of this Decision at the expense of the State budget of Ukraine. Item 6. The Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine shall, within the limits of its mandate, take measures to ensure the financing of the election of local councils and village, village, city heads at the expense of Ukraine’s state budget. Paragraph 7, last. This decision takes effect from the day of publication.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-17-m0.u20	Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-17-m0.u21	This project is proposed by the committee, but that does not mean that the hall will agree with it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-17-m0.u22	Thank you. Dear colleagues, please readjustment is agreed upon, and a large number of meetings are held on this subject. Yuri Lucenko. There is a proposal for a statement by Yuri Lucenko to vote on the entire decree in an editorial paper by Yuri Lucenko. Please, Yuri Vitaliovich. Attention!
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-17-m0.u23	Dear Mr. Golovo, honourable colleagues, the question of the appointment of alternate councils and village, village, city heads in 2015 was debated among many factions of Parliament. And at this point, we agreed on a mechanism that I would now, in agreement with the factions, ask for and support. First. According to article 85, part one, paragraph 30, of the Constitution of Ukraine, the Supreme Council rules. First. Assign the local council and village, village, city heads to the next election, except as defined in paragraphs 2-3 of this decree, on Sunday, October 25, 2015. The other one. In accordance with paragraph 1 of Part One of Article 3 and Part Five of Article 8 of the Ukrainian Law on the Protection of the Rights and Freedoms of Citizens and the legal regime in the temporarily occupied territory of Ukraine, the next election of the deputies of all local councils and all rural, rural, urban, temporary occupied territories, the Autonomous Republic of Crimea and the city of Sevastopol are not appointed in accordance with paragraph 1 of this regulation. Third. In accordance with paragraph 1 of this Decision, the alternate election of the deputies of all local councils and all rural, rural, urban and urban councils in accordance with paragraph 1 of this Decision is not to be held in separate areas, cities, villages and villages of Donetsk and Lugansk areas, which are located in areas defined in accordance with the Supreme Council Regulation (17 March 2015) on the identification of separate areas of the cities, villages and villages of Donetsk and Lugansk areas, which are established by a special order of local self-government, and which are recognised as temporarily occupied territories, in accordance with the Ukrainian Supreme Council Regulation (from 17 March 2015) on the recognition of separate areas, cities, villages and villages of the Donetské region and the Lugansk region as temporarily occupied territories. Four. If it is not possible to organize and prepare, in accordance with the provisions of this law, local elections in specific areas of the Donetsk and Lugansk regions in connection with the Russian Federation’s military aggression against Ukraine, the failure to comply with the standards for holding the elections of the Organization for Security and Cooperation in Europe, the avoidance of the terrorist threat, the need to ensure the safety of Ukrainian citizens, the Central Election Commission decides on the inability to hold the elections of the respective local councils of rural, rural and urban heads. This decision is immediately after its adoption by the Central Election Commission to the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Fifth. Elections of deputies of all local councils and all rural, rural, urban heads who were not appointed in accordance with paragraphs 2 and 3 of this title or for which a decision has been taken on the inability to implement them in accordance with paragraph 4 of this decision will be appointed by the Supreme Council of Ukraine in due course and in accordance with the order envisaged by the law, with the cessation of the temporary occupation and armed aggression of the Russian Federation against Ukraine, namely: the withdrawal of all illegal military formations, directed, controlled and financed by the Russian Federation, Russian occupying forces, their military technicians from the territory of Ukraine; the restoration of full control of Ukraine over the state border of Ukraine; the disarming of all illegal military formations and mercenaries operating in the temporarily occupied territories of Ukraine; and the restoration of full control of Ukraine over the state-owned territory of Ukraine; the disarmament of all illegal security forces and mercenaries operating in Ukraine. Six. The Central Election Commission, in the order established by the Ukrainian legislation, shall take steps to ensure financial and material and technical preparation and conduct of the elections referred to in paragraph 1 of this Decision, at the expense of the State budget of Ukraine. Seven. The Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine shall, within the limits of its authority, take measures to ensure the financing of the election of local councils and village, village, city heads at the expense of the State budget of Ukraine. Eight. This decision takes effect from the date of the entry into force of the Ukrainian Law on Local Elections. The signature of the Head of the Supreme Council. Dear colleagues, this decree determines that the elections take place on October 25th of this year, except for the occupied territories and territories in which the Russian Federation supports the militants and occupying forces of the Russian Federation. At the same time, this ruling resolves the issue of elections in Ukraine’s freed territory. Shirokine’s populace. Can elections be held there? It is up to the CFC to make the right decision with the Supreme Council. Can elections be held in Slavansk? It will be determined by the CFC, which, if necessary, will give a decision to the Supreme Council. From our point of view, such a mechanism allows for the peaceful conduct of elections everywhere where fair, transparent and secure standards are provided for participants in the local council process. Requesting support for this proposal, in line with the factions of the Supreme Council. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-17-m0.u24	Thank you. Ruslan Knazevich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-17-m0.u25	In full support of the suggestions that have just been made, I ask for two more editorial changes. Technically, the second item was the election of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea of the Supreme Council. It's just technically out. Please add: election of members of the Supreme Council of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea. And in the last paragraph, instead of the words that were spoken, write that this decree takes effect from the day of publication. Because according to the law in force, we need to adopt it by July 24, and the law has not yet been signed and has not become effective. I'm asking you to vote with these editorial rights.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-17-m0.u26	Please, Yuri Lucenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-17-m0.u27	Colleagues, I think we need to accept these proper amendments. With respect to them and to vote in favour of the decree. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-17-m0.u28	Please, just a minute. [[B in m in s a l in]] Colleagues, recesses are announced after consideration of the matter, and it is not possible to announce a recess. Colleagues, please, as amended by Yuri Vitaliovich Lucenko and Ruslan Petrovich Knazević, as a whole. One minute. Please, Andrew Parobius.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-17-m0.u29	Dear colleagues, we've been agreeing for a long time on all the positions that should open the way today for the start of the electoral process. All the lawyers were involved, and we clearly wrote out the mechanism when they were being submitted to the CLTC about areas where it was impossible to conduct, and the Supreme Council approved them. This mechanism is legally prescribed. And this decision gives us an opportunity before the elections begin. I'm asking you to settle down right now. We can't do this anymore. Please make an offer if you can. One minute, Oleg Lazko.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-17-m0.u30	Dear fellow national MPs! The issue of elections is a key issue, it is a matter of authority in Ukraine. Look, please, at the "stand on the tree" of the thief's block. Because they're nostrils. See how their nostrils are blowing? They are in the sense of power! Why are they in the sense of power? Because they're watching that we're giving them the opportunity to take this power. That's why the C.V.C.C. It'll change. You're saying the C.V.C.I. is organizing an election. What C.V.K.? What deadline ended in June last year? Is this C.V.C.C. gonna run the election? Therefore, another point before this decision is the immediate replacement of the CLTC and the adoption of the relevant decision by Parliament. A corresponding draft of the Order is registered in the Supreme Council. Let us vote either separately or include here a separate paragraph of the President's appeal to implement the requirements of the Constitution without delay new candidates for the members of the Central Electoral Commission. Next, paragraph four, Yuri Vitaliyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-17-m0.u31	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-17-m0.u32	Elections are held in controlled areas of Ukraine if there are no conditions. And it's the decision of the Central Election Commission. According to whom does she have to make that decision? The text that was processed reads, "by the submission of the appropriate military-civil administration." The text you were speaking, it fell out. So the question is, on the basis of whose request does the CEVC have to cancel these elections, if, for example, there is no way to make them? In fact, our faction believes that perhaps we should not hold elections in the Donetsk and Lugansk region until these territories are completely freed from Russian occupations.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-17-m0.u33	Dear fellow national MPs, please, Yuri Lucenko, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-17-m0.u34	Dear colleagues, considering that I had an address with Oleg Valeriovich Láška. I'll give you an answer. The point is that the Civil Service Act currently does not allow them to provide relevant information. The CEC will then refer to the higher executive power, the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, which is the only one who can provide reasonable information about the existence or absence of terrorist threats, military actions, etc. We can also complement later the mandate of the military-civil administration. Then it will also become clearer. But for the time being, the CEVC, by turning to the executive -- clearly, this to Kabmin -- will make the right decision here, to Kabmin. I also believe that not all areas of Donbas can hold elections. But that's my personal point of view. And CEC is the only legally authorized body that has to make the right decision and send it here because we are the only body that can allow or cancel elections.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-17-m0.u35	Finish up, Yuri Vitaliovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-17-m0.u36	And another thing: about CBC. Colleagues, it's been announced on the factions of the coalition, on the Conciliation Council, and once again I'll allow myself to announce the President's address on this matter. The President of Ukraine is awaiting proposals from every faction of Parliament regarding members of the CLTC, which will be introduced to the Supreme Council as soon as they arrive. So this issue will be resolved without any opposition. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-17-m0.u37	Thank you. Please, Rybchin. Then Jegor Sobolev and then Germany. After a minute, we have to vote. Well, figure out who the faction is.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-17-m0.u38	Good afternoon, dear fellows! Alexei Rybczyn "The Fatherland", Donetskina. Now there are calls for no elections in Donetsk, in the freed territory of Donetsk and Lugansk. I think it's wrong judgment at all. Because when the President's election was to be held, these ballots were held on helicopters, and the President's elections took place throughout Ukraine, and we have a legitimately elected president throughout Ukraine when the parliamentary elections were to be held, and you, too, many people are sitting here because of the votes of Donbas, we were holding these elections. And when people who pay taxes that work there, they have to have the right to renew their elites. And in order for the social elevators to finally work on Donbasa, we have to hold these local elections, this is about the prestige and dignity of the Ukrainian nation. And if someone is worried about their ratings that you can't get into these areas or in this power plant, think about the people who want to make that choice.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-17-m0.u39	Thank you. Please, Jegor Sobolev, a minute later, the German opposition block faction, a minute. And let's go to the vote, take your seats, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-17-m0.u40	Colleagues, Self-Help thinks it's very important to adopt this decision so that Giwie and Motorola won't be able to choose the Ukrainian local MPs. This time. On the other hand, we had a very big and difficult discussion, and we realized that if we don't hold elections in the free territories of Ukrainian Donbas, we will do what Putin wants us to do. This war, in particular, is about the right to choose power and the right to disenfranchise power, so it is very important to hold elections where Ukraine is, Ukrainian authorities, Ukrainian administrations. And the third. In order for no one to be tempted to deceive one another, a great request is made, here is the bright head, like Yuri Lucenko, to make a decision in the draft Decision on the mandatory replacement of those members of the Central Elections, whose powers ended more than a year ago.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-17-m0.u41	Thank you. Please, Matvienkov, National Deputy. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-17-m0.u42	Matvienkov, 57th District, Mariupol. Dear colleagues! Of course, we understand and realize that the most precious thing is human life. And no chair, no deputy's mandate, is worth a man's life. And of course, we realize that it is not worth the risk of human life. But we understand the following thing: that the main rule of law in our country is a Ukrainian citizen who must choose the power to choose, have the right to choose the power he deems appropriate. When the presidential elections were held, we were not afraid of this situation. When the parliamentary elections were held, we were not afraid of this situation. But today, in order to hold elections today, we are simply not allowed to talk about it. Similarly, they attempt not to allow the citizens of Ukraine to vote, who would like to express their attitude towards the current authorities, including those of Ukraine. And the current power is afraid of these elections. Therefore, I believe that the option that we have will not support it in any way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-17-m0.u43	Thank you, Your Honor. We talked. One minute, one minute, take your seats, please. There's an absolutely fundamental thing. There's an absolutely fundamental thing. Take your seats, please. Dear colleagues, please take your seats and calm down. In Ukraine, where there is no fighting, no occupation, no threat to human life and health, it is essential that elections be held. The right of people to choose does not have any authority to take that right away from people. Wherever they live, where they live. They are citizens of Ukraine, and the holy right to choose and be chosen. So, dear colleagues, please take your seats. Sergei Sobolev, one minute. And we vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-17-m0.u44	Sobolje, Fatherland. To judge all sides, you know, it's an option, maybe when you're right, and you're right. I have a specific offer. To C.V.C.K. Jura, listen. So that the Election Commission Central, whether updated or not, does not abuse its right to cancel the elections, I think, add the following: "The Supreme Council may cancel the CWC decision." And it'll be legal. And so if CEC abuses its right to cancel the election, we'll always check it out. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-17-m0.u45	Guys, I have an offer. Take your seats, please. I have the next offer. The decision is now being drawn up, that's the result. Please take your seats and calm down. Calm down, please. Please, Yuri Lucenko, one more explanation.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-17-m0.u46	Mr. Sergei, one more time. Item 4. Please be careful! Paragraph 4, which refers to the situation at Donbassa. If it is not possible to organize and prepare a suitable law to conduct local elections in specific areas of Donetsk and Lugansk in connection with the Russian Federation’s military aggression against Ukraine, the failure to comply with OSCE election standards, the avoidance of a terrorist threat, the need to ensure the safety of Ukrainian citizens, the Central Election Commission decides on the inability to conduct the elections of the relevant councils. This decision is immediately after its adoption by the Central Election Commission to the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Submitted for approval to the Supreme Council of Ukraine. In this way, I think, more precisely. Submitted for approval to the Supreme Council of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-17-m0.u47	Thank you. Please take your seats. We will now vote with the rights of Yuri Vitaliyovich Lucenka, the first amendment, the second and Prince Ruslan. We're voting on this whole draft ruling with those rights that I just announced. With technical law. Please, colleagues, we are voting on the draft Order on the appointment of local elections. Vote. Please be supportive. [[12:30:28]] For 237 Decision taken. Thank you. 2013, Honorary Colleagues, draft Law on Custody. Rosenblatt. Colleagues, 2013, Caregiver Activity, Rosenblatt. There is a suggestion to consider a reduced procedure. Eutusek, Sergey Eutusek. There's an offer, with a reduced procedure. Please be supportive. Short-term procedure, colleagues. We have to work fast. [[12:31:07]] For-166 Decision taken. Report.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-17-m0.u48	Dear Lord Chairman! Dear colleagues! Your attention is proposed in the draft Law 2013. Well, it might be worth noting that in this room we have discussed the issue of illegal amber production very often. Then we saw the processes that took place in Mukacheva, also associated with corruption. So all the factions of the coalition, the representatives of all the factions of the Coalition of Equality, of Žitomirščina, have prepared a number of legal acts, drafts, laws that regulate the production of amber at the legislative level. The draft law proposes the use and implementation of useful non-industrial fossils will be carried out in fact, and it is now actually illegal. So for 20 years now, there's actually a custody activity. And today we're proposing with a team of co-authors de jure to legitimize custody. That's what that's gonna lead to. This will lead to additional jobs. Relations and relations in this area are settled. The social guarantees of those workers who have contracts will clearly be taken into account. We have to change our philosophy in the state, considering that everyone is shivering at whether or not the International Monetary Fund will give credit there, but we have to understand that we have a lot of good resources, and we will not be able to take credit for which our children will be counted, but we will be able to do it ourselves on our own land, with such a colossal resource as amber, to earn the income part of the funds. So there's a request to support this bill and de jure to admit that such care activities exist in Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-17-m0.u49	Please, if there are no changes. A committee amendment and a positive conclusion, we can vote on the basis of this bill. Please take your seats, colleagues, there are many more questions. Please take your seats, colleagues. Take your seats. Take your seats, dear fellows. Please, Honorable Fellows, 2013. Take your seats, colleagues. Please, 2013 in the first reading. Please vote and please support, colleagues. 2013 in the first reading. Please, on the ground. 2013 based on. Based on the base. [[12:34:38]] For-153 The decision is not taken. Thank you, Your Honor. Let's move on, fellows. 2109, we included bills 2109a, 2109a-1 laws to put the day into order and make decisions. Please report to President Stephen Kubov 2109a and 2109a-1. Stepan of Cuba. I'm asking the deputies to take your seats, please. Take your seats, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-17-m0.u50	Honourable Fellow Members of Parliament, the President of Ukraine has been brought to the attention of the Supreme Council of Ukraine and has been designated as an immediate draft of the Act amending certain legislative acts of Ukraine (for the order of the movement of goods to the area or from the area of the conduct of an anti-terrorist operation) at number 2109a. The need for adoption of the bill is due to the proliferation in the area of conducting an anti-terrorist operation in cases of unauthorized movement beyond defined areas of material value omission and the absence of a legally defined order of accountability for those responsible for such violations. In this regard, the bill is aimed at: introducing a mechanism to control the movement of goods in the area of counterterrorism operations, detecting irregularities in their movement, and bringing to justice those responsible for such violations. The draft Law proposes that the movement of goods to or from the area of an anti-terrorist operation should take place in an order established by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine after the submission of the Ukrainian Security Service. For those who move goods in breach of this order, administrative responsibility is imposed in the form of a fine and the subsequent confiscation of the goods concerned. According to the bill, the protocols on these administrative offences are authorized to be made by officials of the State Tax Office, and the case is proposed to be brought to justices in the district, district, city, or interdisciplinary courts. The adoption of this law will facilitate the carrying out of revenue and control functions for the movement of goods to or from the area of antiterrorist operations. Dear colleagues, please support the legislative initiative and accept the bill as a whole. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-17-m0.u51	Thank you. Dear colleagues, there is an offer. The draft Law was held by a committee. A word from the committee. Alternative? Please. 2009a-1, please report 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-17-m0.u52	Dear colleagues, I would like to draw your attention to what we are asked to vote for. Bill 2109a (Presidential) invites us to legalize with you the temporary order of movement of citizens and goods on the collision line. This temporary order has been in operation since January of this year. It works successfully, and there is no urgent need to adopt a bill that will legalize it. I filed an alternative bill before the President's bill. It contains one significant difference: the President's bill proposes rules for these to be approved by the Cabinet of Ministers for the submission of the BSB, and I propose that the Supreme Council approve the rules of cross-section through the line of collision, especially that this is provided by the Constitution of Ukraine. Because according to article 85 of the Constitution of Ukraine, the definition of the principles of internal and external politics is part of the authority of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, and the Kabdin is merely a lawmaker of Ukraine. But really what is proposed here is the danger in this bill? First of all, the term of the goods is not defined, i.e. it is uncertain which goods are prohibited before transport. Just a person who buys for example 2 sacks of potatoes and carries it in order to provide his family with food may be identified as a product, and then they are removed, both products and machines. In addition, it is unclear who will be seized — by the court, or by the authorities that exercise their authority over CERs. So you and I are legalizing just this mechanism of the corruption system, when it's just those officials who exercise their authority over CERs that can take transport resources to their discretion. That is, the bill does not provide that this should be done in court, or by the officials themselves. So I don't think there's an urgent need to enact such a law. He needs to be sent for pre-processing. And I would like to support my bill 2109a-1, which states that these rules are approved by the Supreme Council. In addition, I would like to point out that there are now a lot of draft laws that are now trying to regulate some kind of cross-section rule and rules for carrying cargo through the collision line, but they don't solve the problem in a complex way. The Self-Help faction is currently working on a bill that.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-17-m0.u53	Ten seconds, complete.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-17-m0.u54	We're working on a bill that solves issues in a complex way. So I'm asking my bill to be based, a.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-17-m0.u55	Thank you. Please, Andrew Anatoliyovich Cosemyakin. Please invite a colleague of the national deputies to the hall, we will now proceed to the vote, we have many questions of the order of the day. Please report to Andriy Anatoliyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-17-m0.u56	Thank you. Dear colleagues! Dear Head! The Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the Law Enforcement of Law Enforcement has, in fact, dealt with, operationally, the President's bill, the draft Act amending certain acts of Ukraine concerning the order of movement of goods to or from the area of anti-terrorist operation (2109). And also the alternate Mrs. Natalia of the Wessel Bill 2109a-1. Bill 2109a proposes to supplement the Anti-Terrorism Act with a new article 14-1 on the definition of how goods are moved to or from the area of anti-terrorist operation. In particular, it is suggested that the movement of goods to or from the area of an anti-terrorist operation should take place in an order established by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine after the submission of the Ukrainian Security Service. Bill 2109a-1 proposes to supplement the same law with a new article on the assignment of goods to the area or from the area of counter-terrorism to the jurisdiction of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, as Mrs. Weselova has already said. In violation of this order, according to the bill, changes are proposed to introduce administrative responsibility for violating the order of the movement of goods to or from the area of the conduct of an anti-terror operation. Pursuant to the draft amendments, the protocols on such administrative violations are authorized to be made to the public authorities of the State Tax Office, and the case is proposed for district judges in the city. City and local courts. In line with the findings of the General Scientific and Scientific Administration, the first reading of Bill 2109a is to re-establish the subject of the legislative initiative, and 2109a-1 is to be rejected in general. Today, on the committee, we have considered this issue, and we are grateful that the members of the committee have been, let's say, Members of the committee have taken all the better things that were in the Wesselov draft and, let's say, we have put in place a bill that we think today should be adopted as a basis and, as decided by the committee members, and in general, in connection with this situation in the East of the country. Therefore, honourable colleagues, there is the proposal of Bill 2109a to accept as a basis and generally as a law, and Bill 2109-1 to reject. Please be supportive. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-17-m0.u57	Thank you. Dear colleagues, please take your seats. Please take your seats. Honorable National Deputies. Please. Please take your seats. Ready to vote? Let's make an alert, 2109a, according to the committee's decision on the basis and in general. 2109a, colleagues, alert, please vote. Please support 2109a, alert, please support, colleagues. Vote. [[12:45:11]] For 224 [[B in m in s a l in]] All right, colleagues, let's do it again. Please vote. 2109a as a basis and generally in accordance with the Committee's decision, please vote. Please give me another warning. Let's vote, colleagues, please support. Please vote. Please vote. [[12:45:41]] For 251 Thank you, Your Honor. 2109a is the basis and we vote in general. It was a signal. Vote, please. For, based on 2109a. Please vote. Vote! [[12:46:00]] For the 250. Decision taken, my dear fellows. The next question of the agenda is that you and I will put in the agenda to make the right decisions. We have two laws. [[B in m in s a l in]] Colleagues, look, the textbooks are moving on. Now we're voting 2229. One minute, one minute, one minute. My 2315a would have included, colleagues. It's a presidential government and a deputy. And then we vote on the manuals: 2335. And 2662-1. [[B in m in s a l in]] Then there's 2381a. After the textbooks. Please, colleagues, and then we vote 2228. Colleagues, 2315a, 2315a-1a and 2315a-d. Please report to the representative of the President of Cuba. It's a very important law, now with the Kabmin amendment on the roads, if you remember, there's the Odessa Rennie. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-17-m0.u58	Dear colleagues, your attention is drawn to the draft Ukrainian Law amending the Ukrainian Budget Code on experimentation in Odessa, Volinska, Lviv, Cherniewsky. The fourth Cherniewecka was agreed yesterday by the initiator of the introduction of this bill into the hall for the financing of the reconstruction of the current repair of road traffic of general state importance, 2315a, introduced by the President of Ukraine and defined as urgent. This bill is intended to create conditions for the reconstruction of the current repair of such public roads: Kiev-Chop to Budapest through Lviv, Mukachevo-Uzhgrad on the Lviv-Skole area, Odessa-Reni on Bucharest, Lviv-Radehov-Luck, Skole-Slavsk and, respectively, Ivano-Frankivsk-Chernovitsi. To this end, amendments to the Ukrainian Code of Budgets are proposed in the areas of experimentation, whereby 50 per cent of the amount of redefinition of monthly IDs of customs payments made during the customs treatment of the goods in the above mentioned areas are directed to the special funds of the respective district budgets in the order established by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. The bill provides that the changes will take effect on the first day of the month following the month of publication of the law and will expire on January 1, 2017. Dear colleagues, the adoption of this law will allow for improved transport infrastructure and will have a positive impact on the socio-economic development of Odessa, Volinsky, Lvivsk, Cherniewsk regions. Please support the President's legislative initiative and adopt this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-17-m0.u59	Dear fellow national MPs, there is an important law. Let's do it without it. Please take your seats, colleagues, we have a lot of questions. Please, colleagues, there is draft Law 2315a, 2315a-1 and 2315a/D for your consideration. Please. [[B in m in s a l in]] Wait a minute. Victor Pinzenik, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-17-m0.u60	Dear colleagues, distinguished national MPs! Don't let it turn into buttons. We don't even have a reduced procedure. Allow the MPs to comment on the bill. I'm asking you to give me two minutes, as prescribed by the rules of procedure. Although there was no vote on the procedure at all. In fact, I would like to remind my colleagues that only the Budget Act determines the size and purpose of the expenditure. This is the norm of the Constitution. The Constitution is the Law of Direct Action. Hence, no budget codes or other codes can allocate budget expenses. This situation is enough to prevent the law from being upheld. But I want to give you two more circumstances. First, this is going to be a countdown depending on the proven plan. I won't tell you a secret if I tell you that people design a plan, not cars. And it's enough to have a low-level plan to get the right encouragement. The second important moment, the blurry takes place on the inside customs, not on the border. There are no goods on the border. And that's why.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-17-m0.u61	Please, one more minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-17-m0.u62	That's why there's no connection between efforts, because you can sweep goods anywhere. And this may allow abuse on a regional level. So I encourage my colleagues to refrain from adopting a similar project. And if you need to build roads, please include them in your budget. And we're willing to support it directly in the state budget.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-17-m0.u63	Thank you. Please. Look, this bill is the basis. We will now vote on it as a basis. You're still working on it as you need to. There's a proposal from the President. Please, Stepan Kubi. Offer, Stepan Kube.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-17-m0.u64	There is a proposal to vote first in the first reading and then in the whole.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-17-m0.u65	Dear colleagues, please take your seats. Colleagues, there's an offer, let's make a signal. 2315, 2315. I can say, fellow officers, one vote against, and the entire hall for this law. 2315, yes. Please note, on the basis and in general, please, in the Committee's version. Signal for the base and for the whole. On the basis and in general in the Committee's version. The committee told me that everything was taken into account, what you said, everything was taken into account. 2315th, on the basis and in general, please vote. Colleagues, come on, signal, we're voting for the base and the whole. [[12:54:31]] For 231 Now, once again, on the basis of a total of 2315. Vote, Your Honor. It's based on 2315. Please vote. Vote. [[12:54:55]] For-182 I don't understand. They just voted in favour. Return. Let's go back to this 2315 law, return and then I'll put it on the ground. Let's go back to 2315, please, colleagues. Please vote 2315 for the return. Vote. [[12:55:22]] For 238. Decision taken. Now 2315a as a base? Based on the base. Please vote 2315 a as a basis. 2315a as a base vote, colleagues, as a basis. [[12:55:44]] For 241 It takes into account the government’s proposals in this 2315a? Please, Alexi Hotcharenko, one minute. Alexei Hotcharenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-17-m0.u66	Dear colleagues! I urge everyone to support this decision. For if we do not now support the whole, when will these roads be built? This is what is essential in Odessa, Lviv, Volinsky, Cherniewsky. If we don't vote in general right now, it's only September. And it will be too late! What tax revenue? I ask you, on behalf of the inhabitants of Odessa, Lvivsky, Volinsk, Cherniewec, to support this! Well, they deserve to be on normal roads, where they follow the fur for hours and thousands! Thank you! Please support.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-17-m0.u67	One minute, please, dear colleagues. And there's a proposal from the Ministry of Finance. Do we have the Ministry of Finance present? One minute, Oleg Lazko.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-17-m0.u68	Dear fellow national MPs! What is now being proposed is a clean-up federalization! Don't you have to go to Chernigovishka or Zakarpata or Poltavščina or Donetsk? You see, the customs office is in Chernigovishka, let's do it from Chernigovian Customs; there's a customs office on the summation road; there's a customs office on Kharkushka; there's a customs office on Lugansk; there's a customs station on Lugansk Roads! Listen! There is budgetary discipline! If we make roads, we all do! And if we do, we do it for one area and we don't do it for another, it's called federalization! This is called the split of Ukraine! It's called someone better and someone worse. So let us act by law, adopted in the first reading, accepted, worked out for the second reading. But there's no federalization and no contrast between the areas of Ukraine, because we're going to come to my home country, and they're going to ask us what they didn't give us. Or the Carpathians.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-17-m0.u69	But it says here: experiment. Please, Deputy Minister of Finance.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-17-m0.u70	Dear Mr. Head, honourable national deputies, we'd like to support the bill in the Odessa section. Exclusion Volin. On Lviv, however, they would be asked to leave but not to be specifically bound to the customs office, but only to re-establish the customs revenue in accordance with the established order and approved government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-17-m0.u71	It was an offer, colleagues, it was an offer from the Cabinet of Ministers. Look, actually, listen, in fact, we can do it in such a way that we don't stop this process, now accept it as a whole with Kabmina's rights. Next. With the papers of the Cabinet of Ministers, you heard the Ministry of Finance. And then we can work on other proposals that might arise. Is there no such unity? Kisses, one minute. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-17-m0.u72	Dear colleagues, I'd like to have a moment of your attention. It turns out to my colleague that we're all taking things in order, only they have the real truth, only the truth, if Laszko is speaking, means it's the truth, but it's not the truth. Literally, literally, two examples. First. Dear Odessa-Reni. First, she needs to be repaired, she's going to Bucharest. Second. To let you know that the volume of transshipment products in Reni in the port has dropped by more than 20 percent in just a month. Today, this port is completely isolated. Today, the Ukrainian Bessarabia is practically cut off from the mainland. I strongly request that, on behalf of all the deputies from Odšćina, the second reading vote on the draft proposed by the President of Ukraine, Peter Poroshenko. I request that the question be put to the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-17-m0.u73	Thank you. Colleagues, we've already voted once, so we vote. Please. Everyone, calm down, take their seats. Alexander Trejak's minute and we're done. All of it. [[B in m in s a l in]] I hear we've already voted for it, and that's where we'll work it out.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-17-m0.u74	Indeed, the problem began when other areas were added to the Odessa region. I have a normal offer. We were only talking about the Odessa area. Let us exclude the others, do an experiment in the Odessa region or let us add all areas of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-17-m0.u75	Colleagues from Odessa County are taking the experiment? We support the effort, the President's proposal in the Odessa area will support the new head of administration Saakashvili, including the merger. [[B in m in s a l in]] Thank you, Your Honor. The draft Law was adopted as a basis. I see that there is no consensus vote to re-vote it in general, even in part of Odessa. So calm down, take your seats, we'll work later. It is accepted as a foundation. [[B in m in s a l in]] All right, colleagues, take your seats. Please, let's go. Colleagues, while we're approaching the textbook issue right now, there's an offer. Thank you, colleagues. Please offer Rosenblatt, a national MP. Listen. And then the textbooks.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-17-m0.u76	Dear colleagues, good afternoon! I understand that today we have a very high temperature in the hall. But we just did that, after the election, after the election decree, we failed the 2013 law on custody. I understand today that many people who don't care about the problems of people who today can't find themselves in life who today walk with shovels in the woods and don't know how to move on. So I'm asking you very much not to lose this bill, and we've consulted with the self-help colleagues and asked them to return it and bring it back to committee hearings, which is to return to the first reading. I ask you very much to support this proposal and allow this bill not to fail. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-17-m0.u77	My colleagues, look, I want to ask you to come in order, or I'm gonna have to close this meeting right now. So please take your seats, calmly, emotionally free, talk, and take your seats as a basis. Maxim Burbak People's Front, please have an offer? Victoria Sumar People's Front, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-17-m0.u78	Vladimir Borisovich, it's very strange that today is the last day of our session, and we're putting forward, well, frankly, the lobby bills, everyone understands that. [[Applause]] Well, let's finally, on the last day, take this opportunity, the presence of deputies in the hall, and vote on what really depends on a lot of things for people. These textbooks are miserable — millions of Ukrainian families. It's people's grants to buy children these packets of textbooks, because now people have to buy it themselves. Well, isn't that a priority for the Ukrainian Supreme Council? Let's vote it out, and let's move all this lobby stuff forward so we don't feel ashamed here.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-17-m0.u79	I don't know what this is about now, because we're going to be looking at Bill 2335a, just about the textbooks, I just said that. Before giving the word to Rosenblatt, I said that before we went to the textbooks right now, 2335a. Next, colleagues, 2381a, next is the issue of defense funding. Now, in sequence, two laws. 2335a, draft Act amending the State budget. As reported by Wojciekhovsky Svetlana Mikhailovna. It's a textbook question. I beg your pardon for a reduced procedure. Then we have the issue of financing the defense. Please, Svetlana Mikhailovna. There's a proposal for a reduced procedure. Please vote. Short-term procedure, please vote in favour of the short-term procedure. [[13:05:09]] For a hundred and Please report to Svetlana Mikhailna, perhaps without discussion.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-17-m0.u80	Dear colleagues! I am not personally the author of this bill. The bill was prepared by all the members of the Regulatory Committee, from the Dust Block, the People's Front, the Self-Help. And that came about because we were working. A radical party, if you'll excuse me. The essence of the bill is very simple. In view of the fact that the wages of the people’s deputies and their social security have been effectively reduced today, the Supreme Council has saved 172 million dollars. In direct employment and social security, 131 million were saved. We propose to switch from one budget programme, 01110110, "Implementing the legislative activities of the Supreme Council of Ukraine" to "Providing State support for students and increasing funding for the publication and distribution of textbooks for students in 4-7 classes." Please support as a whole. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-17-m0.u81	Colleagues, I think time is very important. I wouldn't be wasting my time right now. There is one agreed amendment, Victor Krivenko 2335a.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-17-m0.u82	Dear colleagues! There's an amendment that's agreed upon by all factions, and I have to read it. In order to provide students of all categories with textbooks, I propose, firstly, that the general fund reduce the spending of the Cabinet of Ministers under the programme 0421010 "Proceedings to optimize the system of central executive authorities and reduce the number of controlling authorities" by 49 million dollars, including 31 million dollars for work, and municipal services by 1 million 672 thousand dollars. And direct these funds to the Ministry of Education for Development to provide students of public and municipal education institutions with textbooks and manuals under programme 2201170, the implementation of methodological and material and technical support for the activities of educational institutions with appropriate changes to Appendices 1 and 2 to the bill. Second, to supplement the Final Provisions of the State Budget 2015 Act with paragraph 18 of the following content: "To establish that in 2015 students of public educational institutions of state and municipal property are provided with textbooks and textbooks free of charge."
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-17-m0.u83	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-17-m0.u84	He can't be voted. He won't work without these amendments, colleagues. We know what we're doing, we're making changes to the budget.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-17-m0.u85	With the amendment agreed upon by Krivenk, right?
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-17-m0.u86	Yes. Third. The title of the fourth column of Appendix 2 of the bill is: "The publication, acquisition, storage and delivery of textbooks and textbooks for students in public educational institutions of state and municipal property." Fourthly, the expenses set out in Appendix 2 to the bill for textbooks and manuals in general increase by 49 million dollars with their proportional distribution by administrative units to the amount foreseen in this appendix. Please support the bill in accordance with the decision of the Budget Committee, taking into account the proposals I have made. Then it will work, and our children will get new textbooks for the 4th and 7th classes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-17-m0.u87	Thank you, colleagues. So 2335a with Victor Krivenk's amendment. Do I get it right? Let us, on the basis and in general, 2335a, vote. These are textbooks, based on and in general. With the amendment. [[13:09:24]] For 262 The law's been passed. [[Applause]] Colleagues, Defence Law, 2381a, Governmental Act, Drafting of the Law on Amendments to the Law on State Budget (to increase costs for defence and security). 2381a. There's a proposal for a reduced procedure. Please be supportive. Short-term procedure. [[13:09:55]] For 180. Decision taken. Please report. Ministry of Finance, Igor Umanski, please report. 2381a. Umanski to the rostrum, please. We have another Law on Civil War Administration, and then, colleagues, we need to vote 2049, 2228. Please, Umanski.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-17-m0.u88	Dear Vladimir Borisovich, distinguished national deputies! For your consideration, and hopefully for your support, there is a draft Act amending the State Budget Act. These changes have been triggered by the urgent need of the Ministry of Defence to provide goods, to pay for the dead, the injured, and to provide food. The government has offered the principals of the budget for the corresponding amount -- that is about 3 percent of the expenditure -- to cut their own expenses and direct them to the need for defence. That's how we prepared the bill. A meeting of the Budget Committee took place today. Overall, it was supported. Our request is also to support this bill on the basis and in general and to provide food, payment to the dead and injured, and provision of goods. According to some articles, that allocation limit, which is scheduled for today until the end of the year, is available to the Armed Forces by mid - August. A request for support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-17-m0.u89	Thank you, Your Honor. Please, from the committee of Amelchenko Vasil Vasil Vassilovitch.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-17-m0.u90	Dear colleagues, the Committee on Budget Affairs has today considered a government bill amending the State Budget for 2015 Act, number 2381a. However, in view of the urgency of solving the defence and security issues of the State, he adopted such a decision. To recommend Bill 2381a to the Supreme Council as a basis and generally as a law with such proposals by the committee. First, in addition to the bill, exclude the position on the reduction of the subsidy under code 2311430 in the amount of 45 million dollars, while further reducing the amount of State capital expenditure allocated by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and clarifying the summary figures of the budget expenditure accordingly. Secondly, clarify its position and indicators by taking into account the relevant bills adopted for the consideration of the bill to ensure consistency in the final edition of the State Budget Act 2015. In the event of the adoption of the bill, the Committee on Budget Affairs, together with the Ministry of Finance and the Chief Legal Authority of the Supreme Council, should make the necessary legislative and technical clarifications. Please support the committee's decision. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-17-m0.u91	Colleagues, let's support the military and government law, please take your seats. One minute, please, Alexandra Kugel. Take the seats of the people's deputies, please. Please take your seats.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-17-m0.u92	We heroically break the accepted budget at night in December months, for which the faction of "The Fatherland" did not vote, we return the textbooks, something else. Now we're talking about increased weapons. Listen to what's going on. 1.9 billion are subsidies that are still under-educated to urban budgets, 1.6 billion from the ILO, of which 0.9 is a local subsidy, 400 million from 500 to Ohmatdit. We only took a beer to leave at Ohmatdit. You can't accept documents that we don't see in transparent documentation. Besides, there's an increase in weapons. And did you and I hear a report about where they're using the money we gave? And I've got information that the pads are used to buy motors, that they're buying thermal visions in America that are used by hunters. And there are many other violations. And so I think we need to listen to how we use the money we gave to increase more.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-17-m0.u93	I've come to realize that hunters ride the Hummer, not animals, not animals, not bandits, I understand, hunters actually. Please, Auntie Blackwall. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-17-m0.u94	There is a very urgent need for you to explain why we are voting with you. There's no money left to feed the army. I'll explain why they're not here. Because they stood out by the 2008 standards. Please tell me, Fatherland, do you want a soldier to prepare for 30 bucks a day? I think it's just a crime to feed a soldier for 30 bucks a day. That's right.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-17-m0.u95	Your friend is in charge.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-17-m0.u96	Appropriately, there is an enormous need to allocate funds for food. As of August 1, additional agreements will be signed, since on August 1, today’s contracts end for food. And it's the cost of a normal diet, not 30 bucks. Now, at the beginning of this year, the army feeds at the price of about 58 bracelets -- the basic norm, plus there are additional standards. Accordingly, I ask you very much to support this bill, again and again.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-17-m0.u97	Colleagues, I have an offer. Let's take our seats and vote, support the Ukrainian army. Colleagues, 2381a, draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on the State Budget for Ukraine 2015 (increasing expenses for defence and security). Corresponding to the report. We would like to vote on the basis and in general. 2381a, we vote. On the basis and in general. Defensive expenses, colleagues, we vote. Support me? Please vote, yes, yes. Please vote. [[13:17:13]] For a hundred and The decision is not taken. What about? Yuri Vitaliovich, Yuri Vitaliovich Lucenko Igor Umanski, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-17-m0.u98	Dear National Deputies! There's a request for support. Some of the people's deputies spoke, including why we're shortening, for example, Ochmadit. We don't cut Ochmadit, we don't touch those costs. A request, however. [[B in m in s a l in]] Yes, Ohmadit remains in full scope, as provided for by the current drafting of the State Budget Act, and we haven't taken any copies.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-17-m0.u99	Colleagues, come on, it was a misunderstanding, colleagues, but it is. Come into the hall! Defense! The country is in a state of military aggression. This is an extremely responsible decision, colleagues. One minute, Oleg Lazko. Please take your seats, dear colleagues, in the hall.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-17-m0.u100	Oleg Lazko, "Radical Party." Dear colleagues of the Ukrainian National Deputies! Please, one minute who can't hear! I want you to mention the famous term: "Who doesn't feed his army will feed a stranger." So I urge you to vote for a bill that allocates money to the defense and to the Ukrainian army. Anyone who does not support the Ukrainian army obviously wants to support another.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-17-m0.u101	Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-17-m0.u102	Dear colleagues, we have been discussing this law extremely for an hour on the budget committee. Right, Mrs. Alexander says that there are no simple solutions, because the money we took from other articles on the budget administrators. Ms. Alexander, first of all, 1.9 is a subsidy in occupied areas, which is set out in a well-established budget and which is not used. And then by each supervisor 2.8 percent was removed. It's perfectly fair. Therefore, we must uphold this law, vote. All I'm asking is in the presence of officials from the Ministry of Defense. Buy a normal carcass for the Ukrainian army, buy a normal concoction, no palm oil, and then you'll have fewer questions, and there'll be more votes!
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-17-m0.u103	Colleagues, let's go back to this law. Let's go back, 2381a, for the return. A lot of myths have been solved, everything's fine. Please, 2381a, come back. And calm down. Calm down, we'll be right back. Please return 2381a and then Sergey Melnik, Peter Dusty Block. 2381a, please. On your return, colleagues, let's go back. Then Sergei Melnik will explain to the committee once again. And we'll figure it out. Let's vote for the return, please, please. Please come back. Please come back, colleagues. Now Sergei Melnik will explain everything and then we'll figure out what to do next. [[13:20:52]] For 212 Let's do it again, settle down. To return. Melnik will explain by local subsidies. Let's go back. Colleagues, please come back and vote for the return. Please be supportive. To return. Please vote. [[13:21:24]] For 219 Yes, 219. We're not back. Please, Sergey Melnik. [[B in m in s a l in]] Please, Sergey Melnik, one minute. Please, Sergey Melnik, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-17-m0.u104	Dear colleagues! I'd like to address everyone. In fact, today the situation is that the Ministry of Finance has used all mechanisms to approximate the allocations for current consumption. I think it might be a compromise to ask the hall to go back in the fall to, to refine the budget and to restore educational and medical subsidies.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-17-m0.u105	Guys, let's go back. Guys, let's go back. Yuri Lucenko, please, from the faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-17-m0.u106	Dear Mr. Head, honourable national deputies, first of all, I would like to sit down for jobs and now consider a complicated but life-threatening bill. What is the situation? Indeed, we must provide our Armed Forces. This is actually done by reducing certain expenses in 4 blocks. But at the same time, we have the government's assurance that the 4th quarter will be reviewed and no one will give teachers or other budgeters at lunchtime. So now, please, on the day you have to make a decision, they say, "God will give you a day, God will give you food." We're going to come in September and we're going to solve the 4th quarter problem. But you can't leave the army unclothed and unnourished. Please let us all vote in favour of this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-17-m0.u107	Colleagues, let's go back and I'll say Oksana Prodan, then Ivan Krulko and Yegor Sobolev. Let's go back. To return. What, what? Please, Oksana Prodan, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-17-m0.u108	Dear Volodymira Borisovich, the strike group that voted in favour of joining the agenda of this bill, we voted in favour of inclusion, we believe that we are really obliged to finance the army because our boys are protecting us. In doing so, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that for the second day, there are projects that have to do with the people who will provide funding for the army and not just the army, but for the rest of it. That's the first question of taxation. I ask you very much, please, the issue of taxation to vote now. And the second question is the taxation of volunteer organizations. Because if we don't vote on the issue of taxation with you today, there's nowhere to take the money you're sharing. We need volunteer organizations not to pay income taxes, as is happening today. We need business to have something to live on, not pay for everything he has in advance. So I'm asking you very much: first the budget, then the distribution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-17-m0.u109	Oksana Ivanovna, look. Oksana Petrovna, I'm sorry, look, we've got another one left now. Attention! Then we have 2049. Then it's 2004, 2276. These are the laws that we're going after right now. I mean, I think you meant these laws. Please, the word "People's Front." Then Ivan Krulko. Please, who's from Front? Please, Masora's National Deputy, one minute. Then there's Ivan Krulko. Then Michael Papiev. And Yegor Sobolev, we'll take the risk. In a minute, colleagues. Time's coming, we've got to take it. I've already given the factions a word. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-17-m0.u110	Olena Massornia, People's Front. Of course, money is needed today to provide for the Ukrainian army, but what is involved with volunteers and what is involved in practice. I'm the founder of the Trust Fund. Ukraine-World" and we have, according to the non-profit quotas, no taxes. Therefore, this question is not or is not a problem for today.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-17-m0.u111	Ivan Krulko, Fatherland.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-17-m0.u112	Ivan Krulko, "The Fatherland" faction. Respectable national MPs certainly need to finance an army when we have Russian aggression. And we need Ukrainian soldiers to be fed and dressed. This should be a priority for the state. But at the same time, I'd like to say that you can't take educational and medical subsidies. That's why I have an offer. Let's vote on this law, except for educational and medical subsidies, to finance medical facilities and finance educational institutions, especially now that schools need to be repaired when children's kindergartens need to be repaired. And then in the fall, in September, let's go back to that question and add the army's money as much as we need to. This money that we're going to spend right now is going to be enough to finance the army in the fall. So I propose to exclude medical and educational subsidies, this will unite the hall, and we vote on this law so that the army can be accommodated. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-17-m0.u113	Please, Mikhail Papiev.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-17-m0.u114	Thank you. Dear Ukrainian National Deputies, I want to explain and there is an offer to get out of this situation. The fact is that the Law on the State Budget provides that, as a result of the implementation of the budget, the Cabinet of Ministers will be required to provide clarification to the State Budget of Ukraine in the first half of the year. That is why, dear colleagues, the Cabinet of Ministers can now, in 15 minutes, make changes to the state budget in connection with the overturning of the income component, increase the income portion of the budget, and not remove 900 million dollars from local governments. So I suggest that in 20 minutes the Cabinet of Ministers do so. Dear colleagues and one more. I made a statement that Mr. Andriy Vasilvoich voted in favour of Jurczyn Petr Vasilovich. We found out that Shinkovic Andri Vasilovich did not vote for Juršičin Petr Vasilovich. That's why I apologize to the people's deputies.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-17-m0.u115	Thank you. Please, Jegor Sobolje minute. Please take your seats! Sit down! Please take your seats, colleagues. We will now vote. Please, Yegor Sobolev.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-17-m0.u116	There's a rule in Self-Help: we vote for army support laws, even if the Speaker of Parliament puts them in order at night. And that's why we're going to vote in favour of this law, and we think everyone needs to vote. But we have a great request to the entire Parliament. Let's call for a report, a detailed report on the record defense budget that we've allocated this year.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-17-m0.u117	Bravo!
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-17-m0.u118	We know that there are great efforts by the defence committee in this regard. Ready to join an anti-corruption, budgetary committee. Let's get the reports on how this money is spent. And certainly give support to the army.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-17-m0.u119	Thank you. On this note, I ask you to take your seats. Our best eloquent things are voting. So please take your seats. 2381a, we vote for the return. Vote, colleagues, for the return of 2381a. Please vote for the return to military law. Vote please, my friends. We vote for the return of 2381a. [[13:31:12]] For the 220. Again, colleagues, return. Take your seats. But I get it, I see. 2381a for the return. Let's vote, colleagues. Return. Vote. Calm down and vote, come on. To return. [[13:31:44]] For 237 And now, on the basis and as a whole, this bill is voted on by a committee version, a committee version. In the Committee's version of the right, we vote. And we'll prepare the report, and we'll give you an assignment. Please vote it's a defense, let's support it. And go on, there are many laws. Colleagues, we vote. [[13:32:08]] For 227 Decision taken. The law's been passed. Colleagues, look, we have one -- military-civil administration, 2662-1, colleagues. And then there's 2049, plus. Let's move on. Please, 2662-1, another military. By summary procedure, Arthur Gerasimov, please vote. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. Then, colleagues, listen carefully, 2049, 2004, 2276. Please vote in favour of the summary procedure. [[13:33:22]] For 177
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-17-m0.u120	Dear colleagues, before your consideration, there is bill 2662-1, which is extremely important for the Donetsk and Lugansk regions today. Why? Because, as you know, according to the laws we passed here, military-civil administrations began to work. But real work on earth has shown that there are a lot of holes that we have to fill. So this law, it will actually solve the issues of local self - government in places. For example, what are we introducing in this bill? First, we write that state administrations, military-civil administrations, are temporary state bodies. Second, we make VCA legal persons because they don't even have their own seals at the moment. Third, for example, today, just so you know, we don't even have a record, we don't have the notion of being the V.A.'s deputy head. In addition, this law clearly establishes a standard of parliamentary control over the activities of military and civilian administrations. In addition, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that we are also introducing the rule that the head of the village military and civilian administration and the small military and civilian administration should not be appointed president so that we do not waste our time, but rather be appointed as the appropriate head of the district administration. We received a positive conclusion from the Committee on Prevention of Corruption. This law is supported by people in places. So it's a very big request to support this law that actually draws de facto to de jure. Thank you for your support.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-17-m0.u121	Thank you, colleagues. Please, Sergey Pashinsky of the Committee. 2662-1. Ah, John Winnick from the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-17-m0.u122	Dear colleagues, indeed, this bill was submitted by the authorship of those Marjorie deputies who today represent territories that were recently under threat of occupation but were released, and today the Ukrainian authorities are operating there. Indeed, we have a bill on military and civilian administrations, which introduces a mechanism to restore the executive branch of power, which will ensure that free elections are held. Indeed, we need to apply this law today, especially in the context of the fact that local elections have already been announced. They will be held in areas where the Ukrainian flag is major: Donetsk and Lugansk. This law improves the already valid Law on Military and Civil Administrations, which allows for a clear definition, for clear procedures for appointing substitutes, for the appointment of subordinates to military and civilian administrations. In fact, it only improves the order that exists; it does not bring any innovative novelties; it only makes the system law that has been passed better. Given its social importance, especially in view of the upcoming local elections, the committee considered and adopted a unanimous decision to support the bill in the session hall and to propose it to vote both on the basis and on the whole. So I ask the session room to identify and support this important bill for our nation, for those areas that will be reinvigorating local self-government today, to ensure the work of the executive branch of power. Thank you for your attention. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-17-m0.u123	Dear colleagues, 2662-1, is a proposal to vote on it. Please come in, take your seats. Dear colleagues, I very much ask you to concentrate. Please come in, colleagues, an important decision. And now we put 2049, what Oksana said. Yuri Lucenko, a proposal for law. 2662-1, please, colleagues, let's get together.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-17-m0.u124	Dear colleagues, there is a great request and necessity, a request from the two heads of the Donetsk and Lugansk military and civilian administrations to support this bill, which will allow them to quickly, without delay, appoint their representatives to villages, villages and so on. But, colleagues, I'm sorry, but the adoption of today's Election Order also makes it necessary to make another amendment here. This amendment requires that the military and civilian administrations respond to the request of the CEC. With this amendment, I would like to vote on the basis as a whole.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-17-m0.u125	Colleagues, please gather. With the amendment of Yuri Lucenka as a basis and as a whole. Please, colleagues, please. Let's put the signal on a base and a total of 2662-1 with Yuri Lucenka's amendment. Please support everyone, this is an important issue of military and civilian administrations, operating in these very areas. Let's give the signal 2662-1 as a whole. Please vote, please vote, it's a signal. [[13:38:55]] For 228 Great. And now we have 2662-1 as a whole, please vote. In general, it was a signal, please support. Vote, colleagues, 2662-1 as a whole, with the amendment of Yuri Lucenka. Vote. [[13:39:17]] For 233 Decision taken. 233, the law has been passed. Next, colleagues, 2049. Eugene Nina Petrovna, please 2049. Eugene Nina Petrovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-17-m0.u126	Dear colleagues! To the bill, registration number 2049 (to amend the Ukrainian Law) Ukraine's Act on Amendments to the Ukrainian Tax Code (for taxation of non-profit organizations) received 55 proposals. 51 correction counted, 4 changes rejected. The bill, prepared for second reading, improves the taxation system of nonprofit organizations. If, by January 1, 2015, non-profit organizations were paying income tax on farm operations, the bill proposes not to tax all income generated by non-profit organizations on the condition that they are used for the purposes envisaged by the instruments. Such nonprofit organizations are included in the register of nonprofit organizations, are not part of the taxpayers ’ income tax, and do not pay that tax. In addition, with a view to preventing the abuse of residential cooperatives in part of the payment of taxes, the bill proposes a certain safety net for such cooperatives. In particular, the RBK acquires a non-profit status from the first number of months following the month in which, according to the law, the adoption was made in the operation of a completed residential building, and such housing was built or acquired by a residential cooperative. At the same time, if income is distributed among the founders or participants in a nonprofit organization, or if income is not spent for purposes recognized by statutory documents, such income distribution and use are not considered to be an asset for nonprofit purposes that would not grant exemption from income tax. Such an organization should move on from the following month to pay the tax on general grounds without the right to return to the status of a nonprofit organization. Such an approach would allow money to be channelled to charity, to mercenity, and not to the distribution of income between founders or participants. This is the approach we started last December. We have now introduced regulations concerning the specificization of such non-profit organizations. In the committee, we worked two places to now completely satisfy non-profit organizations and to make a simplified system or to remain in the register, to confirm with their statutes that they have the same statutory activity, or to bring it into order.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-17-m0.u127	Please, ten seconds, finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-17-m0.u128	So please take into account the tables and rights that have been given to you by the committee and accept the bill in the second reading and in general.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-17-m0.u129	Colleagues, 2049 in second reading and in general, according to the committee’s decision. Please take your seats. Take your seats. Prepare for vote 2049. This law awaits. 2049. Come on, 2049. Aunt Ostrikova, please, a minute. Nina Petrovna, on the rostrum, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-17-m0.u130	Taking into account Oksana's revisions, Sales 29: to the list of non-profit organizations in item 133. Article 4 133 is proposed to be complemented by agricultural cooperatives and cooperative agricultural cooperatives. Because according to the Law on Agricultural Cooperation, they are referred to nonprofit organizations. And in the charter of the agricultural service cooperative, approved by MinAPK No. 315 of 21.05. 13 states that the cooperative handles its agricultural producer members without profit and is a non-profit organization. There are not many cooperatives in Ukraine. And we ask you to complete the list of non-profit organizations with agricultural cooperatives. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-17-m0.u131	I want to explain. What if these cooperatives now have a non-profit status, we have in our definition the word "others," which allows, in principle, the approach. If the statutory documents of such organizations correspond to and do not distribute funds among their participants, such cooperatives remain unprofitable. No one rules them out. And they use the right not to tax their profits.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-17-m0.u132	Absolutely logical explanation, I think, of this norm. So it's included in this law. Colleagues, please vote 2049. Guys, gather around, please 2049. So Nina Petrovna said that both in this form and in this form there is an opportunity to choose, to become non-profitable, non-profitable more precisely. Please, colleagues 2049, alert. In the second reading and in general. Signal. In the second reading and in general 2049, we vote. We're voting 2049 in the second reading and in general. [[13:46:08]] For 212 Well, there's almost a potential vote, dear colleagues. Please concentrate. What's the problem with Self-Help that you don't vote? Self-help, shall we? Colleagues, there was an explanation that the criteria of different organizations might match. Vote? Vote. Vote? 2049 votes. Let's call 2049 again. Take your seats, as if you understood. Vote. We're backing it up. Please, 2049, we vote in second reading and in general. A lot of laws still stand, colleagues. Signal, signal. 2049, signal in second reading and in general. We're voting on the signal. Vote please, colleagues. [[13:47:08]] For 210 I don't understand. Self-help, then please inform again. Colleagues, there's no need to support the amendments. I'm stressing that there's a table. Name a standard that is not included. There can be no change from the voice, colleagues. Please, Nina Petrovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-17-m0.u133	Please tell me we've already talked to you about the salt companies. We didn't look at them in the working groups, it's not in any direction. But on the criteria, we have the word "others" in the definition, and the criteria are for cooperatives. I found out about this issue with the fiscal service. We're losing two months' work and we're positive for the majority, for 99 percent of non-profit organizations, just because you're not voting right now. And including.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-17-m0.u134	Please, Oleg Berezuk, one minute. Nina Petrovna, stay in the rostrum. Deputies take your seats.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-17-m0.u135	Dear Mrs. Eugene, with great and deep respect a month ago, we spoke to you about this. A small number of people who now fall into the shadows simply because their profits are not large but are taxed. You're talking about other, small, all screaming, the village is dying, little cooperatives in the village are barely left. Is it difficult for people to make normal working conditions so that they do not go in the shadows?
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-17-m0.u136	Please tell me, is this a limited - liability society that is engaged in economic activities? And you've confirmed that they have this status, you don't have to add them to these organizations. If this amendment had been made to the working group and we hadn't heard it right now, we would have included it, added this list. But there are a dozen of these organizations that we haven't identified, and they're going to stay in the register. They meet the basic criteria.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-17-m0.u137	Thank you. People's MP Chicken, please, Peter Dusty Block.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-17-m0.u138	Dear colleagues of the people's deputies, and especially of the Self-Help faction, I'm very honored! Mrs. Ostrikova, don't reload the law, don't look for problems where they don't exist at all. The committee has a unified form, a list of organizations that cannot be recognised as profitable but not as profitable. The entity that you are referring to is not taxed is unprofitable by its mark and essence. The law does not fail, garden societies, garage cooperatives are waiting for us, ODS, home committees, and many other organizations are waiting for us. Do not keep them hostage around your agricultural producers. Thank you for your attention. We're voting in general.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-17-m0.u139	As long as they're consulting, please, from the Radical Party, Oleg Lazko, a minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-17-m0.u140	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. Of course, the Radical Party faction supports this bill. We support non-profit organizations, ODSs, garage cooperatives, not garages. But, Mr. Maxim, when you say that you don't make them hostage to your farmers, I definitely don't support it. It's not someone's agricultural producers, it's our farmers who feed each of us who feed the Ukrainian people and we certainly have to support them. Because in the village we created latifunda oligarchic instead of supporting small agricultural cooperatives, farms to make real farmers, not oligarchs, a chance to make money in the countryside. That is why we support the work of our colleagues.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-17-m0.u141	Nina Petrovn Yuzanin.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-17-m0.u142	Dear colleagues, 29th Amendment, which is fully counted. I propose a vote before the last paragraph in paragraph 133. 4. Where there is a list of non-profit organizations, before the phrase “other legal persons whose activities meet the requirements of this Statute” insert a paragraph of the following content: agricultural service cooperatives, cooperative associations of agricultural service providers.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-17-m0.u143	Here's this right over here in the second reading, and in general, I'm asking you to vote. With this right in the second reading and in general. Please, colleagues, we support, there are many more laws. Vote. Vote. [[13:52:38]] For 236 Decision taken. Next, colleagues, 2276 draft Law. This is about educational institutions, taxes. Please, with regard to creating an enabling environment for the provision of educational services to preschool and general educational institutions, 2276. Nina Petrovn Yuzanin.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-17-m0.u144	Dear colleagues! The second read came with 19 suggestions, 12 of which were taken into account in essence. As we talked to you on the first reading, we excluded from the bill the first and third chapters of the bill, which dealt with the payment of income tax and land tax. We left the property tax benefit. So I ask, given what is being done on the committee, to adopt this bill in second reading and in general.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-17-m0.u145	Colleagues, 2276, draft law on the creation of favourable conditions for the provision of educational services to preschool and non-governmental educational institutions. Lilia Greenevich.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-17-m0.u146	Dear colleagues, we insist on our amendments, namely, the 5th and 15th amendments. The point is that the 5th amendment is very important to us, but also the argument that the 15th Amendment is consistent with the 1851 Bill, which we may no longer be able to vote on today. It's dangerous. I think we should vote with both amendments, and then good, if adopted in 1851, we can harmonise legislation.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-17-m0.u147	Please, Nina Petrovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-17-m0.u148	Dear Lila Mikhailovna! I want to say that up to five amendments, you're going to offer the amount of money you're going to release, that's the unpaid income tax, that you're going to leave these institutions in charge, and you're going to focus on restocking, on the material and technical base, and so on and so forth. According to the Accounting Act, if such institutions spend their circulation costs for such purposes, this is included in the cost and reduces the amount of the tax on income. So, by the way, it's unprofessional and uncontrollable. This needs to be organized into separate accounts for those payers who would spend only on these purposes, because for all forms of property, we want to pay the premium. That is also true of commercial institutions. So I suggest you don't do that. And you know that if such institutions spend money there instead of distributing profits, they are included in the definition of an object for taxation. As far as the last question is concerned. Indeed, about the liberation.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-17-m0.u149	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-17-m0.u150	About the exemption from the land tax. If we don't vote today 1850-1, then it's appropriate to consider this bill freeing us.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-17-m0.u151	How many lines do we have? Lila Mikhailovna. With 5 revisions.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-17-m0.u152	No, we can't count five. It's a tax exemption for profit.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-17-m0.u153	15th. Lila Mikhailovna, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-17-m0.u154	Turn it on, please. Dear colleagues, about 5 amendments. I want us to understand that private educational institutions have a social function, because they take on some of the functions of the state. The state does not help them or provide them with any funds. They can't be seen as any other facility or business in other areas. Therefore, we must support them, and that is the fifth amendment. You can't compare them to others in other fields, they're doing a social function.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-17-m0.u155	Thank you. Please, Nina Petrovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-17-m0.u156	Lila Mikhailna, I'm telling you again that all of these costs are included in the cost and reduce the amount to tax. You can't do what you say.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-17-m0.u157	Colleagues! Please, Victor Halasyuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-17-m0.u158	Dear colleagues, we are simply obliged to support this 5th amendment. You know, Nina Petrovna, there's a difference in accounting and tax.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-17-m0.u159	I won't! I won't! Now.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-17-m0.u160	You know there's a different approach to private and state property. Thus, by making such an amendment as we discussed, 52 percent of children are provided with kindergartens. Dear colleagues, what are you doing? Do you know the price of the question? Minfin counted 17 million dollars, you and I were on the committee. So we're not going to give this opportunity to do a social function? Support the 5th and 15th amendments. The Radical Party fully supports Lily Greenevich's position and the People's Front.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-17-m0.u161	I see. Sergey Melnik Block of Petra Dustenka.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-17-m0.u162	Dear colleagues, well, Nina Petrovna says so. So if they go to gross costs, there's nothing to distribute. What do we want to do? If he wants to do business and continue to distribute profits, then he can direct some part of it. If the college wants to strengthen the material and technical base, let it guide everything. This goes towards spending and reduces gross income on taxes. What's the big deal?
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-17-m0.u163	Colleagues, there's a proposal from the humanitarian community to support this, and there's a proposal from people who have experience in financial and economic work, and that's why they're talking about how it counts. And Victor Halasyuk, by the way, also has this experience. Please, colleagues, Nina Petrovna, a minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-17-m0.u164	The last line is about the next one. Dear colleagues, such institutions may be registered by nonprofit organizations. And according to the methodology that we're talking about right now, if they were. They're going to be sending the funds exclusively to the education base, the activities, these organizations, they're not going to be paying income taxes at all, because we're breaking the norm that we've just talked about: that except for those who don't pay, the non-profits, we're going to be organizing other groups that won't pay income taxes. There is no such thing in the tax system.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-17-m0.u165	Dear colleagues, do we vote in favour of the committee? [[B in m in s a l in]] Colleagues, let's not lose the case right now. Okay, so 5 amendments for confirmation. There's no discussion at 15, everyone's backing up. 5 amendment for confirmation. Who. Please, colleagues, 5 revisions for confirmation. [[14:01:10]] For 139 I didn't get the number of votes. Now with the 15th, I'll put the 15th on, right, Nina Petrovna?
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-17-m0.u166	Given that 15 revisions will be supported.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-17-m0.u167	Yeah, considering that. Now we're voting in a second reading in general with support for 15 revisions. Do you have a deal? Let's take all the seats and vote. [[B in m in s a l in]] Vote. Supported 15 revisions. Back up, back up. The proposal of the committee and the deputies is to support 15 amendments, to support them, and in the second reading, and in general, to vote against this amendment. Please vote. We vote, we support. Taking 15 revisions into account, it is fully in line with the position of the committee, colleagues. [[14:02:12]] For 225 Let's do it again, let's do it again, let's do it again. In the second reading and in general, including 15 revisions. We support you, please. 15 revisions will be considered supported. Voting, voting. 15 the amendment will be considered supported in general, in second reading, and in general. [[2:02:42]] For 226 Decision taken. Next, colleagues, 2276. Egor Farsov now proposes to consider question 2228. Colleagues, 2004, 2,406 — Atochnik soldiers, and 22,228. Do you have a deal? Vote. 2004, colleagues. Please, Nina Petrovna, 2004.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-17-m0.u168	Dear colleagues, the next draft bill of the Ukrainian Act amending the Ukrainian Tax Code to reduce tax pressure on taxpayers. It's actually the most important and probably the first step after reducing the fiscal burden on our payers. We worked on the committee for second reading all 57 proposals, of which 33 were taken into account, either in full or in part. I want to say, if there's a time, that it's the bill that we're handing over the mandate to provide general tax advice to the Ministry of Finance of Ukraine with the mandatory publication of such consultations on its website. Transfer of rights, granting individual written and electronic consultations to the control body of the district chain and the central DPS apparatus.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-17-m0.u169	Nina Petrovna, I'm sorry. We already have a second reading. The table is agreed, as far as I can tell. Is there any point to this?
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-17-m0.u170	The committee proposes to adopt the prescribed bill in second reading and in general as the Law of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-17-m0.u171	Please, colleagues, prepare. 2004, the committee's version of the bill. 2004 – to reduce tax pressure on taxpayers. 2004, let's make an emergency call to the committee. In the second reading and in general. Signal, colleagues, alert. We're voting on the alarm. Signal in second reading and in general, 2004 please. [[14:05:04]] For 221 It was a signal. Please come into the hall, colleagues. Please. 2004 Please, colleagues, let's do it again, 2004 as a whole, in the second reading and in general. 2004, we're voting the signal again. Once again, please, colleagues. [[14:05:38]] For 214 Colleagues, I understand they're out and they're not in. All right, let's do it again. Take your seats, colleagues. 2004 in second reading and in general. Please, colleagues, 2004 as a whole, second reading and as a whole. Ivanchuk, Maxim Yuriovich Burbak, let's vote. Yeah, yeah. One minute. Let's do it again, 2004, signal in the second reading and in general. Signal. That's where they'll be invited. In the second reading and in general. Signal. We vote yes. [[14:07:26]] For 233 Now, in the second reading and in general. We vote 2004 in second reading and in general. Make sure no one does. Vote in person. Make sure there's no disturbance. [[14:07:56]] For 233 Decision taken. Thank you. Guys, let's move on. Wait, fellows, we'll be right back. 2406, ATO soldiers, and we're still going 2228. Yeah? 2406.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-17-m0.u172	2406 yesterday we spoke to him, only to vote. We had the whole discussion yesterday. Society! 2406 we spoke, only to vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-17-m0.u173	2406 discussed yesterday. Let's vote and move on to 22,228 immediately. Please, colleagues as a whole, 2406. Yesterday, we discussed the matter at the end of the day. 2406 please support, please vote. Let's get an alert. 2406, emergency. 2406, colleagues, signal vote. [[14:09:04]] For 205 Colleagues, I think we'll be right back. Let's do 2228, there's the first reading. As long as we're in the first reading with a reduced procedure, people will come along. Yuri Lucenko, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-17-m0.u174	Dear colleagues! I am now addressing all the MPs -- both the coalition, and the opposition, and the half-position. Colleagues! This law, which we are about to try to vote on right now, is actually an index of payments to families who have died in the ATO. I very much ask you, in this case, all factions, all factions must show their attitude towards those who defend the state. It's not normal when a session takes anything, but it doesn't index, well, the scariest load in our country is 200. Please, both the opposition and the half-position, and everyone else, we will now vote in favour of this bill. Just no emotion, calm down now, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-17-m0.u175	Colleagues, let's vote, please. Let's do 2406 as a whole, in the second reading and in general. It's like there's voices. Please, let's support it. 2406 votes. Please be supportive. Please vote. Let's support, colleagues, 2406 in second reading and we're voting in general. Let's vote, colleagues. [[14:10:31]] For 223 There's a offer of colleagues, and some colleagues are here. Colleagues! We're getting ready. The second reading is a total of 2,406 on increasing the level of social protection of military personnel and their families. Please support this bill of Law 2406. Please vote 2406. Vote, please support in the second reading and in general. [[14:11:17]] For 229 Thank you, colleagues! The law's been passed. Thank you for yours. 2228. By factions, please show me. 2228, first reading, draft law. Please report to Jegor Firsov. There's an offer for a reduced procedure of 2228, please. [[14:11:52]] For 178.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-17-m0.u176	Dear Volodymyr Borisovich, distinguished national deputies! The main objective of the project is to balance the interests of the local community and car users based on the introduction of European parking practices in Ukraine. The project foresees. First. Entering photo-, video fixations of parking rules that will prevent human factors from affecting the payment of parking services and will ensure fair and irreparable punishment. The other one. Introducing the administrative responsibility of the owner of the car when the driver does not provide his or her data to the inspector or leaves the scene of the infringement. Third. Dismissing the owner of responsibility if he is provided with information about the person driving the violator according to the relevant evidence. Four. Local authorities are empowered to regulate the traffic load of the road network, as well as to implement a computerized system to control the parking space of the SPC, which connects and automates all parking processes in the city. This will not only increase the availability of funds to local budgets, but also open up gateways for investment in the development of transport infrastructure for parking lots, and for the construction of intercepting parking spaces. Separately, I want to calm the drivers down. According to the project, inspectors have the right to block the exit of the car only after the installation of the SCP system, a parking space system, at the appropriate location. There's no blocking until the landowners make the right decision. Evacuation will be possible only if the car of the intruder blocks the transport, creates congestion, or prevents the passage of special transport, trams, trolleybuses, and fast cars. And the last. Although this project is not on Ukraine’s road map to the European Union, it is essentially a step towards building European rules in Ukraine. All the observations, including scientific and expert management, will be taken into account when preparing the project for second reading. Thank you for the sound warnings of the Committee on Prevention and Anti-Corruption. I'm saying by the stenogram, we're going to change the formulation of an evacuation of a car that significantly interferes with road traffic in a clearer way.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-17-m0.u177	Thank you. Colleagues, 22,228 reported to the National MP. There is an offer to accept it as a basis. So, colleagues, 2228, there's a proposal for a basis, but in a signal vote, we're going to check for votes now. Please. 2228, Firsov’s national deputy reported. There is a conclusion of a committee with a recommendation to accept it as a basis. Please vote on base 2228. Based on the base. Signal on the base. Signal on base, colleagues, please. Signal on the base. [[14:15:11]] For-164 It's not a decision, colleagues. Thank you. The law will be considered to be discussed but not accepted. Guys, let's move on. Dear friends, we have a minister of the economy. Draft Law. Oh, we'll put it on pensions, what Alexander said. Alexander. Alexander Trelyakov. Rules? Come on, I'll give you the Rules, I've got another one for you to read.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-17-m0.u178	This is the third time we have not come to Law 2781, where we are exempt from the taxation of pensions for the families of the victims, persons with disabilities of war and participants in the Second World War. I'm very respectful about printing, parking, and everything else, about filling the military budget, but these people are 90 years old. Let us, however, adopt this law and it will be appropriate for the session to be closed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-17-m0.u179	Great. We're not closing the session, we're closing the plenary session, I'm fully supportive of Alexander Trelyakow and I'm proposing: 2781 to put the last one in, please stay, and we still have a few laws that are important to adopt. And we'll go back to. 2013, let's just go back to the review and send it to the preparatory committee when such a proposal is made. Next, colleagues, please, we have Law 2087a. Minister of Economics Abromavius. Questions about government purchases. There is an offer to consider it in a simplified way. Please support this proposal. Is that second reading? I'm sorry, stop, I'm sorry. 2087a, please, Ivanchuk Andry Volodymyrovich on the rostrum.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-17-m0.u180	Dear Mr. Head, the honourable people's deputies thank you very much for coming to this important law. This is, indeed, a very key reform in the Ministry of Economics, supported by all the European institutions, achieved a very nice and balanced document. And I thank all the deputies who have joined in his work, for the second reading. I suggest that we save your time, dear friends, vote in the second reading and in general, as proposed by the committee, we accept it on the committee, we process it, I very much ask you to support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-17-m0.u181	Thank you. Dear colleagues, please, the 2087a signal vote in the second reading and in general, an important law. Please take your seats! Let's vote 2087 on public procurement, on publicity, on the basis of second reading, and on the whole. Signal now, signal vote. Please be supportive. [[14:18:27]] For-189 Come on, gather around, fellows. We'll still have the pension law. I suggest, colleagues, once again the 2087a signal vote on government procurement in second reading and in general. Signal, please hold. Look what you're called, look. Look! [[14:19:06]] For-189 Colleagues, please repeat 2087a. If there are no votes, then we'll retire if we accept. And so we're going to retire, and then we're going to retire. Come on, colleagues, focus, please. 2087a. Please, let's vote. [[14:20:08]] For-198 Your Honor, that was a signal vote. Colleagues, 2781, are what Alexander Trelyakow offered for pensions. Yuri Lucenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-17-m0.u182	Dear colleagues! I'm sorry to abuse that word today, but I'm addressing all the factions present. On the second reading, the project finally settles the issue of pensions for the families of deceased military personnel. It is our human duty to vote on all factions present in the hall for this bill. I very much ask him to vote in general right away. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-17-m0.u183	Turn on the microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-17-m0.u184	Dear colleagues, the second reading of the bill (registration number 2781) amending article 164 of the Ukrainian Tax Code on the Taxation of Pensions of Persons with Disabilities of War and some other categories of persons received 14 amendments, three of which were counted, 14 rejected. All that had to be taken into account in order not to change the law was essentially taken into account by the committee. So I would like the amended law to be adopted in the second reading and in general by the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-17-m0.u185	Thank you. I'd like to ask the deputies to come into the hall, which is in the towers. And now we're doing, society, a 2781 vote. Please take part in the signal vote. Vote. Please. [[14:22:20]] For 224 There's potential. I ask you very much to invite the MPs who are in the towers, who are next to you, to step away from the minister and take a place to vote. Dear colleagues, I am voting on the draft Act amending article 164 of the Ukrainian Tax Code on the Taxation of Pensions of War Disabled Persons and Some Other Categories of Persons. 2781, in second reading and in general. Please vote, please support. Vote, please. [[14:23:09]] For 229 Decision taken. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-17-m0.u186	Colleagues, stop-stop! Everyone stays where they are. 2087a, Abromavísius Ivaras is a state-owned purchase, public procurement. Please. Vote? Let's say 2087a is a second-read vote and in general. Signal vote. [[14:23:59]] For 203 Colleagues, there are two more questions that are now in the order of the day. Let's consult, they're very fast. This is the question of 2229a after Odessa, Paul Unugrian, and the question about the city of Bilyayevka is also Odessa. That's two questions a day. Let's do 2229a. One minute, Paul Ungurian.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-17-m0.u187	Dear colleagues, a very simple bill. The State Budget Act provided a subsidy to the Odessa region for the continuation of the construction of the facility to the hospital. When the new governor of the Odessa region, Michael Saakashvili, was appointed, we looked at all the unfinished facilities in the Odessa region and, along with donors, decided that the hospital should be built as quickly as possible. The cost of the hospital was 300 million dollars, and only 19 were allocated. As a result, donors and I have agreed that we will raise 300 million dollars at the expense of donor funds in the full amount of the children’s hospital. And these 19 million, which were foreseen for the Odessa region, without increasing the spending portion of the State Budget, were transferred to the centre of the House of Justice, which was opened by Justice Minister Peter Paul, today's nominee, as well as by the President of Ukraine and Governor Michael Saakashvili.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-17-m0.u188	Ten seconds, complete.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-17-m0.u189	So there is a request, if there are voices, the committee has supported both on the basis and in general so that we can resolve this issue. All right.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-17-m0.u190	Let's give it a try. If there are voices, we'll discuss it. If we don't, we won't. We're just doing the signal and everything. Let's make a signal vote, please. 2229. If there are no votes, there is nothing to discuss. Colleagues, there will be voices, I will give my word. 2229a, emergency. [[14:26:41]] For-179 No votes. Then at least we have to do something for Odessa today, that's for sure. The Billeyevka District of Odessa, the Billeyevka District, is a project that places the city of Bilyivka in the district of Odessa in the area. There's no objection to that? All in favor, that's a unifying question. United? Come on, take your seats. The Billeyevka District of Odessa, the Billeyevka District, is a project that places the city of Bilyivka in the district of Odessa in the area. Please have a committee present. Take your seats, and let us now declare Bilayevka a city of regional importance. Have you taken your seats? Let's make an emergency call, 2278. Let's support Bilyayevka, Odessa region, come on. This third question was about the Odessa region. At least we can support that. Please, colleagues, it's an emergency. [[14:27:42]] For 193 Let's do it again. Take your seats. It's all right, isn't it? All right, good fellows. Announcing, please, Andrew Volodymyrovich Parubius.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-17-m0.u191	Dear colleagues, I want to make some announcements that have come to the fore. First. According to this surplus and in accordance with part three of article 60 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Rules, I am reporting the departure of the Ukrainian National Deputy Dobrodomov Dmitry Evgenović from the MP's "Block of Petra Poroshenko". Next. I'm reporting on the creation in the Supreme Council of Ukraine of the eighth vocation of the interfractional MPs' union Contrabanda Stop. The National Deputy of Ukraine, Guz Igor Volodimirovic, was elected head of the Interfractional Union of the Contrabanda-Stop. Welcome, Igor Volodymyrovich. And the last message. I'm reporting on the creation in the Supreme Council of Ukraine of the eighth vocation of the interfractional parliamentary union "South Ukraine". The head of the inter-fractional parliamentary association "South of Ukraine" elected the national deputies of the Ukraine of Unguryan Pavel Jakimovič, Gordjeev Andrija Anatoliyovich, Teras Dmitrovic Kremena. Welcome to the heads of the MPs ’ union. These are all the messages that were in the lobby.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-17-m0.u192	Colleagues, here's the deal. We've worked hard today, very hard, but there are some results. And that's good. And that's why I think we can get our work done here, my dear colleagues. In view of the fact that it is 14 hours and 30 minutes, the meetings of the Supreme Council should be closed. We've been taking a lot of questions with you at the Miscellaneous. Thank you for your work. I declare the Supreme Council closed. Thank you.
