ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-03-m1.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, I'm asking you to come into the hall and take up jobs because we're having a hard time starting work when there's a small number of people in the room. I'm asking you, four o'clock, from the coulaires gradually, confidently go into the hall and take jobs to continue our fruitful work. Heads of factions, I have a request and an appeal to you through the Secretariat, using my own authority, to invite deputies into the Hall and to occupy jobs. Ladies and gentlemen, we don't have enough votes yet to be able to make decisions and start considering issues. So once again, I'm calling from the towers to enter the hall, to take up jobs. The Self-Help faction is a request to try and invite the faction members into the hall.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-03-m1.u2	Good evening, distinguished national MPs! Please take your seats. Please turn on the "Council" system to register the national MPs. Please invite the National Deputies to the Supreme Council Hall so that we can continue our work. Please. [[16:08:25]] 293 national deputies registered. I declare the evening plenary session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine open. Ladies and gentlemen, I announce. The announcement according to the application and in accordance with part three of article 60 of the Rules reports on the entry of the National Deputy of Ukraine Babija Jurijovic as part of the MP's political party "The People's Front". In accordance with article 60 of the Supreme Council's Rules of Procedure, I hereby announce the creation of an interfractional MP association, Winnitzchin. The National Deputy of Ukraine, Tkakouk Hennady Vitaliyovich, was elected head of the interfractional Vinnickina MP. Dear National Deputies! So let's move on to the day-to-day issues. You are considering a bill amending some of Ukraine's legislative acts on the characteristics of broadcasting and retranslating advertising contained in programmes and broadcasts by foreign broadcasters. (Registration number 1455) Before starting a discussion, there is a proposal to consider the bill in a simplified manner. People's deputies would like to concentrate and decide on a brief procedure for considering the bill. With regard to the reduced procedure for consideration of the bill. Please vote. [[16:12:20]] For-161 Decision taken. I invite the Secretary of the Committee on Freedom of Speech, Condratuk Olen Kostinenovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-03-m1.u3	It is no mystery that one of the main factors that hinder the development of domestic television is: First, it is a lack of advertising in Ukraine. For example, the advertising market in Poland is four times the size of the Ukrainian market. The other one. This is the presence in the domestic television area of foreign television companies, which represent countries not only with a much larger volume of television advertising but also countries where television companies receive state subsidies. So, for example, the aggressor state of Russia gave its First Channel only over 3.7 billion rubles last year, and the private channel of NTB received 750 million state subsidies. It is clear that under such circumstances, domestic television companies cannot compete with foreign television companies, both as part of the fight for television, that is, by producing quality TV products and in part in the fight for advertisers. In view of the above, we can talk about the need for the adoption of this bill to provide real security for one of the basic principles of public policy in the field of television and radio broadcasting, protectionism policies in the distribution of programmes and transmissions of domestic production. In other words, we have to adopt legislative changes that would allow advertising money to stay in Ukraine. If the project is approved, it will be prohibited to broadcast or broadcast the advertising contained in programmes and broadcasts by foreign radio organizations broadcast or retranslated in Ukraine. In the event that such organizations do not fall under the jurisdiction of countries that belong to the European Union or countries that have ratified the Convention on Transboundary Television. The commercials in television companies from the European Union or countries that ratified the European Convention on Transboundary Television remain.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-03-m1.u4	Please finish, come on.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-03-m1.u5	remains permitted. In our opinion, the adoption of this bill will be able, not in words, but in fact, to support Ukrainian television. Dear Head, I am also instructed to report this bill and on the questions raised by the Committee on Words and Information. So on December 24, the committee at its meeting considered the bill under registration number 1455, introduced by the national deputies of Ukraine Condratiuk, Abdulinim, Knezhicki, Heratchenko Irina, Denisenko. And he recommended that the Supreme Council of Ukraine take it as a basis for its consideration in the first reading, with the mandate of the Committee on Freedom of Speech and Information Policy, to prepare this legislative initiative for second reading. I will point out that the members of the committee unanimously agreed with the purpose of adopting the bill. The main scientific and expert office of the Supreme Council of Ukraine believes that the first reading of the bill can be adopted on the basis of the proposals made. Thank you for your attention, please support these initiatives.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-03-m1.u6	Thank you. Please sign up two -- "for, two" -- "against", distinguished colleagues. Please, Peter Dusty Block, Robert Horvath. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-03-m1.u7	Please pass the word to Mikola Tomenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-03-m1.u8	Mikola Tomenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-03-m1.u9	Dear colleagues! We support this bill, it's about practical things connected to the radio economy, on the other hand, with politics. The economic issue is more important today because we understand that Ukraine's advertising market is not in a very simple situation and we should put a dot in the question of opportunities, mostly Russian channels that speak in Ukraine to have Ukrainian advertising blocks. So it looks like there's a retranslation of the Russian channel, and under this Russian program is a Ukrainian commercial. To work with Ukrainian or. Advertisers are registered by the company, the company pays a small contribution and commercials are exported to Russia there to other states. So it's absolutely logical that we're putting order in the advertising market in Ukraine and everyone working in the advertising market in Ukraine has to pay money to the Ukrainian budget. This is a principled position, and it must be maintained in an orderly manner. Here in the faction we have a discussion about how the Nakrad should act with, this is the 2nd norm, the Nakrad should act in the adaptation of programs that are retranslatable and have arguments for and against. So I think we're going to do the right thing by supporting Elena Condratuk's proposal, which we support in the first reading and in the second position, we're going to look at as adequately and correctly as possible. But once again, ideologies are absolutely right, everything in Ukraine, especially through advertising, should remain in the Ukrainian economy. So our faction will vote for the bill in the first reading.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-03-m1.u10	Thank you, Mikola Volodymyrovich. Please, People's Front, Andriy Anatolyovich Teteruk.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-03-m1.u11	Please give the word to Mikola Knieżick. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-03-m1.u12	Please, Mikola Knieżicki.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-03-m1.u13	Thank you. The People's Front faction, which consistently supports the protection of our nation's information sovereignty, will support this bill. As you well know, part of the channels that embezzle Ukrainian reality and support the aggressor are forbidden to broadcast in Ukraine. But the Russian state is spending millions of money to create hundreds of niche channels that are present in our information space: whether they're talking about hunting or a child or showing historical movies about what a terrible story Ukraine has in it, including. In order to protect Ukrainian information space, Ukrainian channels are offered to ban advertising on such channels. This is not the case with European channels and channels that ratified the convention on cross-border speech, as noted by the report by Olena Kondratuk. Thus, we believe that this will help Ukrainian television channels. In particular, after the Russian broadcasts and other products that we plan to do on Thursday are finally banned, we will be able to survive in a normal and effective manner. The People's Front is asking for support for this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-03-m1.u14	Thank you. Please, Andrew Illenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-03-m1.u15	Andrew Illenko, the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union. Absolutely right bill, we'll support it. Indeed, it is and, as they say, is ideologically correct, and it is economically correct, because Ukrainian channels receive additional profits, we will protect our advertising market. But still, with the opportunity, I would like to ask the owners of these channels to take a socially responsible position in this case, to reduce the amount of Russian-speaking content in their broadcasts, to increase the cost of their own, in particular, which they will have with this law to produce Ukrainian products: both serials, and movies, and broadcasts -- in order that, in fact, our television should not only be a business, but also bear a very important patriotic social function. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-03-m1.u16	Thank you, Your Honor. I think everyone has expressed their position on this bill. There's a proposal for a profile committee, reporters and factions to support it. So I would ask the secretariat to invite the national deputies into the hall. Please take your seats and we will now go to the vote for the bill on the features of broadcasting advertising contained in programmes and broadcasts by foreign broadcasters. Ladies and gentlemen, please take your seats for the vote. I put to the vote a bill (registration number 1455): a bill amending some Ukrainian legislative acts (as regards the characteristics of broadcasting (retranslations) of advertising contained in programmes and broadcasts of foreign television organizations). On the basis of that, I ask you to vote on the honourable members of the people. Attention, ladies and gentlemen, if you'd like to vote for the basis. Based on the base. [[16:22:34]] For 252 The decision is made as a basis. Thank you. Please, Yegor Sobolev.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-03-m1.u17	Colleagues, a moment of attention. It's a good thing we put together an anti-corruption bill. But now we have to make a decision that the preparation for second reading will be reduced. You know what's going on right now is the election of the director of the National Anti-Corruption Bureau. To be quick and honest in choosing this person, we must quickly adopt appropriate legislation. So there is a request to immediately vote in favour of preparing for the second reading in the shortened mode. We promise to include in the working group all the strong representatives of Parliament, especially the People's Front.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-03-m1.u18	Thank you. Colleagues, there's an offer. We really should have considered this question. I can put this proposal to the vote because of its importance. If there is no objection, dear colleagues, for preparing for the second reading under the simplified procedure of the anti-corruption law that we voted in the first reading. To take into account all the suggestions we discussed. Please, I am voting on the proposal to prepare for the second reading of the draft amendment to the Anti-Corruption Bureau Act. To the second reading of the abbreviated procedure. Vote please, Your Honor. As for the reduced procedure, preparation for second reading. In preparation for the second reading, the procedure is shortened. [[16:24:21]] For 243 Thank you, distinguished national MPs. Let's move on to the next question of order of the day. According to the 1768 Committee, 1768-1 has been transferred to Thursday. The next bill, 1408. The draft Law on Amendments to Certain Laws (Voluntary Activities), by Honorary Colleagues. Again, there is a proposal to consider this bill in a simplified manner. That's why I'm voting on this bill for a reduced procedure. I'd like to make up my mind. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. [[16:25:14]] For 224 Decision taken. Please welcome to the floor, reporter, National Deputy Ivan Krulko. Please. He will report to Arthur the Chamber, chairman of the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-03-m1.u19	Ivan Krulko, the deputy faction of Fatherland. The Honorable Head of the Supreme Council! Dear National Deputies! Dear volunteers, Ukrainian citizens! Your attention is given to draft Law No. 1409, which provides for amendments to certain legislative acts regarding volunteering. The bill was developed by public organizations working in the field of volunteering. This bill was supported and signed as co-authors, representing all factions that are part of the majority. And, of course, this bill is extremely relevant today, and I'll explain why. Over 95 percent of active volunteers are outside the scope of the current law. The law in force was written specifically under the Euro2012 and written under specific volunteer organizations. It provides for a very large number of bureaucratic procedures. In particular, how volunteer organizations register. And every social organization that works today involves volunteers, in fact and not registered with the relevant Ministry of Social Policy, is actually outside the legal field. Our bill proposes to remove many bureaucratic premeditations, including the making of absolutely unnecessary contracts with the organization that provides volunteer services, with the organization that receives these services. I'd like to give you just one number. According to a sociological study by GFK-Ukraine, 81 per cent of Ukrainian citizens today consider volunteer movement a compulsory component of civil society. At the same time, nearly a quarter of Ukrainians were or were volunteers. Think about it, a quarter of Ukrainians are millions of Ukrainian citizens who are actively helping the front today, who were indispensable.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-03-m1.u20	Please finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-03-m1.u21	During the Dignity Revolution. Moreover, I would like to point out that our bill is also aimed at bringing current legislation in the field of volunteering into European standards, such as the 2013 European Parliament Resolutions on Volunteering, the UN General Assembly Resolutions on Volunteering and the Integration of Volunteering for the next decade, the European Inter-Parliamentary Union Recommendation on Volunteering and so on. I would like this bill today to unite the Chamber of Deputies so that we can win more than 300 votes for it. And I'm sure that's what's going to happen. And I am also addressing the Head of the Supreme Council, please put to the vote after the vote in the first reading immediately on the motion to shorten the deadlines for his preparation for the second reading. I am convinced that, operationally, we will be able to adopt this law and allow the volunteer organizations to finally work in that legislative field that will contribute to their activities rather than complicate their work. Glory to Ukraine! And great gratitude to all the volunteers who are working for our country today.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-03-m1.u22	Please, from the committee is Vice-President Mikola Veliczovich. Please, from the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-03-m1.u23	Dear Volodymyr Borisovich, distinguished colleagues! The committee considered a draft Act amending certain laws of Ukraine (for volunteering) (registration number 1408). The bill proposes: granting the right to volunteer activities without restriction to all organizations and institutions; abolishing the possibility of a legal person being deprived of his or her right to volunteer work; lifting the age restrictions on volunteers; abandoning the central authority of the executive branch in the field of volunteering; and implementing volunteering and volunteering contracts; and replacing mandatory volunteer insurance. The main scientific and expert office believes that the bill needs to be finalized. During the discussion, members of the committee and representatives of volunteer organizations supported the proposal to adopt the bill as a basis for simplifying the introduction of volunteering. At the same time, a number of proposals were made to improve the bill, namely, to complement volunteerism; to preserve mandatory volunteer insurance and volunteering contracts; and to provide volunteer assistance for individual volunteer activities; and to identify the characteristics of volunteer activities for minors and minors and young volunteers. According to members of the committee, these proposals can be taken into account when preparing the bill for consideration in a second reading. The Committee decided to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine the outcome of the first reading of the draft bill. Please support and thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-03-m1.u24	Honorable national MPs, if there are no warnings, are offered. There's a desire to come forward, isn't there? Then let's write two for, two against. Please sign up for two, two for the other. Yes, welcome to Bordüg's word.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-03-m1.u25	A radical party. I give the word to Oksani Korczynski.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-03-m1.u26	The Radical Party faction, Oksana Korchinska. Ladies and gentlemen, we very much ask you to support this bill, if possible on the basis and in general, because we now have really half a country of volunteers and they need our help. So we ask everyone to be very supportive, and it's like volunteer organizations that have been working for a very long time tomorrow, and everyone's asking for support, and so are those volunteer organizations that work at the ATO. We really need volunteer support. Thank you very much, and we insist on our support.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-03-m1.u27	Thank you. Please, National Deputy Natalia Weselov, Self-Help. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-03-m1.u28	Happy Natalia, Self-Help. Self-help supports this bill. And personally, as an ATO volunteer, as director of the charity fund, I also support it. But I have two warnings. I'm asking you to do some editing. In order to prevent the disguise of staff members of the organizations and to avoid tax evasion, article 5 should be made available in the following edition. Article 5. "Organizations and institutions that involve volunteers, their rights and responsibilities." Item 1. "Only non-profit institutions and organizations can engage volunteers." If this option is not accepted, we will have abuse. So any organization can form its employees as volunteers and avoid paying taxes and a single contribution. In order to prevent the shedding of funds from the budget, article 11, paragraph 2, appears in the next line. "The reimbursement of expenses defined in part one of this article is made at the expense of the institutions and organizations with which the volunteer has entered into an agreement on the conduct of volunteering. Reimbursement for these expenses is not the income of a volunteer and is not the basis for taxing the VAT and the EU." In the light of these amendments, we propose to adopt this law as a basis and as a whole. Self-help supports it.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-03-m1.u29	Thank you. Please, Peter Dustenka Block, Vitaly Kurilo.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-03-m1.u30	Please pass the word to Nasalika Igor Stepanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-03-m1.u31	Igor Nasalik, please, "Peter Dust Block."
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-03-m1.u32	Thank you. Of course, it's hard to overestimate volunteer work, and let's face it, the first months of fighting by the Ukrainian army are mostly due to volunteers. However, there are several questions before the bill. YOU go first. The bill gives students the right to volunteer and does not limit what they do. Personally, I strongly oppose schoolchildren being involved in fundraising. And the second. There are completely no procedures for the registration of volunteer organizations. Recent events that have shown that there is a great deal on the Internet in volunteer organizations that employ the right people and give them 30 percent of the money they collect. I would like the law to provide for this appropriate action. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-03-m1.u33	Thank you! Please, opposition block, Mikhail Papiev.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-03-m1.u34	Thank you! Honorable National Deputies of Ukraine, Your Honor! You know, it could be the only bill in today's agenda that improves the situation that is and that doesn't make any sense of drag ropes between the authorities. So it has happened that the government has moved away from providing the Ukrainian Armed Forces with food for the military, and this has been on the shoulders of our volunteers, and we should be grateful to these indifferent people for what they are doing. And we support the ideology of the law that makes it easier in general and removes all regulatory moments. But there are principles that we need to defend -- that is the life and health of citizens. And we're counting as appropriate, the Opposition Block is going to vote as a basis for this law, but we're going to count for a proper preservation of the obligation of volunteer insurance, life and health. Because they are now working in the ATO zone because they are to be protected, but we have a clear and clear duty of the State that the State of the State budget reimburses organizations for life insurance and volunteer health. I would very much like us to maintain our position and the Opposition Block will vote in favour. Thank you for your attention!
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-03-m1.u35	Thank you! Please, Stephen Barna. Then I see the People's Front, then the Fatherland.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-03-m1.u36	Dear colleagues! Stepan Barna, Petra Dustenka's Block. First. We all know that in a moment of responsibility for the Ukrainian people, the Ukrainian people created an army. From the time the army got into a difficult situation, the Ukrainian people, along with the volunteers, fed the army in a lifetime, beginning in March. Such focal points, logistics centers that feed and support the army, exist and operate today. Several of these exist in the city of Ternopol and in the Ternopil region, covering all ages of categories, youth, parents, grandparents, all working in the name of victory in Ukraine. And it is more important for us than ever to support volunteers and give them an important status, a status that will enable them to recognize those who work for Ukraine and in the name of victory. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-03-m1.u37	Please, from the People's Front of Helen Masorin. Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-03-m1.u38	Masorina Olena, People's Front faction, founder of the Army Aid Fund. Indeed, volunteers face a large number of bureaucratic obstacles in their activities. At the same time, in this law, we need to think not only about volunteers but also about the benefactor, the one who provides this help. Because, unfortunately, there are some abuses regarding the provision of volunteer assistance. In addition, there is clear control and reporting to the benefactors, who in fact provide assistance to volunteers, and volunteers accumulate it and transfer it to where it is needed. In addition, regular volunteers help in the ATO area, and such volunteers must be protected; they must be insured because they must reach a certain age because their work involves a risk to life. That's why the People's Front faction supports this law as a basis.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-03-m1.u39	I'm asking you to finish the date.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-03-m1.u40	We're going to work it out and we're going to give it to the whole, and at the same time, to the public organizations that have been involved in drafting this law and who still want to make certain adjustments with the people's deputies. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-03-m1.u41	Thank you. By the way, there are also suggestions from the committee to actually accept only in the first reading and in general. From the All-Ukrainian Motherland Union, please turn on the microphone. It's already on.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-03-m1.u42	Sergey Eutuszek, Equinox, Fatherland. Dear colleagues! Indeed, the time has come for Ukraine to organize the legislative base of all benefactors, or charitable subjects. In fact, philanthropy has long been beginning since ancient times, and we cannot yet bring our legislation to civilized countries. As far as volunteers are concerned, the situation here is very and very difficult, for the unprecedented occurrence of more than a million volunteers in Ukraine during the war. I would say that these are not just the people who provide our military and food supplies. And I would talk about those who, at the cost of their lives, risk their own lives getting out. bring our boys who have already died and allow them to be properly buried.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-03-m1.u43	Please let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-03-m1.u44	So the Fatherland faction also asks to consider today, in the first reading, working with volunteers on a normal road map, preparing and adopting a second reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-03-m1.u45	Okay, well, your honor, that's what we talked about with the reporter. Dear friends, everyone has expressed themselves on this matter, an important law. We will now, I would like to invite the deputies to the Supreme Council Hall, and we will now vote on this bill, but we will vote on it in the first reading, on the basis of the first reading. Next, I'm going to put it to a vote on a reduced procedure for preparing for second reading and for the next week we're going to approve it to take all the necessary positions into account. Do you have a deal? I put to the vote a bill (registration number 1855) of the bill. 1408, I'm sorry. Registration number 1408, draft Act amending the Act amending certain Ukrainian laws on volunteering with the proposal of a committee, to adopt it as a basis. Dear colleagues, ready to vote?
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-03-m1.u46	I'll put it to a vote on the basis (register 1408). Please support, please vote, (1408) as a basis. [[16:42:54]] For 294 Dear colleagues, at the suggestion of the committee and the rapporteur, I am proposing a vote to prepare for the second reading on a simplified procedure. Please vote. Please support the simplified procedure for preparing for second reading, I apologize. [[16:43:26]] For 271 Decision taken. [[Applause]] Please consider the draft Law on Civil and Military Administrations (Registration No. 1855). There is also an offer to consider it as a reduced procedure. I am putting to the vote the question of considering the bill in short motion Please vote, Your Honor, on a simplified procedure. [[16:44:02]] For the 220. Decision taken. Please welcome to the floor of the Ukrainian national deputy, the reporter Lucenka Yuri Vitaliyovich. Lucenko Yuri Vitaliyovich, please report. Pashinski’s committee head, Sergey Volodymyrovich, reports. Military and civilian administrations. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-03-m1.u47	Ladies and gentlemen, your attention is given to a bill that is caused by a special situation on the Ukrainian Donbassy. It is known that most of the freed areas are under the reliable control of the Ukrainian Armed Forces and the Ukrainian State authorities. There are, however, problems in the performance of government functions in that some of the district deputies, such as the Luhansk Council, do not meet at all, district councils, village councils, city councils, village heads, and, unfortunately, do not perform their statutory functions. In this connection, the Ukrainian Civil Administrations Act was drafted. This law is supported by a coalition and provides in the freed areas of the Donetsk and Lugansk regions the possibility of placing the functions of temporarily absent local authorities on the authorities of the state administration who have the right to appoint civilians or military persons to vacant positions of local self - government. In this regard, the right of, for example, the district authorities of Lugansk to set up roadblocks and arrange for them to be crossed over, to trade in excise goods in the front zone, to move, to adopt the budget of the missing district administration by decision, district council, district administration decision, and to replace the absent rural head with a civilian or military person. Thus, we, the authors of this bill and the committee of profile, believe that order and state will be ensured in the Ukrainian territory of Donbas.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-03-m1.u48	Please, let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-03-m1.u49	I would like to point out separately that I have not seen any comments before this bill, except for one: some say that it is possible to abuse the land when it is given, not by the council, but by the administration. Colleagues, all candidates for the land under Debalts, Red Lyman, and other territories can be calm: they are protected by the Armed Forces of Ukraine. Please, on behalf of the two governors, the Armed Forces, local self-government, please support this bill in the first reading and in general. If life shows some inaccuracies, we will correct it. Please make a long - awaited decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-03-m1.u50	Thank you, Yuri Vitaliovich. Please, John Winnick. It's from the profile committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-03-m1.u51	A report from the committee. Dear colleagues, on the committee, we have considered the 1855 Bill on Civil and Military Administrations. And I wanted to point out that this is an extremely important bill because we're confident that the war will finally end, and we'll have a lot of areas where the local self-government authorities have dissolved themselves. And there is no one to exercise the authority of the executive branch. No tariffs are set, no hospitals are provided, no schools are provided, and no food is provided in our kindergartens. Therefore, military and civilian administrations can be created by the appropriate decision of the President of Ukraine. The Head of the Military and Civil Administration is appointed by the National Security and Defence Council of Ukraine. Including military and civilian administrations, they will be given authority, they will appoint local elections that will take place in the freed territories. And I think it'll be very symbolic if we adopt this law today by a constitutional majority. Thus, the Supreme Council will clearly indicate that Ukraine will restore all occupied territories. Soon they will be freed from Russian invaders. Please support this bill and vote it as a law in general. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-03-m1.u52	Thank you. Please two for, two for against. Please sign up. Please, Yegor Firsov, Peter Dustock's Block.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-03-m1.u53	Dear colleagues, this is where Yuri Vitalević essentially outlined all the main arguments of the bill. I'll just point out the practical plane. Now there are a number of cities, especially the front cities – Avdeevka, Krasnogorka, Marianka – in which they are now sitting without light, without water, without heat. And to do what is real, to solve their problems in fact, there is no local council, there are no city mayors. Therefore, this bill is very important for us to have at least some power there in order to address the issues that have now accumulated in the Donetsk and Luhansk areas. Please support as a whole.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-03-m1.u54	Thank you. Please, Oleg Berezuk, Self-Help.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-03-m1.u55	Olena Sotnik, please give it to me.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-03-m1.u56	Dear colleagues! We generally support this bill and also consider it necessary to restore authority in the territories. However, we have a number of comments on the text to bring three basic criteria into line: this is the first criterion — territoriality, the second criterion — the duration of the bill and the third criterion — regarding the authority of those bodies that will be formed, namely the military administrations. In this regard, there is a consensus with which we approach you. Either we take it as a basis and then we make these amendments in a simplified way, or we make these amendments now out of the vote and then we can vote in general, but with our amendments.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-03-m1.u57	Please, Sergey Vlasenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-03-m1.u58	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I would advise once again not to cover up war during the violation of the Ukrainian Constitution. Unfortunately, this law is large, complex, new, unknown to Ukrainians are introduced. The Ukrainian legal opinion of some institution. We are asked to adopt this law immediately in the first reading and in general it is on the one hand. On the other hand. I'm paying attention to the Head of the Supreme Council. Volodymyr Borisovich! I would like to draw your personal attention to the fact that the Committee on Local Self-Government was virtually separated from the question of reviewing a bill that addresses the question of cancelling the authority of local self-government authorities in occupied areas. And once again, I'm saying, the problem really exists. What my colleagues are saying is that what I'm saying is that there's no Lugansk oblivion, there's no different level of district council -- it's pretty obvious. But I want to remind our colleagues that, so far, there is article 143 of the Ukrainian Constitution, which clearly defines the authority of local authorities, is the first. Secondly, indeed, the only way to transfer any authority of the local authorities is through the War Status Act. That's it. There are no other exceptions to legislation. Therefore, this law can be adopted in the first reading, but it needs to be worked out in a fundamental way. And, in fact, I don't see the possibility of making some partial amendments out of the voice right now, amendments that no one has ever seen that nobody knows about. They said there were no negative conclusions. There's a negative conclusion from the Scientific and Experimental Authority, which is published on the Supreme Council website, which is fairly solid and completely understandable to any first-grade lawyer. Since the compromise, this bill can be adopted in the first reading, but no more. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-03-m1.u59	Thank you. Please. Olena Shkrum, please, Fatherland.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-03-m1.u60	My colleagues, thank you very much, well first of all, really, I agree with what my colleague has already said, but I have a very important point to make. You can't do the right thing in an unconstitutional way. For example, our Committee on State and Local Self-Government is currently considering a bill on the special order of individual powers of local self-government for the period of the ATO in Donetsk and Lugansk (No. 1529), which was very, very strongly defended by Mr. Moskal. And we have to understand, I have a comparative table of these two bills. They say a lot of things to each other, but the first one does it in constitutional terms and it's much better. Unfortunately, what we're doing right now is we're just using this legal-legislative vacchanalia, we're producing laws that are unconstitutional and that are not consistent with the Constitution. And that's what the Science Administration is talking about. And really, first of all, we have to stop and develop one law. And secondly, we have to do it in a constitutional way. And in no way can we support this on the basis and in general, just in the first reading with very serious refinement.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-03-m1.u61	You took two identical words from one faction. Please, Igor Mosiyczuk, Radical Party. Please, Mr. Igor.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-03-m1.u62	Dear colleagues, this bill was to be passed last May. Last May there were traitors who betrayed the Motherland and are members of the local councils of the Lugansk and Donetsk region, and they had to be introduced by military and civilian administrations. This law is the law of yesterday that needs to be passed immediately, to be adopted in general, because now we're letting traitors continue to do anything on Donbass. Those who are now trying to use the legal caseuistics, let them go and communicate with the councils in Marianca, Volnovas, they will not find these councils, they will not find anyone, and the citizens cannot find anyone. We can't allow vacchanalia on Donbas. Therefore, the introduction of military and civilian administrations on time and our faction calls for a clear vote on the basis of this bill as a whole. This is one of the elements of the military state that many people are talking about. So let's take this toolbox right now and give it to our military defenders, all those who oppose the enemy and the invader on Donbassa. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-03-m1.u63	I ask you to give John Vinnik a minute first, then Irina Heratchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-03-m1.u64	To all the critics of the bill, I would like to point out three of these. First. Military and civilian administrations are formed in the event of the failure to convene a session of the relevant district council and the order established by the law of Ukraine. First. That is, there is a clear indication of when this is to be introduced. As to the need to exercise the powers vested in executive power, I think. No one has any doubts that they should be followed. And the last. Military and civilian administrations automatically suspend their powers as soon as the appropriate legitimate elections of the relevant self-government body are held, which are actually organized by these military and civilian organizations. How do you, dear colleagues, plan to restore territory if you do not allow the executive authority created in this way to work there? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-03-m1.u65	Thank you. Please, Irina Heratschenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-03-m1.u66	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to address you as the President-in-Office in charge of resolving the situation in the East. I would like to remind you that six months ago, Mr. Moscal's proposals were criticized as much as they were for a certain violation of the regulations that exist in our law, forcing certain of our administrative units and for transferring one city to another so that people could start getting paid. But we made that decision, and in the same way we helped tens of thousands of people get paid. And now I call to the session room, where the theorists do sit, to hear Mr. Moskal, who every day in this situation is trying to solve the key issues and problems that are not set forth in our laws, and to help him do so. If we can see that this law is somehow imperfect there, we will work on it. But today it needs to be taken as a basis and in general in order to give the Moscow and Kitchen mechanisms, which, in extremely difficult conditions there today, with the separatist mayors, very often, who have fled, are solving the problems of their cities themselves. And that's the question today.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-03-m1.u67	Thank you. Please, Arthur Gerasimov.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-03-m1.u68	Arthur Gerasimov, Block of Petra Dustenka. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that in the frontal lane, at present, the military are helping our citizens to maintain their vitality, and it is life that has already placed the dots above the "and." So this law simply implements what already exists. So I urge you to vote for this law as a basis and as a whole, because it is absolutely necessary for our Donetsk and Luhansk region right now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-03-m1.u69	Stepan Barna, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-03-m1.u70	Stepan Barna, Petra Dustenka's Block. Dear friends! First of all, I am addressing those MPs who must have visited or stayed in the area of an anti-terrorist operation and were in direct combat conditions. You probably know the problems that local self-government is facing, you probably know how executive power works there, you know how people's problems are solved there, more I'll say that every problem has a huge amount of discontent among people. If you want to help solve these problems, especially those who were or were formerly members of local councils, he is well aware that without the decisions of local councils, no decision is taken to address the urgent problems of social security. So you know very well that there are no local governments in the Donetsk region, and there are no Lugansk areas.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-03-m1.u71	Yes, please, from the People's Front, please, the word Yuri Timoshenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-03-m1.u72	Ladies and gentlemen of the Fatherland, it's very strange your position and the incomprehensibleness for which you are a Fatherland. Remember that there is a war going on and remember that those people who are now sitting without gas, without water, and without light cannot wait for you to think about it. And with regard to the 148th article that you mentioned, here's the Constitution that's open and the 148th article that's here at the moment is about the Constitutional Court, not at all what you're talking about. We were recently in North London, personally with Mr. Moskal, and I believe his words more than yours. And so I ask you to uphold this law and vote on the basis, and on the whole, for the sake of those people who are so poor right now. Thank you!
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-03-m1.u73	Dear colleagues! We have had sufficient detailed discussions, and there is no doubt that this law is necessary. But there are some inaccuracies that need to be clarified right now. That's why I'd like to invite you to the word "self-help" of Lena Sotnik. I ask you to listen carefully to your suggestions, dear colleagues.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-03-m1.u74	Dear colleagues! I'm asking your attention, because I'm going to, in principle, announce the amendments that we're proposing to this law. So I ask you to listen carefully so that there are no further comments. In Article 1, “Statute and Designation of Military Civil Administrations”, add territoriality, namely, military and civilian administrations, temporary state bodies operating in the territory of Donetské and Lugansk, as part of the anti-terrorist centre of the Ukrainian Security Service, which are designed to ensure the functioning of the Constitution and the laws of Ukraine, to ensure the safety of normalization of population activity, the rule of law, to participate in the fight against diversified acts and terrorist attacks, to prevent a humanitarian disaster in the area of conducting an anti-terrorist operation. Next. In article 4 of the Military Civil Administration Authority. Paragraph 12 sets out in the edition "the exercise of property management, which is held in municipal property of the relevant territorial community, in addition to the resolution of alienation issues, including through the privatization of municipal property and the provision of municipal property for leases for more than one year." Next. Paragraph 27 "A solution, in accordance with the law, to land relations regulation, in addition to addressing the issue of land tenure and the rental of land for more than one year." 28th. "A solution, in accordance with the law, to the issue of granting a permit for the special use of natural resources of local value for a period of not more than one year, and the lifting of such a permit." From paragraph 34, delete the words "all-Ukrainian referendums." Next. To the end.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-03-m1.u75	Please turn it on, finish it.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-03-m1.u76	Article 7 "The Final and Transitional Positions." Item 2. This law is no longer valid one year from the date of its publication, and this law may be extended by decree of the President of Ukraine, approved by the Supreme Council of Ukraine. This law is no longer valid in the case of the introduction in Ukraine, or in certain areas of its legal regime of war or declaration of war. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-03-m1.u77	Thank you. Yuri Lewchenko, then Irina Heratchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-03-m1.u78	Leuchenko, Freedom. Society, we will uphold this law, but there is one important thing, but instead of introducing a state of war that would solve all the problems in one law, a single decree would solve all the problems. We are today adopting a mass of imperfect, unworked, raw laws that balance the country's governance system. Why? Why, why don't you just-just enter a state of war. Even this law, we have to support it, because you don't want to introduce a state of war, but it's not just a lot of work, it's not defined in which cases a military-civil administration is created, it's not defined the specific powers of military-civil administrations. It is not defined, even how a legal person of civil administration is created, or cancelled, all of this is not prescribed. So, yes, the law is necessary because there is no martial law, so enter the state of war, and this mess will not have to be set up. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-03-m1.u79	Thank you. Dear National Deputies! I'm asking you to take your seats, Mr. People's Members, I ask you to take your seats, we've already discussed this bill enough, and I think there's no doubt about it at this point. And in view of the suggestions that have just been made by Helen the centurion, we can vote for it as a whole. That's why. [[Noise Nodes]] Dear colleagues! Please take your seats, there is a proposal from the coalition faction to support this bill on the basis and in general, taking into account the proposals made by the national deputy, Olena Sotnik. Self-help. Dear colleagues! I put to the vote a bill (registration number 1855) a draft law on military and civilian administrations on the basis and in general, taking into account the proposals announced from the Supreme Council’s rostrum by the National Deputy of Ukraine, Olena Sotnik, Self-help. Please vote on the basis and in general with the amendments that have been announced. Please vote on the basis as a whole. [[17:07:49]] For 276 Look, 276. Decision taken. Thank you to all the national deputies for finding the formula for making this decision. Thank you, Your Honor. The next bill (registration number 1899), the draft Act amending certain Ukrainian laws on strengthening the application of sanctions to licensees for violations of television and radio broadcasting legislation (registration number 1889), and (1889-1). The rapporteur is the head of the Committee on Freedom of Speech of Sümar Victoria Petrovna. Before that, there is a proposal to consider the bill in a simplified manner. I would like to put to the vote a brief vote on the bill, and I would like to ask for a brief ruling on the draft bill. [[17:08:52]] For 207 Decision taken. Thank you. Yes, please report.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-03-m1.u80	Ladies and gentlemen, your attention is on the proposal of a bill amending certain Ukrainian laws to increase the application of sanctions to licensees for violations of television and radio broadcasting legislation. The bill, I'll tell you the story of this bill. In fact, after a year of aggression by Russia, the Ukrainian regulator, who is also appointed by our Ukrainian Parliament -- four members and four members -- the President of Ukraine has proved to be completely ineffective in resisting the information threat that is coming from the Russian Federation. In fact, Nakrad today has very few tools that allow television channels to be influenced. And these tools are extremely hard. The first tool is a warning. The second warning is to be able to take the licenses. This bill proposes to liberalize this system and make the Nakrad more efficient and fast, but not with such rigid powers. So the point is that the Nakrad can now apply fines that are clearly defined: 5, 10 and 15 percent. And if you and I had a situation where, very concretely, when Espresso.TV actually gave a warning about the broadcast of Putin's performance, which had a social significance (for people to understand what it was about), you know the story with the Inter: they got the same warning, then they could apply the fine mechanism, not the warning. It's faster, it's more flexible and it's more liberal. What we've talked to the representatives of the TV channels, they're totally in agreement on this system, and it's totally European, it's applied in a whole range of European countries. The board also offered us an opportunity to disqualify us for 6 months of broadcasting in this project, but we have removed this rule and proposed in a bill that only after being brought to court, like this, in principle.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-03-m1.u81	Please, let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-03-m1.u82	I'm from the committee. In order for there to be no different readings, I ask you, now for the transcript, I read that the National Council, in cases foreseen by legislation that regulates the issue of the introduction of an extraordinary, special and military state, as well as the order of conduct in Ukraine's anti-terrorist operations, may adopt a decision and immediately appeal to the court for a temporary suspension of the broadcasting licence, a software service provider for a temporary ban. It's a norm of 6-1, and it's only written in such a way that there's no variation. The draft committee unanimously proposed approval as a whole. No, I'm sorry, there was one voice called "The Cloud" against it. On the basis of this, work on the second reading and accept the suggestions as a whole. In fact, this allows us, in the form of an independent regulator appointed by Parliament and President, to be more effective in protecting Ukraine's national information space.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-03-m1.u83	Thank you. Please sign up: two for, two against. Please, People's Front, National Deputy Boyko Olena Petrovna. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-03-m1.u84	Helen Boyko, People's Front. Please pass the word to Sergey the Highlander.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-03-m1.u85	Please, Sergey High. People's Front.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-03-m1.u86	Sergey Visocki, People's Front, Midan Self-Defense Group. I'd like to support the Victoria Petrovna Sumar bill. We've been looking at this on the committee. I'm a deputy to the Committee on Freedom of Speech for Information Policy. Unfortunately, the tools now owned by the Nakrad and the authorities as a whole regarding the resistance to Russian media aggression are imperfect. Thus, the strengthening of this instrument can contribute to a situation in which we can fight this aggression more decisively. We see that in a hybrid war, journalists often suffer the most terrible damage than cities or artillery or even rifles. We see that Russian journalists and Russian media content, the media product is actually a weapon used by the Russian Federation against Ukraine. So we need to increase the responsibility of the radio companies in front of the regulator. We need to give the regulator authority so that he can influence the television companies in shaping their information policy on the fighting and aggression of Russia, and the occupation of Russia's Crimea. So that we don't see or see on TV any statement that the referendum in Crimea was legitimate, that we have some civil war going east and so forth. So I ask the Hall to support this bill and thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-03-m1.u87	Thank you. People's MP Agafonov, Peter Prashenko's Block.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-03-m1.u88	Dear colleagues! Dear Chief! Dear drafter of the bill! That's right. I agree with many of the provisions of the bill, but I would like to clarify one point of contention that was read by the author under the transcript. According to the text that has been read, the National Council can decide to stop and refer to the court -- two separate actions. As a lawyer, I want to say that we have a situation here, well, it's entirely a matter of time before the Nakrad has to make a decision. may decide to stop, suspend the channel license. In this regard, I have a proposal, under the transcript, to put this position in a different way, namely, everything that was read by the author. Wait a second. The National Council in cases provided for by law, legislation that regulates the introduction of an exceptional, special and military state, including the arrangements for conducting anti-terrorist operations in Ukraine, as well as legislation regulating the conduct of elections by the President of Ukraine, national deputies and elections to local self-government bodies, referendums, may appeal to the court for an appropriate motion to suspend the operation of a television licence, a software provider for the temporarily prohibited broadcast of television programmes. This rule clearly determines that Nakradya does not have the authority to suspend the channel’s licence on its own and that only she can appeal to the court with the appropriate summons. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-03-m1.u89	Please, Victoria Sumar. Comment now.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-03-m1.u90	So, colleagues, our principle position, without a court decision, there can be no disqualification. We absolutely agree with what has just been read for. You've thrown out two words, it's totally accepted.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-03-m1.u91	Then we will vote with this amendment announced by the Agaphonov People’s Deputy. Thank you. Please, Yuri Pavlenko, the Opposition Block.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-03-m1.u92	Dear Vladimir Borisovich! Dear National Deputies! Well, first of all, it's amazing how this bill got into the agenda today, because it's a violation of the Rules Act, because the bill is only registered on January 30th and it's given to the people's deputies today. In this way, MPs are deprived of constitutional rights on the possibility of introducing alternative bills. Second, despite the introduction, Vladimir Borisovich, passed an alternative bill of 1889-1. However, regardless of the requirement of the Rules Act, it is not considered in conjunction with the bill. Next. Regrettably, the Committee on Freedom of Speech, as a member of the Committee, has not fully considered the bill. Only seven minutes were allocated for his consideration. And in fact, there's also a lot of comments, except for those that have already been said about getting out of the license. Similarly, we believe that this bill is a real attack on freedom of speech, independent media activities, poses a real threat to the country's information security and can undermine the country's Euro-integration, as the provisions of the bill conflict with the European Convention on Human Rights, and there is a violation of the human right to information, the recommendations of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe, the recommendations of the Council of Europe on the work of the media in times of crisis, a whole range of other laws, including the Constitution of Ukraine. In addition, the law has a number of absurdities, particularly those of the nations.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-03-m1.u93	Ten seconds. Finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-03-m1.u94	So our position that this bill should be withdrawn is aimed at furthering the bill with both national and international legislation and not violating it.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-03-m1.u95	Thank you. Please, National Deputy Moseschuk, Radical Party, then Mikola Tomenko and Yuri Solovay.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-03-m1.u96	Please pass the word to Andrew Lozov.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-03-m1.u97	May I? Andrey Lozovy, Radical Party of Lazka. There is war and that if we want to win it, we must fight on four fronts: directly fighting, economic, international, informational. We have a very strong enemy, especially in information space. The Moscow propaganda machine is extremely powerful and has a very clear lobby in most of the media in Ukraine, has bribed journalists, has business partners among channel owners, websites, newspapers, and so on. And certainly we need strict national regulation of the information space, or we will never win this war. On the other hand, specifically this bill does not solve the problem, first of all, completely blurred wording. What is it when you can get rid of a license channel for calls for power? For example, the Radical Party of Laska seeks to take power in order to exterminate the Moscals and bring order to its land. So we have to get the license off that channel that will give us the opportunity to show. The only way to solve this problem is through radical warfare. All the channels in Ukraine, without exception, belong to the oligarchs. Each oligarch, as the channel owner, intervenes in information policy. We see outright dirty orders on 1+1, we see the propaganda of the Vatniks on the Inter Channel, we see a completely odd distribution of points of view on the ICTTV channels and other channels of oligar Pinchuck. All the channels in Ukraine belong to the oligarchs, and as long as we do, we will never, ever, ever again, protect ourselves. So our position is to take this bill off the table and we're initiating a period of war with the nationalization of all the channels. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-03-m1.u98	Mikola Tomenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-03-m1.u99	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to draw your attention to a very serious question right now, because I didn't want us to have to translate this responsible thing into humor, because I have the impression that this desire to redistribute everything and take it away could lead us to write in our "end positions" that we cancel the Association Agreement with the European Union, let's write. Well, if we want to close the Russian, then accept my bill, which says that the Russian channels are being retransmissioned in a short procedure. And you write against the Ukrainian channels you write. You don't have to yell, Jura. I know this law better than you do. So a bill was passed where there was no court at all. Now, on Friday night, they wrote about what it seems to mean at the same time. Now we are told from the rostrum that there will be no judgment. Well, fuck, you don't have to write the laws in a Masonic way! I've been studying the masonry beds, I can tell you. So my suggestion is that all media bills should be written by more than one person, not an MPO, not a government, media laws should be written.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-03-m1.u100	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-03-m1.u101	Media laws should be written by experts, should be written by representatives of the same channels, because they are market participants, including, should write by trade unions. And we need to understand that we're here banning Putin, not dividing channels from one group to another. That's why I have a request from you, Vladimir Borisovich. Not to include in the agenda the bills that are written in half an hour in the corridor, well, some kind of power structure, and rape us what we should accept the next day. We have people waiting for the budget, waiting for anti-corruption bills, not who wants to take a channel. So I think it needs to be radically worked out, changed and banned from retranslating Russian infamous channels, and our channels need to help make Ukrainian products. If they do not, we will be punished: a warning, a second warning, and, accordingly, the right of the Nakrad to withdraw the license. But just as it is according to current legislation.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-03-m1.u102	I'd like to remind the People's Deputies. Since Friday, the agenda has been given to the deputies. On Monday at the Conciliation Council, we considered them. After 1889, there was a conclusion of a committee that had just reported to the head of the committee, so we need to be a little bit restrained. Please, National Deputy Solovay.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-03-m1.u103	People's MP Solovay, MP's strike group. Dear colleagues, it must be made clear that, along with the weapons that the Russian Federation supplies to Ukraine, along with the Russian army and the Russian mercenaries, the Russian Federation is also carrying out a massive propaganda war in Ukraine. And it's hard to say which of these three directions is the most damaging to Ukraine. And when today, in times of war, we are discussing whether or not to adopt this law, that is absolutely true, we need to adopt clearly -- first. But, at the same time, Your Honor Vladimir Borisovich, one minute may I have your attention, please? I came back from Hersonschina and Zaporezka region, with a full transmission of Russian channels. And so, I ask your commission, Friday will be the Year of Questions to the Government, whether at this time or later, to invite the head of the National Television and Radio Commission to report.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-03-m1.u104	Please finish 17:25:35 SOLOVA J. I. To report on what is happening with the broadcast of Russian channels, especially in the border areas of Ukraine. Thank you!
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-03-m1.u105	Please welcome Borislav Bereza, please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-03-m1.u106	Good afternoon! Now, my lawyers, along with Mr. Stac, have drafted a bill based on the conclusions of European experts and our lawyers. This bill is strictly regulated. Ladies and gentlemen, I'm very sorry, but someone might end up talking to each other and listening! Because then you're going to say, "What are we voting for now?"! Thank you all! Sir, Yuri Lucenko, you too! So, Mr. Stac and I have drafted a bill that regulates everything from re-licensing to fines. And when we said there would be fines of 50 million dollars for every minute of the violation, it's there. Moreover, the Ministry of Information is the first time that the Ministry of Information will be involved in the implementation of this law and it will do something about it. So what I'm trying to say right now is that Mrs. Sumar's law is very interesting, but it's not very interesting.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-03-m1.u107	Ten seconds to complete.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-03-m1.u108	He's not very professional. The law that Mr. Stac and I are trying to bring to you right now is the more experts are trying to give it to you. So I would be very grateful if you would listen to him and vote for him.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-03-m1.u109	Thank you. Dear colleagues! Sergey High, People's Front.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-03-m1.u110	One trailer, my friends, I honestly don't understand this logic that we're listening to from Mr. Tomenko and from the distinguished Mr. Bereza, who is actually my friend, but I don't understand it now. That is, the logic is that Ukraine needs mechanisms to influence the day's information picture to make it impossible to make speeches and propaganda acts of an aggressor there. We are now adopting the law, it can be imperfect, although the committee thinks it's normal, it can be anything. But it's like, you know, some kind of sandwich. We say, Mr. Tomenko, Mr. Bereza, let's wait, wait until we get some very nice food at the restaurant, you know, some delicacies. Let's wait another six months, make some good law, and then even better. No, let's accept what there is, let's take the sanctions for the TV channels, let's expand the regulator's authority, and then work on it. If there's a fine to add up to 50 million dollars, let's pass another law to supplement the existing one.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-03-m1.u111	Please finish the dates.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-03-m1.u112	But let's start creating a normative base, this is creating a foundation that we can then construct, make up, understand. I don't understand what's going on in the hall. I see there's a big opposition.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-03-m1.u113	Thank you. Please, Olena Schrum.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-03-m1.u114	Alona's splinter, Fatherland faction. Colleagues, we've been very supportive and supportive, and we've been talking about how we need to work out and build this normative framework for strengthening Ukraine's information and security. We understand very well what challenges we are facing right now, and how information warfare affects even almost as much as fighting against our citizens. But all I want to show you is that I want to show you, including recommendation 1513 of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe, Ukraine made the right commitments when it joined the Parliamentary Assembly. One of them is the urgent annulment of regulations and the rejection of practical actions that allow outside the judicial closure of information organs and the cessation of television broadcasts. That's why, of course, we support this bill as amended by Mrs. Agafone if it's not outside the court's closure of the television channels. And it will not be possible to clearly interpret such a norm, nor should the norm be clear, only through the court can the television channels be closed and the licenses closed. It's a European norm, we're with you, we're still going to Europe. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-03-m1.u115	Thank you. Dear colleagues! I think we've had enough. We still have an alternative bill, maybe we'll hear it now and then. One alternative and then a word, or now? Now? Oleg Berezuk, Self-help.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-03-m1.u116	Ladies and gentlemen! This law is essential for the country, but the way it is prepared and the way it is discussed is only devalued for this law. So in order not to tarnish this law and the work of the people who worked on it, today we need to move its consideration for a week, to look at the committees, to work together, and not to overwhelm each other.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-03-m1.u117	Thank you. Dear colleagues! I invite you to report on the bill (1879), which is treated jointly as an alternative fraction of one, Labazük Sergey Petrovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-03-m1.u118	Dear Chairman! Dear National Deputies! for your consideration, a draft Act amending certain Ukrainian laws on strengthening the application of sanctions to licensees for violations of television and radio broadcasting legislation, No. 1881-1. I would like to draw attention to honourable colleagues who, in accordance with article 37 of the Constitution of Ukraine, are prohibited from forming and operating political parties and public organizations to the goals or actions aimed at eliminating Ukraine's independence, changing the constitutional order by violent means, violating the sovereignty and territorial integrity of the State, undermining its security, illegal capture of State power, promoting war, violence and fuelling interethnic, racial, religious hostility. Therefore, with a view to ensuring the constitutional safeguards, some legislative acts need to be amended by extending the ban on the use of radio organizations to disseminate information aimed at solving war, war, terrorist acts, altering the territorial system of Ukraine, fuelling national and racial or religious hostility. Since Ukraine's information space needs additional protection measures, the draft law proposes setting fine rates as a way of reacting quickly to the National Council on Television and Broadcasting to violators of the rule of law, calls for the capture of state authority, changing the borders of Ukraine's territory or state border, violations of the order established by the Constitution of Ukraine, calls for the resolution of war, conflict or propaganda, public denial of crimes of national socialism, communism, propaganda of neo-Nazi ideology, calls for genocide, calls for the commission of terrorist acts, and calls for the establishment of terrorist groups. It's also a bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-03-m1.u119	Please give me 10 seconds to finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-03-m1.u120	Yes. The bill also provides for amendments to the Ukrainian Television and Radio Act, including the establishment of fine rates: 2 per cent for the violation of licences.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-03-m1.u121	Ten more seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-03-m1.u122	The project is an alternative to (1881), so. But I think you'll agree with me that this rule will be enough.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-03-m1.u123	Thank you, reporter. Dear colleagues, please take your seats. We have considered the report of the two bills, and we have discussed it quite quickly. Please invite the national MPs. Ladies and gentlemen, please take your seats in the hall. Ladies and gentlemen, please take your seats to begin the vote now. Please. Please, Andrew Parobius. Please take your seats in the hall.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-03-m1.u124	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to point out that in the war waged by Russia against Ukraine, the information element is perhaps even more important than the military and military component. There's a totalitarian regime, and they can line up their media like a military unit. Unfortunately, we don't have enough mechanisms to allow the state to influence these TV channels that promote the idea of the Kremlin, the idea of the Russian Federation. And so I have a request to respond responsibly to the vote. As we voted in favour of the anti-corruption package of laws, we announced that between the first and the second readings we would be able to make all the amendments. So I call on all the national MPs, especially the coalition members, to support the bill, to amend it, and in the second reading, we will vote on it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-03-m1.u125	Dear colleagues, right now, before we vote, I think we need to once again give National Deputy Agafone the opportunity to read the amendment, to vote for it. Please, the People's Deputy of Agaphonov. Attention! Listen, please! Attention! Please, Victoria Sumar, one minute. And then the people's deputy of Agaphonov. And we'll vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-03-m1.u126	Dear colleagues, I beg you, this is the same thing that must be read, obviously, by Mrs. Natalia, we are absolutely in agreement with this. Sorry about that reading, which came up, is editorial. Paragraph 6-1 reads as follows: “The National Council, in cases provided for by this law, regulates the introduction of an exceptional, special and military situation, including the procedure for conducting anti-terrorist operations in Ukraine, as well as legislation regulating the conduct of the elections of the President of Ukraine, the national deputies of Ukraine and the elections to local self-government bodies, referendums, may immediately request the court to suspend the application of the television broadcasting licence, the grant of the temporary ban on broadcasting television programmes. Here's what I'm going to do. It's absolutely identical because it sounded like Agafone.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-03-m1.u127	Dear colleagues, with this amendment announced by Victoria Sumar, right? Please prepare for the vote. I'm betting on the vote on the bill, registration number 1889, with the amendment of National Deputy Sumar on the ground. Please vote. On the basis of a correction that everyone has made. On the basis of the correction. Based on the base. [[17:38:06]] For-189 I didn't get it. People's deputies complain that they haven't made it. I'm asking you to focus again, please. I'm betting on the vote on the return to the bill. Already found, dear colleagues, a formulation that is compromising. I ask you to return to the vote. We are voting for a return to the bill. Dear colleagues! For your return, please. Please vote back on the bill. [[17:38:55]] For-191 [[B in m in s a l in]] Offer. Oleg Lazko. I mean, they said, they all said it was good for everybody, and then they didn't vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-03-m1.u128	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. The position of the Radical Party faction was clearly echoed by my colleague, my deputy, Andrey Lozom. We're about to nationalize all the television channels that now belong to the oligarchs. What's happening is what we're proposing. And you see, the oligarchs take their heads right away. Stop stealing! Twenty-three years of looting! Nadra was stolen, the media stole, people stole property, and now they're taking over. We're going to take it all away from you and bring it back to the state and bring it back to the people. And those of you who are oligarchs have paid their group to sit in Parliament, consider the money that has been thrown out in vain. Because, finally, we're going to have a critical majority in Parliament today, which is against the oligarchs. Because oligarchs are no less evil to the country than the Russian occupation. So let's work on the bill and vote for it when it's ready and has coalition support. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-03-m1.u129	Dear friends! Dear National Deputies! We voted, but there was one word in Oleg Lalashka's speech, and I want to ask the Regulatory Committee to give an interpretation -- the word "scattered". What does that mean? What procedure? Please. And inform the National Deputies before second reading. [[B in m in s a l in]] Dear friends! I am. [[B in m in s a l in]] What about dollars? I would. Dear People's Deputies! We, us. Yuri Lucenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-03-m1.u130	Dear Mr. Head! Dear National Deputies! I understand, of course, that someone can make fun of it, but in fact, there is a National Television Council in our country. There is a council, but it has no authority. It has neither the right to warn, nor the right to fine, nor the right to stop the anti - Ukrainian hysteria, which often comes from the Ukrainian air. Unfortunately, the Ukrainian Parliament has now continued this shameful practice. I urge the Committee to consider this bill immediately and to prepare a full replacement with the rest of the work on Ukrainian interests in the hands of the National Television Council. And turning into a clown, I'm not recommending that to anyone.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-03-m1.u131	Mr. Lucenko, what's your offer? Ladies and gentlemen, we still have an alternative bill. We have an alternative bill and we also have to put it on the table. I'm betting on the bill. [[B in m in s a l in]] Dear colleagues, unfortunately too much of this. Dear colleagues! Dear colleagues, you and I have considered 1889. We didn't find consensus in the Supreme Council Hall, we voted twice on this bill. That's why. Please, the profile committee, Victoria Sumar.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-03-m1.u132	Unfortunately, dear colleagues, we are now witnessing how the Ukrainian Parliament is governed by oligarchs who own media groups and who do not want media regulation by the state. [[Applause]] We weaken the state of Ukraine into a treaty with these oligarchs and all the MPs who did not vote well know what they did for it. The bill is designed by the Nakrad, which is appointed by the President and Parliament, by us, with you, in the "national front" there is no human being. We advocate for the interests of the Ukrainian State, which should be able to protect its information space. Vladimir Mihajlovich, Vladimir Borisovich, ask for another return, otherwise, I warn you, we will not bring these things in again. And that means we're going to weaken the position of the Ukrainian state. You can't play with things like that, you can't trade other things. We've gone to all kinds of compromises -- European standards and standards.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-03-m1.u133	Thank you, Your Honor. Please, Oleg Berezuk, and we'll finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-03-m1.u134	Honourable deputies, good law, bad submission and form, please move on for a week, work on committees, don't break the files, don't break that that doesn't break, take a civilized step, move it for a week, and get the law in good order.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-03-m1.u135	Dear colleagues, we've already voted twice, we've come back twice, I don't think we should do what we don't have to do. Please allow the committee, together with all interested parties, my commission to draft a joint bill, to resubmit it in accordance with the procedure for consideration, and then we will consider this bill. Dear colleagues, the bill is considered rejected. Thank you for your work. The evening session is closed. Tomorrow we'll continue our work at 10 a.m. Thank you.
