ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-24-m0.u1	Good morning, fellow countrymen! All members of the People's Council are requested to take their seats in the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Dear colleagues, before we begin our work, the morning plenary meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine would like to emphasize the importance of this plenary week. Last week, we took a good enough pace for the plenary to make the right decisions. And right now, this week, we also have a lot of questions that are extremely responsible. And according to what we're doing on thematic days, today we're going to consider a block of information policy issues. We will also consider issues related to the development of Ukraine’s economy. Those we haven't considered, if you remember, on economic day, are thematic. Also a question of gas. Thursday we have an important day with you in terms of the adoption of laws on education, the Law on Scientific, Scientific and Technical Activities. In addition, a cluster of questions on decentralization. We have 159 new territorial communities in Ukraine. They need legislative support today, to help them become effective. Also, questions related to the decentralization of administrative services in order to put them in place. And these are actually very important laws, including anti-corruption laws. Well, another very important law is the State Service Act. The law, to which we had been going for a long time, was carried out by Ukrainian national deputies on the basis of a profile committee. And this law also needs our responsible, responsible attitude with you so that it can be approved on Thursday. Thus, the order of the day is extremely tense. 124 laws, including those that need to be incorporated into the agenda. But if we work qualitatively and intensively, I think we can look at most of the laws, and approve, and ensure a direct positive vote. Dear colleagues, once again, I urge everyone to work with great responsibility, the country is looking forward to reform and change, and we have to make sure of that. Dear colleagues, please prepare for registration. Please include the "Council" system for the registration of the National Deputies in the Hall. [[10:03:39]] 315 national deputies are registered in the Hall, honorary colleagues. I declare the morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine open. In accordance with the Supreme Council of Ukraine regulations, we have 30 minutes to speak from the factions and groups of the Ukrainian Parliament on Tuesday. Please prepare to be recorded by factions and parliamentary groups. Please record the performance. Please. Please, Oleg Lazko, Radical Party.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-24-m0.u2	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. Honorable citizens of Ukraine, distinguished fellow national MPs, on November 21st we celebrated, the whole country celebrated, loudly said, was the second anniversary of the Dignity Revolution. What are the totals? What changed in two years? Why solemn concerts, some kind of relationship, but the people won't support concerts or a relationship. Because the whole country sees that, in large numbers, in two years, nothing has changed for the better, and what's more, it's gotten much worse. First of all, people see that there is no justice in the country, that all those who have committed crimes in Maidan are not brought to criminal responsibility. Many of them sit in this room and hide behind parliamentary mandates instead of being held accountable for the crimes that they and Yanukovic were involved in. Today, there are more patriots in prisons than in the days of Yanukovich, because for today's authorities patriots are greater enemies than the regions that served Yanukovich. Why do people today fail to uphold authority? Because people see a huge difference between what the authorities say and what they do. There's no one responsible for the crimes on Maidan! Radical simulation of reforms and radical imitation of the fight against corruption: the words speak of reforms, and they see that reforms that have led to 95 percent of Ukrainian citizens becoming poor, living outside of poverty, fighting corruption, instead of the corruption that was regional, today we have corrupters from today's power -- no less corrupters than in Yanukovich's time. And people don't just piss off and annoy this lie, this whole lie, this total irresponsibility of power, and people, first of all, are pissed off and the situation that they can't do anything about this situation. Disappointment is the most important thing that is in our country today. People lose faith when they see a huge gap between words and deeds. So I urge the Ukrainian Parliament to stop imitating reforms, stop lying to Ukrainian citizens, to Ukrainian society. I also call on the Ukrainian authorities, the President, the government and the parliamentary majority. Colleagues, I urge you to act, stop talking, let's act. Let's start doing it right this week. The immediate resignation of the Attorney General, the immediate change of the Central Electoral Commission, the immediate adoption of laws that will allow for a radical reduction in the cost of housing and utilities. People got payments, and at least hang yourself. The immediate adoption of laws, such as the increase in the purchase price of milk, so that farmers can feed their families. I urge the President, the government and parliament to act, act and act. Enough lying, enough cheating, enough simulating a job you don't have.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-24-m0.u3	Please, Victor Vasilovich Bondar, Rebirth Party.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-24-m0.u4	Dear Volodymyr Borisovich, distinguished colleagues! We, the Rebirth Party, want to address, first of all, the ruling coalition, the functioning government. In December, according to the calendar plan, there were 12 working days left when plenary sessions were held for the active work of Parliament. On the agenda, in our view, there is an extremely important issue that cannot be put off, which needs to be dealt with, is the adoption of the 2016 State Budget. Dear colleagues! The Way of the Right Coalition! You have to understand that there's nothing more important today than giving people an answer about how the budget is going to be formed for the next year. At the same time, with the adoption of the State budget, a new Tax Code should be adopted, which should radically reduce the number of taxes, reduce the tax burden, which should reduce the double burden on wages, i.e. taxes on wages, which should facilitate tax administration and give new life to the economy. We're talking about that at the same time with the adoption of the budget we have to review the Budget Code and transfer most of the financial authority to places so that they can influence taxes in places so that they can influence budget formation. We are talking about today's need to answer what reforms will be carried out next year. There is an important issue of health care, and there is much talk that medical reform is failing. The budget must answer how medical reform will be financed next year. We're talking about law enforcement reform, judicial reform. Excuse me, three weeks is essentially left for all these issues to be taken into account and accepted together with the state budget for the following year. So far, there is no State budget document in Parliament for the following year. Nobody saw what kind of fiscal policy that would be? How will it relate to the Tax Code, the Budget Code, what I just said? We haven't seen this document, we're asking the government, the governing coalition to bring this document to Parliament immediately. Do not accept the document again at night, under the shouts in the hall, and when no one saw what was placed there, what parameters. The other one. We understand that the state budget is the answer to the district councils, the city councils, the district councils that they will use, and what they will be able to operate on, what social measures they will have to plan next year. No one today knows how the budget will be formed and what they can count on. So once again, if decentralization is real decentralization. If changes, taxes, and so on, we should consider doing so. All other questions are secondary. Today, there must be an economy, a society that requires business, industry, businesses. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-24-m0.u5	Please, the MP's will of the people, Vladimir Mikhailovich Litwin. Please, Vladimir Mikhailovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-24-m0.u6	Dear Head! Dear National Deputies! What is most offensive to people today, even killing people? This is the absolute indifference of power to the basic problems of survival. What is the most annoying thing to do today? Total talk of authority about universal reforms that make people worse. Instead, what do we see? And we see that, in exchange for family capitalism, Kumov's so-called "vidridruzi" capitalism is successfully built. It seems that power, government, in particular, fully understands the European Union, the International Monetary Fund in particular, but at the same time does not understand the basic problems that people are concerned about. Obviously, the low social base of government support is that we don't have an open, honest dialogue with society, with people: what's going on, what's going on, what's going on, what's going on, what's going on, what's going on, what's going on, what's going on, what's going on, what's going on, what's going on, what's going on, what's going on, what's going on, what's going on, what's going on, how's going on, how we're going to learn to live and work in a country that's in a state of war together. The question arises, especially after the elections to the local authorities have been completed: Where is the final decision to lower public service tariffs? Where is the final decision on withdrawal, cancellation of the pension tax? Where is the decision to index pensions and wages in terms of inflation? Where is the final decision to stop the destruction of the remains of medicine? Where are the decisions that should stop closing under the beautiful phrase "optimisation" of rural institutions of culture and schools? I am addressing you, my dear fellows, before the elections, you have all promised and even threatened that you will not continue to participate in the work of the Supreme Council until these decisions are taken, obviously, the election is over and we are all waiting for the next election. And now for the final report of the government. The government's report is to take place at any rural location in the club. And I think the report should be considered after the budget has been introduced to the Supreme Council. And the adoption of the budget -- that's the spirit of government trust, and if it's not accepted -- that means the government doesn't have confidence. We have to stop playing with people. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-24-m0.u7	Self-help faction, Semin Semenchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-24-m0.u8	Honorable People of Ukraine, distinguished People's Deputies, Honourable Head! I want to draw your attention to the situation that has now taken place around the elections in the Horn of Curve. All week long, there have been large demonstrations of citizens who do not agree with the counterfeits that were held in the elections of the city head. Human voices were falsified in specialty areas, and people's voices were falsified in one of the areas of the city. And now, throughout the week, people have been protesting that he is voting for one power and choosing another. Legal solutions to this problem are currently being sought. There's a trial going on, looking for solutions on the political level. Regrettably, however, pressure is placed on the court, unfair decisions are made, and the “Opposition Unit” crams and bulges the situation in the city. And right now, budgeters are gathering at every corner of the Horn of Curve, taking buses to the center of the city. According to the media, the story of the alleged burning of the city council is about the raiders who are trying to take power in the city. Yesterday, a meeting of self-help deputies was held with the President of Ukraine to discuss ways out of the situation. Because at the last moment in the center of the city on Sunday, when about 8,000 people gathered, people expressed their mistrust over the authority they had chosen in spite of their vote. Calls were made to move to direct public administration. I believe that everyone now needs to unite in order to find a legal or political solution in this situation. I address, first of all, the members of the Opposition Block to stop blowing up the situation in the city, because that's exactly what we saw in Donbassa, and then what started there is what is now taking hundreds of lives. Following his meeting with the self-help deputies, the President of Ukraine assumed political responsibility to ensure that the results of the vote of citizens were consistent with their actual will. Tomorrow, a court will be held in Dnepropetrovsk, to which the faction of the Self-Help Association has invited, including the ambassadors of the United States of America, Britain and Canada. We call on all deputies to arrive, those who do not care what happens in the Horn of Curve, to arrive there on Sunday and on behalf of the people, to thank those deputies who have been on the count of votes that have helped to establish a real will. This is Sergei Visocki, Andrey Levus of the People's Front; this is Egor Farsov of BPP; this is Egor Sobolev, Jaroslav Markevic, Pavel Kostenko of the Self-Help faction; these are the deputies of Andrey Denisenko of Ucropa. I call on all to unite, establish a working group and find a legal solution to this situation, stop the abuse of people and put an end to the situation. Hail Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-24-m0.u9	Please, People's Front, Maxim Yuriovich Burbak.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-24-m0.u10	Dear Chairman, dear colleagues! Today we see many attempts to stir the situation in Ukraine, to get the government to resign, to get the early parliamentary elections, and then the presidential elections, the ultimate goal of this process -- to have a slippery state coup, a Yanuchar rematch, and a change in the course of Ukraine from pro-European to proputinian. This is an anti-Ukrainian plan, they've launched a massive information attack against Prime Minister Arsenius Yatsenuk, President Peter Poshenko and their teams, and these powers are financed by oligarches, including Russian, and, unfortunately, by sub-dancing, by some coalition deputies. The government, led by Arsenija Yatsenuk, is working under the most difficult conditions in all years of independence, the first government to overcome Russia's monopoly on energy supplies, curbed the oligarch's multibillion-billion-dollar appetites, maximized our citizens' access to visa-free treatment with EU countries, with the military being provided, all social benefits paid and resources found for their gradual increase. Arsenius Yatzenuk was the only prime minister who deliberately donated his rating and took unpopular steps, and his work was highly appreciated by international financial institutions, our European and American partners. Ukraine was able to avoid bankruptcy and cope with a very difficult situation of aggression on the part of Russia. Yesterday there was a faction meeting where everyone unanimously supported the prime minister of Ukraine only Arsenius Yatsenuk. We don't support the People's Front faction, no other candidate. The Prime Minister respects democracy, Ukraine is a parliamentary-presidential republic. So if Parliament is willing to consider the issue of government mistrust, that is its constitutional mandate. The President also has the right to make a resolution on mistrust. The Prime Minister will make any decision to Parliament. But at the same time, the coalition agreement is signed by all members of the coalition. A memorandum of cooperation with the IMF was signed by the President and Prime Minister, representing a coalition government created by a coalition in the Supreme Council. The introduction of tough reforms is our shared responsibility. Dear coalition colleagues! The Prime Minister has asked us two months ago to propose to all of us his candidatures from each faction for the reformation and reinforcement of the Kabmin, but no proposals have been made. So the People's Front is once again proposing to the factions of the Parliamentary Coalition to propose their candidacy. We propose to convene with the President a coalition council with the participation of the Prime Minister, the Head of the Supreme Council, and to discuss openly the relaunching of the government and the coalition's plan of action as soon as possible. The President, the Prime Minister and the Head of the Supreme Council, and the coalition must have a common view of the current changes, including in the areas of education, health care, and tax reforms. We also need to agree on steps to continue financial assistance from the IMF. Without this, Ukraine will not survive. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-24-m0.u11	Please, Boyko Yuri Anatoliyovich, the Opposition Block.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-24-m0.u12	Dear Mr. Head! Dear National Deputies! The latest events in France have shown how fragile peace is. Today, no country can feel secure. A clear example of this in Ukraine is the explosions in the Herson region and the inadequate response of law enforcement authorities to this event, as well as what is happening in the East of our country. The Ukrainians want peace and quiet the most. The whole world demands the implementation of the Minsk Accords, and the Ukrainian Parliament stands outside. The repeated calls of the Opposition Block to consider a package of laws under the Minsk Accords remained unanswered. So in today's tightening situation in the East, it's the parliamentary coalition's fault. For days the year of the coalition was fulfilled, which showed its complete inefficiency and inefficiency created by this coalition of governments. This year in the economy has been marked by a catastrophic decline in living standards, unemployment, price increases, and, above all, lack of prospects. Parliament remembered scandals, fights, and fights. This legal lawlessness in Parliament contributes to increasing tensions in society when aggression becomes a norm. This warms up the criminogenic situation in a country that is becoming dangerous. No draft budget has been submitted to Parliament today. Clearly, he will not be accepted in time, and this makes hostages along with the population of the newly elected local authorities, who are responsible for failing to perform their duties to the people. All of this is against the background of the rapid poverty of the population. The result of widely advertised government reforms was a lack of confidence in people tomorrow. Most Ukrainians cannot plan their future even a month ahead of schedule because of rising tariffs and inflation. The authorities are leading the country to disaster, and Parliament is unable to make effective decisions, and the government is imitating reforms, leading them to cut social benefits and raise tariffs. That is why we believe that this government should be retired, and the Parliamentary Coalition should report to the people on the results of its work in a year. We're demanding the adoption of laws on the stability of the economy that we put in place a year ago, and we're about to proceed immediately with the implementation of the Minsk Accords. With regard to the topic that has now emerged in the Hall regarding the election in Curve Rose, we insist that this process be conducted exclusively in the legal field and solely by the decision of the courts that the country is awaiting today. And there were no calls for decisions on national self - government there and others.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-24-m0.u13	Please, Peter Prashenko's Block, Yuri Vitaliovich Lucenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-24-m0.u14	Dear Mr. Head! Dear National Deputies! Dear Ukrainians! The stage for all of us was like another life, and for the country, like another start of the Ukrainian state. Majdan-2014 is three missions in one place. It's a struggle for independence. And we're making progress in that direction because we have both the Ukrainian army and the Ukrainian state. And we're sitting in Malorasia and in Ukraine. In Ukraine, which was preserved at the cost of the blood of the Celestial 100. This is Maidan's second assignment, the Eurovision. And the task of signing the Treaty on European Association, after the Europeanization of our lives, is difficult, slow, but is being introduced into our daily lives. And it's an anti-criminal revolution where, there's nothing to hide, we have the least success. Nevertheless, Parliament has done its utmost to create its own European model of law enforcement. Majdan, like every revolution, is not a victory in itself. This open window of change that we have with you, honourable national deputies and members of the government, must be used. In this context, the BPT faction insists on the priority of supporting tax reform, which reform needs only a living Ukrainian middle class. We certainly support the life - sustaining need to maintain the poorest sections of the population that are constantly being discussed in this rostrum. And population income indices, and housing-communal tariffs. But it is irresponsible to keep promising milk to the poorest. It was time to think about the cow that was to give milk. The middle class has twice made two Ukrainian revolutions of its own, its property, and its blood. And we need to allow today to function normally for the person who gives knowledge to society and for the State to pay taxes. I would like to call, on behalf of the Peter Prashenko Block, to focus all of Parliament on the adoption of a new Tax Code, or radical changes to an existing one. Tax amnesty to remove law enforcement points from all existing businessmen in the nineties and two thousand years, reduce taxes from 19 to 4, ease of administration instead of official lawlessness, tax cuts are radical, business-sensitive, and the cancellation of billions of government food supplies is a prerequisite for us and acceptance of the Ukrainian government. Dear friends, when we all fly on the plane, we are warned that in case of an accident, oxygen mask should be worn, not by a child, but by an adult who will then save the child. Now we have to take care of Ukrainian business.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-24-m0.u15	Please, 30 seconds, finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-24-m0.u16	And Ukrainian society, and Ukrainian state. Tax reform is the first and necessary step in our parliament's work in the coming weeks.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-24-m0.u17	Thank you. Last performance, please, Fatherland, Alona Shkrum.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-24-m0.u18	Dear colleagues, I have a personal statement from Alexandra Volodymyrna Kugel, which I would very much like to read. She wants to address the Ukrainian Parliament and the whole society. "Convinced that unification around the future is the only true path we must now choose. The past is a story to draw conclusions from. This is what remains in a person’s soul, and it determines the level of his humanity and his ability to love. But it is the future that unites. Remember how united this Parliament was when we wrote a joint coalition agreement together, we drew closer to that future. And as the first misunderstandings arose in this room, the first conflicts arose. They appeared in these walls when our work together was influenced by the past, a difficult, arduous past. There are no saints in this room, there are all sinners. Someone's got a big sin, someone's got a lot of little ones. But there is repentance for the soul to be cleansed and made better in the future to come with light and cleansing. When my husband showed me an apology post at the hospital last night, the author of the post appeared to me to be sincere in his feelings. I felt that he was truly sorry for what he had done. And then I decided to withdraw my application. But in the morning, the cynical accounting of polytechnologists gave way to sincerity, and it was this individual’s personal choice — whether to follow God’s commandments or to ignore them. He repeatedly stated that he apologized to Alexandra Kugel, who he did not seem to have beaten. Such a woman with such a name does not exist in Parliament. There's another Alexander Kugel who spent several weeks in a hospital with a concussion. And that's why these apologies are addressed to someone else who is unknown to me. The walls of this hall are still remembered when more than half of the deputies were made up of members of the Party of the Regions, and they remember how they mocked when we shouted about beatings in Yulia’s prison, Timoshenko, as they applauded in their desperate palms, Irina Lucenko, in which she spoke of the tortures that our comrade was subjected to. As we patted our feet and laughed cheerfully during Maidan, we tried to tell the truth about the abuse, beatings, and killings of the past. Two years have passed, but unfortunately nothing has changed in this room except for some of the names. Cynicism, impunity, cruelty, and ingenuity, as still, age - old chauvinism, and sixism. We haven't passed one of the most important exams, we haven't met the basic requirement that separates a democratic country from the Third World countries -- the requirement of moral maturity. Therefore, in these circumstances, I find it unacceptable to distract the attention and resources of the law enforcement authorities and prosecutors into investigating the act of this person against himself. That's why I'm calling off my application to commit a crime from the D.A.'s office. I withdraw my claim by giving the right of the court and the judgment of a single judge who sees everything and cannot be deceived: God is a righteous judge. I also want to express great thanks to all those who supported me and helped me in these difficult days. For the joy of realizing that there are so many real people in our country, much more than it seems. Thank you very much to all the fighters, volunteers, entrepreneurs -- all those who supported me."
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-24-m0.u19	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-24-m0.u20	"Deputies, doctors of the Institute of Neurosurgery, the Academy of Romanov and Phoephania are professional and extremely human. I thank everyone for the support, for the countless flowers, for all the calls. They're very important to me. Thanks to you, I feel much stronger now and much more confident. I am a woman, I am a politician, and I am proud of what I have done and what I will do for this Parliament." Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-24-m0.u21	Ladies and gentlemen, please take your seats. I said that yesterday on the Conciliation Council, and today I can say it. We have with you, as Ukrainian national deputies, unlimited inviolability. And I am deeply convinced that this is not a privilege, but a huge responsibility. That's why I want to call every Ukrainian national MP on the day after tomorrow. Dear colleagues, we need to show society a high level of culture, not animal instincts. So I would very much like to have any intention, even thought, of physical influence, to be replaced by discussion, dialogue and respect for each other, especially when it comes to fellow MPs, but especially when it comes to Ukrainian citizens. They choose us, they give us the right, and we have no moral basis for ignoring their trust. So I urge everyone, absolutely everyone, colleagues, let's keep our emotions to ourselves. This does not do any good in relation to each of us. And I am counting on your understanding of the high culture that we now have to demonstrate in the walls of the Supreme Council of Ukraine and beyond the walls of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. And I want to emphasize once again that any physical, physical warfare is a display of weakness. Write this down, please: it's a sign of weakness. So let's move on to the day-to-day issues. The first issue of agenda 2162a, 2162a-2 of the draft Act amending article 36 of the Ukrainian Act "On compulsory public pension insurance" on the assignment of a pension in connection with the loss of a breadwinner to family members who have died as a result of injury, disability, injury resulting from participation in the Dignity Revolution. The National Deputy's project, Alexander Tretlyakov, and also the National Deputy's project, Mikhail Golovka. There is a proposal by the author to consider the draft law in a simplified procedure. Dear colleagues, I need your attention. I propose to the author of the bill to consider this bill in a simplified manner. It's a fairly small bill, but it's very important in terms of social protection for families. Please review the reduced procedure, please. 2162a and 2162a-2, please vote, summary procedure. Vote. I'd like to support you with a reduced procedure. [[10:35:47]] For-151 Please be more careful, Your Honor, 151 members of the People's Parliament voted. Please, Alexander Yuriovich Tretyakov, 2162a.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-24-m0.u22	Dear colleagues! Bill 2162a addresses the issue of the appointment of pensions due to the loss of the breadwinner by members of families whose death is linked to participation in the Dignity Revolution. Under the legislation in force, pensions for the loss of the breadwinner are granted when the breadwinner has a life expectancy of a certain period. This is, for example, one year in case of death up to 23 years, 15 years in case of death up to 60 years. Without insurance, such a pension is granted only in the event of the death of members of the emergency service. More than 130 people were killed as a result of their participation in the Dignity Revolution. Some of them have widows with young children in their hands who are not entitled to pensions due to the loss of a breadwinner due to the absence of the death of the necessary insurance service, and we must correct this situation. To this end, the bill is proposed to supplement article 36 of the Law on General State Pension Insurance and to take into account that members of families of persons who have died as a result of injury or other health injuries suffered during the Dignity Revolution are entitled to a pension for the loss of the breadwinner in independence from the insurance service. I would like to ask you to make this decision in kind. This decision of the relevant committee shall be adopted by the bill as a whole, as a basis and as a whole.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-24-m0.u23	Thank you, Alexander Yuriovich. Please, an alternative bill, Mikhailo Golovko.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-24-m0.u24	Mikhail Golovko, the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union. Ladies and gentlemen, your attention is on the proposal of bill 2162a, which provides for "On a mandatory state pension insurance" for the purpose of assigning a pension in connection with death or death as a result of health damage during the Dignity Revolution. This bill, unfortunately, is already a little late, it had to be considered a lot faster, a year ago, when we registered it for the first time, even in the previous summons, and it was very sad that we had only just now reached it, when virtually the second anniversary of the beginning of the Dignity Revolution was honored by the Ukrainians. Regrettably, no criminal has been punished, jailed, and now in prison. Yet, this law does speak of social justice, namely, receiving pensions after the loss of a breadwinner to those who are their parents, children, sons, who have died. The men who died in Maidan during the Dignity Revolution. It would be fair on our part as national deputies, yet those families would provide and thank them, at least to do something for them, because they gave up the most valuable, they gave up, they lost their relatives, they lost their loved ones for us to change the country to live in another country today. It's a shame that those changes didn't happen, in two years, everything remained what it was, corruption was still greater, that the government was virtually no different from the government of the predecessor of Azarov, and that's a sad thing. But at least let's at this level, MPs, let's correct this error, vote for this law, so that the pension for the loss of a breadwinner will be paid to those who lost their relatives, lost their parents, lost their sons, and lost their loved ones. So there is a request to support this bill, MPs. Thank you. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-24-m0.u25	Please, from the committee, Sergey Drauk, head of the subcommittee. Please, Sergey Euseiovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-24-m0.u26	Dear colleagues, Reverend Volodymyr Borisovich! The Committee on Social Policy, Employment and Pensions reviewed draft laws at the September 2nd meeting. Both Bill 2162a and his alternative project 2162-2 address the problem of the granting of a pension in connection with the loss of a breadwinner to family members who lost relatives who participated in the Dignity Revolution, particularly members of the Houses of the Heroes of Heaven. Both of these bills are almost identical. However, the Chief Research Administration supports the adoption of the 2162a bill as a basis for the first reading, since it defines the list of persons more closely than in Project 2162a-2. Moreover, the terminology of Project No. 2162a to a greater extent than the terminology of Project 2162a-2 is consistent with the terminology of other laws that determine the legal status of persons who have suffered during the Dignity Revolution. The Committee on Veterans recommends the adoption of Bill 2162a as a basis and as a whole. The Ministry of Finance, the Ministry of Social Policy, the Pension Fund don't support these bills because they don't have real financial resources. However, the committee considers that the cost of implementing these bills is negligible, since it applies only to 13 families and may amount to no more than 500,000 dollars per year. Therefore, in support of the proposed changes, the Committee decided to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine the adoption of Bill No. 2162a as a result of the first reading on the basis and as a whole. A bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-24-m0.u27	Please, 30 seconds, finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-24-m0.u28	And Bill 2162a-2 rejects. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-24-m0.u29	Thank you. Please, colleagues, is there a need: two for, two against? Two for, two against, is there? No, it's not. Okay. Dear colleagues, there is an offer, I ask you to take your seats, a responsible law, to prepare for the vote. Draft Law on Amendments to Article 36 of the Ukrainian Law on General Obligations. Please, two minutes, National Deputy Shuhevich. Two minutes, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-24-m0.u30	Dear Mr. Head, distinguished national MPs! The bill was just a conversation with a representative of the Ministry of Social Policy, ready to be supported by the Ministry. The thing is, expenses are very small. Only more than 10 families are unable to confirm their internships, and that is why. We've already had such a case, we've encountered that one of the members of the Dignity Revolution has lost sight and has not been able to confirm because the documents have been burned in the union house, and we've been able to confirm in time. So these unhappy 12 or 13 families, and it was said, are a very small sum. So I propose, as I have supported ours as well, apart from our committee and Mrs. Denisov's professional retirement committee, I ask to vote on the basis and in general at once. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-24-m0.u31	Fellow Members of the People's Parliament, draft Act amending article 36 of the Ukrainian Act on "On compulsory State Pension Insurance" concerning the assignment of a pension in connection with the loss of a breadwinner to members of families who have died as a result of injury, disability, injury resulting from participation in the Gdynia Revolution, registration project, project number 2162a. In line with the Committee's conclusion and the proposal, the rapporteur puts to the vote the proposal to adopt the bill as a whole (registration number 2162a). Please take your seats, dear colleagues. Prepare for the vote. I'm putting a call to the vote, please support it. Vote. [[10:45:24]] For 256 The decision has been made. Thank you, Your Honor. 2162, decision taken. Dear fellow national MPs! The draft Law (Registration No. 1123), the draft Law on Reforming State and Municipal Printed Media, prepared by the Ukrainian National MP, Mikola Tomenko, has been introduced for your consideration. According to the author, there is a proposal for a reduced procedure to consider the draft law. Please vote. Please support the consideration of the reduced procedure, esteemed colleagues, 1123. Vote. As far as consideration is concerned, the reduced procedure is concerned. [[10:46:21]] For-167 Thank you. The decision has been made. Please report. Please, Mikola Volodymyrovich Tomenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-24-m0.u32	Dear colleagues, I'd like to draw your attention to this bill. For days, we prepared to celebrate decades of deliberation on this bill, since Ukraine made a commitment to the European community in 2005. I'm going to report a third or fourth time from this rostrum, because the previous criminal authority and our post-mad authorities didn't want to divorce this tool for free, or, more specifically, a pyari at the expense of the budget of officials of all levels, starting with the district administrations, ending with ministries and offices. We are above this law, and I think it's fair to mention my colleagues in the previous summons of Bagraev, Raupov, colleagues from other committees: Kurpil, Heratchenko, according to Olena Condratuk, Alexander Abdullin, with whom we worked. And they actually convinced the previous parliament to vote for it, and then one very patriotic faction said that they had a lot of power in Western Ukraine, and they're going to need more newspapers. So I ask that the current authorities take a decision once and for all and refuse to tell the mayor of the budget about their achievements in their newspaper, the head of the district council in their own, the head of the district in their own. For example, let me tell you that it's actually a lot of money. This year, the city’s city budget spent 35 million dollars on municipal media. If you count it this way, it's hundreds of millions directly and indirectly. So my request is finally to support the bill today. And the request for support in the first reading and in general. Because since we're 11 years from now, we're going to spend our money on the budget and we're going to take extra money from Western partners for new grants. So let's both stop the grants and stop the budget.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-24-m0.u33	Please, associate head of the Committee on Freedom of Speech and Information Policy, Victoria Sumar.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-24-m0.u34	Dear colleagues! The bill has indeed been considered in the past reading, and it has come to us from the past reading. It is extremely important because it is about reforming printed media. Let me just remind you that this bill is also a priority in view of the fact that the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe, in 2005, in its resolution, called on the authorities of Ukraine to start this dissuasion. In general, the Baltic countries did so immediately after independence. We still have such rudimentary resources as public and public media. What does this turn into in practice? Well, it turns into a story that you and I have, for example, a parliamentary magazine called Wiche, which spends quite a lot of money on a regular basis. It's a state magazine. For example, I'm opening one of the last issues of the magazine, "Yellow These or Some Advice for the Fungal Season." It's for you and me, colleagues, that the budget money is spent so that you and I, well, probably know something other than the laws, in this life. Is that what we need to do now? Well, obviously, in a time of economic crisis, it's not much better to spend budget money. This reform is not what has matured, it has matured. I thank the drafters very much. I want to remind you that among them were Tomenko, Kurpil, Bagraev, Princely, Irina Heratchenko, and many others who worked on him for many years. As a result of the review, the Committee on Freedom of Speech and Information Policy decided to recommend to the Supreme Council in its first reading to adopt, on a basis and as a whole, the draft Ukrainian Law on Reforming State and Municipal Printed Media, taking into account the proposal of the Ministry of Justice of Ukraine. That is, in article 14, "The Final and Transitional Positions", the following article reads: "The Official Printed Publications, the President's Edition."
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-24-m0.u35	Please finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-24-m0.u36	I want to finish because it's important to the transcript. ".the issue of the President of Ukraine, the Supreme Council of Ukraine, the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, the Constitutional Court of Ukraine, the Supreme Court of Ukraine, the Supreme Court of the Ukraine, the higher specialized courts, the central executive authorities, other state bodies with special status issued for the purpose of publishing legal acts, decisions of these bodies and information, whose obligation to publish is foreseen by legislation, which is not used in the preparation of which the creative work of journalists is not used." In Article 7, Official Printed Publications, paragraph 4 reads as follows: “Financing of expenditure for the preparation, issuance and distribution of official printed publications shall be carried out at the expense and within the limits of the funds provided for the maintenance of the relevant central authorities of the State.” And also consider the proposal that the law will enter into force on January 1, 2016. And on the terms of these rights, we can adopt this bill on the basis and in general, as the authors agree, and make a very serious reform today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-24-m0.u37	Thank you. Dear colleagues, please sign up: two pros, two opposites, your honors. Andrew Shinkovich, please, Peter Dustenka's Block.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-24-m0.u38	Andrew Šinkovich, Hmelničina. Dear colleagues, I also urge you to support the adoption of this bill, because the local government's relationship with the local media has really acquired a comical situation. Today, there are even heads of the Reichs and heads of the district councils who allow themselves to read the layout of the district newspaper and agree to its release. This is because the budget for the district newspaper is about 500,000 dollars per year, and the district government, the district budget is 60, 80,000 dollars per year. But they continue to manage the district media. By adopting this law, we're going to put the district newspapers at the level of partners with power, not dependent on power. Please be supportive. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-24-m0.u39	Thank you. Please, Sergey High.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-24-m0.u40	Good afternoon. Before this reform, our country had been going on for years. This bill was supported on our Committee on Freedom of Speech and Information Policy unanimously. For everyone in Ukraine is fed up with the fact that some clans, feudal structures, some local feuds, which rule areas and some cities use the state resources as their own. The time has come for the dissipation, the time has come for the readers and users of these information services to stop being deceived. If it's a newspaper of some local Prince X, there, Ivanova, Petrova or Petrenko, let it say that it's a private newspaper for the state, because it's private interests that these people, unfortunately, are working in these newspapers. That's why we're decommissioning the state media. This reform is very urgent. And I ask everyone to vote in favour. People's Front votes in favour. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-24-m0.u41	Thank you. Please take your seats. Please, National Deputy Solovay.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-24-m0.u42	Yuri Solovay, 89th constituency. Dear colleagues, I am asking you to be very careful with the adoption of this bill, because in most cases it is the district newspaper or the district newspaper, or the district television, or the local television, that is the only media medium that is able to report a position or position. Because those who talk about whether we have private media as independent, let them watch 1+1 or Inter, or STB, or ICTV, and they will see that the independence of these channels has absolutely nothing to do with the objective disclosure of the information. And that's why I call on all my colleagues to be very careful not to accept the bill as a whole, but to accept it only in the first reading and to correct it in conflict. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-24-m0.u43	Dear colleagues, the discussion is concluded, and everyone has expressed their position. Dear colleagues, the bill is important, please take your seats and let's prepare for the vote, you've heard the position of the speakers. The committee made a proposal, and the drafter voted on it as a basis and as a whole. Please, we're taking our seats. Dear fellow members of the national parliament, you have been introduced with the draft Law on Reforming State and Municipal Printed Media (Registration No. 1123). In line with the Committee’s conclusion, it is suggested that the draft law be adopted on the basis and in general, taking into account the Committee’s proposals, which included the call for proposals. This is exactly what I'm going to put to the vote for adoption as a basis and for the whole of the draft law. Dear colleagues, please vote 1123 on the draft Law on the Reform of Public and Municipal Printed Media. On the basis and in general, a signal vote. Signal vote, distinguished colleagues, please prepare. All the media and journalists present at the Supreme Council Hall are shouting for it. Please, Your Honor, this is a "yes" vote. On the basis and in general, please vote. On the basis and in general, a signal vote, please. [[10:57:41]] For 227 Dear colleagues, we need to be very careful now. It was a signal vote. Stay where you are.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-24-m0.u44	Based on what? Mikola Tomenko, 30 seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-24-m0.u45	Dear friends, let's be careful. I heard a speech here that we have a problem with television. But in general, it's about printed media. Friends, read what is written in the law. What is the second reading? We've done "Transitional positions," and the first year, we're only reforming the print media that agrees to this, then two more years. Well, it's such a liberal version that no one in the world knew how to spend their budget on officials. So I demand, and this is the position of the committee, to vote in the first and in general. And if there are big advocates here, newspapers of officials, well, print them for the last time in these district and district newspapers that they were protecting these officials. So in the first and in general, there shouldn't be any stretch here.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-24-m0.u46	Dear fellow members of the national MPs, during the signal vote, we have obtained the required number of votes 227. This answers, this requires a very responsible position. I'm putting 1123 to the vote as a basis and as a whole. And once again, I'm stressing that this is about dissipating the print media itself. Please be supportive. We vote, colleagues, on the basis and in general, we vote. On the basis and in general, we vote. [[10:59:29]] For 260 The law's been passed. Please, Your Honor, the registration number of the draft Law 2766, the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Television and Broadcasting Act (as regards the definition of European Production Broadcasts). Please, Your Honor, 2766. There is an offer by the author to review the draft Law by a reduced procedure, and it is also not large enough to do so by law. Please vote on a reduced procedure. Consideration of the reduced procedure, colleagues, is small in scope. [[11:00:16]] For-173 Thank you, the decision is made. Please report four minutes from the reporter and the committee, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-24-m0.u47	First of all, I want to thank the entire hall very much for the approval of the project. Believe me, this is an epochal thing, and we've taken a very important step, congratulations to the authors and to Mr. Tomenko, Mr. Abdullin, it's really important. Thank you all. Colleagues, the next bill proposed to your attention is very simple. It's actually a condition. The need for its adoption is due to the need to ensure that Ukraine fulfils its obligations under article 10 of the European Convention on Cross-border Speech, namely that each party that broadcasts should ensure that a telephony subject to its jurisdiction spends most of its time on European robots. Thus, for the time being, under European programmes in Ukraine, Ukrainian legislation provides for European production and Russian production programmes. In this law we propose a very simple norm: that European programmes, programmes, really, produce those countries that have ratified the European Convention on Transboundary Speech. In fact, Russia, which has not ratified this European convention because it does not want to assume the commitments made by European speakers and put them into practice, we exclude Russia from the list of, in fact, European speakers in this case. That's actually the content of the bill. The Committee on Freedom of Word and Information Policy considered the bill and recommended that the Supreme Council approve it as a basis. Then we can work on it, because it's about the quotas. The quotas are still a matter for discussion with industry, with television channels, we will lead them to a logical conclusion, but it is important for us to bring Ukrainian legislation into line with what we consider to be European production of television products, whether it is Russia or, in fact, those countries that make civil obligations in accordance with the European Convention. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-24-m0.u48	Thank you. Dear colleagues, please, two for, two for against, please. Please, Yuri Volodymyrovich Timoshenko, People's Front. Please, Yuri Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-24-m0.u49	The People's Front faction supports 100 percent and asks for everyone's support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-24-m0.u50	Thank you. Please, Oksana Korchinska, Radical Party.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-24-m0.u51	Good day to you all! Oksana Korchinska, faction of the Radical Party. The Radical Party faction also unanimously supports this bill. It's extremely important right now for our space, it puts all the points above "and." We should unanimously support him and work on his second reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-24-m0.u52	Thank you. Dear colleagues, please take your seats. The discussion is over. Draft Law (Registration No. 2766) of the Draft Law amending the Law on Television and Radio Broadcasting (as regards the definition of European Production Broadcasts). Please, dear fellows, take your seats. Accordingly, the committee has proposed that the draft law be adopted on a basis. Please, Your Honor, we vote 2766 as the basis. [[11:04:24]] For 231 Dear colleagues, I would like to ask you more carefully, 231 – the law is approved as a basis. Next, dear fellows, let's consult. We have a number of bills that are proposed for inclusion in the agenda. Can I offer them to put all the inclusions in the agenda together, or should we go separately? Please 3379: Draft Act amending Appendix No. 3 to the Ukrainian Act on the State Budget for Ukraine 2015 (on protection of the rights and social guarantees of military personnel). 3379. Please concentrate, colleagues. Integrating into the order of the day. 3379: Protection of the rights and social guarantees of military personnel. We're voting for inclusion in the agenda. Attention, colleagues! May I have your attention, please? 3379: inclusion in the agenda: protection of the rights and social guarantees of military personnel. Please be supportive. [[11:05:40]] For 230 Dear fellow national MPs, please be more careful. Decision taken. 3325: Draft Act amending certain Ukrainian legislative acts to ensure the functioning of the natural gas market. 3325. Vote, please. 3325. [[11:06:11]] For 209 The bill did not get the required number of votes. Next, please 3388: draft Act amending Chapter VI of the Budget Code of Ukraine (for the Stability (Reserve) Energy Fund). 3388. I remind you that this is an inclusion in the agenda of the day session. Please vote. 3388. Please, Your Honor, join the agenda for the day session. [[11:06:50]] For 210 I didn't get the required number of votes. 3389: Draft Act amending the Ukrainian State Budget Act on State Guarantees. Dear colleagues, joining the agenda. People's deputies, please concentrate. 3389 on State guarantees, 15th year budget changes. Vote. It's just inclusion in the agenda, colleagues, we vote. The Committee on Budgets will continue its consideration. Please be supportive. [[11:07:37]] For 214 There are no votes needed. 3231: draft Vocational Education Act. This is a question of inclusion in the agenda and consideration. Please vote, 3231 in the agenda, we vote. Vocational education is an important issue, colleagues, please. Integrating into the agenda, please support. [[11:08:10]] For 215 215. Let's look at the factions. Dear colleagues, a proposal has been made for the inclusion in the agenda of the draft Law (registration number 3231), a draft of the Vocational Education Act. In fact, it needs to be discussed very carefully, so we should probably put it in the order of the day session so that we can start working on it, because if it's not included, then we won't be able to work on it at all. So, colleagues, I'm once again proposing a draft of the Vocational Education Act for inclusion in the agenda, and we'll continue to work with it. It's possible to introduce alternative laws, you know. So here's the proposition. I'm asking you to turn it on. Singakovsky, please, a minute. One minute, Spiowakovsky.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-24-m0.u53	Dear colleagues, dear colleagues, yesterday at the BPP faction, it was decided not to vote in favour of including this issue in the agenda, there is a very important question, including the question that the Professional Education Act does not have such a concept in the Constitution. Paragraph 43 and 53 of the Constitution of Ukraine speaks of vocational and technical education, not vocational education. Therefore, these questions must be resolved and then brought to light. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-24-m0.u54	Thank you. Please hold a discussion within the committee on this subject. 3368: Draft Act amending the Law on Geographical Names on Geographical Names. 3368, honorary colleagues. 3368, inclusion in the agenda of the day session. Science and Education Committee, draft Act amending the Ukrainian Geographical Names Act. Please vote. 3368, enrollment in the agenda. Please. [[11:10:24]] For 206 Dear colleagues, I asked. I see we haven't made it. I'd like to be more considerate, distinguished colleagues. Calm down and adjust to work. 3368 we vote for geographical names, for inclusion in the agenda of the day session. Vote. [[11:11:02]] For 215 There are no votes needed. Next, dear colleagues. 3303: Draft Act amending the National Police Act to guarantee the social protection of former domestic workers and members of their families. Dear colleagues, please concentrate. 3303, this is the inclusion in the agenda of the day session. Ready? Vote. 3303, inclusion in the agenda of the day session. Social protection for former internal affairs officials and their families. Include in the agenda only. [[11:11:49]] For 247 The decision has been made. The law is included in the agenda. 3413, Honorary Colleagues, draft Law on Amendments to the Criminal Code of Ukraine (to improve the court’s terms of prior imprisonment). The drafter of this bill (attention, honourable colleagues) is our colleague, National Deputy Nadia Savchenko. Let's support Nadia and her legislative initiative, that's her first law. Dear colleagues, please support 3413: draft of the Act on Amendments to the Criminal Code of Ukraine (to improve the court's terms of prior imprisonment with sentence), author of the National Deputy of Ukraine Nadia Savchenko, "Fatherishkina". Please vote, inclusion in the agenda of the day session. Vote, Your Honor. Please be supportive. [[11:12:55]] For 263 263. The law is included in the order of the day’s session. Dear colleagues, draft law (registration number 3168), draft law amending the decree of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine on Standardization and Certification, this is the Committee on Industrial Policy and Entrepreneurship. 3168, inclusion in the agenda of the day session. Once again, the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Cabinet of Ministers Decree on Standardization and Certification. Let's vote, colleagues. Please support the inclusion of 3168 in the agenda. Vote. [[11:13:47]] For 245 245. Decision taken. The law is included. And the last, colleagues, is a bill amending the Ukrainian Law on the Protection of the Right to a Fair Court (for ensuring the rights of judges who hold positions in courts that have ceased to work in connection with a natural disaster, military action, conduct of an anti-terror operation). This law is being considered by the Committee on Legal Policy and Justice. Dear colleagues, please vote. Include a question in the order of the day. I understand it has to do with an antiterrorist operation in the eastern part of the country. Please support inclusion in the agenda. Vote. Please vote. [[11:14:46]] For 249 The decision has been made. Dear colleagues! You and I did not include five drafts. I'd like to ask the authors to consult the factions again on these issues of order, please. Next, dear fellows, we'll be on our way.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-24-m0.u55	Dear colleagues! There's an offer, there's an offer, there's an offer, there's honorary colleagues, there's an offer.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-24-m0.u56	Dear colleagues, under the insistence of the members of the Supreme Council, we will now again consider the inclusion of the daily draft Law (registration number 3368), the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on Geographical Names for the Establishment of Geographical Names. I'm asking everyone to take their seats, colleagues. In fact, like all other laws, it's about getting into the agenda of the day session. Then, when we include it, the committee begins its consideration. Perhaps to register alternative laws, the discussion is already under way. Because if we don't turn it on, there's no discussion. Colleagues, prepare, please. And take your seats. Let us support the draft Act amending the Law on Geographical Names on Geographical Names (Registration No. 3368). It's just about getting into the agenda of the day session. Ready? Ready, colleagues? Please, 3368. Once again, it's a day-to-day inclusion. Then there'll be a discussion. Please vote 3368. One minute. 3368 prior to inclusion in the agenda. This is an inclusion in the agenda of the day session and please vote. 3368 - inclusion in the agenda of the day session. Please vote. Vote. Include in the agenda of the day session. We will continue, colleagues, to discuss on this matter. [[11:17:52]] For 219 Calm down. Dear colleagues. You can't. Once again, Your Honor. Look, come on, stop pulling hands, I'll figure it out, okay? Listen, colleagues, this question is important, it needs to be settled. In order for us to settle it, or at least to discuss it, we need to include it in the agenda. But no one compels you to vote for him as a whole. When we put it into the order of the day session, the discussion begins, and everyone continues to express his or her position. But not to be included in the agenda is at least not entirely correct, especially since colleagues of the national MPs are so keenly asking for support. Colleagues, shall we? Shall we? Let's support it. Let's put it in the agenda and discuss it. 3368. Please vote for inclusion in the agenda. Vote. Please support me, colleagues, this is an inclusion in the agenda, and we will continue to discuss it there. [[11:19:06]] For 234 Thank you, colleagues, for understanding. Dear colleagues, I'd like to ask you, yes, you don't have to react like that and go to Parliament's rostrum right now. We have a dialogue, we can discuss matters calmly, and we can't. Thank you, colleagues. Concentrate on preparing it for the first reading. The law's been passed. Thank you. Colleagues, let's go to the vote, colleagues. Decision - making from the questions discussed. You and I discussed a number of issues last week, and we discussed a number of issues related to the adoption of laws, or laws. You will now have draft laws that have already been discussed but that have not been decided. He reported this bill, and we'll remind him of it in a minute. 2279 — Kulinich National MP. Please, just a minute. Attention and vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-24-m0.u57	Thank you, Reverend Vladimir Borisovich. Oleg Kulinich, Rebirth, Poltavščina. Dear colleagues, Bill 2279 is an extremely important anti-corruption document in the field of land relations. And first of all, I want to thank you, Volodymyr Borisovich, that in the last seven months we have come to a vote on such an important bill, which provides for the transfer to the lease of land of state property exclusively at land trades, that is, at auctions. Regrettably, existing legislation contains many holes and gaps that allow land to be leased around auctions. So in order to create, like, non-existent farms, local budgets lose huge costs because leases are a big term and with minimum rent rates. And the funds that could go to rehabilitating kindergartens, outpatients, and FAPs are sitting in the pockets of officials who are clearly using them. So I ask you, fellow honourable Members, we discussed this bill two months ago in full procedure, and there was no MP in the room, and everyone who spoke against this bill. All the factions and groups supported him. So, I'm asking you, him.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-24-m0.u58	Please, 20 seconds, finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-24-m0.u59	I ask you to support him in the first reading. But, Volodymyr Borisovich, given how long this bill has been going to the session room, I have a feeling that he's just not going to live to read again. Let's try it on a base, I think there's potential. And then we'll try it in general. Because it's a very important bill for local self-government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-24-m0.u60	Thank you, Your Honor. I think so. I see that there is no unity in this matter, but nevertheless. Dear colleagues, the law is under discussion. There is a proposal, this law on land trade, public land trade, to be adopted now on the basis of discussion. Maybe I'll put to the vote a proposal to prepare for a reduced procedure for second reading. And you will be obliged to work on it very quickly so that we can accept it as a whole in the second reading. So please, dear colleagues, 2279 according to the proposals of the committee, there is a conclusion on the adoption of this bill on the basis of which I ask you to concentrate. Colleagues, this is an effective fight against corruption in land relations and I ask him to support the 2279 draft of the Act amending the Ukraine Land Trade Code. We're voting on the basis. Are you ready to vote, colleagues? An important law. Ready? Please, we're taking our seats. 2279 on the basis of the vote, colleagues. We're voting on the basis. 2279 based on. Please be supportive. [[11:23:31]] For 266 Decision taken. There's an offer, dear colleagues. Thank you for your support. There's a suggestion that we prepare him for the second reading by a reduced procedure, so we need to get 226 votes. Vote please, Your Honor. I'm asking you to support this proposal. Preparation for the second reading by a reduced procedure, we vote. We vote on the consideration of the reduced procedure for second reading, colleagues. That's just fine. We'll get ready. [[11:24:02]] For 230 The decision has been made. I ask the Supreme Council of Ukraine to ensure that the Committee prepares for the second reading of the agenda for the next plenary week. Thank you. 2319a: Draft Act amending certain laws of Ukraine. The committee, the head of Andrew Ivanchuk. Do we have it? Please inform Andrew Volodymyrovich of the substance of the law. Please take your seats.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-24-m0.u61	Dear Mr. Head, distinguished national MPs, good afternoon! We have considered the bill several times, and it has not received support in the hall. And it's already been introduced as a work in progress. On the committee, we studied him very carefully. You all know about him. And I would very much like to support it on the first reading as a basis, and on the second reading, I know that many MPs have some legislative initiatives. It's about privatization, you know, the government wants to sell this year, including the Odessa Airport, and there's a standard where we have 5 percent and 10 percent of the mandatory sales. This will not allow us to engage an effective investor and sell our facilities, which are subject to privatization at the highest cost. Thank you for your attention. For the second reading, Oleg Valeriyovich, I know that there are problems with counsellors in privatization, we're going to clean it up. And for the second reading, we'll prepare a quality bill. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-24-m0.u62	Thank you, Andry Volodymyrovich. Dear colleagues, in fact, we need to be able to reform this law and properly adopt it as a basis, and to prepare for the second reading as necessary, so that it is a sufficiently effective instrument of public, transparent and effective privatization. I want to remind you that the discussion on this bill is over, and now we have only to vote, and the committee head's report was to remind us of the basics of this law. And so, colleagues, we take our seats. Now you have a draft Act that was previously discussed in the Supreme Council of Ukraine (registration number 2319a), a bill amending certain laws of Ukraine (to clarify certain provisions). Colleagues, please take your seats. I'm going to put the vote on the ground, but I'm going to put it to a vote. Please take your seats. You have heard the committee's position on supporting approval as a basis and on second reading to work with the Ukrainian National Deputies. Ready? 2319a on the basis of the vote, colleagues, please vote. On the basis of the signal vote, please support, on the basis of the signal, please support, this is a signal vote. [[11:27:46]] For-189 Obviously, there is no necessary number of votes. We are delaying the consideration of this matter. I ask once again, on the basis of a profile committee, to carry out the appropriate work and to continue to make proposals for consideration or withdrawal of the bill. 2706, esteemed colleagues, the draft Law on Measures to Ensure the Permanent Functioning of Heat, Central Water and Water (Registration No. 2706). We also discussed the draft Law. I invite you to take the floor of the First Deputy Head of the Committee on Construction of Construction and Housing of Dmitry Andryevsky. Dmitry Josephovich, please inform the national MPs. He too was discussed earlier.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-24-m0.u63	Ladies and gentlemen, your consideration of the draft Law 2706 is yet another time, this bill has to regulate the critical situation that has taken place today in the accounts of residential and utility enterprises. I urge you to support this bill today, unfortunately, we have many examples in the country of blocking the accounts of enterprises that provide water, water, thermal utility. This bill, prepared by the deputies working on our committee, represents all the factions in the Supreme Council. We have the support of the government of this bill. I'd like to vote on it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-24-m0.u64	Thank you. Dear colleagues, we discussed this bill, 2706. The author's team, please pay attention! – by name: Babak, Skuratovski, Andriyevsky, Sabashuk, Šinkovic, Stasuk, Marchenko, Galchenko, Kodola, Podlisecki and Melnik. So we see that all the factions are involved in drafting this bill, almost all the factions. Dear colleagues, please concentrate. 2706 on the base. And I'm also going to put it in line for the vote. Colleagues, concentrate, please! Concentrate, please! I'm asking you to back him up, this is an important draft of the law, and we're going to unlock the work of the Heat Supply Company. Please be prepared. Based on the signal vote, 2706. This is an emergency, 2706. Vote. 2706, please vote. [[11:31:07]] For 257 We have the required number of votes. On the basis of the vote, colleagues, let's not leave. We're voting on 2706. Based on the base. Please vote. [[11:31:27]] For 266 266 votes. The law's been passed. Dear colleagues, the bill of parliamentary hearings on reform. [[B in m in s a l in]] Dear colleagues, there's a proposal of 2706 to the second reading by a reduced procedure, it's really important. Proposal 2707 on reduced procedure, please support. 2706 on short notice, we vote. In summary preparation for the second reading, please support, an important law. [[11:32:06]] For 235 Decision taken. Thank you. Please prepare a quality committee for second reading. The apparatus, ensure that the committee is included for the next plenary week. Draft Resolution on Parliamentary Hearings on Health Reform in Ukraine (3176). It's an important question, we vote. Draft decree on parliamentary hearings, health. What is most important is that we do not approach that vote, and this distances us from the reform of health care itself. Please vote on the basis, as a whole, of the draft decree, on the basis and as a whole of the parliamentary hearings on health issues, please vote, 3156. [[11:33:01]] For 255 255 – approved. Thank you. Dear colleagues, 2449: Draft Act amending article 8 of the Ukrainian Act on Measures to Promote Bank Capitalization and Restructuring (2449). This is one of the laws that is fundamental in our cooperation with the International Monetary Fund and reports by Ruslan Demczak. Nor did this law take the necessary number of votes, but it is extremely important, I ask your attention when. Attention!
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-24-m0.u65	Dear colleagues, the very important Act on Measures to Promote Bank Capitalization and Restructuring. The National Bank meets the remaining banks and softens the requirements for their standards. And the National Bank defines the bill as the key to stabilizing the banking situation. We've also spoken on our Committee on Finance Policy and Banking, we've unanimously decided to support it, we've even made a decision to support it as a whole. But today I ask to vote it in the first reading and on the basis, and I ask everyone to support it.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-24-m0.u66	Colleagues, 2449, we've discussed it, it's an important bill. And now it's about getting him on the ground. Next to the second reading, we will accept this question. But it is important in terms of fulfilling our obligations to cooperate with the International Monetary Fund. Please. Let me probably put it on the ground now and then the accelerated procedure of the second reading. Colleagues, concentrate, please. 2449, signal on base. 2449, please. Let's take a look at the number of votes. Please support 2449. The language is based on language. [[11:35:06]] For 230 Fellows, I'm sorry to bother you. Based on 2449, please vote. On the basis of that, please support. On the basis of the vote, colleagues, 2449. Please be supportive. Based on the base. [[11:35:27]] For 225 Colleagues, pay attention! We have to go back. We, when we voted in a signal vote, had 227 votes. That's why I'm asking. I hear they haven't made it. Let's go back to 2449. Please support this proposal, return to consideration 2449. Are you ready to vote, colleagues? Please be supportive. On his return to 2449. Please be supportive. Back to 2449. [[11:36:09]] For 218. Dear colleagues! [[Noise Nodes]] Let's go back to him now, to this bill. Let's send him to read again for the first time so that he doesn't lose this bill, and on the basis of the committee, I would ask him, with all the expert circles, to discuss it again, because there are discussion rules on this issue. Do you have a deal? Is such an offer accepted? Let's go back first, and then we'll figure out what to do about it. Please take your seats. Colleagues, take your seats. 2449 for the return and for the rereading of the first reading. Ready? Come on. 2449 for the return of him and for the re-reading of the first reading, and I will ask the committee once again to hold discussions on this issue, because it is not clear thoughts. Please, colleagues! We're going back. 2449. Please support the return. [[11:38:34]] For 228 228. And for re-reading to the committee, please support, colleagues. Rereading the first reading. To the committee. Please be supportive. Rereading the first reading. Colleagues! Vote. Please be supportive. Re-reading to the committee. The committee will continue to deal with the deputy, and they will make an informed decision. [[11:38:58]] For 249 Thank you. I'd like the committee to work closely and make a determination. Thank you. Next, dear colleagues. 2060a: Draft Amendment Act, Draft Act on Measures for the Economic Stability of the Black Mornaftegas State Shareholder Society in connection with the temporary occupation of Ukraine. The committee head is Martinenko Mikola Volodymyrovich. Please inform Mikola Volodymyrovich of the law itself.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-24-m0.u67	Dear colleagues! We've been looking at this bill. Let me remind you a little bit. It allows the legal company BlackMornaftogaz, first of all, to protect the property that is outside the Crimea. Secondly, it is legal to defend against an aggressor who essentially illegally confiscated all property, virtually all the property of BlackMornaftegas. Today, all the questions raised by the occupation of Crimea are filed against the structure that is in Kiev and do not even allow it to pay legal fees and pay the wages. A request for support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-24-m0.u68	Dear colleagues, we've discussed this bill. There is a proposal to adopt the bill (registration number 2060a). Is there a need for a signal vote? Is it? Let's, colleagues, 2060a, draft the Act on Measures for Economic Stability of the National Stock Exchange Society BlackMornaftogaz in connection with the temporary occupation of Ukraine. Please, colleagues, on the ground. But this is a signal vote, please consider it. Please, colleagues, we're voting on the basis of a 2060a signal vote. On the basis of a signal vote. [[11:41:14]] For 206 There are no votes needed. Please, on the committee, please work with the members of the Supreme Council. 2183a: Draft Act amending certain laws of Ukraine to improve certain provisions on the activities of the National Anti-Corruption Bureau (2183a). It was discussed too. Julius Mamchure. Please, Julius Mamchure.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-24-m0.u69	Dear colleagues, last week we discussed this bill. I just want to remind you a little bit. The bill proposes that the moment of entry into operation of NABU be recognized by law. In addition, some changes are foreseen. This is an opportunity to hold closed-circuit recruitment competitions. We had a colleague named Victor Chumak. I agree with his offer. Therefore, the question of improving financial security is to be excluded from this draft law. Here's the deal. Vote in the first reading and in general. Please support everyone.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-24-m0.u70	Dear colleagues, the agreed offer, I remember this discussion, taking into account the position expressed under the transcript by Julius Mamchure regarding the exceptions to the draft law. There's a 2183a proposal to vote in general, because I'm going to put this proposal to the vote right now. Are you ready to vote, colleagues? Please 2183a: Draft Act amending certain laws of Ukraine to improve certain provisions on the activities of the National Anti-Corruption Bureau of Ukraine. In line with Julia Mamchure's proposal to exclude those positions that he had just announced from the Supreme Council of Ukraine's rostrum, to vote both on the basis and in general.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-24-m0.u71	Based on what? Okay. Dear colleagues, based on the exception of the positions that Julius Mamchure made from the rostrum. Is it accepted? Also, a signal vote, please, on the basis of the proposal. Which is announced from the Supreme Council’s rostrum by Julius Mamchure. Based on the base. Vote. Signal voting on the ground. It's a signal vote. I'm asking you to back me up. Based on the base. Signal vote. [[11:43:47]] For 206 Dear colleagues, there are no required number of votes. There's not enough. Work with the deputies. Thank you. Dear colleagues, we have approved part of the laws. Please, let's move on. Dear colleagues, we still have a lot of important laws. Project (Registration No. 3073) to amend the Ukrainian Tax Code to create preconditions for the new natural gas market model. There's a proposal made by the government to draft the law, and there's a proposal to adopt it, more specifically, to consider it by a reduced procedure. Please consider 3073 with a reduced procedure. As for the 3073 reduced procedure, let's talk about it now. Please consider the simplified procedure. [[11:45:01]] For 180. Please, Vladimir Demchisin, Minister of Energy and Coal Industry.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-24-m0.u72	Ladies and gentlemen, today we offer your opinion on Bill 3073. This is one of the three bills developed by the Ministry of Fuel and Energy and supported by the energy community, the Cabinet of Ministers, and the PEC Committee. In fact, this is a technical document that is introduced in connection with the entry into force of the Gas Market Act, the original law repeals the concept of a guaranteed supplier, as well as the marginal price. Since there is no concept of gas price that is no longer set by NCRE, it is not possible to calculate the rent. Thus, starting on January 1, 2016, the tax system will not be able to calculate the rent for Ukrainian producers. In this context, we have proposed amendments to the bill, to this bill, to which we are amending the bill, where the salary for the Crushing will be calculated from the price that will be set out in the contract between the "Gas mining" and the "Naftogaz" that buys this gas in "Gas mining". All other commercial gas suppliers, gas producers and suppliers on the market will account for the rent in accordance with the market price to be determined in accordance with the imported, weighted average import price. So during the tax period, every month there's going to be an import price that's going to be calculated by a DFS that has access to all the information.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-24-m0.u73	Finish up, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-24-m0.u74	So this bill is very important, it doesn't have any political element. This is just a technical document that will allow the taxpayer, starting on 1 January, to have a basis for accounting for the rent for all consumers. I propose to support this law as a whole, since I am convinced that everyone should be interested in its existence. Tax will be able to calculate and fill the budget, payers of this tax and pay it for the time being. Therefore, no fundamental changes are proposed or are being made.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-24-m0.u75	Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-24-m0.u76	But it is only one law out of three that must be adopted by Parliament in order to.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-24-m0.u77	Thank you. Please, Eugene Nina Petrovna, head of the Committee on Tax and Customs Policy.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-24-m0.u78	Honourable National Deputies, Honourable Volodymmere Borisovich, the adoption of the bill is due to the need to implement in accordance with the Ukrainian Tax Code, the Ukrainian Natural Gas Market Act, which has already become effective on October 1, 2015 and has just been briefed by the Minister. By supporting the overall orientation of the bill and by taking into account the crisis financial and economic situation of energy enterprises, as a result of debt between participants, consumers, suppliers, generating companies, manufacturers and to ensure the stability of energy business accounts of Ukrainian national deputies, the members of the committee proposed to supplement the bill with a temporary establishment by 1 July 2017 of a cash method for determining tax liabilities and tax credits on taxes added to taxpayers who carry out the provision, transfer, distribution of electricity and/or heat, supply of coal and/or products of its enrichment, the characteristics of tax collection of the specified transactions, the granting of collateral. This bill has been repeatedly worked out. You've been given a committee to implement the standards that I've just stressed, and you've been asked to complete paragraph 3, paragraph 1, with new paragraphs of this content, the whole content is now available to you and on your hands, please read. In the light of the above, the Committee decided to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine a draft Ukrainian Law amending the Ukrainian Tax Code (for the creation of preconditions for the new model of the natural gas market), submitted by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, to be adopted as a basis and as a whole as a law.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-24-m0.u79	Finish up, 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-24-m0.u80	Take as a basis and generally as a law that takes into account the amendments made to the committee that I have just stressed. Please be supportive. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-24-m0.u81	Thank you, Your Honor. Please sign up: two for, two against. And we'll prepare for the vote, colleagues, please. Please, Deputy Martovitchki.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-24-m0.u82	Please pass the word to Deputy Dudenkov. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-24-m0.u83	People's deputy to Dudenkov, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-24-m0.u84	Thank you, Your Honor Chairman. Dear colleagues, in fact, the opposition block faction will support the stated legislative initiative because it is extremely necessary because if the specified bill is not adopted, because of the established electronic administration system, all the fuel and energy companies are in a financial crisis, they are in a state of very difficult condition because the system does not take account of the specificities of the calculation by end consumers for the appropriate use of electricity or natural gas. We also want to note that this bill is useful and to define a tax base for the use of natural gas naphtha, because the bill provides for more transparent rules for the establishment of a tax base, namely, the average customs value, the import cost of natural gas. Because that's what the law is about. To a valid version of the Tax Code, the tax base for the use of natural gas nadrama was determined solely by the decision of the central executive authority, which did not create a transparent mechanism for the formation of the taxation of the specified natural resources. So I ask, independently of political preferences and belonging to the respective factions or whether it's a coalition or not, to support this legislative initiative, which is very useful for the whole country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-24-m0.u85	Please, Alexander Dombrowski, Peter Dusty Block.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-24-m0.u86	Dear colleagues, a venerable Presidium! I would like to remind you that the Supreme Council of Ukraine, in terms of energy sector reform, has adopted the fundamental Law on the Market in Natural Gas, which has been in force since 1 October. We have fundamentally changed the rules of the gas market in our country, which is in line with the directives of the European Union and our obligations regarding the signed Association Agreement with the European Union. But at the same time, we have not been able, for certain reasons, to make decisions, both in Parliament and in the government, to adopt a series of purely technical legislative acts that would allow the Gas Market Act to take full effect. So the bill that we're currently discussing, 3073, at all the importance of today in certain positions, it does indeed have temporary standards, but it is very necessary for us to sort out the activities of the entire energy sector in Ukraine as of 1 January, and primarily in terms of both gas consumption and use of gas in the country. So I ask everyone to support and vote both for this bill that we are discussing and for those bills that relate to the harmonization of technical standards in the natural gas market in Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-24-m0.u87	Please, People's Deputy Wolf. Oleg Lazko.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-24-m0.u88	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. Honorable citizens of Ukraine, distinguished colleagues of national MPs! Of course, it's an extremely important bill on the gas market that we're looking at. But why isn't there anyone in this room today talking about people getting payments for housing services? Everyone's talking about subsidies that 4 million families have received subsidies. When the average family is 3 people, it turns out that 12 million Ukrainians live on subsidies. And the government, the authorities are bragging that, you see, we're all covered in subsidies. I don't think there's anything to brag about. Because when people get subsidies because they can't pay housing services, it means that power has led people to begging, to bankruptcy. If these 12 million people had a decent job worth their wages, there would be nothing to boast about. And if today’s highest unemployment rate is 24 years, when 12 million Ukrainians, like beggars, follow subsidies, what do you boast?Oh, my God! Now, on the subject of this bill. The politics and position of the Radical Party faction is clear: high tariffs are derived from corruption. Because when you say that you've provided some people with subsidies, and those who don't receive subsidies, they have to pay space money for housing services, and they don't have that kind of money. Therefore, corruption must be overcome if tariffs are to be lowered. And we're proposing a clear plan to overcome corruption in housing and utilities. This is a reduction in the rent on gas production, which will allow you to increase your own output, and since domestic gas is cheaper, that means it will allow you to lower the tariffs on residential services. We suggest, the Radical Party faction, the elimination of Naftogaz, this corrupt office that tens of billions of dollars are being removed from the government budget. And most importantly, it's a radical reduction in the cost of residential services through the elimination of energy corruption.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-24-m0.u89	Ladies and gentlemen of the National Parliament, the discussion is closed. I think we shouldn't stop at the path of reforming the gas market and it's absolutely obvious that 3073, this law is important in terms of amending the Tax Code and the effectiveness of the new model, which is important. So I would ask everyone to take their seats right now, colleagues, to prepare for the vote. 3073: Draft Act amending the Ukrainian Tax Code to create preconditions for the new model of the natural gas market. In line with the committee’s decision, it is suggested that it be accepted as a basis and, in general, as respectable colleagues. Please take your seats. Ready? The signal will now be the vote. On the basis of and as a whole, the draft law introduced by the government was co-reported by the head of the Southern Committee on Tax and Customs Policy. The Committee’s conclusion is as follows: accepted as a basis and generally taking into account the committee’s proposals. Dear colleagues, are you ready? Signal vote. Please support this bill. A few laws we need to adopt, and the gas market will work. 3073, on the basis and in general, of the signal vote, please support. Vote. On the basis and in general. Signal vote, please stand by. [[11:59:06]] For 230 Obviously, there is a need for a number of votes. Everyone, please stay in your seats. 3073 in total, colleagues, taking into account the committee's decisions. Vote. Please, all of you. We vote on the basis and generally according to the committee’s decision. [[11:59:32]] For 232 On the basis and in general with regard to the committee. The signal was on the ground as a whole as well. 232, decision taken. The law has been passed. Colleagues, move on. 3074: Draft Law amending the Customs Code of Ukraine to create a precondition for the new model of the natural gas market. 3074. I'll continue for 15 minutes. This is another derivative of Law 3074. There is an offer to consider it in a simplified way. Please proceed with the reduced procedure. I'm going to continue for 15 minutes. 15 minutes, I have the right to continue. We vote in favour of the 3074 cut-off procedure. Please support the consideration of the reduced procedure. It's basically a derived law from what we've just voted on. But here is a proposal to consider it as a basis only. [[12:00:44]] For 168 Please, colleagues, do we take it as a derivative? This is a tax change. Based on the base. Let's have a signal vote, based on 3074. Based on 3074. One minute, please stop voting. Please have an offer, brief information. Please inform Vladimir Demchisin briefly. Please give me a minute, Demchikin.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-24-m0.u90	Dear colleagues! That's actually the second one. In this series, the bill changes to the Customs Code. It's even more technical. This is because Naftogaz works more actively in the import market, in the reverse market, it is necessary to amend the Customs Code so that Naftogaz can sign so-called contracts with gas transport entities in other countries and sign so-called offset or balancing contracts, reverse contracts. To do that, we need to make a few changes to the Customs Code in order to simplify the process of gas processing in general. I'd like to support you very much. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-24-m0.u91	Thank you. Please, Nina Petrovn Yuzanin. The committee's report. Literally a minute. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-24-m0.u92	Dear colleagues, I'll explain just a moment. Indeed, at the time of consideration of the bill in the committee, a number of deputies expressed the view that we should be more specific about the characteristics of the gas substitution customs, the so - called beechol. This is to specify the characteristics of the order of the natural gas customs declaration when performing the gas substitution operations in the respective customs regimes. That is, it must be accepted in the first reading and amended to make the bill work.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-24-m0.u93	Thank you. Dear colleagues, 3074, is the proposal of the Ukrainian National Deputies to vote it now as a derivative. He is further processed for second reading in the committee. Let's focus, please. Colleagues, Technical Law (3074). Ready to vote? Take your seats. On the basis of that, colleagues. Based on the base. Please give the signal vote, 3074, as a basis. Let's vote, colleagues. 3074, on a base, please. Vote. Please support, on a base. That's the signal vote on the ground. [[12:03:57]] For 214 Let's do it again, colleagues. People's deputies please take their seats. On the basis of that, please, this is a signal vote on the basis. Colleagues, concentrate, please. And now we're going to announce a recess after this vote. Based on the base. Please, on the basis of a warning. Please vote. It's a warning base. [[12:04:42]] For the 220. Dear colleagues, I think we'll continue, I think we'll continue to vote on this bill after the break, 3074. A word? Victor Mikhailovich, please. One minute, one minute, colleagues.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-24-m0.u94	Dear colleagues, I would like to draw your attention to the need to adopt this law in the first reading. We're living in a gas reverse for the second year. This is a new phenomenon in our lives when gas comes from the European side. And there are a few technical problems that the minister was talking about. They need to be settled. So I would urge my colleague to go back to this law and vote it out in the first reading. It's very important.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-24-m0.u95	Dear colleagues, after a break, we'll be back to his consideration in 30 minutes, okay? It was a signal vote. Thank you. I'm calling a 30-minute break. At 12.35, we'll continue our work. Thank you, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-24-m0.u96	Ladies and gentlemen, we continue our work. Please take your seats.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-24-m0.u97	Dear colleagues, I ask you to come into the hall and leave the towers and take up jobs. Dear colleagues, the break time is over, I ask you to come into the hall and take your jobs. The Secretary of the Supreme Council, please inform the deputies of the beginning of our work, and the heads of the factions, I ask you to mobilize the special composition of the factions, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-24-m0.u98	Dear colleagues, national MPs! Please take your seats in the hall, we can continue our work. Dear fellow national MPs, we need more time to ensure effective voting. Dear colleagues, there is a proposal for 3191 to be discussed, but since this is a small bill, a very small one, there is a proposal for us to consider it by a reduced procedure, and we need 150 votes to do so. We have to work effectively, but we have a big cluster of economics and economic development issues, and we're not doing too well in this direction in terms of exhausting the agenda. Suggestion: The next question is to consider the simplified procedure. I'm asking all factions to support this short law, let's start discussing it, and continue our work.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-24-m0.u99	Dear colleagues, we come into the hall, we take up jobs. The vote will take place in a few minutes. I ask you very much, dear colleagues, to take up jobs, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-24-m0.u100	Ladies and gentlemen, please take your seats. There is a proposal to consider draft Law 3191 as a simplified procedure. Please support everyone, this is a short bill absolutely, in accordance with the Rules, can be considered by a reduced procedure. Please support everyone, colleagues. This is just a consideration of the reduced procedure. Please support, colleagues, all factions, short laws and now we have an hour, we can work more effectively. Please support the reduced procedure. Please be supportive. [[12:50:51]] For a hundred and Well, almost, colleagues, please take your time. I see. Please, the shorter procedure is 3191. Please vote. Please be supportive. Short-term review procedure is 3191. Let's start the discussion. [[12:50:19]] For-127 I see. Please, we're taking our seats. Short-term discussion, we're starting work. I'd like your support, colleagues, for a brief discussion of the law. Please be supportive. Vote. Colleagues, we vote, please support. [[12:51:24]] For-162 Thank you. This vote gave us the opportunity to start a discussion. Please, 3191. Head of the Committee on Budget Affairs, Constantine Ischeykin. Four minutes, please, both from the committee and from the reporter.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-24-m0.u101	Dear Volodymyr Borisovich, distinguished colleagues! This bill is really very short and almost technical, and its appearance is the result of the fact that when we adopt the budget, we have tried to reduce and cut down on the committee all costs of maintaining state institutions. That is why today the bill is to address the issue of proper payment and consumption of public services and energy services by state institutions that provide for the activities of the President of Ukraine. In order to implement this, it is proposed that the general budget of the State budget be increased by almost 29 million dollars for individual budget programmes. The legislative proposal is balanced according to the State budget: the proposed additional expenditure of the State budget is compensated by increasing the tax plan for the added value of the goods imported into Ukraine. The Committee on Budget Affairs considered the bill and almost unanimously supported it. The Committee also recommends that subsidies be increased to local budgets for the socio-economic development of specific areas, which will enable the development of social infrastructure in the regions to be a priority. The socioconomy offers about the same amount as that allocated to the President’s activities. As a result of the review, the committee decided to recommend to the Supreme Council Bill 3191 to adopt as a basis and generally as a law taking into account the proposals made in the Committee’s letter. Dear colleagues, since I have two minutes to go, I'd like to turn your weight over to the next one. I remember how difficult it was for me to pass this bill of entry, and everything about public institutions has some resistance in the hall. But I'm a major and a rural representative, and I've been in clubs that don't melt, I've taken part in circuit council sessions, and almost everywhere, people have said, "It's an effective decision of Parliament, if there's budgetary decentralization, and we see it in that there's extra money left in the settlements, it's bad, for example, big tariffs." So today I ask you very much to support this little bill so that we don't take time to do what has to be done. Because if we don't do it now, these expenses are going to go up. In these expenses today we face such a story that people cannot get a reward because the State Administration does not have the funds to order it. And neither of us can say that it would be right to turn off heating in central budgetary institutions. So once again, as I highlight the committee's decision, I ask you very much to support the committee's decision so that we have more time to quickly adopt the most urgent bills. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-24-m0.u102	Thank you, Your Honor. Please two for, two for against. Alexi Mushak, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-24-m0.u103	Request to pass on the word to Mikola Tomenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-24-m0.u104	Mikola Tomenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-24-m0.u105	Dear colleagues, in this matter of 29 million, I would like to draw attention to the fact that our time of our serious, fundamental democratic promises has passed, and unfortunately, of these promises, the smallest, most obvious are not made. What I mean. From the first day I became chairman of the Committee on Environmental Policy, I went to the President's Administration and said, "Give hunting grounds and rest bases to all previous officials under the natural reserves, under the parks." It's one day's decision. How can the state administration of the President's affairs fund a hunting farm where Janukovic or Brezhnev was hunting? Pass it to the Ministry of Ecology, state the order. First, in the Ministry of Ecology, it's kept in order cheaper. So the Drylands, the Bilozers, the Zalysses, should be underfunded now and transferred to the Ministry of Ecology. Second position. We've been raising questions about medical institutions, about Phoefania. My colleague Musi and I have registered a bill. Well, how much can be treated for the budget money of distant relatives of veterans working in ministries and departments? Can you not treat people with disabilities who are ATO veterans? So the soul responded, informing us that 200 people were being treated. Well, we need to systematically approach and say, why did the specials have to be medical? So that those who are healthy, strong, and living may be given special treatment by the State. Let's take care of these special facilities. That's why I'm in this position. We have a regulatory committee. Of course, this is not an object, perhaps a discussion of a session room. On the Standing Committee, work with the Public Administration Board, and let it illustrate how to decentralize, reform, and cut costs. Then I think it'll be a lot easier to vote on the spending increase. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-24-m0.u106	Thank you. Please, Yuri Timoshenko. Yuri Volodymyrovich, People's Front, from the scene.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-24-m0.u107	Friends, schools, kindergartens, hospitals, rural clubs await this law. Please support everyone. Friends! We support the common people, we support the Ukrainian people. Please vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-24-m0.u108	Thank you. Please, Oleg Lazko.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-24-m0.u109	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. Dear citizens of Ukraine! Here, fellow MPs are campaigning to uphold the law because, you see, rural clubs and schools are waiting. At least read the law! The Law on Increase by 30 million Expenditures on State Administration. To maintain hunting farms, children are persecuted and shot to maintain state institutions that serve the authorities. And you're talking about country clubs and schools! Sadly, today’s authorities are just as far away from rural clubs and schools as the previous authorities. I'm asking, why don't we still consider the law on increasing the purchase price of milk? Today, the price of a liter of milk in the village is 2.50. Not a single person. Cows are cut out. Today, a liter of milk costs less than a pack of toilet paper. So prepare toilet paper and put that milk on! The one who did not breast - feed, go and see how the poor peasants get the milk. And it's worth a penny today. And instead of adopting the law here to protect the peasants, to set the 5 dollar minimum price for a liter of milk, what are we looking at? We are considering with you the Law on Increasing Governmental Expenditure. Is there a conscience in those who extend this law?Oh, my God! You don't have a conscience! Shame on you! People have nothing to pay for, people don't have a liter of milk to sell for a penny. Cows are cut out. The villagers don't know how to send their children to school, and you're worried about the DUS. And the whole Parliament has to vote 10 times for your fucking DUS. What right do you have to ask that question in the first place? I demand that this law be removed, rejected, and never passed again. Only the laws that people need: for peasants, for workers, for budgeters, for raising the standard of living of Ukrainian citizens. You don't have a conscience!
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-24-m0.u110	Please, Berezenka. Sergey Berezenko, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-24-m0.u111	Dear colleagues! I think you're tired of listening to populism that's echoing from one faction. If you were to read the law, you would see that it is exclusively about utilities because of the increase in tariffs. And this difference has to be covered. Because if you don't cover it, the amount will remain in debt, plus foam. And we're going to have to pay more. With regard to medical facilities, in addition to the 200 ATO soldiers who are treated in these hospitals, the next year is planned to transfer all military and military personnel to this medical facility. And four or five thousand military personnel will be able to serve in these facilities. To do that, we need to rebuild the physical and technical base of medical equipment. And it's not buying, it's repairing. So populism has to stop. And we have to vote in favour of constructive decisions. Please support this decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-24-m0.u112	Thank you. Please, Your Honor, the discussion has been completed under this draft law. While the MPs are taking their seats, I think we can move on to another important law to discuss. And then we go to the vote. The draft Law on Amendments to certain Ukrainian Laws on Documents certifying Ukrainian citizenship confirms a person or his or her special status for visa liberalisation for Ukraine. Colleagues, there's a proposal, there's a proposal to review the draft law with a reduced procedure and discuss it. Please vote on the reduced procedure. Review of the simplified procedure. [[13:02:54]] For-152. Decision taken. 3224, please, the first deputy head of the State Migration Service, Sokoluk Maksim Yuriovich. Report. The chairman of the committee, Alexander Danchenko, reports. Colleagues, prepare, please. After that, we will vote on three laws that will be discussed.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-24-m0.u113	Dear Chairman! Dear National Deputies! For your consideration, a draft Ukrainian Law amending certain Ukrainian legislation on documents supporting Ukrainian citizenship is proposed to certify a person or his or her special status for liberalisation by the European Union of Visas for Ukraine (Registration No. 3224). He's been involved in taking into account the comments made by experts and the public and given to the Supreme Council of Ukraine, the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, the Supreme Council of Human Rights, the Supreme Council of Ukraine. This includes a clear list of information that is included in the register. It does not contain any data about ownership or other excessive information. All the predicted information that exists today is in paper form. I want to point out that these changes are made to a law that has been in force for a year and that has been issued with about 2 million passports to go abroad, including biometric passports that are recognized by the world. Instead of the outdated passports, a Ukrainian citizen is proposed to introduce new modern protected documents in the form of an ID card. This will enable Ukrainian citizens to obtain quality, transparent, safe, fast services, including in the context of the introduction of electronic governance. The bill provides for the main purpose of maintaining a single national demographic register, identification of the person for the formulation and issuance of the documents provided for by this Act, registration, residence or residence, improvement and simplification of the document procedure. An extension of the subject’s circle by allowing admin centres to form and issue documents on their own. Forming a passport for a Ukrainian citizen after reaching 14 years of age. Minimize citizens' contacts with officials. Full control of the official's access to citizens' personal data. In addition, the project is complemented by a standard for the creation of a transparent mechanism for the processing and issuance of documents in accordance with the requirements of current legislation on administrative services. The bill's "transitional positions" have established that local self-government authorities can be exempt from paying for administrative services and documents.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-24-m0.u114	Please finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-24-m0.u115	The adoption of the bill will remove legal shortcomings in legislation and bring Ukraine's Act on the Single National Demographic Register into line with legislation and current reality. In particular, I would like to stress that the adoption of the bill is necessary for the introduction of a visa-free regime with the European Union, which the Ukrainian people are looking forward to. The State Migration Service has now begun a major change in its work. I am confident that these changes will primarily serve Ukrainian citizens. will help restore confidence in the service and to the State itself, strengthen the security of society and the individual and eradicate corruption. And a visa liberalisation plan. This is not our very goal, this is an instrument of change. And we do this for Ukrainian citizens. Thank you for your attention. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-24-m0.u116	Thank you. Please, Your Honor, report to the committee head, Alexander Danchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-24-m0.u117	Dear Mr. Golovo, honourable national deputies, the Committee of the Supreme Council on Communications and Information, reviewed the draft Ukrainian Law on Amendments to Certain Ukrainian Laws on Documents certifying Ukrainian Citizenship, certifying a person or his or her special status to fulfil Ukraine’s obligation to liberalize the visa regime with the European Union (number 3224, dated 13.11.2015). The chief scientific and expert administration of the Supreme Council's apparatus notes that the bill generally takes all the notes into account in its previous edition. Thus, he can be accepted on the basis of the comments made. The committee's meeting supported the implementation of the Action Plan for Liberalisation by the European Union of the visa regime for Ukraine and the decision to support the bill unanimously. Along with the National Deputies, members of the Committee, a number of comments were offered during the discussion, which could be accepted for second reading and processed. The committee therefore supported the bill unanimously. Please be supportive. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-24-m0.u118	Thank you. Please sign up for two, two for the other. Please sign in. Valérie Paccan. Yes, yes, please, two minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-24-m0.u119	Friends, that's what we're talking about. Law 3224 is a law that will monopolize all databases. Bill 1632 was passed by the Council of Europe, which supported the public. Now the authorities, I don't want to say who's doing this, they're trying again to push a bill that will reunite the bases and manipulate us. Why is this bill with all due respect to this committee of knowledge? He has no right to be considered on another committee. This committee deals with human rights, national minorities and inter-national relations, this is the subject of our committee's knowledge. Why once again manipulations, why overturning and distorting all facts? I ask you not to vote in favour of this bill and ask everyone to unite together in Bill 1632. With this bill to create a single working group, to work out all the rules, and then there will be a normal bill that will certify and regulate the issuance of documents. Thank you. And I ask you not to vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-24-m0.u120	Thank you. Please, Alexander Danchenko
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-24-m0.u121	I want again, all the manipulation issues are the question of creating some kind of megagester, that's manipulation. All the comments made by the Anti-Corruption Committee and other committees were taken into account. This is a bill that fully meets European needs and European realities. And speaking of registers, worldwide, he is the only one in all countries, the only one in our country, the only one in 15 registers, and that is corruption. So this bill, on the other hand, solves the question of creating a single register, and there is no megameter here. Because who's behind the visa-free regime, I'm asking you to support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-24-m0.u122	Thank you. Please, Alona Shkrum.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-24-m0.u123	Alona's splinter, Fatherland faction. Colleagues, first of all, essentially the bill. I'm surprised to hear from a representative of Self-Help who's already being manipulated about the visa regime, because we're not being asked to support this bill specifically. We are asked, indeed, to support the bill on documents that bear witness to Ukrainian citizenship. Well, colleagues, as has already been noted, the 1632 bill, which I have submitted to me, colleagues from various factions, Mr. Packan, Mr. Nemirei and others, has been in this Parliament for almost a year and is not being considered or even presented to this Council in the first reading. In fact, a number of comments were made that a single database could pose a number of threats, including corruption threats, including the threat of a police state. This bill needs a broad discussion, including a social environment. The explanatory note says that the discussion took place. But this is a lie and such a social political debate, and there was no political debate, precisely about the creation of such a single register. Now, from procedural issues, colleagues. Well, this famous record-breaking bill has been passed by three committees. So at first, the Human Rights Committee didn't support it, it was transferred to the Foreign Affairs Committee, and the Foreign Affairs Committee didn't support it, and then it was transferred to the Information Technology Committee. What kind of manipulation is that? And I ask you to take this statement as my official statement on who is responsible and who passed this bill on to three different committees, and who is specifically responsible for transferring it to a committee to which it should not belong at all, with all due respect to the head of this committee? Thank you, colleagues.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-24-m0.u124	Thank you. There were official letters from the committees saying they wouldn't consider them as basics, and that's why we passed them on to other committees. This was the position of the committees. Dear colleagues, we've discussed another issue, 3224, and the discussion is closed. And I'd like to suggest we discuss another law before the first reading, then we go to the vote under four laws and then we go to the second reading. Please, Your Honor, 2558th draft of the Act amending some Ukrainian legislation on deregulation in the agri-industrial complex. Aleksei Mushak reports. There is also a suggestion to consider it as a reduced procedure and then to go to the first reading of four laws of voting, and to the second reading. Please, colleagues, please consider 2558a the author's proposal for a reduced procedure. Please vote on the reduced procedure of 2558a. Please vote. Review of the simplified procedure. [[13:13:24]] For-166 The decision has been made. Please report to Alexei Musak.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-24-m0.u125	Dear colleagues, the honourable chairman, your opinion is a very important bill aimed at unlocking the potential of our agrarian complex. The essence and value of this project, I think everyone understands, really. Ukraine is now facing great challenges: we have an aggression in the east that needs to increase the financing of the army, the National Guard, we have a question of social pay, we have a question of ensuring that the state fulfils all its obligations. It takes, in fact, the economy to work, to generate money. As you know, the agro-industrial complex is now one of the few sectors of the economy that is developing, more than that, has the potential to double over the next five years. And now 1 out of every 3 dollars imported into Ukraine is provided by peasants. That's why it's our job to open up the potential. What is proposed in this bill? Suggested to cancel or upgrade, modify 22 APC permissions. Among them are the cancellation of the agreement with Russia to fish in the Black Sea and the Azov Seas, to make voluntary veterinary certificates for feed grain, to harmonise the registration procedure for certain fertilizers in accordance with EU Directive 2003/2003, and to revoke the quarantine permit for import and transit, replacing it with the system of interaction with the control authorities and customs. The bill was developed with the active participation of the Ministry of the APC, the professional organizations, and the representation of the European Union. On the way out, we will have harmonised Ukrainian legislation, simplified export-import operations, improved Ukraine's position in international economic freedom ratings and increased revenues to state and local budgets. The bill is supported by the representation of the European Union in Ukraine, the government, the Ministry of the APC, the State Food Service, the State Agency, the Chief Scientific and Experimental Authority and the Professional Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. I'd like to support you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-24-m0.u126	Thank you, Your Honor. Please report to the head of the Agrarian Policy and Land Relations Committee. Taras Kutov, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-24-m0.u127	Dear colleagues, we are considering a very important bill. He was prepared by a large team of authors, and he was placed in the order of the day several times. And today, we finally got to him. The key thing for agrarians -- not to take up your time -- is to simplify the registration of fertilizers. This will make it possible to significantly reduce their cost, including in a situation where we are lacking in peak periods, which will allow us to open additional import locks to provide our agrarians. The overall economy, according to the committee, amounts to about $200 million per year, which can be achieved for the industry by introducing these standards. Also of the important things, of course, are the lifting of permits for internal movements of feed grains and animals. In fact, we know that this has always been an integral component of corruption, and no additional element for the security of the state has exactly borne it. In view of these and other points that are reflected in this bill, we think that the bill actually carries elements and signs of deregulation that are really important for the industry. Therefore, the committee decided to recommend to the Supreme Council that the bill should be adopted on the basis and, in preparing for the second reading, to shorten the deadlines for submission and proposals as well as the rights to second reading. Thank you. Please support this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-24-m0.u128	Thank you, Your Honor. Please sign up: two for, two against. Please, Oleg Lazko, Radical Party.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-24-m0.u129	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. Honorable citizens of Ukraine, distinguished colleagues of national MPs! The Radical Party faction supports a bill that will allow the sale of agricultural products to be deregulation, as a result, to be expected to be costed. But I don't think that's enough to support our producer. Dear fellow national deputies, who of you have forgotten, I will remind you and remind you every day that only thanks to our hardworking peasants are we all sitting here in the hall with you, and only thanks to the peasants still living in Ukraine. Because agriculture is the only sector that gives a little bit of growth. Instead, what does our authority do? No support, no attention, no respect. I have a very simple question to ask you. We recently celebrated the Day of Agricultural Workers. The biggest holiday in Ukraine after Independence Day and Constitution Day, and Christmas, and Easter. I have a question for the heads of state. Who on the day of the farm worker went to the village, put on their boots, went to the farm, if they stayed there, asked the villagers how they lived? And I'll tell you, I've been tracking, no one, not one. There's been a general welcome on the web site, but peasants don't have enough, because many people in the village of the Internet don't. Put on your rent boots, take the hymn sink on the pig farm, go see how people live there, see if there's no gas, no water, no light because of your politics, and then you'll understand what rural life is like. So what does the government want to do today? And the government wants to change the country's tax regime from the new year, take the last money they make to the peasants. I'm addressing all the MPs, not letting this crime be committed against the village, not getting our agricultural producer, which is why we're all sitting here with you, living.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-24-m0.u130	Look, in Ukrainian this word is called pus, pus in Ukrainian.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-24-m0.u131	[[Unheard]]
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-24-m0.u132	Of course, I'll even show you the picture that I was in the village. Thank you, Anton Yatzenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-24-m0.u133	Please pass the word to the People's Deputy.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-24-m0.u134	National MP Kulinich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-24-m0.u135	Thank you. Oleg Kulinich "Rebirth", Poltavščina. Dear colleagues, during the work of this Parliament, we have nearly 20 times increased the fixed agricultural tax, which is now called "the income tax of 4 groups for agrarians." We increased our land rent by 30 times. And almost 100 times the rent for many years of planting. How can agriculture develop under conditions where we are artificially creating new barriers rather than allowing the agricultural sector to develop? Instead of helping agrarians, unfortunately, the state today turns its back on them and complicates everything with new and new unnecessary permits, which are totally out of order and no one needs them. I want to stress that every new permit is a cost or time supplement for agrarians, and this is an opportunity to abuse officials, it's an opportunity for corruption. In the last year alone, perhaps more than 5.5 million ununderstood documents have been issued and no one needs them. Think of the 5.5 million who have absolutely no bearing on agriculture, international obligations, or consumer security. So I'm asking my colleagues to support our agrarians, to vote on this bill, because it's extremely important, it's waiting for the Ukrainian village, it's awaiting local self-government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-24-m0.u136	Please, Vadim Yvchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-24-m0.u137	Vadim Yvchenko, "The Fatherland" faction. Dear colleagues, this is a very thorough bill, it's been developed by the copyright team for almost six months. Nearly 110 clearance procedures have been analysed. And today your point is proposed to cancel exactly 22. What I'm saying is that this bill was drafted with representatives of business, public organizations, experts, government bodies, it was supported by the Ministry of Agropolitics, it went unanimously to the Committee on Agrarian Policy and Land Relations. It regulates all areas of the agricultural sector and vegetation, and the field of pesticides, and chemicals, animals, food, natural resources, and fish farming. I would very much like you and I to understand clearly that agriculture is cutting back on production today and is likely to reduce the production of a single agricultural farm and yard. So, Vladimir Borisovich, I'm asking you that today the laws that are being drawn up on the committee that are being worked on by the Ministry, especially agriculture and land, need the fastest review by the Supreme Council, because this branch is the second sector today, it forms the second currency yield in the GDP of the country. So once again, Vladimir Borisovich, I am asking you to spend this agrarian day and consider all the bills that need to be done today. Not many of them, but believe me, we'll be able to fill the day. And this bill is supported by the Fatherland faction, and it's proposed to support the entire parliament, and it's really a necessary law for the entire agricultural sector of Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-24-m0.u138	Thank you. People's MP Djublik, People's Front.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-24-m0.u139	Please pass the word to Krivenko Vadim.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-24-m0.u140	Dear friends, we say every week in this room for supporting the village. Let's talk less, let's do more. This law, indeed, is not what is needed today. It is essential, especially for small farms that cannot have legal authority in their possession, which is just a matter of doing so, that they receive various permits and certificates. Consider: In order to move food, a car of fodder grain from one village to another within one area, veterinary assistance is needed. Well, it can't be like that. That's why the People's Front faction supports this law and suggests that we consider it for a second reading by a reduced procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-24-m0.u141	Thank you. Dear colleagues, we're actually done. We've actually completed the day-to-day debate on the first reading of the laws, and now we have four bills that have been discussed but that have not been voted on. The first is 3074, followed by Viktor Mikhailovich Pinzenik. I'd like you to comment one more minute on this decision, Victor Mikhailovich. It's a bill. Listen before the vote. Draft Law amending the Customs Code of Ukraine to create preconditions for the new model of the natural gas market. Please, Victor Mikhailovich Pinzenik. We're getting ready to vote, colleagues. Take your seats.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-24-m0.u142	Dear National Deputies! Why I ask you to go back to this law and support it in the first reading. The second year in a row Ukraine receives gas not only from the East but also from the West, from Europe, from the countries of Europe. This is very good, important for the country in terms of security, diversification of supply sources. But this raises a number of technical issues that need to be addressed. And this is a law that deals with these issues. The reporter, the minister, made this very clear. So, honourable colleagues, I urge you to go back to voting and support this bill in the first reading.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-24-m0.u143	Thank you. Dear colleagues, please take our seats. 3074. 3074. Draft Law amending the Customs Code of Ukraine to create preconditions for the new model of the natural gas market. Let's make a base vote. Please, colleagues, back up the signal vote. Please support, 3074, on the basis of the signal vote, please support. Ready? Please vote. Signal voting on the ground, please vote, colleagues. Please be supportive. [[13:27:15.]] For 233 There are 233 votes required. I'll bet on it. Please vote. We vote on the basis of 3074, on the basis of the vote. Please be supportive. [[13:27:34]] For 230 The law was passed on as a basis. Thank you, Your Honor. 3191: Draft Act amending the Ukrainian Act on the State Budget for Ukraine 2015, expenditure of the State Administration. And we've heard comments on this. We're voting the signal on the ground. On the basis and in general. It's a signal on the ground and on the whole. This is a change in budget, on the basis and in general. Vote. Signal on the ground and in general. [[13:28:17]] For 210 Obviously, there are no votes for this law. Next, honourable colleagues, 3224: The draft Act amending certain Ukrainian laws on documents confirming Ukrainian citizenship is a document of a person or his special status aimed at liberalising the European Union’s visa regime for Ukraine. 3224. Please, 3224 is also a signal, based on the base. 3224. Based on 3224. Signal, based. Please vote. [[13:29:12]] For-182 I didn't get the required number of votes. Next, colleagues, 2558a. Draft Act amending some Ukrainian legislation on deregulation in the agri-industrial complex. There were no differences, as I understand it, based on 2558a. Not a signal. There were no differences as far as I could tell. 2558a. Please vote. 2558a based. Let's vote on the basis. [[13:29:53]] For 261 The law's been passed. Dear colleagues, there is a proposal for the committee to prepare him for the second reading under a reduced procedure. Please be supportive. Second reading by the reduced procedure. [[13:30:16.]] For 242 The law was passed on as a basis. And so, colleagues, we voted 3074 and 2558. We don't have 3224, 3191 yet. I now recommend that the head of the profiling committee speak to the deputies in order to unite, perhaps, the factions and we will return to the vote today, 3224 and 3191. But before that, I would like to take the floor, just a minute from the question discussed to the head of the Maintenance Fund. 2319a, we got 220 votes, and the question is extremely important. I think a minute, Igor Billows, the State Property Fund, can express his position. And I'd like all my colleagues to listen and move on to the second reading. Please, Igor Billows.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-24-m0.u144	Ladies and gentlemen, may I have your attention, please?
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-24-m0.u145	Listen carefully, colleagues, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-24-m0.u146	We're going back to this actual technical law, and there are three important issues that I'd like to propose once again. What we want to change. We want to cancel the sale of a broken stock package, i.e. cancel the sale of 5-10 percent before we offer a large control package for sale. It's very important, it's the first norm. And the second important norm is to prevent the privatisation of the aggressor state. I think everyone agrees, really, really needs something. And the third. This is what we would like to propose the involvement of counselors in the privatization process. This is only about large objects. And also so that these counselors can be paid for by donors. Donors are spending money today, and we can't take that money to involve professionals in the privatization process. Please vote for these changes, they are small. Changes to the selection of these counselors are also made. We have taken comments from all factions into account, and in the second reading we will take them into account. Please reconsider this important law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-24-m0.u147	And so, dear colleagues, it's about adopting the law as a basis. For the second reading in preparation, I think that all positions will be reconciled because second reading support will need the required number of votes. So I would now like to propose 2319a to vote on it as a basis and give it an opportunity to open up opportunities for work. Then, in preparation for the second reading, there will be a corresponding expression and procedure for consideration and discussion of the matter, including on the basis of a committee. There is also the same position regarding support and the Ministry of Economic Development and Trade. The minister came specifically to support the bill. Dear colleagues, please take your seats. Please, Your Honor, give me a vote. Ladies and gentlemen, please take your seats. 2319a on the ground. You heard the head of the State Property Fund's position on the necessary privatization publicly. To prepare for the second reading, all contradictions would be removed, he said from the rostrum, from the government’s bed. Please, under the transcript. Please, 2319a as a base. It's a signal vote. We're voting on the ground. We're voting on the basis. Signal vote. [[13:33:56]] For-187 He doesn't get the necessary amount. Victor Mikhailovich Pinzenik for a minute, please, and let's finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-24-m0.u148	Dear colleagues, obviously this law has a chance to be adopted if one rule is removed from this debate. No one objects to the removal of the standard that permitted it. A package of shares and sell on the stock market, distorting the price. No one denies the standard that applies to the buyer, so that there are no participants here, buyers from the aggressor country. There are conflicting rules about counsellors, let's do this rule in parentheses, vote without this norm, and it has a chance of being accepted. Most deputies, I'm sure, support this law by deleting the rule on counsellor. Please put it to the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-24-m0.u149	Victor Mikhailovich, would you please state whether you have said enough right now? Is that enough with your offer? Victor Mikhailovich, please rephrase the proposal, and we will vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-24-m0.u150	Dear colleagues, I think we can even vote on this law as a whole if the third rule is removed. The norm that relates to involving a counselor in privatization. Privatization needs to be done transparently and there is no need for counselors, or we can take this subject to future discussions. So we're voting for a law that doesn't have any standards for counselors.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-24-m0.u151	Thank you. That is the position, including in the Maintenance Fund, they agree with that position. Can we vote on the basis and in general, do I understand? No, just on the ground. Based on the base. Colleagues, based on the proposal, were removed from the proposal made by Viktor Mikhailovich Pinzenik. With the deletion, more specifically, taking into account the proposal made by Viktor Mikhailovich Pinzenik. He was very clear on her. On the basis of Victor Mikhailovich Pinzenik's proposal for a transcript, please vote on this bill. There's going to be a signal vote. On the basis of that, please support your colleagues. On the ground, signal. Vote. On the basis of Victor Mikhailovich Pinzenik's amendment, a signal vote on the basis. [[13:36:17]] For 213 Colleagues, 213 votes. Victor Halasyuk, one minute, are you ready to stand by? One minute, Victor Galasyuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-24-m0.u152	Dear Vladimir Borisovich! These are far from the only comments to this bill. Because when it comes to, for example, the aggressor country, the company may not belong to the aggressor country, but the final beneficiary may be that, that is, it needs to be clarified. When we talk about removing this rule on the mandatory sale of a minority package, we have here, at the level of law, to write an alternative independent assessment mechanism that will answer how we will provide an adequate market price for such assets. So you can't torture this law every time, you just have to transfer it professionally, and it will be supported.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-24-m0.u153	Colleagues, we can prepare him for second reading and take into account all the suggestions. If an understanding of the second reading is found, you will approve it, and if not, then we will not have the appropriate number of votes. Can such an offer be accepted? Could it be accepted? Preparations for Second Reading? Dear colleagues, let's refocus. I'm voting on the proposal, the signal vote on the basis. It's an emergency. Taking into account Victor Mikhailovich Pinzenic's offer. To this we will work from first reading to second reading, they have the right to live with the proposals of Victor Halasyuk and other fellow MPs, including non-fractional ones. Colleagues, on the basis of a signal vote taking into account Victor Mikhailovich Pinzenic's proposals. Ready? We're voting on the basis of the proposals, this is the signal vote now. [[13:38:18]] For 208 Well, there's no necessary number of votes. Thank you. Dear fellow national deputies, let's move on. Let us now consider the questions in the second reading. We still have a lot of laws, but I think we can look at them all today. Fellow Members, 1475: Draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on State Registration of Legal Persons and Business Persons (to prevent amendments to the Single State Register for Counterfeit Documents) (second reading). Victor Halasyuk reports to the head of the profile committee. So let's go straight to the repairs. 6 correction Cooper, at the end, 6 correction Cooper. Please, 6 Kupryenka. Don't insist. 12th, no. There is, please, the People's Deputy of Anointed.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-24-m0.u154	People's Deputy Amazanov, People's Front faction. Dear colleagues, if we're talking about the amendment number six of Mr. Kuprienka, he's unfortunately not in the room right now, it's very related, in fact, to my amendment number eight, which seems to have been taken into account editorially, but unfortunately, its substance, its content, in fact, has not been reflected in the content of the final law, of this bill. That's why I still insist on putting an order rejected by the committee, or a six, or an eight, which seems to be considered editorially and actually to vote in favour. Because without these rights, which change the whole point of the bill, they don't allow the criminal groups to raid, in fact, this law doesn't make any sense. So I ask you to put this bill to a vote: either 6-y, or 8-y, and determine the hall. Please support her. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-24-m0.u155	Thank you. So your proposal is to put on confirmation 6 of the amendment? Well, not for confirmation, for a vote that was rejected by the committee. Victor Halasyuk, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-24-m0.u156	Dear Vladimir Borisovich, dear colleague of Amazanov! As for this amendment, it was rejected by the committee, since most in the committee think it would be an unnecessary overload of the procedure. At the same time, it can be agreed that such an amendment adds to the protection of business interests. I would suggest that the hall be determined by its own judgment. But what I want to point out is that today's editorial, which is supposed to be in the right column, contains enough basic protection, because we've removed the possibility of making changes to the register based on xerops. Only on the basis of originals or on the basis of notary copies. Thus, the proposal that you and Mr. Kuprienko make provides for additionally for the signatures of authorized officials to be additionally subject to notarial certification. So this is an extra measure of protection. To the extent that it's justified, it works differently in different countries. I'd like to make an appointment.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-24-m0.u157	Colleagues, the 6th amendment, the Cooperian national deputy, who was rejected by the committee, the Amazanov national deputy proposes to vote on the amendment. Accordingly, the committee relies on the decisions of the deputies. Please, offer Anointed, 6 amendments. [[13:42:39]] For-161 I didn't get the required number of votes. Let's move on. 12th Amendment, Cooper. Don't insist. 15th, Victoria's Bird. Don't insist. 16th, Oksana Sold. Don't insist. 17th, Ivan Rybak. Don't insist. 24th, Anointed. Please, Anointed People’s Deputy.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-24-m0.u158	People's Deputy Amazanov, People's Front. Dear colleagues, I'd like to explain a little bit about what the point is, actually, a copy of a legal person's registration and what a notarized copy is, and what it's different, it's actually a notary certificate of signatures. What I'm saying is that now in our country, unfortunately, the raiding continues to flourish. And when a person comes to a government registry with a kind of original or a copy of a notary original document, or a document signed by one, two, three, ten people, no one can say for sure whether it is the will, the will, the will of these people, whether these people really signed the names listed there, and whether they really have the authority to sign those documents. The notary certificate of signatures is exactly the one that will allow the notary to determine whether it is the person’s will and whether the person has come to the notary to document. So now these adjustments are important. And if we don't accept them, then this law is absolutely.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-24-m0.u159	Please, Victor Halasyuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-24-m0.u160	Thank you. Once again, I would like to point out that the bill's version is foreshadowed by a committee. It foresees a sufficient basic level of protection that does not create excessive legal burdens, on the one hand, protecting the rights of businesses. At the same time, if the hall is identified and supported, indeed, such an additional security that is offered by Mr. Anointed may be supported, but we need to understand that it will also generate additional costs for the relevant business subjects. The committee does not object to such support for Mr. Amazanov’s amendment. Please determine by vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-24-m0.u161	The committee did not object, but rejected. Dear colleagues, please, the 26th Amendment of the Anointed One. Identify yourself. [[13:45:28]] For-179 I didn't get the right number of votes. 27th Amendment, Ivan Melniczuk. Don't insist. 33 revisions. National MP of the Anointed, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-24-m0.u162	Andrew Pomazanov, People's Front. Well, 33 amendments are actually the same thing. There are similar changes in the whole text. We still have to ensure that we don't allow the raiding that happens, it's happening all the time in the past, it's happening now. But unfortunately, many of the people present in the hall, and those who are missing, and they absolutely don't want to fight raiding, they don't want to fight for the rights of our entrepreneurs. Thank you to the committee that Mr. Halasyuk does support my initiatives. Unfortunately, though, I see that there is no such support. Please vote, support this amendment. And if it is not supported by the hall, this law should not be voted on. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-24-m0.u163	Please, head of the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-24-m0.u164	Dear Mr. Head! Dear Mr. Amazanov! I would like to point out that even if this amendment is not supported today, we can submit a separate bill. But I'm stressing the importance of adopting this bill today in a second reading as a whole, because it's already in the existing text proposed by the committee, and it's going to make it impossible for a whole range of situations where it's raided, because today it's a simple xerops. And here's the main thing that we're doing is we're cleaning up, in general, the possibility of making changes to xerops. So this is what the committee provides, which is 98 percent of the benefits that we are now simply obliged to accept. So once again, I don't object to Mr. Amazanov's amendment, which provides for an additional level of protection. But I believe that the basic level of protection that is now envisaged in the committee is to be supported without any doubt, as I call upon all colleagues, including distinguished colleagues from the People's Front. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-24-m0.u165	Please, 33 amendments to the vote rejected by the committee. The national deputy of Amazanova is the author. [[13:48:09]] For 184 She didn't get the required number of votes. Please, come on. 38th, Lensky. Don't insist. 40th, Melniczuk Ivan Ivanovich. Don't insist. Semenach the People's Deputy, 42nd Amendment. Don't insist. And we missed the 16th amendment, the national deputy of Oxana Prodan. This is the last amendment and let's go to the vote. That's why I'm asking the deputies to come into the hall.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-24-m0.u166	Dear colleagues, the bill that prepared the committee for the second reading is finally protecting the owners, first of all the owners of the raiders, the people who have access to the register, the people who can influence the state registers. This bill provides for mandatory notarial certification when the director changes when the statutory capital changes. It is essential that the documents submitted to the registrar be certified notionally. If we fail this bill with you right now, there will be simple xerops, on which today a number of raids have been carried out, still will be. So I'm asking the whole room to vote in favour of this bill and protect the business, first of all, the Ukrainian business that is in Ukraine today. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-24-m0.u167	Thank you. Please, Victor Halasyuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-24-m0.u168	Thank you. Dear Mr. Head! Dear fellow national MPs! I urge you to support this bill as a whole, as a committee editor, because it makes it impossible for the raider to thrive in Ukraine today. We can take additional steps to improve the situation, but this is a basic, fundamental professional solution to this problem. I would also like to point out that this bill is being drafted by the Supreme Council's Chief Legal Authority without any notice and can be adopted in a second reading and generally as a law. The issue of protection of property rights today for Ukrainian entrepreneurs is question number one, because all the other questions: tax, regulatory -- they're derivative. If it is not the case, there is absolutely no point in developing a business in Ukraine. So today I propose to adopt this bill as a whole. All the following improvements will be made through separate bills. We will be supporting them in the Committee on Industrial Policy and Entrepreneurship. I call for backup.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-24-m0.u169	Thank you, Your Honor. Please proceed to the 1475 vote. Well, there's the position of the People's Front faction that they think we should consider the amendments they said. Otherwise they're not ready to vote. But I still think that the new laws will settle this issue. And we can vote now. Let's take our seats, dear fellows. Ready to vote? Please, 1475 in the second reading and in general in the committee. 1475 in second reading and in general. Please vote 1475 in second reading and in general. [[13:52:10]] For 215 Colleagues, the offer of a profile committee to return to consideration. Shall we go back to the second reading, to the consideration? Colleagues, I would like to support the return to consideration in the second reading. Please vote back to the second reading. I see a lot of deputies haven't made it, so let's see. For the return of 1475, please vote. Victor Halasyuk's offer. Return. [[13:53:07]] For 217 Dear colleagues, here's the deal. Correct it for re-read. One minute. Please, Victor Halasyuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-24-m0.u170	Dear colleagues, let's not be looking for a perfectly ideal decision to delay the very professional, professional decisions that we can make today. Already today we can adopt this law ready, give a business signal, you think about it. Where do you want to put it? How many times have you been put off? Dear colleagues, how long has this law not been considered? Well, let's protect entrepreneurs today from raids, how many people are facing it. Dear colleagues, I ask you to reject your personal ambitions, support a bill aimed at supporting entrepreneurship.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-24-m0.u171	Colleagues, distinguished colleagues of the national MPs, I'd like to ask your understanding. I'd like to ask your understanding. This law is much better than if we don't accept it, the situation will be much better. We'll have to settle, we'll settle. So I'd like to ask my colleagues to support me. And so does the National MP Amazanov. Please take your seats. Please take your seats. 1475, let's go back. Nevertheless, the adoption of this law is far better than its absence. We're going back. 1475, back. For consideration, 1475. Vote. Vote. Please support, colleagues, return to 1475. [[13:55:12]] For 228 Colleagues, let's support it in second reading and in general. Please, no one leaves, in the second reading and in general we vote. Please support. Vote? Please, in the second reading and in general, vote. Fellows, please, let's support it in the second reading and in general in the Committee's version. [[13:55:45.]] For 227 The law's been passed. I think it's more compromise than it is to take a position that a good thing can leave unconcerned. Dear colleagues, draft Law (Registration No. 2757) amending article 60 of the Ukrainian Law on Economic Associations (to reduce the quorum of the general congregations of members of society with limited responsibility). Please, 2757 will report. Colleagues, we're considering the last law and then we're closing the session. Everyone, please remain seated. Please, Andrew Ivanchuk. It's a very short law. 3 revisions. Boyfriend, are you insisting? Don't insist. Four o'clock, Cobbs. Don't insist. 5th, Victoria's Bird. Don't insist. In fact, it's all revisions. Andrew Volodymyrovich, please give me a minute and we'll vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-24-m0.u172	Dear Mr. Head, honourable members of the people, the committee recommends that Parliament adopt this bill on second reading and in general. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-24-m0.u173	Dear colleagues, please take your seats. Please, Your Honor, 2757 draft of the Law. 2757, that's the second reading, we've been amended. Please prepare for vote 2757. Signal voting in second reading and in general. Please be supportive. 2757. Ready? 2757 in the second reading and in the whole signal vote. Ready? Vote, signal vote, please 2757. Please. [[13:57:57]] For 199 Dear colleagues, we will consider it in the afternoon, physically, I see there are no deputies. Please, Your Honor, there will be an evening meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine at 16:00. We've still got a busy day's work to do, so please come in without delay. The morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is closed. Thank you.
