ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-15-m1.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, please come into the hall and let's get to work.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-15-m1.u2	Ladies and gentlemen, please take your seats. Faction leaders, please invite the National Deputies to the Supreme Council Hall to continue our work. I'm asking you to turn on the "Council" system to register the national MPs at the evening plenary meeting. Please. [[16:08:09]] 296 deputies in the hall. I declare the evening plenary session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine open. I'm asking the faction leaders to invite the national MPs, the secretariat to invite the national MPs to the Supreme Council Hall to continue our work, Your Honor's colleagues. Please. Dear National Deputies! Bill 1065 (registration number 1065) of the draft Law on technical regulations and conformity assessment is brought to your attention. I would like to consider this bill in a simplified manner. Members of the People's Parliament are asked to decide on the draft summary procedure. Please vote. As far as consideration is concerned, the reduced procedure is concerned. [[16:10:13]] For 155 Here we go, 155. Decision taken. Faction leaders, I'd like you to invite the factions to the Supreme Council of Ukraine. The Secretariat, please work with the National Deputies to get them into the hall. Please, for the interview, I invite you to the speech of Ukrainian National Deputy Kugel Alexander Volodymyrovna. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-15-m1.u3	Thank you, Mr. Head. Dear National MPs, the draft technical regulations and conformity assessment bill submitted by the two National Deputies: Alexander Kugel and Oksana Prodan -- we prepared it with the Ministry of Economics throughout 2014. This is a very difficult technological bill, but it is very necessary as the third most important component of European integration of technical regulations, the certification of Ukraine's conformity in adapting to the European Union. You know, in that call, we passed the Standardization Act, assessing the appropriateness of food and the quality of products. And this bill on technical regulations and conformity assessment is the last one to fully comply with Ukraine's technical compliance with European requirements. I want to tell all the MPs that it's really hard to read. This is a technical bill. By the seventh call, the science department had made a comment. But in re-registering for the eighth call, the Ministry of Economics, along with the authors, has been working on it, and today there is no reference to it. The technical regulation is either a law, or a regulation, or an order from the central executive authority setting out the obligations, requirements for certain products and a mechanism to verify the conformity of production with these requirements. What does this bill offer? First of all, you've all gotten that kind of support. I thank our reform committee, the support of reforms that have also explained to the deputies, and the public for adopting this bill. It gives the opportunity: first.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-15-m1.u4	Please continue.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-15-m1.u5	It enables all central authorities, obliges them to adopt the technical regulations until the end, and I cut them short. The other one. This law is designed according to your dangerous product, if it is small, you appreciate its danger and the quality of it is checked, if your product is of great danger, then you approach professionals. In addition, we have abolished the older decree of 1993 and we have only a new system of standardization and certification of Ukraine in connection with a small, limited amount of time. Ladies and gentlemen, may I have your attention? I have this offer. As this is a very difficult technological project and it has been prepared by experts over the course of the year, I propose that the Cabinet of Ministers continue to implement it in the form of regulations that are so necessary to adapt Ukraine to Europe, it is done, it is accepted today and in the first reading, and in general, because I had, I hope that someone will make the necessary adjustments here. Well, everything else is up to you. I have great hope for your support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-15-m1.u6	Thank you. Please, the head of Victor Halasyuk's profile committee. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-15-m1.u7	Honourable Volodymira Borisovich, distinguished colleagues, the Committee on Industrial Policy and Entrepreneurship, reviewed the draft Ukrainian Law on Technical Regulations and Conformity Assessments (Registration No. 1065) submitted by the Kugel and Sold National Deputies. The aim of the bill is to adapt national legislation on technical regulations and assess compliance with European Union legislation. Dear colleagues, the adoption of this law will make it much easier for Ukrainian producers to access the markets of the European Union. It is very important. The Chief Scientific and Experimental Authority of the Supreme Council, in its conclusion, believes that the first reading of the bill can be adopted as a basis. The Anti-Corruption and Anti-Corruption Committee believes that the bill meets the requirements of anti-corruption legislation. The Committee on Fuel Energy, Nuclear Policy and Nuclear Security recommends that the draft bill be adopted as a basis for consideration in the first reading. The National Deputies, after discussing the bill, stressed the need for the adoption of the Ukrainian Law on Technical Regulations and Conformity Assessment, since there is a fundamental need to eliminate duplication of internal legislation and to ensure a single regulation regime with the European Union such as this, including the Coalition Agreement. In view of the foregoing, the committee members decided to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine a draft Law on technical regulations and conformity assessment, number 1065, on the basis of the first reading, to be adopted as a basis. Please be supportive. But I also think that we could make an additional proposal from the author about voting in general, because the bill is really complex and its faster entry into force would allow for a more effective implementation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-15-m1.u8	Please sign two for two, two against. Two for, two against. Please, National Deputy Rybchin.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-15-m1.u9	Thank you. We need to support this bill because it will speed up all integration into European legislation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-15-m1.u10	Thank you. People's MP, Muggles.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-15-m1.u11	Grigory Smoky, Peter Dust Block. I mean, we had two laws until now. And today the authors are proposed to unite into a single law that will not only eliminate their contradictions but also allow them to better adapt and adapt national legislation to the European Union’s legislation. It is also important that the anticorruption conclusion is clear that it meets the requirements of anticorruption legislation. But there's a note, you have to say, that it's still accepted as a basis. Because GNEU’s point is 16 points. And I don't know or the author will say, are they counted or not? If taken into account, then you can put it all together. If they are not counted, then they should be taken as a basis. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-15-m1.u12	The author will immediately report that these changes are taken into account. Please, Oksana Sold, Peter Dust Block.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-15-m1.u13	Dear colleagues, I'd like you to support this bill, support the committee's proposal. Because when we're with you, the President will sign, we'll get two things that Ukrainian consumers and Ukrainian producers are waiting for. First of all, all products imported into Ukraine will not be subject to additional procedures for the harmonization of certification and so on, which will cost products of any import value to the Ukrainian consumer. And secondly, absolutely every Ukrainian producer will be able to produce products in Ukraine already in line with European standards. Again, for consumers, workers will be able to obtain both jobs and cheaper products of Ukrainian production. Please support and vote on the basis as a whole. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-15-m1.u14	Thank you. It's also a basic position in general. From the faction of the Radical Party of Silantiev, please. National MP, Silantiev.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-15-m1.u15	Yes, I also fully join in the pursuit of European standards. But the point is that the consideration of the bill suggests eliminating such a thing as certification when categorization is obtained, i.e. when hotel stars are received. That is, we have combined the certification of products and services. It's gonna work out so far. [[B in m in s a l in]] What? Oh, that's not it?
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-15-m1.u16	They say there's no such thing in the law, so it's not the subject of regulation right now.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-15-m1.u17	That is, tourism is not concerned.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-15-m1.u18	Yes, thank you. We have a government representative, a deputy minister of the economy, to express the government's position. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-15-m1.u19	Thank you, Mr. Head! Ladies and gentlemen, the government supports the committee's proposal and a report on the adoption of the law as a basis and as a whole. The law is necessary, the law is in force, it takes a year to do a lot of work and make changes to other special laws, and that's about 20 laws. But this law awaits manufacturers, awaits the European market. Thank you. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-15-m1.u20	Thank you, Your Honor. I think there is total support for the House for voting this law on both the basis and in general. Yes! Now I ask you to join the National Deputies in the Hall of the Supreme Council, Your Honor! Please go to the Supreme Council Hall and prepare for the vote. Draft Law on technical regulations and conformity assessment, registration number 1065. Both factions and committees support. I understand that the government also supports it. So I ask you to prepare yourself for the vote, distinguished national MPs. Please take your seats, let's start the vote. I'm voting on the basis and the whole bill registration number 1065, the draft Law on Technical Regulations and Conformity Assessment. Please prepare for the vote. Please vote on the basis and in general. Number 1065. 1065, please vote. [[16:22:23]] For 251 Decision taken. [[Applause]] Thank you, Your Honor. The next bill is draft law (registration number 1256), draft law on development and state support for small and medium-sized enterprises in Ukraine. A report by Alexander Kugel. But before I report it, I'm putting a motion to vote on a reduced procedure for considering this bill. Please vote in favour of the summary procedure. With regard to the reduced procedure for consideration of the bill. [[16:23:15]] For 201 Decision taken. Please, Kugel Alexander Volodymyrna. 1256. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-15-m1.u21	Dear colleagues, it's me again. I don't think you need to be told how important small and medium-sized business is for every country. You know, in European countries, the level of democracy is measured by the number of middle classes, because only the person who earns it is free can choose the mode that he wants in his own country. Today we present to you as a whole team, here are the authors of the entire coalition, we present, we'll say, a new ideology. But this isn't the end of the document, and, on the contrary, if I asked him to accept it in general, I want to get your attention, every national MP: this is the beginning of a conversation for each of you and your voters in the ideology of small and medium-sized business in the country. We made the first foundation. It's an old law that doesn't make any changes, it's a bad thing. We have prepared a first offer for you, along with experts from abroad. Now we ask you to do so. It won't be two weeks, a month. For at least two months, we're saying that you and your constituents, small and medium-sized entrepreneurs, have gathered proposals and their perceptions of the relationship with the local authorities, the relationship with the controlling authorities, which state support they expect, what programs from the government they expect them to understand under state support. We ask you to vote on this bill in the first reading and to take it when you go to your districts and to party leaders in all your parties.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-15-m1.u22	Please, let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-15-m1.u23	All party organizations meet with small, medium-sized businesses with your electorates, and you and I will adopt a small and medium-sized business constitution that will operate 10 years in advance as a program for government. This is a joint effort with the government, with Mr. Yatsenuk, with the team, with the minister of the economy, with the committee, with Kseniya Ljapina, and with every deputy. The authors are all members of the coalition. please support in the first reading and calmly for two months, I ask you to work with your voters and then we will prepare this bill for a second reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-15-m1.u24	Please, the co-rapporteur is Victor Halasyuk, head of the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-15-m1.u25	Dear Volodymyr Borisovich! Dear fellow national MPs! The Committee on Industrial Policy and Entrepreneurship considered the draft Ukrainian law on development and State support for small and medium-sized enterprises in Ukraine (registration No. 1256), submitted by the Ukrainian National Deputies: Kugel, Prodan, Ledovian, Halasyuk, Kiral, Krivenk. The aim of the bill is to create an enabling legal environment for the development of public policy in the area of small and medium-sized enterprises. The Chief Scientific and Expert Administration of the Supreme Council's Apparatus believes that the first reading of the bill makes it advisable to go back to work. The Anti-Corruption Committee believes that the bill fully meets the requirements of anti-corruption legislation. People's deputies, members of the committee, after considering the bill, stress that it will allow for a radical improvement in the legislative provision for the implementation of public policy in the field of small and medium-sized enterprise development, to create much more attractive conditions for this direction. You and I understand that this is the heart of Ukraine's economy. This will increase the welfare of the population and increase the role of small, medium-sized businesses in the formation of gross domestic products, contribute to the development of areas and communities. In the light of the foregoing, the members of the committee decided on a draft Ukrainian Law on Development and State Support for Small and Medium-sized Entrepreneurship (No. 1256) to propose to the Supreme Council that it be accepted as a basis. We also received some suggestions from the government. We think absolutely that we're going to take them into account in the working order in the second reading. That's enough time, we're working very hard. Dear colleagues, please support.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-15-m1.u26	Thank you. Please two for, two for against, if necessary. Two for, two against, if necessary, honorable national MPs. Please, National Deputy Solovay.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-15-m1.u27	People's MP Solovay, MP's strike group. Dear colleagues, until recently in our country, laws have generally been passed in the interests of large businesses, oligarchs, and the interests of small and medium - size businesses. And the fact that the Ukrainian Parliament has now returned to the most important segment of the Ukrainian economy is already a very signal and positive step. And that's why I'm asking all of my fellow MPs to support this bill, because it's taking real steps to simplify small and medium-sized business in the territory of our state. And I think not only should these initiatives be limited. We have to ask about access to low-cost credit for small and medium-sized businesses, about moratoriums on any kind of incomprehensible checks and so on. But the very fact that there is a specific bill today is a great progress towards supporting small and medium-sized business in Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-15-m1.u28	Please, People's Deputy Ostrikov, Self-Help.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-15-m1.u29	Dear colleagues! The Self-Help faction also asks you to support this bill in voting on its basis. There is certainly a need for further work, but there is a position that is very important that changes are made to the Supreme Council's Rules of Procedure Act, that if a bill or other act is adopted that will affect the activities of small and medium-sized enterprises, it is necessary to add to this bill a calculation of the costs incurred by small and medium-sized enterprises in the case of adoption, as well as mandatory public consultations prior to the adoption of regulatory acts relating to small and medium-sized businesses. These positions are very important because we know that so far a large number of regulatory acts are being adopted without taking into account the interests of small and medium-sized businesses. For these only two things, this law should be accepted as a basis, and then go to the regions and talk to entrepreneurs, taking their comments and wishes into account. Please support the base.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-15-m1.u30	Thank you. Honorable Colleagues Are Desirable to Speak? Ladies and gentlemen, I ask everyone to come to the House of Deputies and prepare for the vote. You've heard the position of the reporter and the profile committee. I ask you to prepare yourself, Your Honor, for the vote. Ladies and gentlemen, I put to the vote the draft law (registration number 1256) on the development and state support of small and medium-sized enterprises in Ukraine, on the first reading. Please, Your Honor, on the basis of the vote. Registration number 1256, draft Law on Development and State Support for Small and Medium-sized Enterprises. [[16:32:33]] For 242 Decision taken. [[Applause]] Next, honourable colleagues, I am introducing a bill (registration number 1525), a bill amending some of Ukraine's laws to improve the conduct of military service and the social protection of Ukrainian citizens who are engaged in military service during a special period. Again, there is a suggestion to consider it as a reduced procedure. If there's any further questions, I think we'll find the answers. I am voting on this bill for a reduced procedure, my fellow honourable colleagues. Short term. Please identify a reduced procedure for consideration of the bill. [[16:33:28]] For 203 Decision taken. I invite the head of the National Security and Defence Committee of the Pashinsky Sergey Volodymyrovich. Please, Sergey Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-15-m1.u31	Dear colleagues, today we have adopted a very important bill and approved the President's Mobilization Order. But what I want to point out is that we have mobilization going through the actual legislation that was adopted back in the two-thousand years and that doesn't match the experience that we have, unfortunately and successfully, and not a successful experience last year. That's why the members of our committee, along with the General Staff, the Ministry of Defense, drafted Bill 1525 and brought it to your attention. What is the point of this bill? This bill systematizes all the problems that have accumulated over the year and our mobilisation experience, refines the moments in order to replace the vacant persons, refines the moments by the deadline. Let me remind you that we haven't had a subpoena in almost four years, and we're extending the deadline to 27 years. Explains the point: who has the right to a stay because in previous legislation it was very blurry, extended, which led to, excuse me, abuse by the military. He's clarifying the timing of the appointment for higher education students, which is 12 months, without higher education, which is 18 months. It makes it clear that the responsibility for avoiding the suit, you know, we have very interesting money in the law of law: we have criminal responsibility for the elimination of the military, the sergeant's warehouse exists, and there is no officer. So we're introducing this standard. Also after the discussion.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-15-m1.u32	Please, let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-15-m1.u33	After a discussion on the committee, I would like to make two important amendments to the transcript, which is the decision of the committee. That's right. Now we're going to have both mobilisation and demobilization. Yeah? We're making a claim that those people who are demobilized but who are contracting, they're keeping a place of work, not a year, but more, with the average wage. First. The same standard is applied to students and students of all forms of education. In addition, we provide a standard that small businesses in the service are left with registration, and they do not pay compulsory taxes. Also, given that our legislation before that was the norm that contracts are only for five years, and there are so many people who do not want to be bound by an army contract for five years, we are extending the contract from 1 year to 5 according to the wishes of the person who has the necessary expertise and military experience and is ready to serve and protect our homeland. Dear friends, once again, we have consulted with all the experts. He has unquestionable support. I'm ready if you have any questions on the way. Listen to them, correct them. But we ask him to vote on the basis and in general. Let me remind you that the mobilization starts on January 20th.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-15-m1.u34	All right, good fellows. I'm asking you to write two for, two for against, and then whoever doesn't fit in, I'll give you my word. Two for, two against. Please, National Deputy Costenko, Self-Help.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-15-m1.u35	Please give the word to Taras Shepherd.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-15-m1.u36	Please, National Deputy Shepherd Taras.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-15-m1.u37	Taras, Shepherd, Self-Help faction. In general, the faction supports the adoption of the bill on the basis of the fact that there is indeed an urgent need to resolve these points that have given the subject the legislative initiative. But there are a number of points that we think are out of order in the bill. The bill gives job savings to persons who are mobilized, but there is no mention of students who are studying or.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-15-m1.u38	I just said it.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-15-m1.u39	Or postgraduate. It is also now mentioned that the bill does not mention business entities that maintain registration, but no reference is made to the collection of taxes. So there's a whole bunch of points that we have time to settle. And I would like, Mr. Sergei, to remind you that this bill basically regulates conscripts, not mobilized ones, but conscripts. And in part of the demobilized, the President's decree demobilizes them in March. So if, I think, we literally make changes in the first days of February and we accept it as a whole, we will normally prepare the whole system to make it work properly in this legislation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-15-m1.u40	Mr. Taras, I've just done all these repairs under the transcript, you just listened. These two moments we're gonna be cars. Yeah, all right, all right. Now. That's what Mrs. Lilia Greenevich is trying to protect from the recruitment of candidates and doctors of science, isn't it? Come on.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-15-m1.u41	Dear colleagues, I will give the floor to Lilia Greenevich, including. But I now invite you to write down the People's Deputy Lapin Igor Alexanderovich, People's Front. I'll give you my word. Get ready, please. I'll give you my word.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-15-m1.u42	Deputy Lapin, People's Front, 22 constituency. Dear colleagues, I would ask you to support this bill as it is particularly important. The point is that trying to transfer it to someone else there is said to be proposed here in February and so forth, does not solve any urgent issues today for the army. It is therefore necessary to support this bill and to vote on the basis as a whole. People who today will be summoned to the ranks of the Armed Forces will be able to prepare and replace those who are now in the trenches since May. That's why I'm asking you to back me up. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-15-m1.u43	Please, the Radical Party, Oksana Korchinska.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-15-m1.u44	Oksana Korczynska, Oleg Laska Radical Party. We insist that the State be there to guarantee every mobilized fighter the protection of the individual, where not only the vests and helmets but also, including the individual pharmacy and the compulsory schooling of both military and medical personnel. We have to remove the responsibility of volunteers, we have to force the state to work. We have a budget, we have money, our fighters can't come to the front at the expense of volunteers. We must guarantee to all the mobilized that we will send them in good condition, both military and medical. And higher up there, excuse me, in two weeks, it's usually extremely small.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-15-m1.u45	I would like to say to you that it is our direct duty to control how the Ministry of Defense will spend the budget we have allocated to him, that is first. The other one. The only thing that is not in the end is a separate decision that we will make after the first stage of mobilization in this room a full analysis of how the mobilization took place, taking into account the new rules of law and the commitments that Alexander Valentinovich made to us today in teaching and armament, and the commitments made by the Ministry of Defence. We can't foresee all the cases in the law, we have our elected heads of these departments, we have to give them legislative tools and control their work. These are all the questions you're raising, they're in the law. It's the only thing. That, indeed, Mr. Head, we should make a separate decision after the first stage to report on how the mobilization takes place, taking into account the wishes of the deputies. Dear friends!
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-15-m1.u46	This is a very good offer, and we will do it with you, colleagues. The first stage of mobilization, the public report, as it happens, what's the problem, and everything else. Please, Lilia Greenevich.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-15-m1.u47	Dear colleagues, we now want to make changes and call for, for example, teachers under the age of 27 who work in schools, as well as candidates for science and doctoral studies between the ages of 27 and 27. I'd like to inform you that they're a few hundred people all over the country right now. And it is very rare when there are men in schools at that age. You're going to take them out of the education system. Likewise, we have a problem with young talented scientists leaving Ukraine now. Today, when you are those people, when you are special. You know, a doctor of science under the age of 27 is an exception, a few dozen of which are just. And you're these categories today, you think we're going to be able to increase the security of the country. Even the science-expert department has written that the damage to the education and science system in this situation will be greater than the bonus that we get when we call these categories of people. I'm asking you to rule them out.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-15-m1.u48	Lilia Mikhailna, I believe that according to the candidates, we can accept your amendment to the doctorate of science, and according to teachers, teachers in rural areas are not subject to mobilization. It's a rule of law, it's kept.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-15-m1.u49	Thank you. People's MP, Puckaan.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-15-m1.u50	Dear Head! The chairman of the committee! The honourable head of the committee! People's MP, Puckaan. Please comment on the part. Article 13: "The separation from the term of military service for the continuation of professional activity is given to such citizens of the age of recruitment.".. Just here, Mrs. Lilia Greenevich pointed out that we are giving the teachers a little time in the rural area. What contrast do we have with the teachers in the city? That's the first question. And the next question. We just got a speech from Alexander Valentinovich, Secretary of the National Security and Defence Council. We're saying that we're going to summon only those people who are professionally trained, and you're going to give them a suspension (art. 13) to the people in charge of the internal affairs of Ukraine. How do you understand that? It is either a mistake, or it is a standard that I ask you to exclude from this article.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-15-m1.u51	Dear colleagues, I'd like to. [[Applause]] No, no, I just want to explain some things. One: there is a question of mobilization, there is a question of appeal. These are different questions. As for the appeal, these are people who don't have military training, who didn't serve in the army, so to speak, we call them. By the President's decision, by the decree we voted today, they are not subject to service in the ATO zone. That's the first one. It's about teachers. The logic of this paragraph is that in rural areas, if we bring in a teacher, we will find no one at all in his place. You can find this in the city. So it's... it's... I'm a teacher-teacher myself, but here they come out of the interests of society above all. The third question they asked is about the militia warehouse. You know, we have a police force -- maybe you don't know -- right now, it's on the front page, I don't remember the statistics, but it's almost 200 dead militiamen. They carry their services, including in the ATO zone, they are killed, they are killed, and they are called into the army. You know, from the 31st blockpost to the 32nd, let's not do that. In each function, and these functions are performed. If you think the police should replace the army with a front, let's change the law, and we'll arm the militia with tanks, jet fire systems, and we'll start a fight.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-15-m1.u52	Thank you. People's MP Winnick, Peter Dusty Block. Then Oleg Berezuk. And Vladimir Litwin.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-15-m1.u53	Dear colleagues, I'd like to pay attention to everyone, maybe someone who hasn't been notified. There's a fierce fight at Donetsk Airport right now. Today, the Supreme Council approved a decree on the mobilization of the President of Ukraine. The existing legislative base allows us to raise no more than 10 percent of the available reserve. Therefore, we are obliged to extend it. Otherwise, the question of how we can protect Ukraine will not have to be decided, because there will be nothing to protect. So I ask everyone to be very responsible about this bill, to make the proposed changes, otherwise the proposed mobilisation will not take place. This is a related bill with what we have already supported today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-15-m1.u54	Thank you, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-15-m1.u55	Please hand over Alona Babak, please, Self-Help.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-15-m1.u56	Babak Alona, Self-Help faction. Dear colleagues, I understand the need to increase the term of age to 27 at the time of the war. But, dear colleagues, I ask you to pay attention. In Ukraine, men are usually married at 25 years of age, families are formed, and children are to be born. And you guys are running men into the army for this period. What are we doing?Oh, my God! Guys, you don't have to do this. We must place this rule only for a period of time when military action such as we have now takes place in a special state. And don't do this forever, because we're just going to take a look at the normal development of demographics in Ukraine and the formation of families.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-15-m1.u57	Dear friends, let's be clear what we're voting for. Today we voted in favour of the Mobilization Act. And I'm informing you: either this decree starts to work by law without change (you know, yes, from the 20th number), or with the changes that we make. And believe me, everyone here will confirm who has an attitude towards the military, these changes are improving. This is the experience we've gained, this bloody experience. And no one's sending a conscript to the front, no need to click. My friends! If we act responsibly, I will come up with one more thought. Mobilization began, the first messages will be delivered on January 20. It is up to us whether they go according to the old law or the new one. Please vote on the basis as a whole.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-15-m1.u58	Thank you, Your Honor. Dear friends, I think we should vote. Stop all talk about it. Because they've already talked and talked. Dear friends, I ask you to invite the people's deputies into the hall and please support his vote now, this bill, number 1525. People's deputies, please take your seats in the Supreme Council Hall. I am voting on the draft Act amending certain Ukrainian laws to improve the order of military service and the social protection of Ukrainian citizens who are engaged in military service during a special period. I stress this question, on the basis and in general. On the basis and in general. And since this question only improves, the situation does not worsen. Registration number of Act 1525. Please vote on the basis and in general. With all the remarks that have just come out of the mouth, suggestions, heads of the committee of Sergio Pashinsky. Please vote. [[16:51:37]] For 210 Dear friends, you know, I'm surprised at this position because it doesn't make things worse, it makes things better. Sergei Pashinsky.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-15-m1.u59	Dear friends! I'm drawing your attention to the following. Before lunch, we were blocking the rostrum so we wouldn't have to break the corrupt feed on Easter. So, on behalf of the People's Front faction, I want to say, this is the fate of our country, this is the fate of our warriors, this is the fate of our grandchildren and our great-grandchildren. I don't understand what happened in the Self-Help faction. I ask now to vote this law as a basis and as a whole. Once again, the mobilization has begun. What are you talking about? What suit? It's a mobilization and a summons.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-15-m1.u60	I'm voting on the return. Sergey Volodymyrovich, go to the place to vote, better. I ask you to put the vote on the return to this issue. We'll be back and I'll give you a minute. Please return to the subject, registration number 1525. Please vote for the return. [[16:53:03]] For 249 We're back. One minute from the factions. Please, who has a wish? Self-help, then Parenthood, Oleg Lazko, People's Front, and Peter Prashenko's Block. From faction to minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-15-m1.u61	Dear Mr. Head! Deputies! Unquestionably, this law is one of the most important laws of modern - day Ukraine and today. Hence, this law must be voted today in the first reading, finalized, and adopted tomorrow, or the next day, when it will be perfect, and will not raise any questions in the tens of thousands. Thank you. Definitely in the first reading today.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-15-m1.u62	Please, Fatherland, Sergey Sobolev.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-15-m1.u63	Sobolje, Fatherland. Dear colleagues, I propose to all those who have not read this law to open and read what this law is about. This law isn't about mobilization, I ask you not to mislead society and the session hall, it's the law on appeal. There is a law on the title, the only thing you remember about the desire to create a professional army we have revoked, now we have renewed it, and this law renews the order of the military service. And to the author of the bill, I ask you to read the bill you signed. So my position is as follows: this law is absolutely correct. If we have returned the appeal to the country, we must settle it immediately. And I think if anyone has any warnings right now, tell us what warnings there are to the law and we will immediately vote on those warnings. But there can be no situation when c.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-15-m1.u64	Let me finish. That's a very smart idea.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-15-m1.u65	Not on the basis of an active law. Therefore, the request to whom there is a warning – call them, vote immediately in the hall and vote on this law in general with these warnings. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-15-m1.u66	Thank you. Please, Oleg Lazko, then Arthur Gerasimov.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-15-m1.u67	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. The Radical Party faction supports this bill. In view of the situation in the country, Parliament must do its utmost to create conditions for the Armed Forces, to strengthen them, to mobilize them, to increase their readiness and to combat them. But we ask the second reading to take our proposals into account in this bill in order to make it more perfect in order to protect the rights of the people who are called to serve in the army, their social rights: the right to work, to save a job, and so on. So I ask the hall to take into account the responsibility, the situation in the country. Look, maybe some of the deputies don't know, there's a fight in Donetsk today, at the airport. The last of these battles in August. We've got some real large-scale fighting going on there right now, and you and I are here talking about whether or not we need to mobilize. Yes, of course you do! But stick to it.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-15-m1.u68	Thank you, Oleg Easy. Please, Arthur Gerasimov, BPP, Peter Prashenko Block, then Andrew Teteruk, People's Front, and we'll vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-15-m1.u69	Dear colleagues! I'm supporting everyone who's paying attention to what's going on today on the front line. Because I'm getting dozens of calls right now about how the artillery shooting by separatists has increased, how the fighting in Donetsk, Volnovas, other cities have intensified. And that's what I'd like to pay attention to. All laws aimed at enhancing the sovereignty of the State must be made urgent and accepted as a whole. I'd also like to draw your attention to the moment that this law allows those who are now going to be demobilized, but will express their desire to remain, to remain in parts and to be, to continue their service. You can imagine, right now, every person who's been through a gunfight is her. We have ten men to call. So we have to let them stay in our parts. Thank you. Support this bill as a whole.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-15-m1.u70	Please, Andrew Teteruk, People's Front.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-15-m1.u71	Dear fellow MPs! I want to focus very much on the fact that we are emotionally deeply concerned about the situation that is taking place in the Far East of our country, in the Lugansk and Donetsk regions. We all worry that no man will be injured, we all worry that those with weapons in their hands will defend the territorial integrity of our country, be clothed, satisfied, armed, and have all the security necessary to ensure Ukraine's territorial integrity. But we can't win that war, we can't destroy the enemy with the same emotions that come into our room. We need to update the warehouse that's in the trenches right now. And, honourable members of the Self-Help faction, who did not vote in favour of a very important law, I ask you, honourable MPs of the Self-Help faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-15-m1.u72	Let me finish, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-15-m1.u73	I have deep respect for each and every one of you. But be kind when acting under very important laws, be kind, listen. Ladies and gentlemen, I ask you to step away from your emotions and support this law that strengthens the security of our country. Because by not voting in favour of this law, we stop the renewal of the individual composition that fights and destroys our enemy every day. And when we get essays about what's going on, we have to understand that spending that we're not restoring will lead to a critical balance and we'll start losing both territory and our own composition. So I'm asking you very much for this law, it changes 4 laws, and everything that strengthens our defenses should be voted in this room. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-15-m1.u74	Thank you. Let's vote again, dear fellows. I ask the National Deputies to return everyone to the hall and take their jobs. Please. Invite all the deputies to the Supreme Council Hall. Please. Please, Andrew Parobius.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-15-m1.u75	Ladies and gentlemen, as they come into the hall, I'd like to say a few words. There are moments of responsibility for each of us, when perhaps some procedures need to be simplified and accelerated. When it comes to national security and defence, I think it's dangerous to try to drag on and it's criminal in relation to our army. So I want to call the deputies to account. This bill is adopted by a committee that includes representatives of all factions. It will be easier for us to adopt amendments to this law at any stage than to wait for all the adoption procedures from the first and second readings. So there is a huge request with great responsibility to take the vote now and support the bill as a whole. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-15-m1.u76	So, as I understand it, what Sergey Pashinski announced and those proposals that were made by the MP from Self-Help are included in this bill, right? So it was. So, the amendments, listen carefully, the national deputy of Taras Shepherd, and the national deputy of Lilia Mikhailevna Greenevich, they, with these amendments, we vote. Sergey Volodymyrovich, did I get it right? That's right. As amended, as amended. For. I'll put it to a vote. Yeah. Dear colleagues, we have an hour to work, so we're not going to call it a break. The "accounted for" were recalculated as they were recalculated, I understand correctly -- from self-help colleagues, from Lilia Greenevich, who are counted. That's how they were bugged. Sergey Volodymyrovich, if you'd like to hear back on this bill. Please, Sergey Pashinsky.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-15-m1.u77	Dear colleagues, I've sounded and I'm reciting those orders: paragraph 1: we're changing the contract time from one. Not five years, but from one to five years. The second point is that if a person is demobilized, signed a contract, stored more than a year, now the rule of law is a year. So the logic here is that people who have served this year, who have combat experience, who want to stay, have a job, and they have a salary. Item 3. Taras the Shepherd pointed out, "not only the place of work, but also the place of study." Item 4. We have in our current law the registration of entrepreneurs, we add that. While serving in the army, these are not required for small businesses to make contributions from this person. Item 5, Lilia Greenevich. We support the initiative not to invite candidates, doctors of science. Paragraph 6, we're making a full report and analysis of the first phase of mobilization, which will be literally in two or three weeks. I think by February 3, the first numbers will be there. All the comments that were in the hall are complete. On the other hand, I am addressing the people's deputies: the President's decree has been approved, the mobilization and the appeal begin on January 20th. Let us improve this process according to our experience. If we don't vote it now, no one's gonna stop the call, period.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-15-m1.u78	Another, please, is the national MP Taras Shepherd, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-15-m1.u79	Taras Shepherd, Self-Help faction. We insist on another direction, because I don't think anyone will argue in the hall that we have military pulpits that exist in colleges, that this is basically the place where children of decent parents, I mean with good money, are actually avoiding military service. And I suggest that those who have studied in the military department receive an officer's title. And I think if we do an assessment today of whether those kids are serving in the cathedrals where the state was spending its money, whether they're going through just like the mobilized service at the ATO. I think most of them have just escaped this service. So I propose to leave the appeal for them no less than a year. In the officer’s office, let them go to the lieutenants and serve.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-15-m1.u80	Thank you. Please, Sergey Pashinsky.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-15-m1.u81	Dear Mr. Shepherd, well, with all due respect, well, it's the money of this law that I'm asking you to accept, that's what I've been paying attention to when I report that we have a responsibility today in law to evade the recruitment of a military sergeant and have no criminal responsibility for the officers and the subpoena. The summons, the responsibility of the summons.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-15-m1.u82	That's accepted, I understand.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-15-m1.u83	It's accepted, but it's introduced.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-15-m1.u84	Okay. Then, dear colleagues, I will now put to the vote on the basis and in general, taking into account the amendments that were made by national deputy Taras Shepherd, and were also sounded by Lilia Greenevich and generalised by Sergey Pashinsky. I ask you to vote on the basis and in general Bill 1525 with amendments and additions announced by Taras Shepherd "self-help", Lilia Greenevich "The People's Front", and by Sergey Pashinsky. Please vote on the basis and in general, taking into account what I just said. Please vote on the basis as a whole. [[17:07:27]] For 256 [[Applause]] It's all generalized and it's all been accepted. Thank you, Your Honor. The factions. Thank you. Dear colleagues, the following drafts that have been prepared. Bill number. Draft Act amending the Code of Budgets of Ukraine (for the clarification and introduction of individual provisions in accordance with the rules of existing legislation). To settle local budget issues. We included him in the morning session. There was a meeting of the Committee on Budgets where it was considered, and I now propose that it be considered. I'd like to take a brief look at this. Please put to the vote. Under a reduced procedure, local budgets. [[17:08:30.]] For 202 Decision taken. I'd like to invite the vice-chairman of Melnik's committee of profile, Sergey Ivanovich, to report. I would like to point out that the co-authors are all the leaders of the coalition faction of this bill. Please report.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-15-m1.u85	Dear Head, distinguished national MPs! The Committee on Budget Affairs today considered draft Law No. 1766, and as a result of its consideration adopted this decision: recommending to the Supreme Council a draft law on the basis of the first reading to be adopted as a basis and as a whole as a law, taking into account the proposals made by the Committee in its letter to the Supreme Council. The key question here is basically that we're adding part 1 of paragraph 20 to the next paragraph, paragraph 1 of part 1 of article 88. Accordingly, the Committee on Budget Affairs, together with the Chief Legal Authority, is required to make the necessary editorial and technical clarifications to the text of the bill, which is related to the approved committee decision of the bill. At the same time, I would like to point out that such a decision by the committee is compromised by the outcome of a discussion at a committee meeting with government representatives, drafters of the bill and representatives of all factions. The proposals proposed by the Committee will ensure consistency of the legal norms of budgetary and tax legislation, the achievement of the objective of the bill and, to some extent, offset the risks of practical implementation of inter-budget reform. Although all these things could be settled by the Ministry of Finance using the 93 - article tool. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-15-m1.u86	Thank you, Your Honor. Two for, two against, factions, please. National MP Gordiev, Peter Prashenko Block, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-15-m1.u87	Dear colleagues, in general, sharing the need for this bill to be supported, I ask everyone to support it, but I would like to complement it. Do you remember when we voted in favour of the Ukrainian Budget Code at night for changing it? And that's the kind of violation that we're removing right now -- it's all been the subject of the committee's consideration of our night meetings. And so a big request to you, Volodymyr Borisovich, that in the future, when we look at it, the committee will work and work on all of these mechanisms, this could all be done there. First. The other one. In many majors, I'm sure the phones are red because of what communities, rurals, rurals, urbans call them today, and they say, "What have you been up to? How are we going to put these budgets together today, taking into account this budget of ours?" So we need to reform, and this was our first step. But let's go after we all go to the districts right now, we're going to collect all these flaws, and we're going to establish a normal bill for that session, and we're going to remove all the disadvantages, the inconveniences that we need in the districts. Thank you for your attention. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-15-m1.u88	Thank you, Your Honor. I want to say the next thing that any innovation is always hard to understand, more than that, people can sometimes just be afraid of any change. But the innovations we've accepted with you, they're definitely positive, we've decentralized the possibilities of filling local budgets. This means that today, by removing these small technical issues, we are still further protecting local budgets. I want to point out that all budgets will have reliable sources of income and not look at this Kiev, these ministries, and everything else. They will have their own basis to work for people living in territorial communities. We still have a number of laws that we have to adopt after decentralization. This will enable them to grow stronger. Today we're starting this. And they'll call, they'll ask, and we'll help. It's a process. But believe me, after this process, we're definitely going to be strong. I'm talking about territorial communities. Please, the People's Front, Paul Unguran.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-15-m1.u89	Dear colleagues! Dear Volodymyr Borisovich! By fully sharing the idea that our Budget Code, which we voted on late at night, actually lays the foundations for decentralization, budgetary decentralization. But I agree with my colleagues that we're going to need all the more comments, all the improvements combined to be put into a comprehensive bill. But what you said about Vladimir Borisovich is that there are little technical corrections that we need to take into account, I would like to ask the hall to add to the changes in part 4 of article 30 to put in one small variable edition: in paragraph 6 with the badge 2, there was a short error, 7 with the badge 2, 7 with the badge 3, change 7 with the badge 1-7 with the badge 3. This is about financial security for the activities of the central executive body, which implements state policy in the field of state registration of property rights. Obviously, just at night when we were preparing those changes, 7 with badge 2 and 7 with badge 3 was a mistake. So there's a request to add it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-15-m1.u90	Thank you. But this does not apply to the subject matter of this bill. So let's not do any unpredicted things right now. Dear colleagues! Next, Yegor Sobolev, Self-help.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-15-m1.u91	Please pass the word to Victor Krivenka.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-15-m1.u92	Victor Krivenko, Self-help.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-15-m1.u93	Dear colleagues, the honourable chairman. It should be supported as members of the coalition, who are members of the Committee on Budgets, unanimously supported. I also want to say that this is actually a technical one. Some village councils lacked the money to maintain their equipment. We have made it possible for the district councils to compensate for these expenses if they make such a decision. And likewise, Volodymyr Borisovich, we addressed you today from the committee. Vladimir Borisovich, I apologize. Today, we have sent you a petition from the committee to make it impossible for the Ministry of Finance to fulfil its obligation, and the government will not give its February 15th. So this is a request. The other one. We ask that all the amendments to the Budget Code, there are minor amendments, which are, we will prepare a consolidated bill to prevent permanent changes to the Budget Code. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-15-m1.u94	Thank you, Your Honor. We're now in the normal budget process with you. And I want to remind you that we've passed the election in a row with you to Parliament until we've formed a parliament, a government. And time required us to make decisions in this situation. Now our task with you is to enter into the normal pace of lawmaking, not thousands of bills, but with quality bills complex. This will require the proper organization of the system within Parliament and interaction with the government, and with the President. So in this case, I completely disagree with you. We have legislative rules when we have to be budgeted to Parliament. And that's what we're going to do. In addition, by February 15, changes are to take place, making suggestions for changes. And then you and I will be able to settle the problem budget issues for the 15th year. Please, Yuri Voropeyev, Opposition Block.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-15-m1.u95	I'd like to give the floor to Mr. Dudenkov.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-15-m1.u96	People's Deputies.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-15-m1.u97	Dear colleagues, distinguished representatives of the territorial communities, respected citizens of Ukraine. I would like to point out that some of the provisions of this bill are indeed of a technical nature, particularly with regard to the financing of spending portions of certain local budgets. But the changes in articles 90, 91 of the Ukrainian budget code have nothing to do with budgetary decentralization. And I'll explain. Article 91 of the Code of Budgets of Ukraine is amended accordingly, under which all expenditure relating to the implementation of measures on housing and utilities, the purification of drinking water, and the holding of elevators is removed, and this expenditure will be based exclusively on the level of district budgets and budgets of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea. Accordingly, I would like to point out that this is not a manifestation of fiscal decentralization, as if Vladimir Borisovich had not responded negatively to it personally, and these issues would be resolved at the level of the area. What's the picture going to look like? Local budgets in the form of an appropriate budget will be required to implement certain measures in the areas of elevator agriculture, water treatment, heat management, housing and utilities, to go to the area and to agree on the relevant expenditure, as they will no longer be able to finance directly from local budgets. This is already a direct part of the district budget. Therefore, we believe that these changes in accordance with articles 90, 91 in this bill should be excluded. And in general, last but not least, other positions have a technical character.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-15-m1.u98	Thank you, Your Honor. I just want to point out that there are no such changes in the decision of the committee in the final edition that you said there are no such changes, so that's not the case. Please, Igor Nasalik. Then "Fatherland," Yvchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-15-m1.u99	Well, first of all, I'd like to say that the law really has to be adopted. But I have to say, it's not the first and not the last amendments we're going to make to the Budget Code, because we've created enormous problems with rural, rural and urban budgets. Indeed, when we talk about decentralization, it will not really be without territorial and administrative reform as such. But I want to say to you today, in rural, rural, urban budgets. It is not clear how to administer taxes on excise duties, tobacco, alcohol, no concessions, and no form of administration. In addition, in addressing everyone, I want to say that today's city budget has not received a single penny of education and medicine subsidies, people can't get an advance, there's no cash on these articles.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-15-m1.u100	Please, National Deputy Ivchenko, Fatherland. Give me a minute. One minute and we'll go to the vote. I'm asking you to invite the people's deputies into the hall.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-15-m1.u101	Dear colleagues! Today, the Fatherland faction shouted SOS. Our deputies and I are being flogged as an association representative. What should we do next? Yes, in fact, most of the districts accepted their budgets, but the rural and rural councils could not accept such budgets when there were one minuses. We talked about the Herson area, we talked about the Hmmel district, we talked about Frank's district, it goes all the way down. We demanded today, and we thank you, Vladimir Borisovich, for shortening these two weeks so that the rural and rural councils can accept the budgets. By February 15, we'll be working with the coalition, making the necessary changes to really decentralize us. We also propose another law that we ask the coalition to support. This is also the return of land to the territorial communities, that is.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-15-m1.u102	Ten seconds, finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-15-m1.u103	And that's all there is to the decentralization spirit. Thank you again for supporting this bill that we are, we are co-authors, and let us not be blind now.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-15-m1.u104	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I think we can put the risk to this issue. Look, once again, I want to emphasize one thing. I'm asking the people's deputies to come into the hall now it'll be very important to vote in favour of further decentralization of the local budgets. Please take your seats in the hall. Let's support the territorial communities. Please, dear fellows. I would like to vote on the bill (registration No. 1767) of the draft Act amending the Code of Budgets of Ukraine. Dear colleagues, I ask you all to take your seats! [[B in m in s a l in]] I said 1766. 66, I'm sorry. Dear colleagues! I'm asking you to take your seats. 1766 Draft Law amending the Code of Budgets of Ukraine (for the clarification and implementation of individual provisions in accordance with existing legislation).
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-15-m1.u105	One minute. He's the government's first deputy minister of finance. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-15-m1.u106	Dear Volodymyr Borisovich! Dear National Deputies! I wanted everyone in the room to understand that the editorial that was included was discussed on the budget committee. In fact, there are a few changes that we have agreed on together and I would like to ask that there be an understanding that there is a vote taking into account the proposals of the Committee on Budgets. This is due to the fact that there is still a parking and tourist congregation in the Tax Code, and there is an appropriate refinement in the Codex Budget. First change. Second change, principle: The 20 articles of the Final Regulations add to the possibility of cofinancing also the cost of maintaining appropriate rural, rural, and city councils of district importance. And two completely technical refinements. The rest of the changes, she was on the committee. So I would like to support this bill, taking into account the committee's discussion and these clarifications. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-15-m1.u107	I am voting on Bill No. 1766, the draft Law amending the Ukrainian Budget Code (for the clarification and implementation of individual provisions in accordance with the rules of existing legislation in accordance with the decision of the Professional Committee). Please vote on the basis and in general, taking into account the decision taken by the committee. Vote please, Your Honor. Please vote. We'll support the territorial communities. Vote please, Your Honor. [[17:24:41]] For 277 Decision taken. Thank you, Your Honor. Next. Bill number (registration number 1762) is submitted for consideration. Before that, I am voting on a motion for a reduced procedure. Please vote. Review of the simplified procedure. [[17:25:13]] For 196 Decision taken. Please report to Ukraine’s national deputy, Andriy Anatolyevich Teteruk. Andriy Anatoliyovich, please come to the rostrum. The reporter is Andriy Anatoliyovich Kožemjakin. Please. Two Andrew Anatolyovich reported, by the way, on one question.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-15-m1.u108	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to draw your attention to the need to adopt this bill because we need additional weights of influence on those military personnel who violate discipline during the conduct or delivery of military service. We see that units where commanders are unable to bring about discipline and maintain military order cease to carry out combat tasks and engage in approachable and criminal acts. And so in order to increase the responsibility of military officials for violating military discipline, for drinking alcohol, for any action that does not fall within the scope of legislation, we need to strengthen both the responsibility of military personnel and give commanders the authority to stop the violations that have been detected and to stop the negative development of events. Please support this bill as a whole. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-15-m1.u109	Thank you. Please, head of the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-15-m1.u110	Dear Chairman! Dear colleagues! The Supreme Council Committee on Law Enforcement at its meeting considered draft Law No. 1762. The bill, as Mr. Titaruk has just said, amends the Criminal Code of Ukraine, the Criminal Code of Ukraine. And also, to address the issue of punishment in the disciplinary battalion by military service under contract and called for during mobilization. It is also suggested that administrative responsibility should be imposed for the commission of military administrative offences. This is the Ukrainian Code of Administrative Offences, supplemented by a new Chapter 13b. In particular, responsibility is imposed for refusing to comply with the commander’s legal requirements, neglecting the military service, violating the rules of military rotation, breaking the rules of foreign service, drinking alcohol and soft drinks by military personnel. Commanders have the right to draw up administrative protocols. The authors also propose to amend the discipline statute of the Ukrainian Armed Forces, the statute of internal service of the Ukrainian Armed Forces. In view of this, the committee approved the decision to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine: To adopt this law as a basis for first reading. Thank you. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-15-m1.u111	Thank you. Dear colleagues, is there a need for two to go, two to go? In the first reading, we vote on the basis. So, please, colleagues. Please take your seats in the hall. Ladies and gentlemen, prepare for the vote, Your Honor. Faction leaders, prepare your deputies for the vote. Ready to vote? Invite the national deputies to the hall. And I'm asking you to come in and stay out of the room for 18 hours. Please, Your Honor, this is a request. We have three laws left. Fellow Members of the People's Parliament, you have before you a bill to vote, a draft Act amending certain Ukrainian legislation on the strengthening of the responsibilities of military personnel, the granting of additional rights to commanders and the imposition of duties during a special period (registration number 1762). At the suggestion of the rapporteur, as well as of the committee, I am voting to adopt this bill as a basis for the first reading. Please vote on the basis of 1762. Based on the base. On the ground, please vote. [[17:30:13]] For 242 Decision taken. Thank you, Your Honor. 1762 as a base accepted. Bill number, Bill number 1767 is brought to your attention. Draft Act amending some Ukrainian legislation on the irreparability of punishment. Dear colleagues, I would also like to consider it in a simplified manner. And I'm voting on a reduced procedure. I'd like to make a statement. [[17:30:55]] For 205 Decision taken. Please, National Deputy of Ukraine Anton Heratchenko is a reporter. Anton Gerashchenko. People's MP Agaphonov.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-15-m1.u112	Dear colleagues, by the end of 2014, the Law on Intangible Conduct had been passed, which would have allowed for the responsibility of those involved in mass destruction during the Dignity Revolution. But this law has revealed Achilles' fifth, which has not actually allowed the liability of those who are first located in the territory of the Russian Federation, because the latter refuse to confirm their whereabouts there and do not issue relevant documents, as well as those who hide in the territory of the temporarily occupied territory of the Republic of Crimea, as well as in the area where the anti-terrorist operation was carried out. Because these territories are formally a territory of Ukraine, but they are not under the control of the government of Ukraine right now. That is why the National Deputies worked out a bill that made appropriate changes that would allow them to be held accountable. That's exactly the way it is. First, it is envisaged to replace those who are outside the territory of Ukraine with those who have been declared international and inter-State search. And secondly, for those who are in the anti-terror zone or in the temporarily occupied area of Crimea, these relevant special laws also change where persons who have been declared wanted may also be subject to a procedure of inadvertent conduct. Since the bill has been finalized in the intermission of deputies, I want to read under the transcript the changes that have been made. So in the Criminal Procedure Code of Ukraine in part five.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-15-m1.u113	Please, let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-15-m1.u114	In the fifth part of article 139, the word "which is outside of Ukraine" is replaced by the words "and the announcement of it in inter-State and/or international search." In the second part of article 297 with footnote 1 and in the first part of article 323, the words "if it is outside Ukraine" are replaced by the words "and declared inter-State and/or international search." Paragraph 4 of part two of article 297 with footnote 2 reads as follows: “State and/or international search reports”. In part one and part three of the third part of article 297, footnote 4, the words “outside Ukraine” are replaced by the words “declared in inter-State and/or international search”. Article 12 of the Ukrainian Law on the Protection of the Rights and Freedoms of Citizens and the Legal Regime in the Interimly Occupied Territory of Ukraine complements Part Three: "Avoiding the appearance at the request of the investigator, the prosecutor or the judicial challenge of the investigator, the judge, the court, not arriving at a challenge without due cause more than two times suspected (the accused) who is in the temporarily occupied territory of Ukraine and declaring him responsible for the investigation is the basis for carrying out a special investigative investigation or special judicial conduct in the order provided for in the Criminal Procedure Code of Ukraine with specific features established by this law." The Ukrainian Act on the Enforcement of Justice and Criminal Conduct in connection with the conduct of an anti-terrorist operation should be supplemented by a new article 5 of this content. Paragraph one: "Avoiding the appearance of an investigator, prosecutor or court order of the investigating judge, failing to arrive at a court without a valid reason more than twice as many suspects who are in the area of conducting an anti-terror operation and declaring them to be wanted is the basis for carrying out a special judicial investigation or special judicial conduct in the order provided for in the Criminal Procedure Code of Ukraine with the characteristics laid down by this law." In connection with this article 5, consider article 6. This law takes effect from the day of its publication. Thank you for your attention. And I ask you to uphold this law on the basis and in general.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-15-m1.u115	Thank you. Please report to the committee head, Andrija Anatoliyovich. There's just been an update, I understand. I think I'm in agreement.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-15-m1.u116	Dear Chairman! Dear colleagues! The Supreme Council Committee on Law Enforcement today considered this draft of Law No.1767. The project is intended to amend the Criminal Procedure Code of Ukraine by extending the act of the special criminal conduct institute to "suspected, accused who are hiding in the temporarily occupied territory of Ukraine or in the area of conducting an anti-terrorist operation and declaring them wanted". I am not going to repeat the changes that my colleague Afonova has just read and reported in very detail here, so I would like to say that the relevant changes are proposed by the authors and in article 12 of the Ukrainian Law on the Protection of the Rights and Freedoms of Citizens and the Legal Regime in the Interimly Occupied Territory, and in article 5 of the Ukrainian Law on the Enforcement of Justice and Criminal Conduct in connection with the conduct of an anti-terrorist operation, namely, the draft states that the avoidance of the appearance of an investigator, prosecutor or court-ordered judge of a suspect, accused who is in the temporarily occupied territory of Ukraine and the search is the basis for a special pretrial investigation or a special trial. It has to be noted that there is a law in the country today that allows for a special trial and a special trial to be conducted, i.e. a judgment against suspects who are hiding abroad. In view of the committee's definition today, it has been decided to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine the adoption of a bill in the first reading and generally as a law. Please support, thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-15-m1.u117	Maybe two for it, two for it, and then two for it. Two for, two against, please write that down. People's Front, Andry Anatolyovich Teteruk.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-15-m1.u118	Please pass the word to Anton Heraszczenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-15-m1.u119	Anton Gerashchenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-15-m1.u120	Thank you. What I'm saying is that now there's a total of 3.8 billion dollars in the accounts, 2 of them abroad, 1.8 billion dollars in Ukraine. And about 6 billion dollars. This is the money that will go into Ukraine’s budget after the passing of this law and after Januković’s passing judgment and his calling. So please support this bill. If these persons want to protect themselves, please be able to come to Ukraine, to go to prison, or to get other species, so to speak, to arrest themselves, and to protect themselves. If they don't come, let them send their lawyers. The court will decide, if they're guilty, all the institutions will go through, we'll confiscate this money, buy them tacts, weapons, and it'll be the only better thing Janukovic and his call to the people of Ukraine did. All of it!
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-15-m1.u121	Thank you. Please, "Radical Party", Yuri Chizmar.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-15-m1.u122	Dear Head! Deputies! The law as a whole deserves support because the issue is really topical and many people use the occupied territory to evade criminal responsibility. But it is worth noting that we give very free treatment to the occupied territory, to hide persons there. Since the reporter said that it was only those responsible for crimes against the revolution of dignity, there is no word in the law itself about those persons or the identification of those crimes in general. In addition, we note that there is no law - enforcement authority in the occupied territory today that can support the existence of persons in that territory. Thus, in the context of such free treatment, we simplify the procedure of drawing, drawing to responsibility in absentia, and so today the corrupt judicial system can lead to what will be involved in this crime, so that any crimes, including those that are undiscovered or which need to be hidden, will be brought to justice. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-15-m1.u123	Thank you. I think that's when they all come out. Final word to the Minister of Justice, ma'am. Please, Opposition Block, National Deputy of Kolesników Dmitry Valeriyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-15-m1.u124	Please give Michael Papiev the word.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-15-m1.u125	Mikhail Papiev.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-15-m1.u126	Thank you. Honorable National Deputies of Ukraine! We are familiar with the content of this law amending some of Ukraine’s legislative acts (as regards the irreparability of the punishment of persons) and there is a difference between the very contents of the law and the name of the law. Because if the title of the law refers to persons who are hiding in a temporarily occupied territory of Ukraine, the law itself applies to all Ukrainian citizens. And I got interested. I looked at the laws that were passed on January 16, 2014. There was the adoption of the Act amending the Criminal Procedure Code of Ukraine, which word repeats this law. So the interesting thing about this situation is that you either have to change your co-authors or bring them in somehow. Because it's a law that was passed on January 16, 2014. We will not vote in favour of this law. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-15-m1.u127	Please, Sergey Kaplin, Peter Dust Block. Invite the national deputies to the hall.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-15-m1.u128	I'll explain. I will try to explain to ordinary citizens the simple common language of the problem and the perspective of this law. Clearly, the Opposition Block won't vote, because it's because of the adoption of these laws. This law is going to go to jail. And this law will bring back the billions that the prime minister is now looking for in the pockets of ordinary, disadvantaged citizens, pensioners, disabled persons, and socially unprotected populations. But there is another question. Please explain to me why the government has for a year not made the changes that we must accept today in this fast regime? At the same time, these changes to the budget and other laws are quickly introduced when it is necessary to simply take and turn over the pockets of ordinary, ordinary citizens, deprive them of their right to pay, deprive them of socially vulnerable categories of rights and the possibility of receiving a measurable 100 bracelet grants to survive. Take away their rights to index a meager pension, take away everything in the children of war. By the way, those war children who built roads, factories and factories for our government, for Parliament and for all of us. That's why I wanted us to make this decision to inculcate the government and make it very careful to test those laws that would actually bring revenue into the government budget. And let the bastards sit in jail and, if necessary, hang on a string all over the country.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-15-m1.u129	Thank you. I'd like to ask. The opportunity to speak to the author, National Deputy Agafone. And then the Minister of Justice. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-15-m1.u130	Thank you for your word, Mr. Head. I'd like to refer to the members of the Opposition Block and explain a little bit the difference between the January 16 law and the law that is now being passed. If the January 16 law introduced an ominous conduct for all Ukrainian citizens, the law that is proposed for consideration today, if you listened carefully, suggests applying it to suspects and accused persons who have been declared for international and interstate search. That's the first one, either they're in the ATO zone or they're in the occupied Republic of Crimea. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-15-m1.u131	Thank you. Please, Justice Minister Paul Petrenko. I ask you to invite the people's deputies to the Supreme Council Hall to vote in favour of this bill. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-15-m1.u132	Dear colleagues, this is a very important vote. I'd like to give you a few words, some information about what's going on during this last year, including in the investigation of those criminal cases that initially involved the looted billions, the former high-level owners and associates of today's opposition bloc. The other one. These were crimes against the constitutional system and terrorist crimes that became one of the causes and catalysts of the crisis that we now have and the war that we now have in the East of the country. Ukraine has faced challenges that no other European Union country has faced in the last 60 years. And when we introduced to Parliament the Law on Procedural Criminal Conduct, which, I mean, meets all European standards and differs from those laws that voted by the Party of the Regions on 16 January with their hands and feet. At that time, we had no conflict or war in the eastern part of the country. And when these cases began to be investigated, many members of the Party of Regions, formerly high - ranking, fled to Donetsk, Luhansk, Russia, and Crimea. It may be said that some 100 judges who once made decisions against the courts are now successful in the Crimea and are avoiding Ukrainian justice. The same applies to other officials in the previous regime. What have we done today? Today, law enforcement agencies, the government of Ukraine, have blocked several billion dollars and several billion dollars into Ukraine’s accounts. Similarly, our European partners and American partners have blocked the corresponding tens of billions of dollars in accounts abroad. We need that money back. To get that money back and get around those.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-15-m1.u133	Please finish giving it to the minister.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-15-m1.u134	and bypass the obstacles that our geographically eastern so-called neighbours create, hiding Yanukovic and his surroundings, or in the occupied Crimea or under the cover of Russian militants in the eastern part of the country, we have to make changes to the current Law on Intangible Criminal Conduct. What these changes mean. These changes mean that our investigators will be able to complete the investigation of cases against those on which there is already evidence that they have stolen the state budget's funds, that they have taken these funds to pensioners, to our Ukrainian citizens, to the taxpayers, that they have stolen the funds that Ukraine has received from international organizations over the past four years, and that they are talking about the $40 billion that Yanukovich has received from international financial organizations, and now Ukraine is forced to account for these loans. So I'd like to clear out the populism and the statements that have now been made in the hall. We need to do our job. The job is to complete our criminal conduct so that we can get the legal judgments of the courts, those judgments of the courts, which will then confirm the decisions of the international courts, so that we can finally confiscate the funds that are now blocked in both Ukraine and abroad, and that these funds go to the Ukrainians, to those who have paid taxes, to those who are currently poor, to those who are not receiving adequate social benefits, and finally to get justice in that country. So I ask you all to take away any populism, this is our common business, this is a joint business of Parliament, this is a joint government, this is a joint matter of the prosecution and other law enforcement agencies, so that we can end these criminal conducts. This is the challenge that the Dignity Revolution has set for us, the challenge that today’s war has set for us. And so let's, let's make some more changes, we're going to have to make some unusual decisions in order to pay these costs back to the Ukrainian people, we're going to make them. And either we're allies here with you, or we start criticizing each other.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-15-m1.u135	Mr. Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-15-m1.u136	Therefore, I ask you to vote in favour of this law as a whole. Thank you, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-15-m1.u137	I think there's everyone here, most of them in the same room. I'm asking you to take your seats, national deputies. Agaphonov’s national deputy announced the rights to this law. And I'm putting the bill number to the vote. Ladies and gentlemen, please take your places to vote, please. The draft Act amending some Ukrainian legislation on the irreparability of punishment for persons who are hiding in the temporarily occupied territory of Ukraine or in the area of carrying out an anti-terrorist operation taking into account the changes and additions that have been announced by the national deputy of Agafon I put in place and the technical and economic development of the committee. I'm voting on the basis and in general bill number 1767, taking into account the proposals made by the people's deputies of the Agaphon and the technical legal rights of the committee. Ladies and gentlemen, I ask you to vote, honourable members of the people, on the basis of this important bill as a whole. We vote on the basis and in general, please support. Please vote. [[17:50:41]] For 251 Decision taken. On the basis and in general. Thank you, Your Honor. [[Applause]] Dear colleagues, we have yet another bill of 1498 to be considered before the second reading. I'm asking you to stay put. One minute, there's only one correction. We're about to go straight, as you know. The committee head's report, Victor Halasyuk, please. A comparative table is given.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-15-m1.u138	Honorary colleagues, commissioned by the committee for second reading, Bill 1498 on the lifting of the licence for imports of active pharmaceutical ingredients. We discussed it with you, recommending it as a whole, but we accepted it in the first reading. We only have one amendment, Mr. Lensky. It's rejected by the fact that there are already laws and regulations that are doing what he's proposing. Therefore, honourable colleagues, I ask you to support this bill, to adopt it, is a double licence for imports of raw materials for national manufacturers of medical devices.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-15-m1.u139	Thank you. Dear colleagues, National Deputy Lensky, is there a need for an order to put the vote to the vote? None. Dear fellow national MPs, I ask you to take your places to vote. I put to the vote a bill, a draft law amending some of the Ukrainian laws on the cancellation of licences for the import of active pharmaceutical ingredients, registration number 1497 on second reading and in general. I'm asking the people's deputies to prepare themselves. 1498. I'm asking the people's deputies to prepare for the vote. Dear colleagues, please take your seats. Honourable People's Deputies, I put to the vote Bill 1497: draft Act amending certain laws of Ukraine (with a view to revoking the import of active pharmaceutical ingredients) – second reading and in general. Please vote. In the second reading and in general. [[17:53:27]] For 247 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, I'd like to inform you one more. I've just seen the latest news on the niece airport. Listen carefully, please. There is a comment that there is a fight for the Donetsk airport, that the airport is under the control of the Ukrainian army, the president’s adviser and assistant minister of defense, Yuri Biryukov, reported. And he quotes, "I've been talking to the combatants. The security situation, no more than several times: a massive storm. Our artefact (artillery) works all over the cauldron, dancing carousel (in paws) on the perimeter of the IPS. We're not giving up the airport!" [[Applause]] I want to thank our hero boys! Let's give them a round of applause so they can hear it.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-15-m1.u140	Their courage, their strength, our endurance, and our victory. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-15-m1.u141	Dear fellow national MPs. We have an exhausted agenda, an order of day, but I have an announcement to make an interfractional parliamentary union "The Rebirth of Hersonish", and the head of this union has been elected the National Deputy of Ukraine, Andrija Anatoliyevich Gordjeyev. And there's a statement by two factions, honourable colleagues, there's a statement by two factions for a break. It's damn logical, especially when it's a faction, including "The Fatherland." We were just looking at the draft law. And if there's a need, it's a performance, I mean. Doesn't make sense? "Paternity." So now we can do this, what's the problem? Please, I give the word to Jehor Sobolev on demand.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-15-m1.u142	Colleagues, I'd like to draw your attention to this document. This is an initiative to resign the Attorney General of Ukraine, Vitali Jarem. This is a test for each of us that we continue to agree with the sabotage of the Maydan terror investigation, that we continue to agree with the fact that no representative of this gang who shot Midan has been returned and condemned. For economic crimes. Yesterday we received information from the Attorney General's Office that a number of people under the sanctions of the European Union have not yet declared a recess. Suspect, I'm sorry. I have a huge request for you: let's support this initiative. Let's put the Attorney General on the stand to really fight corruption. Let's put the Attorney General in the position of those officials who didn't realize that Maidan had won. Let's stop the total sabotage that is. This is a test for each of us. Please let's sign this and make a decision as a responsible parliament.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-15-m1.u143	Dear fellow national deputies, the order of the day is exhausted. I declare tonight's meeting of the Supreme Council closed. There's a meeting tomorrow at 10 a.m.
