ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-18-m0.u1	Good morning, fellow countrymen! We're starting our plenary session. I want to inform you that we have important issues to consider today. Since the agenda for Tuesday had not been considered, we should today consider the issues identified yesterday in accordance with the Rules, as well as the agenda that was scheduled according to the results of the Conciliation Council for Wednesday. Dear fellow members of the National Parliament, there are a number of issues that we have to include with you in the agenda of the day session in order to send them to the committee for processing, and this week important bills will be considered in accordance with the Rules of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. That is, we need to resolve the issue of drug costing, so that once and for all, we can overcome the tender problem that leads to endless intermediaries, the rise in unbiased prices. And such a bill was introduced by the deputies of the Supreme Council. And we have to put it in the agenda and look at it. There will also be a number of drafts that relate to the army, intelligence, all that enhances the effectiveness of the Ukrainian Armed Forces. I want to point out that we have 2 debts with you, debts that we haven't signed yet two laws, I haven't signed 2 laws, one 1317 that should ban the propaganda of the aggressor country in various movies and shows, and that's fundamentally important. You know, according to the Rules, there was a complaint that we have to consider with you today, and then there's a way to sign this bill and stop any propaganda from the aggressor country, the military force, other forces and so on. Another question is deregulation. You and I have passed Law 1580, such a large law on deregulation. But I want to point out that this bill is not signed either, because in its consideration of the Committee's version and in the version of the amendments that we made in the second reading, there are two norms that contradict each other. And we have in order of 131 articles today, I have the right to remove this injustice, since it has been envisaged that other payment services may be offered to those other than administrative services. In the Committee’s version, this issue was excluded, since there can be no payment services other than administrative services. Which is absolutely fair, and we have to consider this today, and I'm going to ask for your support. And now, dear fellow members of the people's deputies, the Council system will be included for registration. Please turn on the "Council" system for the registration of the National Deputies. [[10:05:22]] 282 people's deputies in the hall. I ask the secretariat to invite the national deputies to work at the Supreme Council Hall. We've got a schedule, honorary colleagues, 30 minutes to speak from the deputies. I want to point out that before we start recording the performances, we're going to point out that the two questions that I said, which are not signed today, 1317 and 1580, I'm going to ask that we include them immediately after the speeches of the Ukrainian national deputies, and then we're going to move on to the agenda. That is, 1580 details of the 131 - article order do not need to be included in the agenda and may be considered separately. And as for 1370, he was standing first on Wednesday, and he needs to be reordered and immediately considered after the speeches of the national MPs. If there's no objection, that's exactly what we'll do. Please, I declare this morning's plenary session of the Supreme Council open. And I'd like you to sign up for the national MPs of Ukraine. Please sign up for the performance. Please, Your Honor, the national deputy of Eutuszek, Fatherland.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-18-m0.u2	Sergey Eutuszek, Equinox, Fatherland. Please pass the word to your colleague Schlemku.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-18-m0.u3	The Honourable People's Deputies, the Honourable Head, apart from the Amendments to Article 9 of the Ukrainian Law on the Special Order of Local Self-Government in Certain Areas of Donetsk and Lugansk Region, adopted yesterday a decree of 2374 on the identification of individual areas of the cities, villages and villages of Donetsk and Lugansk areas in which a special order of local self-government is established. These were 26 locations, a third of them by all. Yet, the main question is already being raised today. How were these inhabited areas shared, and by what principle were they cut? Turns out they split it or cut it alive. Because yesterday, after the vote, there were calls in individual locations and they were extremely difficult and unpleasant: we were cut alive; our settlements were sold together into slavery to the DNR and the LNR. I can tell you, from the village of Cominternovo, in Donetsk, there's a call coming from the former settlers of Ivano-Frankish, who say, "We know only Ukrainian power here, the Ukrainian flag." The people live by the laws of Ukraine, and today, according to this distribution, the Cominternovo is entering the occupation power of the DNR. Similar questions apply to individual cities and locations. This is Virginess, Happiness, Lugansian Station, Red Lyman. Because the Ukrainian authorities are here today, and according to this decree that was voted yesterday, it is not Ukrainian since yesterday, because it has been transferred to self-government and corresponding to the occupation of the DNR and the LNR. Today the question arises to individual and extremely serious officials and authorities who have done so. The first question is to take the lead on the BSS. Who did this, and by what principle did this division take place? Of course, there is a question for the Head of the Supreme Council today. If he doesn't study and sign this law, this regulation, which clearly doesn't define the population points that are Ukrainian today, that means that we are deliberately giving up these territories, not knowing who is behind them, how they stand. And the third and the main. And we asked these people who live in these territories today, the sincere Ukrainians, and they want to get to this cohort.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-18-m0.u4	Thank you. Dear colleagues, since there has been a call to me, I will say a few words. It's a question of reintegrating these territories, not giving them away. There are no Ukrainian and non-Ukrainian population points, all the settlements are Ukrainian, and this is fundamentally important. Please, National Deputy Cupray, Peter Dusty Block.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-18-m0.u5	Dear colleagues! Deputy Kuprey, Peter Dustenka's Block. I would like to inform you of the situation that has arisen with the ratification of the Rome Statute of the International Criminal Court. 155 people's deputies, practically, of all the factions that are here, have signed up for us. have begun the process of amending the Constitution, Article 124, to require the Constitutional Court and our obligations under the Treaty of Association with the European Union, Article 8, to make these changes and ratify the Rome Statute. This ratification will make it possible to bring to justice criminals who are responsible for the massacres of civilians in the area. Let's say the ATO zone on Donbassa. This ratification will allow for the responsibility of Russian aggressors of any calibre, starting with a simple officer sent by the Ministry of Defence, to the very minister of defense of Russia and to Vladimir Putin himself. Unfortunately, this ratification process is now blocked. For about two months now, the corresponding bill, initiated by 155 national deputies, is on the Committee on Legal Policy and Justice, headed by Ruslan Knazevitch. No action is taken to invite representatives, project initiators, to discuss this issue, in order to make a decision in accordance with the Rules and to put the agenda in order for our session to be considered. I have concerns that now I will be able to form, in principle, a working group of national MPs who will take all necessary steps to move in this direction and still meet the demands of society, meet the requirement of international society. To that end, I don't rule out that we will have the opportunity to form a collective lawsuit before a court that will recognize the illegal inaction of the committee that I have already mentioned and its leaders in the handling of this issue. So, dear colleagues, we're fighting, I'm also asking for your support, especially those who have signed up for making changes to the Constitution, we don't stop and move on. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-18-m0.u6	Please, Yuri Suhevich, Radical Party.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-18-m0.u7	May I? Dear Sir, Head, honourable deputies, the Ukrainian people, listening to television, listened to you all carefully, how much joy we had yesterday in adopting the Law on the Individual Status of Donbas. Don't be happy, gentlemen, don't be happy, there won't be any free elections, there won't be any democratic elections, there won't be a cease-fire. There will be a continuation of the war. Only tomorrow will you talk not about Shiroko, not about Mariupol, but about Berdjansk and Melitopolis. Don’t think you can outsmart someone. You want to outsmart the West. The West abandoned you, Europe, in any case, abandoned you as it abandoned Czechoslovakia in the thirties. [[Applause]] And then Haile Selassie the Emperor of Ethiopia said at the meeting of the League of Nations, "You want justice, do you want peace without justice? You will have neither peace nor justice." That's what happened in three years. And that's what you want. You're afraid to call Russia an aggressor, and Ukraine a victim of aggression, you're talking about terrorists, "lugandon" and so on. No, gentlemen, Russia is the main player in this game. You do not want to listen to the delegation that speaks in Minsk at the meeting: what, what, what instructions? You don't want to give back those generals who are stealing the Armed Forces today, stealing the coins that the people are collecting! And you do not want those generals who simply betray Ukraine to be brought to justice and to be sent to Happiness by their blood to atone for their guilt, their work at the FSB! Or else you won't. No, gentlemen, there will be no such thing as joy, do not think. You came on the road yesterday, a disgraceful path, betraying the Celestial 100, betraying Nadia Savchenko, betraying those who shed their blood in Donbas. You have embarked on the path of surrender, on the path of shame, on the path of betrayal of Ukrainian national interests!
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-18-m0.u8	Mikhail Golovko.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-18-m0.u9	Mikhailo Golovko, the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union, 164 constituency, Ternopolishte. Honorable deputies, respected brothers and sisters, Ukrainians! I'd like to highlight the issue that we recently heard, which is the government's 100-day report. And of course, all of us are outraged by the fact that the government report is going well, everything is normal: the economy is working, the state is developing. Although we actually see a completely different situation. We see the poor people, we see how hard it is for the Ukrainians right now, because what happened in the last period has affected all6 price increases, the sharp fall in the bracelets, the increase in fuel, the drugs, the products of the first need have practically driven the Ukrainians out of poverty. Nearly 90 percent of the population now came into question as to whether they could survive in the Ukrainian State. The rapid growth of utilities. All of this leads our people really beyond poverty, because today, wages and pensions are almost as high as in the African countries of Zimbabwe and others -- they're about $40-50 per capita. Of course, this situation is unacceptable, because we believe that the government has failed the task and Prime Minister Yacinuk, as the head of the government in a year of his activities, has not implemented virtually any reforms, including in Maidan, which has declared what needs to be done for Ukraine. Clearly, people have already seen hypocrisy and lying from the Prime Minister's mouth, who is only talking about what he's going to do to fight corruption, what he's going to say is that he's going to fight offshoring money laundering, crossing customs schemes, and that's order 6 billion a year, that's order 12 billion dollars flowing offshoring, that's the same unfair tax reform that hasn't affected the oligarchs again, and the whole tax burden has fallen on the ordinary Ukrainian people and the last one is said to be taking bread from a simple Ukrainian. It's unfair. Of course, the sharp decline in the economy, 22 percent of the decline in production, every fourth enterprise closes today. We see the external debt of the state growing, which is already $136 billion, and the total debt of Ukraine is over 1.2 trillion dollars. It's every Ukrainian today -- whether it's a pensioner or a worker or a newborn -- that's already responsible for about 30,000 dollars. And that's going to increase dramatically because the economy doesn't work because the economy in the shadows, and this is the only social contribution we've talked about, it doesn't work either, because it's practically fiction, we haven't done any weakening for business (and for small and medium-sized businesses). That's why we understand that the government has failed its activities, and the Prime Minister has shown his inequities and, of course, we should as deputies raise questions about the rotation, the change of government and the resignation of the Prime Minister. Thank you. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-18-m0.u10	People's MP Kulinich, Rebirth.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-18-m0.u11	Oleg Kulinic, Rebirth Group, 147 constituency, Poltavščina. Dear Mr. Head, distinguished colleagues, distinguished voters, we have received a loan from the International Monetary Fund. The Prime Minister made it clear that these costs would not go to social pay. This means that people only support structural reforms. Today the state is very difficult, wages and pensions are not indexed, drugs, gas, and other utilities are expensive every day. We have to help people survive. If not at the expense of the funds, it's the structural reforms that the International Monetary Fund expects us to do. This is, first of all, overcoming corruption and real decentralization. Decentralization in land relations will give people the right to rule the land of communities. And in today’s extreme conditions, only the earth will be able to feed mankind. For many citizens, the only way out is to go to the cities and grow potatoes and vegetables on your own for the day. Two days ago, I received an address from the inhabitants of the city of Zankov, Poltava district, 147 constituencies. For decades, citizens have used land outside the city for gardening. It is these cities that have helped people survive the difficult 1990s and are now their main source of livelihood. This year, however, residents of the city learned by chance that the State had transferred 22 acres [22 ha] of land to some people for a 20 - year period of personal farming. People panic at me, to the local authorities, to the mayor of the city, but the city council can't do anything about it, because unfortunately it's not her jurisdiction. Dear colleagues, please tell us why the State official has to decide for himself who to give the land to and who not to whom. There are countless such cases. This is happening all over Poltava, all over the country. No association I have with the heads of the village council is without complaints about such actions. The land for ordinary citizens is gone, the cow is nowhere to be fed, almost everything is distributed. So on another occasion, I draw the attention of Parliamentary colleagues to Bill 1159, which will hand over the right to rule over the land to local councils and enable them to solve such problems. We're ready to compromise, let the bill take effect after the local elections. Let's do that. Moreover, another 2279 bill has already been drafted that will allow for the wide implementation of the land auction system and make the land distribution process fair and clear. The tedious situation that is taking place around Project 1159 is simply the abuse of people and the attempt to sabotage their approval. The project was repeatedly included in the agenda and each time at the end, and in the case of Wednesdays and Fridays. Today, Wednesday and it also stands in the order of the day, but the third from the end. Coincidence? I don't think so. It's a purposeful attempt to make sure that the project isn't voted out, it's abuse of people and neglect of their interests. If the Supreme Council ignores people’s problems, there will be more and more cases like Uzinkov every day. People are very radical. So let's finally vote 1159 in the first reading.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-18-m0.u12	People's Deputy Ephraim Irina, People's Front. Mikola Knieżicki.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-18-m0.u13	Dear National Deputies! I want to tell you from this rostrum about the information manipulations that we continue to live among. We still haven't made full public speaking, we still don't have the opposite of information aggression in our information space. I want to give you a few examples that you've all seen, and some of them even took part in it. When one of the television channels shows a Polish politician named Conrad Mikke, who is called a prominent Polish politician, who is invited here by the foreign minister of Lithuania, and says that your Polish colleague has a different point of view in support of Ukraine, we understand very well what is going on in information manipulation because Conrad Mikke is a disguising Polish pro-Russian politician. When on another television channel, on the big talk show, the Czech deputy Ransdorf, a member of the European Parliament, is invited on the air, and the leader tells us his point of view of criticism by our state, the government, the President, as a point of view of the European Union, the leader is silent about the fact that this politician is the leader of the Communist Party of the Czech Republic, becoming a minority of the European Parliament, a pro-Russian minority, and our politicians come out and then support his words. I want to give you a little quote from the same Ransdorf who gives an interview with the Russian edition, saying, "Victoria Shilova, MP of the City Council of Dnepropetrovska, leader of the Antivona movement," she said to me, "You know what happened to our country, with Janukovich under the power of the thieves, now they're under the authority of the murderers. And that's very true.".. The person who calls everyone who sits here a murderer on a national channel criticizing the state, the government and the president, and we submit to it. Until we stop the information manipulations until we create full public speaking and demand that the channel owners don't take money from the pro-Russian pear agencies, until it's difficult to build a normal democratic country with you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-18-m0.u14	Nestor Schuffritch, Opposition Block.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-18-m0.u15	Thank you. Dear Chairman, dear colleagues! The opposition bloc is invited to create a commission of inquiry a few months ago to study the conditions of death during this year, beginning with Maidan and ending the events of today during which people die, during the Donbas conflict. Peaceable people, first of all. We have proposed the head of this commission of the colonel general, in the previous head of the military college of the Supreme Court of Ukraine, a member of the Constitutional Court, German Vasil Ivanovich. We've asked all of you to be eligible for this commission of inquiry. Among you are prosecutors, investigators in the past, police chiefs. And I'm convinced that we would be able to give the public the answer that finally happened in Maidan, as far as it's possible, that the Qaimenka has already removed the sanctions of the European Union, which means they don't believe in it anymore. On February 20, I voted for the ceasefire and the withdrawal of troops from Kiev. And I want to know who killed people on Maidan. It's been a year, and we don't have an official proven answer. And today we want to know what happened on May 2nd in Odessa. We want to know why people, peaceful people, were killed when they could not be allowed to. And certainly we want to see the responsibility of those who led to the death of the little girl, the Raven Pole, in Constantinople, certainly today, when more of an age was needed by Genstab to admit that the driver of the armoured transporter was still drunk. This is unacceptable, it is set for several minutes and must be an immediate responsibility. Peaceable people have no right to die, and we must protect them. Our citizens today who bear the greatest burden of this military confrontation must know the truth, have the truth about how many people have died, and why they have died, who has not been guilty, I stress that whoever is not guilty must be held accountable, whether it is representatives of the so-called LNR or DNR, or whether it is representatives of the Ukrainian military formations. Peaceable people must be protected. Polina Voronov has died and has lost dozens, perhaps hundreds, of our Ukrainian children. I ask you to honor the moment of silence for the memory of those children who died in our country during the military.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-18-m0.u16	Please. Please sit down. Please, Andrew Illenko. Here's when, I want to tell you, my fellow nationals, no offense, but when we have half aton quieter, it's much better to work. And I would like to ask the leaders of factions, leaders of groups, individual people's deputies, please, support discipline and proper behavior in the hall, and you can talk in the clock. But when I had a discussion with faction leaders and groups on this subject, and they all support as one that the proper level of discipline in the room is supported. Therefore, I will be grateful for your understanding, your distinguished fellow national deputies. Please, Andrew Illenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-18-m0.u17	Thank you. Andrew Illenko, the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union. I wanted to talk a little bit about something else, but I can't help but comment. We need to tell the truth to the end and call things what they are. Ukrainian children are killed by Russian invaders who came to our land with war. And those who are afraid to tell the truth out loud are no more or less Russian invaders. And now, dear friends, I would like to say about yesterday's parliamentary day. Because we actually saw a similar situation yesterday when truth is not called to the end, and when our things are not called our names. We saw yesterday that once again Parliament actually reaffirmed and legitimized the disgraceful laws of September 16 of last year on the so-called special status of Donbas. And the laws that had already been passed in November last year by PNB said that they should be abolished. The Security Committee of the Supreme Council has already decided that this law should be repealed. And yesterday, amendments were made to this law. Moreover, a so - called line of separation was adopted yesterday. And when it is said that the occupying bloc did not seem to support this law, they voted for the line of separation yesterday. Let the Ukrainian society know that the line of distinction is not actually going to work without this line. That's exactly what the Opposition Block voted for. I would also like to say a few words, a respectable society, which is actually a fundamental flaw, a fundamental flaw in all these laws. Well, it's basically that we exist in the matrix given to us by the Kremlin. Because we're supposed to stop the war by law about some kind of Donbas special status. So we're essentially playing with Russian propaganda, which tells us that it's supposed to be a war in Ukraine because some particular regions aren't satisfied with their status. That they should be given more rights, and it seems that the war will end. In fact, we know that this is not the case. We know that Russian aggression is aimed at the complete destruction of Ukraine. We realize that there are no separate regions of Donbas with any particular special status, there is Russian aggression, Russian military, which is covered every single time by a variety of figures, but it's essentially a war to destroy Ukraine. So, Your Honor, I urge that we be here in the Supreme Council to speak the whole truth. If we admitted yesterday, and that's correct, these areas are occupied, how can we at the same time define them as occupied and talk about some special status, election and other things in these territories? Let's not get into such an absurdity, we have to stand firm on our national interests and only then, and that's the only way we're going to win. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-18-m0.u18	People's Deputy Shipko, Rebirth Group.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-18-m0.u19	Good afternoon! Andrew Shipko, Dnipropetrovština, 35th constituency, Nicopol, Ordjonikidze Nicopolski district Dear national MPs, dear voters! We remember very well how Arsenius Yatzenuk had urged us to change our pension laws not long ago. We also remember how sweetly he told us that special training did not diminish or increase. However, he forgot to tell us that there is an increase in income for people working on harmful production. And it is these changes that must come into force on April 1. Ladies and gentlemen, you and I are already used to the Prime Minister's fairy tales, and this is a separate question. But what do we have? We have a terrible and anti-national law. Because harmful production is primarily a metallurgical and mining sector. And that's 30 percent of our nation's GDP. I'd like to stress 30 percent. It seems that the government will deliberately come up with any further harm to the state and people. Instead of promoting the prestige of the profession and encouraging young people to go into the metallurgical, mining and mining sector, instead of respecting the workers who feed Ukraine, the government goes into their pockets. The same attitude toward those who work on earth. Reformers seem to destroy the Ukrainian village on purpose, perhaps to sell our black lands for nothing. No, that's not gonna happen. The honourable voters, based on your numerous appeals, I have made a decision, and today we are proposing a bill from our group "Rebirth," which should correct this aberration, because in the country there is a catastrophic liberation of city leaders, districts, rural heads, economic leaders who know, know and can pass on their knowledge to the next generation. They'll all be out of work by April 1. On April 1, Humor Day, in our country, Ukraine, becomes a national holiday. But it's not funny anymore. And I call upon all of you, honourable national deputies, especially Majorists, to support our proposal. With you, we must respect the people whose work is given to the land by grain, metal that lays down its health and life for the well - being and prosperity of our nation, in order to restore Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-18-m0.u20	Please, Matvienkov, the Opposition Block.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-18-m0.u21	Dear Chairman, distinguished colleagues! We are living with you in a difficult time, but especially since the signing of the memorandum and the signing of the relevant laws that were adopted here, the situation in the country has deteriorated considerably. Communal payments have increased, food prices, drugs are rising like yeasts, the income of the population is frozen and, in most cases, they are reduced. The economy is almost in a coma today. I have repeatedly tried to reach this rostrum and say that without the recovery of the basic sectors of the economy, we will not be able to achieve effective results. After two laws or two steps that have been adopted here, we have heard projections of the Cabinet of Ministers, pessimistic and more or less optimistic, in which we have understood that domestic gross products will fall by 11 per cent over the period, and inflation will rise to 42 per cent. What can people do? The most important question is how can a person survive in these circumstances? I'm looking at the ad, the beautiful ad, they say, go get subsidies, 12 billion, and you'll solve all your questions. But please tell me, who worked on this model and who will answer the question: How will this system work in these conditions? In the same town of Mariupole, before the adoption of these laws, the unit that deals with the burden subsidies has almost doubled. If 200 people had been served before, it's about 500 people today. The age of an entirely different person has already come, people who receive $2 a day bear tremendous burden. Will this service be able to solve all the problems that exist today? And today, it's not about being involved in television shows, because we have the entire Cabinet of Ministers doing something on TV shows, but actually looking at and modeling how this model works in society. How's it gonna work? For example, the salary from which the subsidy is calculated shall be taken on an annual basis. Yeah, there's so much water running away in a year that you can imagine. Charges. The grant is accrued when we take a report on the fact that it is not received but that it is accrued. To date, wages have risen from 700 million to 2.5 billion. We haven't had miners in months. Next question, very much. We have adopted two laws on displaced citizens here, in this room. But we have absolutely not made any amendments to the existing regulations. Today, there is a huge contradiction: people go by the law in force, demand their rights, and regulations do not allow them to have the benefits provided for by this law. We need to deal with unemployment, jobs. One and a half million displaced persons, 4 per cent of whom have only found jobs. Today, we have turned the employment centre into a money-delivery mechanism; it does not provide jobs today and much more. Today we need to develop a mechanism to protect consumer prices. We've got a target to target today.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-18-m0.u22	Ten seconds, finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-18-m0.u23	Today we need to focus on everything and make every effort to answer the specific question: How can a thousand thousand thousand bracelets survive in our country today? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-18-m0.u24	Dear fellow national MPs! I'll allow myself to say a few words about yesterday's decisions. I want to point out that the issues that we discussed yesterday have nothing to do with the special status of individual territories have nothing to do with the delimitation of certain territories, namely separation. This is about defining the areas where they are to be in accordance with the Constitution of Ukraine, the laws of Ukraine are recognized by the international community of local elections and the reintegration of the territory into normal life. This is about the implementation of the Minsk Accords, which the whole world defines as basic for the settlement of unscrupulous Russian aggression in Ukraine (no one is afraid of it). And I want to remind everyone that it is this Supreme Council who has declared the Russian Federation an aggressor country. This should be remembered and not spoken from the rostrum that does not correspond to reality. Yesterday, we identified with you, with an amendment from fellow national MPs, about the temporarily occupied territories, including the aggressor country, the Russian Federation. These are the decisions made by the Ukrainian Parliament. And I think we're as honest here as we've ever been, not only in words and statements from the rostrum, but also in our actions, in our votes. And you don't have to substitute "special order" with "special status." Ladies and gentlemen, we are moving on to the agenda. Please take your seats. I would like to draw your attention once again to the fact that we voted with you in Bill 1317, which prohibits the broadcasting of film products and serials that promote the armed forces, other law enforcement agencies of the aggressor country. On the day of our vote, a decree was registered (by Yuri Boyko and Michael Papiev), which stopped the possibility of signing the bill as Head of the Supreme Council. In accordance with the procedure, we need to consider today a decree registered by the national deputies. In the event of its non-admission, this decree, the Head of the Supreme Council opens the way for the signing of this law, and I will sign it. I have another offer. I'd like to ask, honourable colleagues, to prepare for the vote and determine that 1317 will now consider the first question of the agenda for this day, because it stands at the end of the agenda. I beg of you, fellow officers of honor. Please. I ask you to prepare for the vote, your honors, on the first question of 1317. Are you ready to vote, Your Honor? Dear National Deputies! [[B in m in s a l in]] Dear National Deputies! Please take your seats. This is the first question of the order of our sitting today. Dear fellow national MPs! Ready to vote? Move it all the way forward. [[B in m in s a l in]] Please, colleagues. Now. Listen! Now it's not really a case of, but it's about looking at it first. [[B in m in s a l in]] Dear colleagues! It's about looking at 1317 first. Colleagues, ready? 1317 look first. Please vote on question 1317. Please vote, please support. [[10:46:17]] For 230 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, national MPs! It is appropriate to consider this motion for a reduced procedure. Please identify yourself with regard to consideration and the reduced procedure. [[10:46:46]] For 228 Decision taken. Please, National Deputy Yuri Pavlovenko. Please report. Then the first deputy head of the regulated committee, Pinzenic Paul.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-18-m0.u25	Dear Chairman! Honorable National Deputies of Ukraine! With regard to the draft decision, I would like to remind you that on February 5, this year, contrary to the Rules of Procedure, a draft Act amending certain Ukrainian laws on the protection of Ukraine's information radio area was introduced and considered in the second reading. Instead, the comparative table for the project was given only on February 4, 15. In this case, the requirement of article 117 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Rules under which a bill is prepared for second or second reading, the conclusions of the Main Committee and other accompanying documents are made available to the Ukrainian National Deputies no later than 10 days before the day of consideration of the bill in plenary session. Furthermore, when considering a project in plenary session in violation of the order established by article 120 of the Supreme Council Rules, a request for discussion of amendments rejected by the Committee by the People’s Deputies of the Ukraine of Morocco was ignored. And my request as a national MP to confirm the amendments. Thus, one of the fundamental rights of the subject of the legislative initiative set forth in part five of article 120 of the Rules — the right of the initiator to clarify it — was violated. Similarly, article 121 of the Rules was violated, which makes it clear how to respond when considering the bill. Taking into account the fact that serious comments were made before the project, taking into account the fact that articles 117, 120 and 121 were violated. I'll finish, can I finish?
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-18-m0.u26	Please, 10 seconds, finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-18-m0.u27	In our view, the draft law is to be repealed in the manner prescribed by the Rules. Besides, I'll make a note of that.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-18-m0.u28	Let me finish the report.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-18-m0.u29	violates the requirements of the Constitution. I would also like to point out that even the best drafts can't be adopted illegally. Therefore, we ask that the vote be lifted and that we vote in the second reading to comply with the requirements of the Constitution and the Rules of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-18-m0.u30	Thank you. Please, Paul Pinzenik. I'm asking Paul Pinzenik, please explain what procedure is going on, so that all the deputies can understand what the question is.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-18-m0.u31	Honorary colleagues, the Committee at its meeting on 4 March 2015 considered a draft decree of the Supreme Council of Ukraine repealing the decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine of 5 February 2015 on the adoption, as a whole, of the draft Act amending certain Ukrainian laws on the protection of Ukrainian information television broadcasting (registration No. 1317). The Act was passed by the People's Deputies Boyk, Papievovovov and the application of the noted Ukrainian National Deputies from 11 February 2015 to the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, requiring not to sign in accordance with article 130 of the Rules of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, since its adoption took place by violating the requirements of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, and therefore the law cannot be considered acceptable and the decision is subject to cancellation. According to part eight of article 48 of the Supreme Council’s Rules of Procedure, a committee to which the subject matter of the Rules belongs is to draw a conclusion as to whether the Supreme Council of Ukraine is to accept or reject a draft Decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine repealing the decision on the adoption of a law, regulation or other act as a whole. The committee agreed on the draft decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine (registration number 1317P) by People’s Deputies Boyk, Papiev, and suggested that the Supreme Council of Ukraine decide on the draft decision by voting. Dear colleagues, if briefly, the point is that individual violations of the rules of the Rules took place during the consideration of draft Law 1317. However, the committee does not consider such violations to be critical and suggests that the Supreme Council decide whether or not the ruling may be supported by a vote in the Chamber. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-18-m0.u32	Thank you. Please sign two for, two against, honorary colleagues. National Deputy Gusak, Opposition Block, Vladimir Georgievovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-18-m0.u33	Please give the floor to the MP Moroko.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-18-m0.u34	People's MP Moroko.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-18-m0.u35	Dear colleagues, it is easy to predict conflicts from the coalition. Now it will be said who teaches us the rules, and the rules will be taught by those who have violated it. Yes, we did. And just as you've been thinking about the purpose justifying the means, you've been confident that we won't be punished for it. This self-confidence, impunity and political power have led to great political consequences. I'm sure the order of 226 votes won't come because most people in the room aren't ready to live up to the high ideals that sound every day in this room. They remain convinced that there is no civil society in Ukraine. They will not be punished for violations of the laws, the Rules Act, including. But I'm sure millions of TV and voters think otherwise. They're sure. I'm sure they all see, they all understand, and they will make their choice. Hence, smart people learn from other people’s mistakes, while others learn from their own. You have a choice, respectable people's deputies.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-18-m0.u36	Thank you. Please, National Deputy Artemenko, Radical Party.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-18-m0.u37	Please give the floor to the MP, Musiychuk Igor.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-18-m0.u38	People's MP Moseschuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-18-m0.u39	Dear Ukrainian people, the Ukrainian Parliament, we are witnessing how the fifth column of Moscow is now delaying the adoption of a very important law to protect the country’s information space. This decision, which we are currently considering, is aimed at only one thing. In order to continue working for Moscow, our television channels, which belong to the oligarchs, were able to carry out the propaganda they had conducted for 24 years. This decree is a Trojan horse that is used to stop the very law necessary for a warring country. In this regard, the position of the Radical Party faction has to be rejected. In turn, I want to point out that the decision is a separate one, and that's why they were before, and no one was paying attention to it. And that's something you've been paying attention to. So I've got a question for the chairman, and if there's a motion like that under yesterday's laws, you won't sign them either? Right? All right, no questions asked, we're preparing a draft decree for the treasonous laws passed by parliament yesterday. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-18-m0.u40	Ladies and gentlemen, I'm going to urge you to go over the Rules, and it's written down that on the same day that you vote, you could have registered any decision and we're going to have to look at it. Thank you, Your Honor. Please, National Deputy Paul Kishkar, Self-Help.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-18-m0.u41	Paul Kishkar. Please pass it on to Mrs. Hopko.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-18-m0.u42	Anna Hopko, Self-Help.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-18-m0.u43	Good afternoon, dear fellows! The Self-Help faction will reject this bill today and call upon all other political forces to reject this project as an attempt to delay the entry into force of a very important law. Ukraine is at war, and it's very important to us that in the information space of the states we finally see the patriotic series, we've seen the heroization of those soldiers and those families that are giving their lives today. Instead, on the oligarch channels, we're still seeing Russian films, we're still seeing KGB popularization, we're seeing FSB, we're seeing Russian "mentals" and we're seeing the prosecution. Therefore, the time has come today to reject this decree and urge the Speaker of Parliament to sign it immediately. The president of Ukraine promised that once the speaker signed, he would immediately sign his signature and that Ukrainian television space would finally be freed from Russian propaganda. Secondly, what I call for Parliament and the Committee on Culture, Information Security to initiate laws that encourage the emergence of truly patriotic television channels to give due credit to those heroes who have died, and to promote the promotion of volunteers who help the Ukrainian army, also to thank those diaspora representatives who help Ukraine. So thank you very much, and I hope that we will finally reject the law of validity as soon as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-18-m0.u44	Please, Mikola Knieżicki.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-18-m0.u45	Yesterday, during the initiatives of Vice-Prime Minister and Minister of Culture Viacheslav Kirilenka, a meeting was held by representatives of all television channels of various sectors, the cable sector, the Internet sector for supporting domestic film production. They found a common language with channel representatives. Ukrainian producers and writers are already negotiating with the biggest Ukrainian channels to make a whole series of Ukrainian patriotic films, and the channels will do so. They'll do it thanks to each of you who's here, thanks to everyone who's pressed the pros button. Remember how we met this bill? Standing and applause, believing that the aggressor country's information expansion would finally be stopped. But the Opposition Block decided to hinder this desire of the Ukrainian people to have their own culture. It won't work! Look what happened now: one of the authors of the rulings of Yuri Boyko was in this room, but he was ashamed to report, another author of the decree, Michael Papiev, was so ashamed that he took the second vacation and fled to Austria to avoid reporting here. But we're still going to be looking at this bill here. I am sorry that Yuri Pavlovka was not ashamed, but I am sorry that she knew Yura. But I'm convinced that we're all going to press the red button against this decision, and we're going to clear the Ukrainian information space. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-18-m0.u46	Thank you. Dear fellow national MPs! I want to make it clear that there is no need to reject this decision because if it does not get 226 votes, it is already considered as a rule of the Supreme Council rejected. So in order to reject it, you don't need it. There's no need to vote for her. That's it! Please, my fellow Members, I think that there have been enough discussions and positions on this decision, and the opportunities to be used to sign the Supreme Council of this law, which was voted by the Ukrainian Parliament. And I fully support the fact that signing this law not only prohibits the product that promotes the Russian aggressor, but also gives impetus to our Ukrainian film industry, which is extremely important. Dear colleagues, your consideration is subject to a decree, registration number 1317-p, a draft decree repealing the decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine of February 05, 2015 and the adoption as a whole as a bill of the draft Ukrainian Act amending certain Ukrainian laws on the protection of Ukrainian information television. Please be put to the vote. [[11:00:35]] For-41 The decision is not taken. The decree is deemed to have been rejected in accordance with the Rules. Thank you. Next question, Your Honor, 1580. 1580, may I ask your attention, a draft on the elimination of disagreements in the text of the adopted Ukrainian Act on Amendments to Certain Ukrainian Legislative Acts on the Simplification of Business Conditions, registration number 1580. According to 131 articles of the Supreme Council of Ukraine’s Rules, the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, in the event of inaccuracies, may make a decision to settle these issues. I want to point out that the committee's decision to adopt a quality bill that we voted with you, but one amendment that was being prepared and should have been taken into account, which did not allow double pay for obedience, was not included in this bill's vote. So the decision that has just been made is going to settle this issue and we're going to have a qualitative solution to the issue of deregulation, especially for small and medium-sized businesses. I mean, it's important right now, fellow members of the national parliament, if you'd like to have your attention. It is important to support the proposal made by the Head of the Supreme Council in the order of 131 articles, which will mean that no additional personal services can be provided by anyone at all. This means that no one will be able to abuse payment services for entrepreneurs, for Ukrainian citizens. So it's very important to support this issue. I ask you to prepare for the vote. I ask you to prepare for the vote. Dear colleagues, please prepare to count. Please, Victor Halasyuk will now inform you as the head of the profiling committee. Please, two minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-18-m0.u47	Thank you. Dear chairman, distinguished colleagues of the national MPs. The bill (1580), which you and I adopted in the Hall, which requires immediate action, which the President of Ukraine stressed during the last meeting of the National Reform Board, in order for it to be signed, we now need to remove some technical and legal disagreements, in accordance with Rule 131 of the Rules. The main disagreement is that one of the amendments that was made for confirmation last time was not confirmed. At the same time, another amendment to the same content did not apply. The committee insists on its original editorial on the exclusion of an article on the provision of unlimited number of administrative services, meaning, according to a separate procedure. We insist on the committee's drafting, which has been consulted with the factions. Two other amendments, they apply essentially to the numbering of articles, cleaning up technical and legal disagreements. Dear colleagues, please support the adoption of these technical amendments so that the law can gain legal power and in order to reduce regulatory pressure on business, in order to reduce checks, permits, in order to make business easier to live and Ukraine has higher ratings in world ranking tables. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-18-m0.u48	Thank you, Your Honor. The point is that we need to support this bill now and I can sign it in order to reduce any pressure and unlimited payment for administrative services. Please prepare the people's deputies for the vote. I want to inform the national MPs that 450 materials were distributed on March 13, 2015 to each national MP on this issue. Honorary colleagues, you are considering a decision to remove disagreements in the text of the adopted Ukrainian Act amending certain Ukrainian legislative acts to simplify business conditions (deregulation) (registration number 1580). I'm asking you to support this bill, please support this ruling. Please vote, please support, colleagues. It's a deregulation. Ladies and gentlemen, please take your seats. Please vote and please support 1580, please support. [[11:06:00]] For 252 Decision taken. Ladies and gentlemen, I have received a statement from two factions: "The Fatherland" and "The Self-Help" faction. But we can replace it with a three-minute speech by Julia Volodymyrovna Timoshenko. Please, Julia Volodymyr.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-18-m0.u49	Dear colleagues, I'd like to have your attention for three minutes. I realize that there are a lot of important things, but what I'm going to talk about seems to apply to every Ukrainian. The laws were passed yesterday. Today, 9.31 a.m.: The OSCE has made an official statement that heavy artillery is used at Donetsk Airport for full capacity. Today, three died again, 12 wounded, and more than 20 shots were fired from heavy artillery at Ukraine’s populated sites. People are dying, blood is flowing, war is coming, but, at the same time, we cannot be with you as a country relying only on strategies that have not worked so far. And so I would like us not to look at the first questions about the return of Russian shows to Ukrainian channels, but to finally go back to what we had to do a year ago. We have every reason today, I stress, to all the only legitimate grounds to appeal to the International Criminal Court in The Hague to bring the leadership of the Russian Federation into criminal international proceedings and to hold them accountable for every murdered son in Ukraine, for every murdered father, for every child who has been deprived of his life. [[Applause]] For every human body that is covered with blood. The fact that we haven't been with you for a year before the Hague Tribunal is our common crime. I would like to remind you that on February 4th, we adopted a decree with you as a Parliament recognizing the international jurisdiction of the Hague Tribunal for Ukraine in a separate order. There is no obstacle. As a parliament, we applied our petitions to the Ministry of Justice and obliged them to contact the International Criminal Court Secretariat to report that we have accepted jurisdiction. We in Ukraine had to have special investigators from the Hague Tribunal, and along with the U.S. Attorney’s Office, we had to work on a collection of evidence. Nothing done. We didn't report to Ministo that we recognized the international jurisdiction of the Criminal Court. We didn't collect the evidence or pass it on. And that is why I believe that until we take this step with you, we are to blame for everyone who has died in this massacre in the east of Ukraine. We owe it to every mother who lost her child. I now request the leadership of the Supreme Council tomorrow or Friday to invite the Ministry of Justice, the government, the Prime Minister, the Attorney General with a report on this. What we do for a reason.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-18-m0.u50	Please let me finish. 20 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-18-m0.u51	I believe that if the MPs do not take this into their own hands, this question will be as angry as many other questions about the real protection of Ukraine. Draw road and environment to responsibility real! (Applause) This is not fantasy and illusion! Realize the world of terror.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-18-m0.u52	Let me finish, please. Finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-18-m0.u53	Mr. Speaker, let it be fixed now and let you tell us tomorrow morning when we can devote the day to this consideration, plus the sanctions. No Russian enterprise is confiscated, no sanctions are applied. Trade is under full programme between Ukraine and Russia, including in occupied areas. Or sanctions -- or we're going in the current and we're playing treaty with Putin. Stop this policy! I hope so. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-18-m0.u54	The proposal came out, I'm officially going to send Julia Volodymyrna to the government today, and I think maybe I'll do it during the "hour of questions to the government," or separately, maybe on Friday I'll make this statement. And I also propose that, within factions and within the framework of the committees of profile, perhaps with the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, the Ministry of Justice should make such a small expert group to work out decisions that the Ukrainian Parliament can make in this context. Please, this is two tasks: to correct the address and to suggest the formation of such a group. Thank you, Your Honor. Ladies and gentlemen, your consideration is being submitted for inclusion in the agenda of the day session. This means that we include these issues in the agenda of the day session, and we will consider them when they pass the committees and are properly prepared. So I'd like to ask them to support me. By procedure we can go after each individual, or we can, and now I'm going to announce the list of materials that are given to you, and we can go through. Separated by each other? All right, good fellows. Then I ask everyone to prepare for the vote, honourable colleagues, for the inclusion in the agenda of the session. This means that we are starting to prepare for these issues. Please, Your Honor, the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Military and Military Service Act on military reserve service during a special period. I would like to stress that these are the bills that are included in the agenda of the day session and open the way for their consideration. 2377 registration number submitted by the President of Ukraine. Please support the inclusion in the agenda of the session. Please vote. 2377. 2377, please hold. [[11:12:49]] For 249 Decision taken. Thank you. I ask my colleagues to work closely so that we can now quickly get into the agenda. Next. With regard to the inclusion in the agenda of the daily bill, registration number 2380, introduced by the Government of Ukraine, the draft Law on jurisdictional immunity and the responsibility of foreign states. (2380). I'm betting on a vote of 2380. For inclusion in the agenda of the day session. [[11:13:38]] For 190 The decision is not taken. Next. 2381, introduced by the Government of Ukraine, a bill amending the Ukrainian Tax Code (to simplify business conditions). Please, 2381, for inclusion in the agenda of the day session, please vote. In terms of simplifying business conditions, an important decision needs to be considered. [[11:14:14]] For 283 Decision taken. Thank you, Your Honor. 2382, draft Law on Amendments to Certain Legislative Acts of Ukraine (for specific legal aspects of improving Ukraine’s position in Doing Business). 2382, introduced by the Government. Please vote, please support. [[11:14:53]] For 244 Decision taken. Thank you, Your Honor. 2376, draft Act amending Appendix No. 3 to the State Budget Act on State Support for Coal." On the basis of the name, the bill, 2376, is also important. I would like to emphasize, colleagues, that this is an inclusion in the agenda of the day session. And then we're going to look at you in committee. Please vote, please support. Please vote, please support. [[11:15:42]] For 252 Decision taken. 2383, members of the National People's Parliament, is a draft law amending certain Ukrainian laws on Ukrainian intelligence. There is also an important bill to consider with you. Please put to the vote the proposal for inclusion in the agenda. Then we'll look at the committees. People's deputies, please support 2383. Please vote on intelligence. [[11:16:26]] For the 250. Decision taken. Next, dear fellow national MPs. 2102 is a draft law amending some Ukrainian legislative acts to ensure transparency in the activities of the Antimonopoly Committee of Ukraine. Imported by the author, National Deputy Ptachnik Victoria Yuriovna ("Samomhelp"). 2102. Please vote, please support with regard to the transparency of the Antimonopoly Committee's activities. [[11:17:10]] For 240 Decision taken, 2102. Next, there are 2284 respected colleagues. Draft Act on Amendments. Draft Act amending the Criminal Procedural Code of Ukraine on Certain Aspects of Precautionary Measures, Preservation and Prosecution of Individual Decisions in Criminal Conduct, by National Deputy Vinnik Ivan Yuliyovich, 2284. I would like to point out, colleagues, that this is a consideration of the order of the day session. Next, the committees will consider, prepare for the first reading, and so forth. Please be supportive. 2284 for inclusion in the agenda. Please be supportive. 2284 - please support. [[11:18:27]] For 199 199 – no decision taken. We have 2,380 and 2,284 decisions that have not been made. We'll talk about it separately. 2266 is a draft law amending the Ukrainian Criminal Procedure Code to improve the procedure for the adoption of a precautionary measure in the form of a precautionary measure: 2266, National Deputy Levchenko, initiator. Please identify 2266 as to the inclusion in the agenda of the session. [[11:19:32]] For-97 97 – no decision taken. Next, 2330 [[11:19:44]] 2330 The draft Law on Amendments to the Criminal Procedural Code of Ukraine (for the application of the pledge and the offences to which the detention is subject) is the national deputy Heratchenko Anton Juriovich. For inclusion in the agenda of the day session. Colleagues, we're going to consult separately on those that haven't gone through. Please, Your Honor, 2330, for joining the agenda of the day session. For inclusion in the agenda of the session. This isn't about him right now. We'll look at the committees, we'll figure it out. [[11:20:26]] For 223 Not accepted either – 223. Come on, colleagues. Next. 2150. Draft Act amending certain legislative acts. Be careful, we will now begin our first reading of the questions later and consult on these laws. 2150. Attention, colleagues! Concentrate, please. The draft Law on Amendments to Certain Legislative Acts of Ukraine (to ensure timely access of patients to the necessary medical devices and medical devices by means of public procurement with the involvement of specialized purchasing organisations), the National Deputy Boghomec, author of the bill. Dear colleagues, these are important bills that need to be reconciled with regard to drug prices what I said at the very beginning and the people's deputies worked very hard on this issue. So please support the inclusion of this issue in the agenda of the session. Please be supportive. It's a very important question on drugs. [[11:21:38]] For 273 Decision taken. Thank you, Your Honor. 2151. This is a related bill, also prepared by the People’s Deputy of the Mantis to exempt taxes from the added cost of importing and supplying medical supplies and supplies. These are related laws. Please also support their inclusion in the agenda of the day session (2,151). Vote please, colleagues. [[11:22:18]] For 268. Thank you. Decision taken. Registration number 2048 of the draft Act amending article 13 of the Ukrainian Law on "On Diplomatic Service" (for appointment to diplomatic posts), author of the National Deputy of Ukraine, Hanna Gopko. Please. Please vote. [[11:22:52]] For 273 Decision taken. Next, please (registration 2196) draft of the Act amending the laws of Ukraine "On Mobilization Training and Mobilization" and "On Military Duty and Military Service" on educational guarantees for PhDs of the day form of education. Dear colleagues, also an extremely important bill prepared by the National MP, Lilia Grinevich. Please support the 2196 inclusion in the agenda of the 2196 session. [[11:23:41]] For 278 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, 2,375 draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on Electricity on Energy Relations in the Area of Anti-Terrorism Operation. An extremely important bill prepared by the National MP, Martinenko Mikola Volodymyrovich. Please support the inclusion of this bill in the agenda of the day session on the characteristics of energy regulation in the area of anti-terrorist operations. We need to settle this question. It's an inclusion in the agenda of the day session. We will continue to consider in accordance with the Rules of Procedure of the Committees. Please be supportive. [[11:24:31]] For 224 Not accepted. Next, colleagues, 2226 draft Law amending the Code of Taxation of Ukraine (for exemption from taxation of property of religious organizations). It's also important, by the way, the bill. To ensure that all religious organizations are in equal conditions. So that we do not tax religious organizations on real estate. This is a perfectly fair decision, and I'd like to support it, too, 2226. Author of Ukrainian National Deputy Pavel Jakimović. The inclusion in the agenda, and then in the committees, we'll look at it. Please support, Your Honor, regarding the exemption from tax on the property of religious organizations. Please be supportive. [[11:25:31]] For 263 Decision taken. Thank you, Your Honor. A series of decisions that are undecided, by them, once, five decisions. Now we're going to hold separate consultations to determine what we're going to do next. So let's move on to the day-to-day issues. Yuri Lucenko. On a daily basis? Please, Yuri Lucenko, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-18-m0.u55	Dear Mr. Golovo, on behalf of the faction of the Peter Prashenko Block and the People's Front, I would like to return to the day-to-day bill that regulates the changes in the Criminal Procedure Code to remove the obligation of such a precautionary measure as collateral. We suggest that we return to Law 2284, which is supported by the Attorney General's Office, in order to bring the matter to a logical conclusion and to clear the country of high-ranking thieves. Please, let's go back.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-18-m0.u56	Please, Victoria Sumar, People's Front.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-18-m0.u57	Dear colleagues, since they're considering the package bills submitted by the government, our joint coalition government with you, is a request to return and still incorporate into the agenda, I remind you, this is not about the vote, but about the inclusion in the agenda, and the 2380, and the 2330, and the 2375. The People's Front insists that these package bills be included in the agenda of the day and considered.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-18-m0.u58	Please, National Deputy Podlisecki, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-18-m0.u59	Ladies and gentlemen, I would very much like to return to the agenda of Bill 2375. This is actually a second attempt to solve the question of the electricity market in the occupied area, since Ukraine is obliged to pay for the generation that produces electricity there but does not get anything from there. And this is a copy of the 2182 law that was broken last sessional week. So I asked very much for it to go back to. 2375 is a bill that lacks only two votes, so we need to get back to that.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-18-m0.u60	Thank you. Thank you, fellows of honor! Ladies and gentlemen, a number of proposals from factions have been made. Please, Opposition Block, Matvienkov.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-18-m0.u61	Thank you, Reverend Vladimir Borisovich, for this opportunity to express the exact position of the opposition bloc faction on what is being done in the plenary. Everyone here is talking about compliance with the Rules. Dear colleagues, the bill was voted on. According to the Rules, read the Rules, Vladimir Borisovich can give you who. Who's asking questions and who's insisting on a return, that the bill is rejected. With regard to the last trailer for Bill 2375. It's a bill that the author of this bill proposes to create a scheme that simply discriminates against some energy-generating enterprises and doesn't count on them for their electricity supply. Why do I say that? Because now there are NCRE regulations that apply to this. They're being tried in court right now, and they want to legitimize it. It's simple!
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-18-m0.u62	Ladies and gentlemen, may I have your attention? Listen, we're now discussing the inclusion of issues in the agenda of the session. This means that in the committees we will consider preparing these draft laws for consideration in Parliament. So I think that any proposal that's just been made that might come out. I will now return to all five bills and ask for a vote. I'm not doing this anymore. But what I'm stressing is that this is about getting into the agenda of the session. Please, all national MPs. I ask all the national deputies to take their seats, prepare for the vote, and the draft Law (registration number) is being submitted to your consideration.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-18-m0.u63	Respectable Society! I'm asking you very much, everyone to concentrate, because we haven't included a number of important bills in the agenda, and this might seem very strange to society, especially to mention the bill (2330), which provides for the inadmissibility of allowing people who are involved in corruption or who are suspected of treason. When our grandmothers give up the last 20 dollars on the ATO, they see how a lot of corrupt people who stole millions in the Ukrainian state are being set aside for a few thousand dollars, which leads to society not seeing justice and just power. If society fails to see justice, we will not be able to survive together the great times and difficult times that exist in the Ukrainian State. So now we're going back to putting those laws in order of day and I'm asking everyone to concentrate and vote in favour of these laws together. So it is. I'd like to ask Yuri Lucenko. Jurka, let's vote, shall we? Okay. Yes, Yuri Lucenko is one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-18-m0.u64	I'm out of procedure. Dear Mr. Head, colleagues, I have a proposal: to unite all three bills, they are similar, and (2266) and (2284), and to send them to a committee that will make them one perfect bill on this important social subject.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-18-m0.u65	You can hear the offer very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-18-m0.u66	Please support all three bills and send them to the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-18-m0.u67	That's a very good offer. All of it! We'll take it from here. Now let's all look at it. Those who have just been considered will vote, and the committee will prepare a negotiated position. Let's go. 2375 votes. 2375. Special features of energy management in the area of conducting an anti-terror operation. Is it important? It's on the committee. [[B in m in s a l in]] Please vote. Please support the inclusion in the agenda of the session. To the order of the day session. 2375. [[11:33:24]] For 224 The decision is not taken. [[B in m in s a l in]] The rule of the Pashinski People’s Deputy has been violated. He didn't vote. Okay, please. [[B in m in s a l in]] Colleagues! Concentrate, please. And take your seats in the hall and don't raise your voice, please. Don't go any higher. 2375, for inclusion in the agenda of the day session. 2375. Include in the agenda of the day session. Please vote 2375. For inclusion in the agenda of the session. We'll continue to look at it. What's the big deal, I don't understand. 2375. Everyone will be able to improve this bill. 2375. [[11:34:28]] For 232 You guys, there's no problem. On the committee, all factions will consider, make decisions. It'll be a negotiated decision, we'll look into it. Next. 2330, 2284 and 2266. I suggest you make one decision to include all three of them, they are related. And at the suggestion of Yuri Lucenka, consider it on the committee. Is it accepted? Everything, and we'll make a good bill right. Vote please, Your Honor. Vote please, Your Honor. [[11:35:25]] For 252 Decision taken. And we're working on a committee to make a reconciliation. We have a decision of 2380, honorary colleagues, 2380. For inclusion in the agenda of the day session. The committees will consider and decide on it. You'll be looking, right, on the committee, in the agenda, you'll be looking. 2380 on the agenda of the day session. It can be included and considered in the committee. And then there's any conclusion, for that matter. Please vote in the order of the day session. Please identify, 2380. [[11:36:23]] For a hundred and The decision is not taken. It's a matter of government, we're still discussing it. I think we'll find a common approach. Well, think about it earlier today on the committee, give your recommendations, and we'll discuss it. All, honourable colleagues, the decision to include the commission of committees to consider, start preparing them in the first reading. So let's move on to the day-to-day issues. Draft Law on Amendments to Certain Ukrainian Laws (Heat and Housing Services) 2262. But I have an offer, my dear colleagues, I think you're going to be very supportive of it right now. Work uninterruptedly until the second hour. Since we'll work with you on committees after second grade, we'll work with you on a decision. I'm asking you to support this proposal.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-18-m0.u68	Dear colleagues, work uninterruptedly and the morning session is closed. Please vote. No breaks. I mean, 12 to 12.30 don't take a break. Let's support why this break is necessary. [[11:37:54]] For-166 Once again, colleagues, you don't understand the offer for sure. I propose from 12 to 12.30 not to take a break, but to work for two hours and continue to join the committee. Well, you'll have a good share in the session you've set up. From 12 to 12.30 do not take a break. I'm making an offer. Look, colleagues, there's an offer, I'm putting you in. You want a half-hour break, we'll get it, we took a few breaks yesterday and didn't work. Please vote on the proposal to work without interruption until the second hour and from 12 to 12.30 do not take breaks. [[11:38:47]] For-167 Thank you. I declare myself in accordance with the Rules. You are being considered, your colleagues, 2262, by the Law on Amendments to Certain Laws of Ukraine in the Field of Heat and Housing and Utilities, since 27.02.2015. 2262, there's an offer to consider it by a reduced procedure, please specify. Please, the decision is made. Please, 2262, report to the head of the National Commission on the implementation of state energy regulation in the area of Dmitry Volodymyrovich Vuk. Please report.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-18-m0.u69	Welcome to all the National Deputies, Head of the Supreme Council. The bill was already under consideration last week, and it was considered on a committee. The purpose of the bill is to allow only economically sound housing tariffs. The draft law amends five laws that exclude the possibility of setting tariffs below economically sound is prohibited from obtaining compensation for differences in tariffs from local budgets. This bill is important enough because it will also allow us to obtain additional financial resources. It's the eighth key event for the second software loan. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-18-m0.u70	Thank you, Your Honor. He will report to the Vice-President of the Committee on Construction, Construction, Housing and Utilities, Peter Sabashuk. Ah, Shinkovich, national MP, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-18-m0.u71	Dear colleagues! Shinkovic, Peter Prashenko's Block, deputy chairman of the committee. The committee considered the bill. The main scientific and expert office has made substantial remarks to the project and has highlighted the violation of budgetary legislation, the Supreme Council Rules. In the course of the discussion, it was noted that the adoption of the project would not solve the important issue of the repayment of existing debt from the difference in tariffs on thermal energy, central water and water supply services produced, transported and supplied to the population. This debt was due to the inadequacy of the actual value of thermal energy and services and to tariffs that were approved or accepted by the authorities or local governments. This debt amounted to 8.4 billion dollars on April 1, 2015. There is a need to compensate for existing debt and to provide prior information to utilities that provide services from centralized heat, water and water supply on the need to bring tariffs to these services to economically sound levels. The committee therefore considers it appropriate to provide in section III of the draft adjunct to subparagraph 2 of section 3 of the bill of July 1, 2015. These parts relate to the amendments to article 31 of the Ukrainian Housing and Utilities Act (reparation of the difference between the established tariff and the economically justified level of the corresponding budgets). As a result of the review, the Committee decided to recommend to the Supreme Council bill 2262 to adopt and finalize it, taking into account the above-mentioned observations and observations of the Chief Scientific and Expert Office, as well as the proposals of legal entities. Please support the committee's decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-18-m0.u72	Thank you. Please two for, two for against. Please sign up. Alexi Poroshenko, Peter Dustenka's Block.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-18-m0.u73	Please give the floor to the People's Deputy Melniczuk, "The Dust Block."
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-18-m0.u74	People's MP Melniczuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-18-m0.u75	Dear colleagues, we all understand that as a result of the adoption of tariffs, we all understand. Oh, I'm sorry. We all understand that the result of the adoption of the bill will be an increase in tariffs for the population. But there is no question of what people will get in return. The draft law does not say a single word about the quality of services that will be given to the population and the proper control of this quality of services. I'll have a proposal for drafters to take this into account in the second reading of the bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-18-m0.u76	Thank you. Please, Oleg Lazko, Radical Party.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-18-m0.u77	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. Now, I'm sure that millions of Ukrainian citizens have just looked at Mr. Vuk, the head of the Nazcomsia, this is the 25-year-old Mr. Wolfe that his employer, Rosen, said he was fired for professional incompetence. Now he's going to the rostrum and what he's talking about is tariffs. Yes, millions of people do not know how to pay those tariffs. And you instead of going out, tell me how to offset the cost of those tariffs, how to make a pensioner who gets a thousand hundred dollars of pension how to pay him 700-800 dollars of tariffs, how to survive, you go out, tell him that you're changing the name of the commission that regulates these issues. And with this bill, you go out to the Supreme Council Hall. Get down on the ground, go to the people, see what they live for. They've got your names on the light bulb. A man waits with fear of payment. People don't know what to pay for, because they know that if you don't pay, they're coming tomorrow, they're going to describe the property, and they're going to throw it out of the house, and they're going to take the house that they've worked for their whole lives. And so the task of the government, the task of the Nazi commission, when you're talking about reasonable tariffs, is to show where you're from, where you're from, where you're from, where you're from, where you've sucked these reasonable tariffs out of some finger. Show why private suppliers of the thermal power plant spend billions in their pockets, while millions of Ukrainian pensioners, budgeters, sick people are unable to pay your fingertips. So the Radical Party faction requires government, requires the Nazi Commission to set economic-based tariffs, tariffs that people would be able to pay. Otherwise, they're just going to stop paying them, and it's going to be a collapse in housing. Shame on the parasites.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-18-m0.u78	Thank you. Please, National Deputy Gusak, Opposition Block.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-18-m0.u79	Please pass the word to Deputy Dudenkov.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-18-m0.u80	Thank you. Dear colleagues, respected citizens of Ukraine, would like very briefly and very simply to say what this bill is about. This bill is of a purely antisocial nature. And it's about paying for the costs of central supply, water supply and heat supply. Why is this bill antisocial? First of all, the drafters suggest, from his report, that compensation be excluded from local budgets for differences in tariffs for centralized water supply, water supply, thermal energy supply. What does that mean? This will lead to the fact that the total cost of these services will actually fall on the population. Therefore, the differences in tariffs they have, the debt that occurs in local budgets before the heat utility, the heat supply organizations, is a security that does not allow all costs to be incurred by the population. Now, based on the stated legislative initiative, the population of Ukraine will pay 100 percent of the value of central water supply, water supply. As far as shame is concerned, I can certainly say that this is a responsibility shared by both the government and the coalitions that have supported and authorized a valid government to sign the relevant memorandum with the International Monetary Fund, one of which is the promotion of housing services. I'm asking, honourable national MPs, not to support this bill, because it carries, as I said before, antisocial orientation. And this bill against ordinary people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-18-m0.u81	National Deputy Alona Shkrum, Fatherland.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-18-m0.u82	Please pass the word to Alexandra Volodymyrni Kugel.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-18-m0.u83	Alexander Kugel, Fatherland, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-18-m0.u84	I would like to add that today's existing commission is illegal because, in violation of article 106 of the Constitution of Ukraine, the President of Ukraine eliminated two commissions, which are provided for by legislation, and created a commission and appointed all members in full. I want to stress that all the members of the commission and the responsibility of this commission are only under the President. Dear members of the commission, I cannot say that it is very honorable for you to know that the "Fatherland" party is preparing a lawsuit before a court, you did not have the right of the legislature to set tariffs, as you are "out" of the legislative field. Basic comments to the law on essentially. In article 31, paragraphs 4-6, the government proposes to exclude the right to set subsidies at a level that makes it impossible to obtain profits and economically sound costs. Well, first of all, I want to say that not one person has a subsidy, but the housing of a family that lives, and second of all, we think that the government's initiative to exclude paragraphs 4-6 can't be supported because it's openly antisocial and potentially corrupt. The government proposed amendments to the Heat Supply Act, except in article 20, in which, listen to what it suggests, the phrase, "Tariffs should take into account the value of thermal energy and a sufficient level of profitability." That's how much they need to eat? Conclusion: Government initiatives are openly corrupt, not acceptable! And last article: The government does not allow the Antimonopoly Committee to check tariffs! Dear colleagues, do you remember a month ago we voted on a bill that gives the government the right to at least watch the economic justification of tariffs? Unfortunately, the President has vetoed them, and today we have a situation with you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-18-m0.u85	Please, 10 seconds, finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-18-m0.u86	One by one with the voters, they ask what's in that tariff, and we can't answer it, and the same government can't get information from NCRE. I want to.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-18-m0.u87	Ten seconds, please finish, Alexandra Volodymyrna.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-18-m0.u88	The bill can't be accepted. And we all, members of the coalition, need to create a mechanism with you. NCRE should protect the Ukrainian community.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-18-m0.u89	Thank you. Please, dear fellows! Yuri Lewchenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-18-m0.u90	Leuchenko, Freedom, 223 County. Society, at a time when tariffs are constantly rising, when we have more and more people impoverishing each day, I, in short, wonder, and more horribly look at one of the norms proposed in this bill, namely the abolition of any general principles of the formation of tariffs on heat energy. In particular, the project determines that tariffs should take into account the cost of thermal energy, and I quote, "provide a sufficient level of profitability." What is "sufficient levels" anywhere in the bill is not prescribed, well, it's bullshit. A sufficient level is 10 percent, 15 percent, and perhaps Mr. Ahmetov will be with them a sufficient level of 250 percent profitability. Well, how can we vote for this kind of thing, society? There is such a concept in general as legal certainty, and there is such a concept as conscience. So I urge you to send all your colleagues for work, not to take it that way in the first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-18-m0.u91	Please, Oleg Kuprienka.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-18-m0.u92	Oleg Kuprienko, the Radical Party of Oleg Laska, Chernigu. The city of Novgorod-Several Chernigiv Region, a private water company, was economically responsible for the tariffs by paying the director two salaries of the people's deputies and cutting money off people. Now you have the consequences of this law that can be passed. Such laws cannot be adopted, cannot be written, whole pages of paper are written simply for the purpose of changing one word into a name. Call the same commission a specially authorized body and there will be no need to change the laws 38 times, to spend time, and the national deputies, including, on such pardons, are not in line with the laws.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-18-m0.u93	Thank you, Your Honor, for preparing for the vote. The issue is the voting of the bill, which was tabled by the government, and the Coalition Council approved its adoption in the first reading, on the adoption of it now in the first reading, taking into account the decision of the profile committee. And then, in preparing for the second reading, each faction will express its position and we will see what will be the fate of this bill as a whole. Dear colleagues, I ask you to prepare for the vote. Ready? Ready, fellows of honor? Please. The proposal is put to the vote: to adopt a bill to amend certain Ukrainian laws in the areas of heating and residential services. The language's coming. This bill is only voted on as a basis. Please vote, and I ask you to support this as a basis, and we will then, by general procedure, prepare it for the second reading, taking into account the thoughts and positions that have just been heard in the room. It's based on a government bill. Please support me as a base. Please vote. [[11:55:09]] For a hundred and The decision is not taken. Shall we go to the pre-work committee? Okay, the bill is rejected. Thank you, Your Honor. 22. Yes, dear fellows, we're about to have 12 o'clock. In accordance with the Rules, I'm going to announce a 30-minute break. Before that, I give the word to the First Deputy Head of the Supreme Council, Andri Volodymyrovich Paruba, to read a few announcements.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-18-m0.u94	Thank you. Announcement. I'm reporting on the creation in the Supreme Council of Ukraine of the eighth vocation of the interfractional MPs' alliance "The Atlantic Movement". The National Deputy of Ukraine Ribczynski Evgen Juriovich has been elected as Head of the interfractional Atlantic Movement. I'm reporting on the creation of the Eighth Interfractional Deputy Union for the Development of Aviation of Ukraine in the Supreme Council of Ukraine. The National Deputy of Ukraine, Balický Evgen Vitaliyovich, was elected head of the Interfractional Union for the Development of the Aviation of Ukraine. Welcome to the leaders.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-18-m0.u95	Honorary fellow members of the national MPs, according to the Supreme Council of Ukraine regulations, a break of up to 12 hours is announced for 30 minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-18-m0.u96	Ladies and gentlemen, we must continue our meeting. Ladies and gentlemen, please come into the hall. Dear colleagues, I ask the secretariat to invite the national deputies to the hall. Before we continue our work, a group of deputies approached, asking for two minutes. Please, two minutes. I give you my word, People's Deputy Levchenko. But, colleagues, I warn you, no blockades. Do you have a deal? So you come up, you ask for my word, I give you my word, but no. Anything, please. Two minutes Yuri Lewchenko, Freedom. Please invite the people's deputies to the hall. Three minutes, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-18-m0.u97	Leuchenko, Freedom, 223 County. Dear society, the distinguished people of Ukraine, just in a break at the briefing, was at a press point. The statement is made, it can be taken into account by the statement of crime, the heads of Mr. Gordinek's State Financial Inspectorate on the abuse of over 7 and a half billion dollars that have been made by the new government, the so-called new government that came after Maidan, came to the deaths of the boys, and now it turns out he's engaged in abuses, the same corruption as the government of Yanukovic. It's about the abuse in "The Crucifixion," it's about the abuse in "The Crucifixion," it's about the abuse in "The Energoatom," it's about the abuse of over 4 and a half billion dollars in Naftogazi. These are all corruption schemes that are clearly based on the financial aspect. The Treasury filed the relevant files with the Attorney General’s Office. Unfortunately, it should be noted that government officials are suing in order to cancel the discovery of the relevant criminal cases and are protesting. In particular, it should be noted that the fininspecies have found a basis for returning the Shrine to the state, a strategic enterprise that was stolen by Ahmet during the reign of Yanukovich, there is an opportunity to return to the state today, because abuses have been found to pay all the proper payments to the state. But the government is blocking these processes and not returning the Crusher to the State. So today we demand that the Attorney General come to the Supreme Council and respond to the fact that the Financial Spectrum has found such abuses for over 7 and a half billion dollars; that the government of Yatsenyuk and Arseny Petrovich personally sabotages the investigation. And as soon as, by the way, Gordienko started investigating Energoatom, he took it away from Fininspecting that, by the way, it was totally illegal for the Attorney General to react to these obvious abuses. We're asking him to come to the session room. We demand that there be a comprehensive investigation and that there be such things that we all fight against on the ground, against the outright dissolution of the state budget, so that there is no such thing in today's government, so that it does not happen when all possible social benefits are cut down, all possible benefits for the most socially vulnerable species of the population. You think about cynicism, 7.7 billion have been stolen, and 3.5 billion have been taken away from people a few days ago. You compare this nonsense. So we need an emergency response, and we're going to demand that the Attorney General be here. We hope for support.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-18-m0.u98	Ten seconds, complete, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-18-m0.u99	All of these colleagues, let every national MP show whether he's anti-corruption or he is.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-18-m0.u100	Colleagues! Listen, colleagues, I gave you two minutes, you could, you said three minutes. Please give me your information, I will now send this letter to the government for this reason and to the Attorney General's Office. And don't turn. We continue to consider the issues of the day’s order. Dear colleagues, we've stopped with you on the question, registration number 2264, the draft Act amending article 1 of the Ukrainian Act to carry out a moratorium on the enforcement of property. Imported by the Government of Ukraine. The Head of the State Property Fund has been designated as the reporting officer and has been considered accordingly by the Committee. There's an offer to consider this bill in a simplified manner, but this requires that the MPs take their seats, and we've determined how to proceed. Please, fellow national MPs, are you ready? There is a suggestion to consider a reduced procedure. We need 150 votes to do that. Please, fellow Members of the People's Parliament, let's vote on a reduced procedure. Please. [[12:43:12]] For 131 Please invite the National Deputies to the Hall. Oleg Easy, a minute, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-18-m0.u101	Oleg Laska, Radical Party. Dear fellow national MPs! Just in the break, I don't know who you are, and I've been talking to our colleagues, the heads of the country on the balcony. They say they're looking at us and crying. They invite us, the national deputies, to come to any session of the village council. And look at the discipline of rural nationalists, how they vote, how they come in time to defend the interests of their peasants. Well, for God's sake, well, it's not clear, you can imagine in the village that a man should announce himself in the middle of the break. There's a simple peasant at 5 a.m. when he gets up, 11 o'clock at night -- a working man, miserable man, his knee bends, his back rots. And you have to be invited south to vote. Everybody in the hall now! And work as long as you're authorized. Otherwise they'll take it out on the pitchforks.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-18-m0.u102	Ladies and gentlemen, please come to the House of Parliament. Please, Your Honor, we have not yet begun our consideration of the bill. Let's get started, and we'll start with the bill. Dear colleagues, please prepare. There is a proposal to consider 2264 as a reduced procedure. Please prepare for the vote. With regard to the consideration of the reduced procedure, national MPs, vote, please. As far as consideration is concerned, the reduced procedure is concerned. Please. [[12:45:14]] For 169 Decision taken. The Secretariat, please invite the people's deputies to the Supreme Council Hall. The report invites the Fund’s acting head, Dmitri Mikolayovich Parfenenko, to serve as head of the Holding Foundation. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-18-m0.u103	Dear, honourable Vladimir Borisovich, distinguished national MPs, the purpose of the proposed bill is to stabilise the financial state of NAC "Naftogaz Ukraine" by providing companies with effective mechanisms to collect debt from borrowers for gas consumed. The bill is designed to narrow down the moratorium on the enforcement of state-owned property in part of its non-distribution to NAC Naftogaz's business by exclusion, I stress, enterprises that have a national, strategic and social significance for Ukraine. According to NAC Naftogaz's operational information, there are now some 1,300 executives in the executive service, totaling over 7 billion dollars. Of these, some 200 executives have been stopped in connection with either bankruptcy of debtors or the application of a moratorium. Today, from state-owned enterprises that are subject to the moratorium, the main debtors of NAC Naftogazu are companies of the chemical sector, the heatcommuneration and the heat power plant. So, and in summary, once again, I will stress that the adoption of the bill will increase the financial situation of NAC Naftogazu and improve the financial discipline of NAK Naftogazu's debtors. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-18-m0.u104	Thank you. Please take your place. Please, Yuri Igorovich Solovay, deputy head of the profile committee. Please report.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-18-m0.u105	Dear colleagues, the Committee on Economic Policy has considered the bill and has decided to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine the adoption of the bill as a basis and as a whole. I want to point out that this is a government bill that is going to implement a memorandum with the International Monetary Fund. It's going along with a number of bills aimed at stabilizing the financial situation of NAKU Naftogaz Ukraine. In particular, I would like to point out that objects that are strategic for our state, such as heat - energy enterprises, education facilities, housing funds, sociocultural and health services, remain in the list of objects that are under the moratorium and do not extend to them. In particular, I would like to point out that the committee had considered the issue and focused on the Ministry of Fuel and Energy's attention on the non-payment of 8.4 billion dollars in debt to local budgets as a difference in tariffs. And this is a question that needs to be asked all the time, because it is one of the reasons for the accumulation of debt from businesses, from local enterprises to Naftogaz Ukraine. And to conclude by taking this opportunity as the deputy head of the Committee on Economic Policy, I would like to inform the deputy corps, an important Ukrainian society, that there will be a meeting of the Committee on Economic Policy today at three o'clock. I invite all the deputies who are today in the Chamber who are members of the Committee on Economic Policy to participate in and demonstrate that the Committee on Economic Policy is deciding for the benefit of the Ukrainian people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-18-m0.u106	Thank you. Two for, two for against, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-18-m0.u107	Please, Bereza Yuri, People's Front, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-18-m0.u108	Please pass on the word of Victoria Sumar.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-18-m0.u109	It's a German, isn't it? To whom should I give the word?
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-18-m0.u110	Thank you. Colleagues, it's obvious that an important bill of government of 2264, without normalizing the financial state of Naftogaz Ukraine, we can't talk about bringing order into the country's energy field. The People's Front is very much asking for support for this bill, which is complex. But what is particularly important to us is the question that Mr. Solovay has just raised in connection with the Economic Policy Committee meeting. The most important extraordinary committee has not met several times. An important bill on stock companies to be considered by this committee. The People's Front insists that this bill be considered first on the committee, hopefully there will be a quorum, and still in Parliament's Hall is our principle position. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-18-m0.u111	Please, Ivan Melniczuk, Peter Dusty Block, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-18-m0.u112	Dear colleagues, I think it's worth putting in place a time frame for such a law, for example, by 2018. Since the main goal is to repay the debt, this term will be sufficient. At the same time, there will be no threat to other businesses because of the high price of gas in the future. I didn't want this to be another scheme to legally buy the remaining state property, I mean the property of state-owned enterprises and companies with at least 25 percent of statutory funds. So by supporting this bill, I ask you to consider my position. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-18-m0.u113	Thank you. Please, Alexander Kugel, Fatherland. Ivan Krulko, please, Fatherland.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-18-m0.u114	Please pass the word to John Krulko.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-18-m0.u115	Ivan Krulko, "The Fatherland" faction. Ladies and gentlemen of the national parliament, the honourable presiding officer! The Fatherland faction won't support this bill. And I'll explain why we won't support this bill. When it's said that the debtors before Naftogaz, which is a state-owned enterprise, are going to take property, it's a form of a new so-called privatization, and it's actually a theft of state property. There's no way that we can agree on a situation where enterprises that are initially under conspiracy will not pay before Naftogaz for the services provided, and then this property will be implemented through schemes, and so we'll see a new outturn of the so-called "privatizations" that the Ukrainian state has seen on more than one occasion. So I think that these issues, which relate to the administration and implementation of state property, need to be dealt with very well. We suggest that this bill should not be considered at this session of the Supreme Council at all today, and only after it is understood that in this way state property will not be divulged again will it be available to be transferred to the session hall. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-18-m0.u116	Thank you. Please, National Deputy Nasalik. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-18-m0.u117	Dear friends! The bill that is proposed for consideration is nothing more than an NAC Naftogazu instrument for the secret privatization of urban property. Dear friends, how else can we talk about calculations when, to date, 100 percent of the heat - related revenues are completely removed from the cities? So I urge everyone not to vote in favour of this law.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-18-m0.u118	Dear colleagues, I have heard from the factions of the position. I understand that self-help is exactly the same position. Alexander Dombrowski, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-18-m0.u119	Dear Lord Chairman, dear colleagues! On the one hand, really, it's a law that's serious enough, fundamental enough to improve the financial situation of Naftogazu. But it is only an outward appearance for this law. Regrettably, the problems found in it do not solve this problem. Because if we want to solve the state's financing problems for Naftogazu, we have to be clear about what receivables, the creditors' debt today to utilities. Unfortunately, at a committee meeting, the State Property Fund did not give us a clear list of companies on which this law would distribute its actions to which it did not. So I support the position of Nasalika's national deputy not to vote in favour of this law. We need to work very seriously with him. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-18-m0.u120	I have an offer, my friends. Let's get him back to the committee for the first time again, and then we'll figure it out. Is it accepted? For a re-first reading on the basis of Parliament, so that we can develop something that can work if. Is it accepted?
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-18-m0.u121	Then I'm going to make this proposal, and I'm going to ask the factions to prepare themselves not to break the law, but to send it back. In preparation for the committee for the re-reading. Are you ready to vote, colleagues? Victor Pinzenic, please, Victor Mikhailovich, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-18-m0.u122	Dear Vladimir Borisovich, distinguished colleagues, well, first of all, let's put it in motion, vote on the government's draft, if it doesn't work, then we can talk about another option. But if we are talking about rereading, it can be returned to the subject, the author, and the author is the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. What's the committee for? We can have the committee prepare a whole new law.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-18-m0.u123	Thank you, Reverend Victor Mikhailovich. I would like to point out that according to article 114 of the Rules, we can make a number of decisions in the first reading, including the return of the subject to work, the return of the initiative to the Parliament’s committee for work, or the rejection or acceptance of it as a basis. Thus, there may be several options: Article 114 of the Rules. Please, Victoria Sumar, People's Front.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-18-m0.u124	Colleagues, well, obviously a government bill, are not just a requirement, but a government agreement, particularly with the World Bank. The adoption of this package depends on little or no lending by Ukraine for 800 million euros. Ukraine needs these funds or does it not need them? Well, I guess the answer is yes. Why such fractional discipline in the midst of the factions of the coalition itself? This is a separate question that we need to consider. But the request that this bill be drafted as soon as possible, if it is not supported in the hall today, is to bring it out as soon as possible as possible, in a workable way tomorrow, and not to deprive Ukraine of a very important loan for it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-18-m0.u125	Dear colleagues, we must act under the Rules. And according to Rule 114 of the article I mentioned, paragraph 3, it is written that "the Supreme Council may decide on. As a result of the first reading of the bill, the Supreme Council may decide on the matter. (para. 3) The return of the bill to the subject of the legislative initiative (as said by Viktor Mikhajlovich) or the referral of it to the Main Committee for the preparation for the re-reading of the first reading", defining the basics, there, the positions, principles and everything else on which it is to be based. So, colleagues, I think we can fix this. If we don't get it, it's going to be rejected. Or we could send it to the government for work. [[B in m in s a l in]] Suggestion, Alexander Dombrowski. Let's make an offer, just 10 seconds. Well, we can't take the word out of the same question five times.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-18-m0.u126	Dear Vladimir Borisovich, distinguished colleagues! I just want to make a proposal because we need to put together a couple of draft laws that we can't vote on in the room. Because when we're looking at Naftogaz, the financial situation, and before that, we don't vote on the issues of "Heatcommunenergo" and others, there, the utilities of local self-government, maybe take a few bills, balance them with each other and then make them understand what we're doing? Then we vote one in the morning, and then we vote the other in the afternoon.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-18-m0.u127	That is why I have suggested that the committee be sent, and the committee will determine how to prepare for the first reading in accordance with the Rules and the provisions that may be laid down therein. Now we're going to send it to the government -- we're going to get, well, almost the same thing, and so the previous MPs are going to work on this issue. Please offer to return to the committee to prepare for the re-first reading, the first, not the second, on the committee. You'll just do it, not the government. Please. I think this will be more effective. Well, you betcha. On the way back to the committee to prepare for the re-reading. The committee. Rereading the first reading. Please vote. [[13:00:05]] For 168 I didn't. Okay. Please, colleagues, then let's prepare for his return to the committee. The government. Is that what I'm saying? The second proposal was to go to the government. Guys, get ready to vote. The second sentence, I think it's going to get the required number of votes -- send it to the government for work. In preparation for the re-reading of the government. Please vote. Please be supportive. To the government. Heading to the government for re-reading. Preparations for the first time again. [[13:00:45]] For 223 [[B in m in s a l in]] Haven't you been able to vote? It's the people's MP's right. If you don't make it, we'll bring it in. The proposal is to return to the government to prepare for the re-reading. Please vote: read again. [[13:01:21]] For 222 Thank you, Your Honor. The decision is not taken. Next bill, your honors. [[B in m in s a l in]] Considered rejected. A bill (registration No. 2283) of the Act amending certain Ukrainian laws to improve individual issues of mobilization and social protection of citizens who are subject to exemption from military service during a special period or in connection with the declaration of demobilization is submitted to your attention. The rapporteur is the Secretary of the National Security and Defence Committee, Ivan Vinnik. There is a proposal for the committee's secretary to consider the bill as a simplified procedure. I would like to make up my mind to consider this bill in a simplified manner. [[13:02:18]] For 199 Decision taken. Please report. Please have 4 minutes of regulations, 2 committees and 2 speakers.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-18-m0.u128	Dear colleagues, I ask you to concentrate, this is a bill aimed at increasing social status, protecting those who are returning home today from the front. I want to point out that today the Ministry of Defense announced the first moment of demobilization. On March 17, 2014, the President of Ukraine, acting as President, announced the first moment of mobilization, with 35 and a half thousand people on the front, who will be returning home today, on March 18th. It is vital that these people return to normal social life. This bill gives them the opportunity to take the lead in employment. For example, if these people go to a public service competition, they get certain privileges. These individuals, the military officials we had, who protected our borders, will be given the first priority right to obtain their first job under the Employment Centers program. We've already settled the question of the internship that counts for the time when people were mobilized, and that time is included in the general working hours, including the benefits. So today, this law is often technically, procedurally agreed that vacations will also take into account the time when a person was on the front, this time will be considered working, and this person will be able to get the right set-up in the main place, the workplace. It's very important to vote on this bill because it actually increases the motivation of society to go to the ranks of the Ukrainian Armed Forces, because people will realize that they're protected and when they're ahead of the Ukrainian Armed Forces, and when they come back, they'll be able to find a soul fast work. The committee considered this bill and we unanimously concluded that it should be accepted both as a basis and as a whole, both as a law, and it must be done today. I would like to point out immediately that before this bill was concluded by the Chief Scientific and Scientific Administration, and there are two comments that I would like to comment on today under the transcript. The first observation is that, correctly, the Chief Scientific and Experimental Authority comments that it is necessary to write under the Civil Code of Ukraine that a person is not declared dead. is not dead, but is declared dead. So we need to take into account this amendment, the technical and legal correction of the bill, and we need not make this criticism any more critical. I would like to take a separate step to Article 49. 2 of the Labour Code. The point was that there was a comment by the Chief Scientific and Expert Directorate on the duplication of part 4 and article 49 pp. 2. The point is that we adopted Bill 1573 on 22.12.2014 and there was a false reference to the deletion of another paragraph of this article. So today we're returning that line that was before and we're proposing that the previous edition of part 4 of Article 49 be restored. 2 of the Labour Code, and delete part 5 that regulates the same relationship as part 4 of this article just slightly differently. As I return to the law, I ask you to support this bill unanimously, which is very important to our Ukrainian army, as a basis and as a whole, as a law. Dear Lord Chairman! Dear National Deputies! Please vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-18-m0.u129	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, please sign in, two in favour, two in favour. Oleg Lazko, "Radical Party." National MP Moseschuk, "Radical Party."
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-18-m0.u130	Igor Mosiyczuk, "Radical Party." Very correct law, very correctly directed, but I think it needs to be strengthened. Strengthen in What Way? We need to make clear what the President has promised, and what the General Staff has promised is that it is the veterans who will return from the ATO zone who will become new soldiers. Because the waves of mobilization that will continue with those soldiers that are not possible at the moment. There's bribes and scoundrels. And there must be heroes who protect the country and understand what protecting the country is. The second moment is no less important. It's that defining the status of an ATO participant is now a government commission that's engaged is a campaign. I'm personally approached by guys who are already a year ahead who can't get the same status. Instead, there are some police generals, officials from the Cabinet of Ministers. The Minister's office is supposed to take care of it and put it in order. Because this good law will work for a limited number of people if it is not stated in this order. And finally. We need to focus, really, on helping those who come back from the war zone. And now we're going to reform the militia. I think it's these guys who should be the foundation of the Ukrainian National Police. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-18-m0.u131	Please, People's Deputy Grigory Mikhailovich, Peter Dustenka Block.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-18-m0.u132	Thank you, Volodymyr Borisovich. Snotty, Peter Dusty Block. I want to say, Volodymyr Borisovich, that we need to give an assignment and check out why, first, there was a 1613 bill registered in the secretariat a long time ago, but it wasn't put in, but it was made only after this similar law, which was registered much later. But the main thing is not form, the main thing is content. We can both agree on this one, and we will support it. Because the draft law of Ukraine proposes to provide guarantees to persons who have called for military service during mobilization, starting on March 18, 2014, and the return or renewal to work, particularly in the public service of local self - government. The important thing is that this is without further competition and special examinations. We believe that these positions should be taken into account, and then we're going to take Bill 1613 off the table because it duplicates this bill because when the heads of state authorities change, the authorities of local self-government, and we're going back to the ATO boys and they're usually refused or forced to go back to the competition or to an additional special test. We will support and urge everyone to support the bill, and Bill 1613 will be removed from consideration. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-18-m0.u133	Thank you, Your Honor. Are they desirable? Please, Paul Kishkar, "self-help." I ask you, John Winnick, you will generalize proposals now and what the P.O. has said, and listen to the proposals that the MPs make if you want us to vote for it as a whole. Please, Paul Kishkar.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-18-m0.u134	Self-help generally supports the idea of a bill. We're just stressing that partial reforms are part of the same problem. And we insist that we look at it comprehensively, including the committee during our work, the question of the status of the participants and the provision of their social guarantees, because we now even have two bills on the same subject. So "self-help" today will only support this bill as a basis. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-18-m0.u135	Just on the ground. Clearly, respectable colleagues. Sergei Pashinsky, please, People's Front.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-18-m0.u136	Dear colleagues, I would like to point out that at this point, there is demobilization, tens of thousands of people are coming back, tens of thousands of people are being mobilized. And if we're going to improve legislation for months, I'm sorry, nobody's going to need it. I very much ask the Self-Help faction and all the conscious MPs this law may not answer all 100 percent, but this law, all the needs. But this law covers the urgent needs that lie ahead today. Today, we are obliged to respond. On the first reading, and then a month later in the second, no one will need it. People who are demobilized are on their way, they need to resume their jobs, they need to provide social security. I ask you very much, Mr. Speaker, to lay the groundwork as a whole.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-18-m0.u137	Thank you, Your Honor. Please conclude, reporter Ivan Vinnik. Please, two minutes. And invite the deputies to the hall, and we'll vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-18-m0.u138	Dear colleagues, I'd like to draw your attention to the figure. 35.5,000 people on March 18 will be demobilized and will return to civilian life, to public life in their homes. They have to provide social security and employment. We can't wait for the second one, whose third one is any reading, that's the first one. Second, with regard to comments made by colleagues from the Radical Party. Those issues that have been raised are not the purpose of this bill. Indeed, the commission of an interlocutor who is now in charge of Arthur Derevyanka is a matter for her. And so on our committee we pay attention to that. I would like to officially state that everyone who has a question to this committee right now can officially address our committee, and we will decide on that. As for the other proposals from the Radical Party, which were about involving these people in the patrol militia unit, it's a very good idea and it's already being implemented. But this is not the purpose of this bill. It's very important to support him today. And that's why I'm also calling on a self-help colleague, and you also clearly understand how important this is, we can't delay and delay. This is a letter from the Ministry of Defense of First Deputy Rusnak. They're officially informed that they can't carry out normal demobilization and further mobilisation because there are some important issues about social protection for people who are being mobilized today. So let's concentrate and vote on this bill as a whole, taking into account the proposal made by our colleague, and let's also take into account and work on a joint bill on those other proposals that were the colleagues of the Radical Party today in the hall. Please be supportive. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-18-m0.u139	Thank you. Please. Please, Taras Shepherd Self Help. And Self-Help will be willing to vote on this proposal in general.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-18-m0.u140	Taras Shepherd, Self-Help faction. Dear Mr. Oleg, dear Mr. John, Mr. Speaker! The Self-Help faction is asking for another amendment to this law. Because, unfortunately, we already have a precedent, that the guys who were supposed to be returned to their military units 10 days ago and demolished in accordance with the President's decree and the law that we voted here are unfortunately not demolished today. And so we ask that this law be amended to retain the right of employment, not for 1 year, but for a period of at least 15 months, in order to preserve the right to stay at work. And on the subject of the bill, which was filed by a colleague from the Perta Prashenko faction, the law provides for the preservation of jobs for all: both government officials and those working in local government and private authorities.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-18-m0.u141	Dear colleagues, I think there is an understanding. Please prepare all colleagues, we will now vote on the basis and in general with the proposal made by national deputy Taras Pasteuch, 18 months that has just been announced, and the proposal that was announced by national deputy Gregory Zabolatny. Please prepare for the vote, please. Please report, please, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-18-m0.u142	Dear colleagues of self-help, I would like to point out that the question that you're proposing today, we have proposed to settle in Bill 2079, which also stands before this session. But given the urgent need, I think we really need to expand the job savings, the retention of wages, which is already provided by existing legislation, for 18 months. Because the service is 18 months old, and today, in fact, many people will not return in a year, 12 months, but stay on the front, including at their own request. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-18-m0.u143	Thank you, Your Honor. I mean, with an offer. On the basis and in general with the offer of Taras Shepherd, Self-Help, and Gregory of the Muggles, which was heard under the stenogram. On the basis and in general, registration number 2283. Are you ready to vote, colleagues? 2283, on the basis of and in general with proposals that have just been made by two national deputies, please vote. On the basis and in general, please vote. Colleagues, please vote. An important bill, on the basis and in general. [[13:18:07]] For 233 Decision taken, 233. [[Applause]] Then, please, 1088, the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Act on the application of a register of accountancy transactions in the field of trade, public nutrition and services (for state guarantees to operators in the use of registrants), prepared by the National Road of Ukraine, Oxana Sold. I understand there's an understanding. There is an offer by the author, if there is no objection, to proceed to the voting procedure as a basis. Is there no objection? I hear there's no objection, it's all consolidated. Please prepare your colleagues, there is the offer of a national MP, the author, without discussing to accept it as a basis. Based on 1088. Oksana Prodan, this is about deregulation. One minute of Oxana Prodane, please inform the national MPs.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-18-m0.u144	Ladies and gentlemen, I ask you now to support the proposal of the Head of the Supreme Council to vote on this bill as a basis. This is a project that, for the first time in years, demonopolizes the scope of cash machines, destroys the monopoly, and at least leads to a little bit of European standards of relationship between fiscals and employers, between taxpayers and the people who serve them. I ask you to vote in the first reading. Between the first and the second readings, we'll have more to do with you. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-18-m0.u145	Thank you. Dear colleagues, my explanation, I think it's well-provoked. Are you ready to vote on the basis? Based on his colleagues, 1088, the author is Oksana Prodan. The committee also considered the issue and made a profile proposal to accept it as a basis. Please prepare for the vote and accept it as a basis, (1088), your honor's colleagues. Please vote on the basis, 1088. Please vote on the basis. [[13:20:35]] For 238. When preparing for second reading, all suggestions will be discussed. Thank you, Your Honor. The next bill (registration No. 1699) is the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Code of Taxation on the Support of Farmers. The rapporteur is Ukrainian national deputy Borislav Rosenblatt. The focal point is the head of the Committee of Profiles, Roman Nasirov. There is an offer by the author to consider the bill in a simplified manner. I'd like you to identify the people's deputies on this proposal. [[13:21:23]] For-189 Decision taken. Please, reporter, please, Borislav Rosenblatt.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-18-m0.u146	Good afternoon, dear fellows! Good afternoon, distinguished Ukrainian people! Today we're going back to the Ukrainian economy. To support the Ukrainian economy, because we don't always have to get loans from the IMF and live by them, we need to understand that Ukraine's economy is at the heart of our salvation today. The issue of the grant has been 14 years old, which has been and has continued to work on Ukrainian milk and meat. You know, in recent years, our dairy industry has taken up one of the leading places in the world. But it has happened that in the last two years, we have lost the traditional markets that were for Ukrainian farmers and for milk processors. Today, the Ukrainian dairy industry is in a very difficult state. Over the past two months -- I've been running numbers -- about 400,000 cows have been destroyed. At this rate, we will lose our Ukrainian cattle. Today, the foundation is the donation and support of our population. In particular, I want to point out that there is still a social issue in this bill. You know, today, the main mass of our military personnel is coming out of the village. Today, the only source of life in a rural village where there is no work is the cow and milk that our people suckle. Today, if we support people, support our economy, we will save not only hundreds of thousands of jobs, but in general preserve our dairy and meat industries. So today I am asking you to support the bill in the first reading. Please join me in another. And we'll do everything we can to make sure that our Ukrainian village doesn't die.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-18-m0.u147	Thank you very much. The head of the Committee on Tax and Customs Policy, Nasirov Roman Mikhajlovich, is invited to attend.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-18-m0.u148	Dear Mr. Head, distinguished national MPs! The Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Tax and Customs Policy at its February 4th meeting reviewed the draft Law of Ukraine amending the Ukrainian Code on Agricultural Products, submitted by the people’s deputies Rosenblatt and others. The bill proposes to reinvigorate the special VAT tax regime for processing companies for their own manufactured products: milk, dairy, raw materials, dairy products, meat, and meat products made from milk or meat supplied in the living weight of agricultural enterprises since 1 January 2015. The special VAT regime for processing companies has been in operation since 1998. Compared with the legislation in force since 2014, which regulated the application of the special VAT regime for processing enterprises, the bill proposes in 2015 to modify the VAT allocation mechanism, which is paid in the form of compensation to agricultural producers for the sale of milk and meat in live weight. National deputies of Ukraine, members of the committee, supported the whole idea of supporting agricultural producers, made a separate comment, particularly by limiting the application of the agricultural subsidies mechanism to farmers in the supply of milk raw materials. In addition, it is appropriate to extend the special tax regime for processing enterprises not only to legal persons but also to natural persons who are entrepreneurs if they are processing milk or meat. In view of the foregoing, the Committee decided to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine a draft Act amending the Tax Code (for the support of agricultural producers) to be adopted as a basis. Thank you for your attention. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-18-m0.u149	Thank you. Please sign in. 2 for, 2 for against. Tomenko Mikola, Peter Dustenka's Block, is invited to the floor.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-18-m0.u150	Dear colleagues, I want to speak in support of this bill, and I'm glad we started to mention that we have peasants left in Ukraine. There are people who work on earth. Because it is so impressive that the government has forgotten that we have pensioners, peasants, education workers, and health care. We don't vote on any of the bills in the sessional hall of principle that require us. For example, I don't understand yesterday. Volodymyr Borisovich. Or we're considered idiots by 422 deputies. Because if the five faction leaders aren't able to make a deal, lock them up in your office, put the deputy down, and we'll work on the laws that people are waiting for us, not running around the hall as we went by 4:00 yesterday. The session room should work independently of the fact that faction leaders cannot negotiate. They're going to the President after the Prime Minister, they're going to the country. Go on. And the session room can't take a minute. That's why we put 38 bills out today. Guys, why are we making fun of ourselves here? How's Wednesday's 38 drafts? Now we're going to look at 7 or 8. That's why I demand that we have no interruptions at the closing session. It's a disgrace to that MP Corps that works. That's why bills like this, today, are expected from us not since January 1st, 15th, they've been waiting for us since January 1st this year. God forbid we can get through this right away, prepare for the second reading, and from January 1st, 15th. Well, it won't work again since January 1st, 15th. We returned subsidies to agriculture as soon as possible. The only moment, I think we need to analyze and see that at this point in time, the corruption schemes that took place in the previous period are not used again. So I think that's where we need to look at a clear procedure for the return of compensation. So once again, we will support this bill and the need for active work without interruption.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-18-m0.u151	Please, Paul Kishkar "self-help."
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-18-m0.u152	Self-help generally appreciates the idea of actually returning what was before in order to compensate our farmers. But we are concerned about what Mr. Mikola Tomenko said in his last sentence, that we have not technically determined how we will combat corruption when we receive such compensation from the producers. In view of the comments made by the committee, Self-Help considers it necessary to return such a bill to work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-18-m0.u153	Please, Igor Lucenko's Fatherland.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-18-m0.u154	Please hand it over to your colleague, Vadim Ivchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-18-m0.u155	National Deputy Yvchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-18-m0.u156	Dear colleagues, the bill is really good. You know that today, it's not VAT compensation, but it's the farmers who have the security. What is a security guard? Half a percent, 50 percent of them paid to the state, and the other one was accumulating at their own expense, and those batteries were still coming back to creating a material and technical base. But colleagues, I wanted to pay attention to another thing. Today we are considering Bill 1699. Well, how much can be bullied? Bill 1159, which was previously registered, was considered by the committees under consideration. [[Applause]] As discussed in the agrarian committee, which is supported by all the MP factions that are working with the heads of the country today, it was considered at the Ukraine agrarian forum, supported the measures of small cities. The last thing I received today was a letter from the Poltava District Administration, where the Poltava Chief of Administration, the Poltava District Council Manager, signed with the request of the faction, everyone, to help solve the issue, people come every time from every corner of Ukraine. We've been looking at this bill for the last two hours, and we're going to close and go, and what are they going to do? I'm asking you very much to look at, if there's 1159, let's look at it, let's show a position, let's vote. [[Applause]] And 1699, of course, has to be accepted, because it's stimulating our processing. We're fighting for what today? So that we can have a reprocessing process, so that we can continue to export the processed product. And today we cannot find a common language directly with farmers. So I think we need to support and encourage everyone to support Bill 1699. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-18-m0.u157	"Radical Party", Oleg Lazko.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-18-m0.u158	Oleg Lazko, "Radical Party." A colleague from the Dust Block is asking me where the cow is. And with the kind of politics that the Ukrainian authorities have been in for 23 years, you're not going to see cows and bulls, and you're not going to see a calf, and geese and chickens, you're not going to see anything. Because 23 years ago we had more than 20 million head of cattle, pigs, turkeys, geese. Everyone who came to the Ukrainian land was distracted by this wealth, from this variety, from the Ukrainian table, from the Ukrainian drink. What did you leave people today? You took everything in the village. There's no work, there's no pay, there's no prospects for young people. Children are born after one. And it's half-naked. What Is the Key to the Village? Which one of you kids of asphalt don't know, I'll tell you. The main thing for the village is work, when that person is working, he's humping at the city. Don't take away the last thing she made. Give her a pension, give her a chance to study. Give me a chance to sell the vegetables. Give me a chance to pay for the gas. Bring your grandmother’s wood when she is a war veteran or a disabled person. The main thing for older people is respect, that's attention! And when the price of milk is cheaper than a liter of water, when there's no place to sell onion and onion and cucumber and apple in the store. And the poor mints are chasing them for selling in an unattended place. Turn to the people! Remember, the village is a cradle of Ukraine. There won't be a village. You won't be either. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-18-m0.u159	People's deputies, please calm down. I understand that there are emotions. Careful! Please, People's Deputy Doubenkov, Opposition Block.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-18-m0.u160	Thank you, Reverend Vladimir Borisovich. Dear colleagues, my speech will not be as emotional as the previous reporter. The essence of this legislative initiative is to return that indirect state support to farmers, which has been annulled by a valid coalition. By the way, we didn't vote for it. Of course, the Opposition Block faction will support agricultural producers, and it calls on colleagues from other factions to support this bill, taking into account the conclusions expressed by the head of the profile committee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-18-m0.u161	Thank you. We can vote as far as I can see. Roman Golovko, please. Wait a minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-18-m0.u162	Mikhailo Golovko, the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union, 164 constituency, Ternopolishte. Honourable MPs, believe me, the bill is a very important and right way of supporting agricultural producers who produce agricultural milk, meat. But I would like to say that in the first reading, it is absolutely necessary to vote, the only observation, apart from the legal persons there and the natural persons involved, and unfortunately, the society, unfortunately, we are not currently in the session room considering Bill 2089, which is the question of raising the purchase price for peasants for milk. This is a very important issue that concerns us. After all, the cow’s feeding ground is a basic tool for many in the villages. And today we have to make this law considered and raise the minimum purchase price for milk to at least 4 bracelets to enable the peasants to survive because the cow ensures their existence. And then we will show the real steps of Parliament to support the village, not just to talk and talk. Therefore, I urge and appeal to the Head to include this law in the same order of the day, and this law must be upheld in the first reading. Thank you. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-18-m0.u163	Thank you. Dear colleagues, please take your seats so that we can start voting. Please, Yuri Lucenko of the Peter Dust Block and we will proceed to the vote. Please invite the deputies.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-18-m0.u164	Dear Mr. Head, my dear colleagues, I think the biggest inflation in Ukraine is the inflation of words. Parliament is now considering a bill, co-sponsored by many deputies of the Peter Poroshenko Block and other coalition colleagues. Let us not practice eloquence, but simply support the bill that has been drafted by the coalition to carry out our common national interests. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-18-m0.u165	To confirm the words of Yuri Vitaliyovich Lucenka, I would like to point out that while the deputy will enter the hall, the national deputy Rosenblatt, Nasirov, Ivakhov, Ivan Kirilenko, Ivchenko, Pavelko, Lunchenko and two other deputies. It's just written here, it's hard, I don't want to be wrong. Dear colleagues, we will publish who was the authors. So you've heard what Yuri Vitaliyovich said is absolutely true. Colleagues, I put to the vote a bill (registration number 1699), which the committee has decided to propose and propose that MPs be accepted as a basis. 1699 on the ground, please vote. Based on the base. 1699 based. [[13:37:52]] For 233 [[Applause]] On the basis of the decision taken, respected colleagues. I'd like to ask you more carefully. Next, fellow Members, the draft law is introduced (registration number 1850, 1850-1) by the draft Act amending article 282 of the Ukrainian Tax Code (reduction of tax burden on environmental protection agencies). There are two bills. There is a proposal by the drafters to consider them, they are bound by a reduced procedure. Please consider this proposal for consideration of these two bills under reduced procedure. I would like to refer to the National Deputies for consideration of the reduced procedure, colleagues. [[13:39:00]] For 185 Decision taken. Reported (1850) by the National MP, Mikola Tomenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-18-m0.u166	Dear colleagues, our copyright team composed of Tomenko, Spiowakovsky, Hlan, Gordjeev, Sales and authors of the brotherly bill, which I'll talk about later, because we were here together to take this initiative, we want to bring us back to the normal life that was in the humanities tax system by 2015. During a well-known vote on amendments to the Tax Code, I understand, from the Ministry of Finance initiative, without agreeing with the humanities ministries, the Ministry of Education, cults, ecologys, and so on, deleted items relating to the lack of land tax for those categories of activity in the sphere of ecology, education, health care, which are state-owned enterprises financed exclusively from the State and which are currently on the verge of survival. So our position, we're not offering anything new, we're proposing to return to the tax regime that was in force in Ukraine until January 1, 2015. And in particular: reserves, including historical and cultural, national, natural parks, purchasers, other than hunting, of course, public and communal property parks, landscape parks, botanical gardens, dendrological and zoo parks, and natural monuments, not taxed. Well, just so you know what land tax is, take one of our 7 natural wonders, Askania Nova. That's just 33,000 hectares. So, come on, now the government has offered to tax us. Or one of the 7 wonders of Ukraine is Sofia, a dendropark that the local authorities have already joyfully taxed by almost a million dollars. They're still in debt, so now they're going to pay the land tax, and they're being financed exclusively from the government budget. That's why I'd like to support it, but not our bill, but the bill that will be reported by colleague Greenevich, because they've expanded the position and added state universities and institutions to it.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-18-m0.u167	Ten seconds, complete.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-18-m0.u168	So to expand, aside from this category that I've called, our colleagues add a standard that applies to higher education institutions of state ownership.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-18-m0.u169	Thank you. Lilia Mikhailna Greenevich.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-18-m0.u170	Yeah, 1852, yeah. Dear colleagues, I am introducing Bill 1851, which we have tabled together with colleagues Frolov and Krishin, and so is the conclusion of the Committee on Science and Education, in which we ask for a basis and a vote on the basis and generally this Bill 1851, because it restores the norms that were in previous tax legislation. In addition to the reserves, the natural parks that Tomenko spoke about, we propose to apply the standards of preschool, public education, culture, science, health, social protection, physical culture, and sports that are fully funded by government or local budgets. Now this tax burden creates a deficit directly in the budgets of these institutions. Similarly, to restore the standard for research into the holdings of scientific research institutions and educational institutions of agricultural identity and vocational and technical schools. So we're going back to the old version of these three standards. We are not adding any new positions, but we are stabilizing the work of the system of education, science, health care, and reserves and natural parks funded by the budget. Please vote as a basis and as a whole. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-18-m0.u171	Thank you. Dear colleagues, please sign two pros, two against. You have heard the suggestion of Mikli Tomenka and Lilia Mikhailna Grinevich to consider the bill exactly 1850-1. Ah, committee head, please! The head of the Committee of Roman Nasirov, then two pros, two against. But it's already there, it's real.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-18-m0.u172	Dear Mr. Head, dear colleagues! Bill No. 1850 proposes to release, as you have heard, from the land tax payments of reserves, including historical and cultural, national, natural parks and so on. Bill 1850-1 proposes to relieve land tax payments more to pay payers, including historical and cultural reserves, as we have said, public and municipal parks, regional landscape parks, botanical gardens, etc., preschool and public education institutions, regardless of their forms of ownership and sources of financing, cultural institutions, sciences, education, health care, etc. Also. It was also suggested that agricultural research, scientific research institutions and agricultural and technical schools should be included, but against this item and the committee's decisions, we will exclude this. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that the Ukraine Act amending the Ukrainian Tax Code and some Ukrainian legislation on tax reform of 1 January 2015, which was a national tax, is included in local taxes and all tax benefits for budgetary institutions have been abolished, as well as most of the benefits for legal persons who use the land of state importance. I will also note that the lands on which the parks are located are national and natural parks, parks. Monuments of garden-parking art, and most of them, not in utility, but in state-owned property. In doing so, it is necessary to provide for compensation for the corresponding losses of local budgets in connection with the adoption of this law. In addition, local self - government authorities in the vast majority do not provide land tax benefits, since the State Budget Act does not provide additional subsidies for the current year. In view of the above, the Committee decided to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine the adoption of the draft Law (register No. 1853).
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-18-m0.u173	Please let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-18-m0.u174	-1 except for research on scientific research institutions and agricultural profile educational institutions. Thank you. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-18-m0.u175	Thank you. Two in, two in. Please, People's Deputy Ribak, Peter Dusty Block.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-18-m0.u176	Ivan Ribak, 201st constituency, Cherniewec district. The bill is really very important and, above all, the fact that there is no money in the state budget today, and even more, we will pay for our own. Nevertheless, it is important to take into account today that a number of rural communities enter national parks, particularly in Montenegro, this is the Visnik National Natural Park, Czermoski and Hotinsky. And in rural areas, more than half of the village is located right under national parks. Budgets were designed in such a way that it was the calculation of incomes right from the tax on the ground. I think in legislation we just have to predict, in the future, that there's no such collegiates. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-18-m0.u177	Please give the word to Galchenk, the Opposition Block.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-18-m0.u178	Please pass the word to Dudenkov, MP.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-18-m0.u179	Thank you. Dear colleagues, citizens of Ukraine! This legislative initiative is aimed at providing benefits to appropriate pre-school educational institutions, research and research institutions, reserves, including historical and cultural national parks. Of course, our faction will support the provision of appropriate land tax benefits. But I would like to point out that this legislative initiative, like the previous legislative initiative for the restoration of subsidies to farmers, processing enterprises, is the result of the inadequacy of a viable coalition that, during such a well-known vote, tax and budgetary night, threw out these positions, leaving a very wide range of population and legal persons without adequate tax benefits. So, of course, we would welcome the return of these provisions to actual tax legislation. Finally, I would like to suggest that, before making any changes to tax legislation, we need to think very carefully -- and not make the budget and tax nights that were in December of last year.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-18-m0.u180	Please, Ungurian, People's Front faction, please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-18-m0.u181	Dear colleagues, I think this is an important bill, and the People's Front faction will support the bill of our colleague Greenevich 8050-1. What are we talking about? The point is that as part of our budgetary decentralization, we have transferred to the local councils the right to establish or not to set benefits for many subjects in Ukraine. Including those listed in the law. These are natural parks, orders, reserves, and other objects of garden and park art, etc. I would like to remind you that today the state of the natural-invention fund in Ukraine is very and very complex: our real parks, our reserves survive today. And this will be a very good help to keep PPP objects floating today. But on the other hand, we have to make a note of the profile information, because the unique facts of the purposeless use and the actual cutting off of pieces of land from national parks, from reserves, and so on. Also controversial is the proposal to exclude the educational institutions of the agricultural profile and the entire list. Therefore, the proposal, venerable Volodymyr Borisovich, to vote 8050-1 as a basis. And then on the committee, you can go through the list clearly, so that we don't expand or narrow down the list by voice. Let's vote on the basis, and on the second reading, let's put the dots above the "and." I urge everyone to support such an offer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-18-m0.u182	Thank you. Alexander Kugel.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-18-m0.u183	Dear colleagues, we should thank our colleagues: both Mr. Tomenko and Mrs. Greenevich for raising a very important question. We've talked many times about buildings being built in our reserves, they don't pay any taxes; there is a violation of legislation. Environmental protection. But we don't have a very nice situation right now. Mr. Tomenko's bill and Mrs. Greenevich's bill are also very popular. And that's why we have an offer for you, Mr. Head. To vote on two bills with the commission of Mr. Nasirov’s Committee on Tax Policy to merge them into second readings with proposals that would be submitted to the MPs. And then it's really going to be a complete bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-18-m0.u184	Thank you. Please, Ivan Melniczuk, the Peter Dust Block. The chairman of the committee will summarize the discussion.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-18-m0.u185	Dear colleagues, without questioning the ordinary question of National Parks, I would like to draw your attention to such a question. In the Vinnitsky region, in the Latin region, Vinnitsky’s agrarian university of honorary names, in paws, Mr. Kalietnik, four years ago, took 450 acres [450 ha] of land as a sub-investigating farm that does not pay taxes today. And now we're going to give them this land again, so that they don't continue to pay taxes. Let's take it better, I support the position that agrarian universities don't give out scientific research, better give this land to people, let them pay taxes from there. The state will be fine, and people will be fine. I object to the introduction of this law, to the question of, among other things, the University of Wynnick, giving it a land plot, again free and again without paying taxes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-18-m0.u186	Thank you. Please, Lilia Mikhailna Grinevich.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-18-m0.u187	Lilia Greenevich is the People's Front. I would like to point out, dear colleagues, that agrarian universities can't function and teach for a profile if they don't have land. And I urge everyone now to vote on this project as a basis, with no exceptions or exceptions. And then, at the committee meeting, it's impossible to get out of the voice right now about agrarian universities. Therefore, I propose to vote on the basis, and then I will consider the preparations for the second reading of the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-18-m0.u188	Thank you. Ruslan Demchak, Petra Dustenka Block. And we're going to go to the vote. Please invite the people's deputies to the hall.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-18-m0.u189	Dear colleagues! I'd like to explain that by excluding the point about agrarian universities, we don't rule out the areas where they're located, the dormitories, we're excluding agriculture, and I'm focusing on that. And these are tens of thousands of hectares that are now managed, including the former regionals and the former head of the agrarian committee, he was mentioned today. So I think we need to support the committee's proposal. And to vote with the exception of this paragraph, namely: "research of the holdings of scientific research institutions, agricultural training institutions, vocational and technical schools." Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-18-m0.u190	Thank you. Dear colleagues! I think everyone's ready to vote. Please let us express our position by voting. Please, Your Honor, there is a proposal for 1850-1 to vote as a basis. In preparation for second reading, we will jointly prepare all changes, additions, adjustments, all that will match the general position, the common position of all the MP factions. So, colleagues, get ready, please. Your consideration is, on the basis of draft law, registration number 1850-1, amending article 282 of the Ukrainian Tax Code to reduce the tax burden on environmental protection agencies. Please vote. Please support, on a base. Based on the base. [[13:56:54]] For 216 No, no votes. Tomenko couldn't vote. Please, colleagues, please do it again. Once again, the offer. Please listen carefully. Please take your seats. There's 1850-1, it's good for everyone, as far as I can tell. We're voting on the basis of this bill, and we're going to work on it on the committee. What else do you want to add, Mikolo Volodymyrovich? Please give me a minute, Mikola Tomenko as the author. What do you want to add to my offer?
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-18-m0.u191	Volodymyr Borisovich, we have been warned, and our colleagues are concerned about this point regarding the land of exploration. I think if we can guarantee that the position of the tax committee is that this point is definitely going to be excluded, and I think that it should be ruled out, too, because it's a land where business activities are taking place, not a land on which the university is based, so to speak, Agrarian. The land on which the Agrarian University stands is not taxed. And those who do business have to be taxed. So my request to return and vote with the understanding that we will not support the standard of farm research in the second reading. Then I hope we get 226.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-18-m0.u192	Based on the exclusion of scientific and scientific holdings? Colleagues, we can do this, we've talked to the head of the profile committee. When preparing for second reading, we can also consider this standard. Now we have to take it as a base. And then the committee is already working on this issue. Please, Your Honor, once again, please concentrate. I'm betting on a vote of 1850-1 on the basis of, uh, honorary colleagues, on the basis of that. Please vote 1850-1. Based on the base. In preparation for the second reading, you will be determined on this point. [[13:59:21]] For 226 Decision taken. But I'm stressing that. I beg you, colleagues, be careful. I'm asking your attention, colleagues, please don't leave. We have two other important questions: the issue of supporting and removing OSB tax, you remember. No discussion. Huh? Colleagues, there's the next proposal, it's an important question, we voted it out, you know, and the public will support it - 1892. There is a proposal to vote it as a basis and generally without discussion, without discussion. Second position. There is a bill that has been drafted 2049 and 2049 to vote in the first reading as a basis. So this is going to be a complex solution, well, we don't have to crash it. That's why I'd ask you. I exercise my right to continue the session for 15 minutes and ask, honourable fellow members of the people's deputies, to prepare for the vote now and to vote on the bill (registration number 1892) for the proposal, with no proposal to discuss the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Tax Code on Taxation of Certain Non-profit Organizations, the issue of not levying OSB taxes. Is there, is there a need to vote? There's a word. Wait a minute, there's a word, Nina's national deputy. Eugene Nina Petrovna, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-18-m0.u193	Ladies and gentlemen, please note that housing-building cooperatives are included in the list of organizations that will not pay income taxes. As you know, housing-building cooperatives are the created mergers of legal and natural persons back in the 1970s and 1980s at the Soviet Union. And in order to stimulate the transition from this form of merger, article 5 of the Ukrainian Law on the Unification of Co-owners of a Multi-Apartment House was introduced. So given the need to refuse to support housing-building cooperatives, and yet, focusing on the support of OSBB, there is no need to include housing-building cooperatives in this list. So I suggest that we exclude from the text of Bill No. 1892 the word "residential cooperatives."
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-18-m0.u194	Colleagues, we're going to discuss this. But there may be an offer. Listen before we vote, perhaps the proposal that there be a second bill of 2049. Maybe when you're working 2049 to actually come to a meeting with OSBB today, to work on housing cooperatives. And that's how, given Souther's offer, delete now. When preparing for 2049, consider again separately. And so there will be no problem, with the exclusion, with the offer of Eugene. Okay? Is it accepted? Roger that. Is it accepted? Please, Vitaly Hometic.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-18-m0.u195	Dear colleagues, there is a proposal to move on the Rules. The Rules are clearly written, accepted in the first reading. Before the second reading of the Yuzanin or any other national MP, he will make his own proposals, which will or will not take into account the committee. We have received many letters to the National Deputies from the associations of joint owners of apartment buildings and from other cooperatives, including. That is why this bill is vital today. And if you take it as a whole in the way it's presented, it's supported by everyone. If not, we take it as a basis and continue to consider amendments that will come from various national deputies. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-18-m0.u196	Thank you, Your Honor. Please, Opposition Block, Debenko's National MP, then Chicken. Then Barresuk, then the Smoking Block of Peter Dust. What is the problem? The FSB is to be tax-free, that's objective. And then when we're doing 2049, we can work on housing and building cooperatives, and that's it. Well, I have to give my word, colleagues. Let's have respect for each other. Please, Dudenkov.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-18-m0.u197	Vladimir Borisovich, well, it was a very business, normal offer. Given that we have received payments from cooperatives since 1 April, I think each of them will consider copies and figures and see how to survive in these circumstances. And I think that here to make a distinction and in these circumstances to drive someone away and to reform even under these, so to speak, moments -- I think that's a completely wrong approach. Indeed, a large number of people live in such houses, and I think that today would be our right position for all, to allow people to somehow find a way out of the situation, and then to look for mechanisms to protect every Ukrainian citizen. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-18-m0.u198	Thank you. Please, Oleg Berezuk. All right, colleagues, calm down, please. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-18-m0.u199	Ladies and gentlemen! This has already been said and discussed. There's an offer: 1892 is to accept it as it is, because by April 1, it has to be accepted as a basis and as a whole, and in 2049, do the things that Mrs. Eugene proposes. Because if we are today, because the BSC, the honourable ones, are the same BSCs, they're the only ones calling it different, and they're doing the same thing. So please, let's vote in 1892. True, there's a little technicality to make it work, I'm asking you to bring it in, Mrs. Ostrikova. And then those two laws would vote. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-18-m0.u200	Get ready. I'll give the floor to the People's Deputy Ostrecki. Please, Chicken, People's Deputy Chicken, Peter Dusty Block.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-18-m0.u201	Dear Volodymyr Borisovich, distinguished national deputies! It is obvious that there is no way to exclude residential cooperatives from this list, since they are companies that have not been able to do so because of objective or even subjective reasons for re-registration. It would be totally unfair for members of these housing and building cooperatives to pay for the maintenance of the house and the instigation territory, and you can't bet on it. That's why, Volodymyr Borisovich, we need to take 1892 as a whole, and then, under another bill, we'll work on it. On March 31st, the deadline for filing tax returns expires. People live in tension, we have to take this tension off. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-18-m0.u202	Thank you, Your Honor. Please, People's Deputy Ostrikav, offer. Listen, I'm going to be the basis for this whole 1892. In preparation for 2049, we'll see if there's any abuse, we'll fix it, but we can't put people in trouble. Ostrik's proposal, and we vote. Get ready, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-18-m0.u203	Dear colleagues, the Self-Help faction, of course, acting as co-authors of the bill, fully supports the fact that OSBB should be exempt from taxation by the tax in question. However, this bill is called "to amend the Ukrainian Tax Code," and that's why it has chapter 2, Final Positions, but it does not indicate that changes are being made to the Transitional Provisions of the Tax Code. So under the transcript, I ask you to record this, the need for such an amendment: to complete subsection 4 of chapter 20 with new paragraphs of this content, "34." And so on and so forth, what goes on in the bill. And "35." And vote in general.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-18-m0.u204	Thank you. Dear colleagues, come on, prepare for the vote, we will now vote on the proposal as a whole, and then in 2049 we will work on these things. There will be no abuse, people cannot be left with such problems right now. Once again, a bill, registration number 1892, is put to the vote, a draft law amending the Ukrainian Tax Code on taxation of certain non-profit organizations. It's about exploiting organizations in people's homes. Therefore, a proposal is made on the basis both in general, and I ask you to vote, and I ask you to support, honourable colleagues, on the basis and in general. Let's back up, vote. Please support as a whole. [[14:08:45]] For 246 Thank you. 246, decision taken. [[Applause]] Dear colleagues, the bill 2049, the related bills, is being submitted to your consideration. And we agreed that we would look at it as a basis. And I'd like to take into account when preparing for the second reading the proposal made by the National Deputy of South Carolina regarding. I understand she only had one warning: not to use this bill to abuse taxes. So please, I'm asking you to process this and find a negotiated solution to this question. So, colleagues, don't split up, 2049 without talking about it as a basis. Is it accepted? Please vote for base 2049 without discussion, as a basis. Please support 2049 on a base. [[14:09:40]] For 236 Decision taken. So 236, the decision is taken. Thank you, colleagues, look, there's another offer. One is a proposal put forward by a number of national deputies for the transfer to Bill 1159. [[Applause]] I have six minutes, well, five minutes. Yes, what we can consider without violating the Rules, and I will now make this proposal. Before I put her to the vote, I'd like to give the floor to Vice Speaker Oksani Siroid. Listen, we need to put one question into the order of the session. One moment, I ask you all to remain in your seats, please, Your Honor, listen carefully.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-18-m0.u205	Dear colleagues, I'd like to have your attention. As you know, April 1st is due to become fully effective the new Law on Public Prosecutions. Regrettably, in view of the fact that appropriate measures have not been taken for all these positions to take effect for a long time, we today need to assist the new prosecutor’s office, the management of the new prosecutor’s office, in order for them to be able to enforce this law. We've talked to the prosecution's representatives before to make changes that will allow them to make those changes effectively, even before the Public Prosecutor's Act takes effect. But until now, we have to postpone the operation of this law, suspend it. But before that, I'd like to ask you to take us into the order of the day session. Actually, it's a law that's going to allow us to take some time off from the Procurator's Act. Please understand that this is not about delaying the reform of the Public Prosecutor's Office, because we are actually over making changes to the law.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-18-m0.u206	Look, distinguished national MPs, what's this all about? So that we could look at it, and there was someone in the country to investigate. Because since April 1, no one will be investigating at all. It's about a minute, it's about putting it in the order of the day session. Then you'll work on the committees, then you'll decide on his next vote, and you'll make a decision. So I'm going to put the proposal to the vote now. Is it accepted? Integrating into the agenda is not making any decisions right now. Please, colleagues. Do you insist on your words? Please, Andrew Cosemiakin. Then there's Yuri Lucenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-18-m0.u207	Dear Chairman, dear colleagues! Mrs. Oksana was right to say that we really need to save the prosecutor's office. But when we're talking about what should have been done in accordance with the Constitution and the Final Positions of the Criminal Procedure Code to enact the Law on the State Bureau of Investigation, they can't hear us, and they're probably doing it on purpose. So I'd like to ask you the following. If the prosecution needs such assistance, it should be the President, not the deputy from the faction of one, even if it joins the coalition. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-18-m0.u208	Yuri Lucenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-18-m0.u209	Dear Mr. Head, dear colleagues! First of all, it is not about helping the prosecutor’s office, but about helping the country’s legality. I want to remind myself of my personal experience. In the unfortunate year 2005, then President Yushchenko signed another university with, as it turns out, an anti-national opposition that actually introduced immunity for local council members -- hundreds of criminal cases burned to billions of stolen property in one day. And this impunity led to the triumph of Yanukovich and his gang. Now, in April months, the D.A. is denied the right to investigate, but no one is buying it. Then we really need to postpone that term. But with what I agree with my colleague Kozemykin, we need to start adopting the Law on the State Bureau of Investigation in parallel. And this process needs to be brought together, the adoption continued.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-18-m0.u210	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-18-m0.u211	continue the functions of investigation in the Henprocuratorium and the adoption of the Coalition Agreement of the State Bureau of Investigation. Please support Mrs. Oksana Siroid's offer. Which is going to go in that direction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-18-m0.u212	Please, National Deputy Moseschuk, Radical Party, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-18-m0.u213	Igor Mosiyczuk, Radical Party. I would like to have the full support of my colleagues, Cosemiakin. Absolutely. If the D.A. wanted to do something, she would have come to the committee, which, by the way, included Yuri Vitaliyovich. Thus, the Attorney General cannot report the crimes in Maidan for the third or fourth sessions, and it was the prosecution’s office that ordered the hearing three years ago. Therefore, the Radical Party faction will not vote in favour of postponement. Let the D.A. come here, or at least to the committee and act, they'll start passing laws from the President and from themselves they see. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-18-m0.u214	Dear colleagues, I suggest you do it this way. We'll hold consultations, and tomorrow morning we can do that and decide on the vote. But I'm making a proposal for a review of 1159 at this session right now. 1159 on speeding up. Please, who's in favour of this proposal, please vote. To speed up consideration of 1159. Just once, I'll put it in, because there's no time. Now look at him! 1159. [[14:16:14]] For-147 I see. 147. Dear National Deputies! In accordance with the Rules, I declare the plenary session closed. The plenary meeting tomorrow will be at 10 a.m. Thank you, Your Honor.
