ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-08-m1.u1	Dear fellow MPs, the time for recess is over. I'm asking you to come into the hall and take up jobs. I ask the Secretary of the Supreme Council to announce the commencement of the work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. The heads of the factions please invite the deputies to the hall. Please come on in, we're mobilizing, we're occupying jobs. Dear colleagues, I call for responsibility. Please come into the hall, take up jobs. We have to work, Ukraine calls. Take up jobs, please. Dear colleagues, I'd like to consult you. We have a cluster of issues called "For Decision-making on the Issues under discussion." But as the MPs mobilize, I have such an offer to support it, so that we can move on to the next chapter -- "First Reading," and we start talking. And the moment we feel that the hall is ready for effective work, let's move on to the decision-making section on the issues under discussion. Colleagues, no objection? This will increase the efficiency of our work. [[B in m in s a l in]] I know. 2558, the comparative table is already given out. And we're going into the hall. We don't even have a voice job. Please come into the hall. Dear colleagues, I'd like to ask you, did everyone get a comparative table on their hands? Is it correct to start a review of this bill, which we postponed just because there was no comparable table in the room? They're all there, aren't they? So we've formed our agenda. Now please prepare to register for the evening session. Please enter the hall, prepare for registration. Dear colleagues, we're registering. Please register for the opening of the evening session. Please register. Please turn on the registration. [[16:08:07]] A total of 357 deputies were registered. It's a victory. And I declare the evening meeting of the Supreme Council open. So I remind you, we put 2558a down just because there wasn't a comparable table in the deputies' hands. Now the comparative table is already given out. I asked the MPs if they all got it, and they all confirmed what they got. That's why that bill that was postponed, we're moving on to its consideration. And I would like to invite again the head of the Committee on Agricultural Policy and the Land Relations of Kutov Taras Viktorovich. 2558a: Draft Act amending some Ukrainian legislation on deregulation in agri-industrial complex (second reading). Please report to Taras Viktorovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-08-m1.u2	Dear colleagues, your opinion is proposed in the second reading of bill 2558a. This is the Ukrainian Act on Amendments to some Ukrainian legislation on deregulation in the agri-industrial complex. It is evident that the bill is the result of a consolidated position of MPs, agrarians and a monitoring body. We analyzed some 110 arbitrary and other mandatory procedures in the APC. Only 22 of them have been recognized as in need of cancellation or clarification of their application. I mean, it's not that big a deal, you know, canceling all the permits, and then not knowing how to deal with it. As an example, the license to continue with especially the treatment of particularly dangerous substances and wastes. More than 30,000 agrarians are potentially forced to obtain this license to use plant protection products that should not be considered particularly dangerous in the context of their application. Also this year, we have all witnessed how the controlling authorities have failed to properly overcome African swine fever at least this has caused a great deal of complexity. And this indicates that there should be control in the APC, but a lot of the control mechanisms in the APC are out of date and duplicate each other. I want to stress that the agro-industrial sector in the economy is one of the same regulated sectors. This is natural because it is necessary to ensure the quality and safety of products produced by the sector and consumed by humans. Substantially, reducing administrative costs for agrarians is what the bill calls for, as well as lowering fertilizer prices, simplifying the entry of new owners into the market, and thus lowering food prices. The Committee’s second reading included 40 proposals by legal entities, 30 of which included some 10 amendments, and 10 were rejected. Rejected positions conflict with the concept of an adopted law on the basis of which obstacles are created in the way of deregulation in the country’s agriculture. In view of the above, the Committee on Agricultural Policy and Land Relations has decided to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine the adoption of Bill 2558a as a second reading and, in general, as a law and to entrust the Chief Legal Authority of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, together with the Committee, to introduce technical and legal rights to this law while preparing it for signature. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-08-m1.u3	Thank you. Dear colleagues, let's move on to the lines that have been given. And by the way, I'm going to read things that were rejected. 8th National MP Lušnjak. Is it insisting?
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-08-m1.u4	Please, colleagues, 8th Amendment, National MP Lušnjak. Don't insist. 12th National Deputy Nesterenko. Don't insist. 14th, Triguerna. Don't insist. National Deputy Lensky, 15th Amendment. Don't insist. 18th, Nesterenko. Don't insist. 19th, Triguerna. Don't insist. 23rd, Lensky. Don't insist. 26th, Nesterenko. Don't insist. 27th, Nesterenko. Don't insist. 37th, Lensky. Don't insist. All right, dear fellows, we're out. Please, Yvchenka.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-08-m1.u5	Vadim Yvchenko, "The Fatherland" faction. Dear colleagues, well, first of all, I wanted to ask you to support this bill, but on condition. I want to put Amendment 34 on confirmation. What she's talking about. Landowners (listen, colleagues), landowners and landowners within their land areas without special permission can extract useful fossils, extract useful fossils of local value, peat, and so forth. I don't think it's appropriate today to maintain this norm, it has corrupt components. So I propose to put this amendment to confirm, and without this amendment, to vote on the bill in the second reading. It's a very lobbying amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-08-m1.u6	Please comment, committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-08-m1.u7	This matter was discussed on the committee this morning. It's about what. This is the basic element that we're talking about, first of all, within the defined land use. So this doesn't mean that some new areas are doing some kind of commercial work in an appropriate way. It is about making use of the resources of agricultural enterprises within their own household needs that are within the land that they are. The basic point referred to in this amendment refers to the extraction of groundwater. This is primarily the case with the use of water in livestock, that is, pig farms, cattle farms, and so forth. But this amendment limits that the watershed does not exceed 300 cubic feet [300 cubic m] per day. This volume is regulated accordingly, this volume is not critical in terms of any industrial output, and in order to ensure normal functioning, including lack of claim from controlling authorities to normal owners, we propose.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-08-m1.u8	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-08-m1.u9	Then we'll take the water if we take it. It's partially accounted for.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-08-m1.u10	34 revisions. Once again, please, Taras.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-08-m1.u11	There are two amendments. The 33rd People's Deputy, Labazuk, is partially accounted for. And it's about the mining industry. And it is said that if an agricultural enterprise uses water for its own needs, it does not need a mining plant. Amendment 34 of the Vadaturian People’s Deputy states that landowners and landowners within the land areas already have the right, without special permission, to extract useful fossils of local importance, as well as underground waters other than mineral ones. useful fossils of local value. In addition to fascisms of drinking water, the amount of groundwater extracted from water reservoirs does not exceed 300 cubic feet [300 cubic m] per day. There's a proposal for the national MP Ichchenka to make this amendment for confirmation. I understand that it is necessary to do so. Let's put it on confirmation and figure out the result in the hall. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-08-m1.u12	Thank you. Dear colleagues, please take your seats. And according to the law that we're looking at right now, 2558a, we went through the table of amendments. 34 revisions. Please, Your Honor, I will now put to the vote Amendment 34, in accordance with the proposals of the People's Deputy Ivchenka. I would like to stress that if this amendment does not raise 226 votes in the Supreme Council Hall, it will mean that this amendment, which was agreed upon by the Committee, will be rejected. So this law is going to be considered without this amendment. If she doesn't get 226 now, then the final draft of the law will be without this amendment. Please, colleagues, take your seats. 34 amendment for confirmation, Vadim Ichchenk's offer. Please identify yourself. [[16:18:30.]] For-98 The amendment did not get the required number of votes. Without her. Yes, it's not confirmed, and this amendment has just been cancelled by the Supreme Council of Ukraine. I'll bet you a vote. Dear colleagues, please take your seats. Please, People's Chamberlain. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-08-m1.u13	Give the word to Vadatura.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-08-m1.u14	Vadatura. National Deputy Humil, I'm sorry. National Deputy Humil, People's Front.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-08-m1.u15	I'm sorry, but I still want to go back to this amendment, and somehow it's off. Because she was supported on the committee this morning. I just want to say again why we're doing this. What is the procedure today? Project documentation is first developed. Then he gets permission. This license costs between 80 and 150,000 dollars, and people can't do it. That's why we're removing this point. And we need permission, without geological work, it simplifies the procedure. So I'm just asking you to vote on this amendment. Thanks again.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-08-m1.u16	People's Chamberlain, please, People's Front, and let's proceed to the vote. Take your seats, dear fellows.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-08-m1.u17	Dear Chairman, distinguished national MPs! Mikhailo Humil, People's Front faction. I also want to return to this amendment, and many of the national deputies did not vote for it because it was there that other useful fossils of local importance were anticipated. For agricultural producers, the volume of water provided for in the draft law must be left behind for their own needs. And if other useful fossils are excluded from this amendment, this amendment should be voted on and supported.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-08-m1.u18	Please, just a minute. My colleagues, once again, I emphasize that there is a procedure for dealing with issues in the second reading. You made an offer, she didn't get the number of votes, it's cancelled. Now we're going to go to the vote in the entire draft law. And if we don't vote, we can prepare him for second reading again and match all positions. We just don't have a choice with you. Please, rostrum, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-08-m1.u19	Dear colleagues, there are two amendments. I want to make it clear that, really, this amendment just doesn't vote on this amendment, why, frankly, I was against us changing the structure of the law, because now there's going to be a situation where we can't vote for the law at all. And frankly, 98 percent of the positive that is in addition to this amendment will be eliminated, and a bill that has been pending for seven months will not be voted on. Now in terms of water, I want to say this: the water is left over, but it's a little bit different. The wording that remains in the law. This is Amendment 33, which was included in the committee. It reads as follows: "Earthowners and land users within the land areas granted to them have, without special permission and mining, to extract underground water, except mineral water, for agricultural and other production and for their own agricultural and commercial needs, if they are agricultural producers, part of agricultural products whose tax year is equal."
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-08-m1.u20	Please finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-08-m1.u21	And this amendment, it stayed. So we don't have any risk left in the water. What was the problem with the non-confirmation of the 34th amendment? Problems arose from the extraction of useful fossils of local value in areas owned by agricultural enterprises. What are we talking about, of course. It's sand, it's kind of, well, it's not industrial output, it's some local product that can be used there, including for construction, it's not possible and it won't be able to have without permission. That's what we're talking about. But what was essential and crucial about water remained what had disappeared in connection with an undeclared, unconfirmed amendment was the local mines. Thank you. Colleagues, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-08-m1.u22	Please, colleagues, we're voting.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-08-m1.u23	I ask you to support this bill, all factions, join us. In fact, there's been a lot of work done here, we've been waiting for this law for a very long time, it's the last law in the agar block today.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-08-m1.u24	Thank you, sir. Thank you. Please, colleagues, we take our seats, 2558a, in second reading and in general with the relevant technical and legal rights of the Supreme Council's Chief Legal Office, together with the committee that will have to be brought in preparation for this. for the signature of this document. 2558a is a second reading, in general, according to the mandate of the Supreme Council of Ukraine's Chief Legal Authority to bring technical and legal rights to this law in conjunction with the committee when preparing it for signature. Ready to vote? We are voting on my proposal: 2558a in the second reading and in general. Voting, voting. [[16:25:18]] For 237 The law's been passed. Thank you. Dear colleagues, we have voted with you on the 2279 bill of amendment to the Ukrainian Land Trade Code. We had 200. We didn't have 10 votes in the signal vote. Are you ready for us to vote now? With the amendment, according to the proposal put to the vote during the signal vote, 2279. I'm going to announce now, please. Please, Taras Kutov.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-08-m1.u25	Colleagues, I'm asking you to go back to the repairs. We didn't get 10 votes either. This is the 13th Amendment, the People's Deputy of Sobolev's Fatherland. 12th, I'm sorry, 12th. The 12th amendment, where it was actually about scientific creative associations and so on, so that they would have the opportunity without the competition to provide these land or premises, utilities and so on, as formulated by the People's Deputy Soboljev. I'm asking you very much to support this amendment, because, I take it, this will give us an opportunity to uphold the law in general. Please support the amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-08-m1.u26	Colleagues, corresponding to the 12th Amendment of Soboljeva, Law 2279. Please support her. The right position and committee. 12 revisions. Law 2279. In a signal vote, he didn't get the required number. So please support the 12 amendments, and let's go to the vote on the draft law as a whole. Is it accepted? Please 12 amendments, Sergey Sobolev. 2279. Please support this amendment. Ready? Vote. Take your seats, fellow countrymen, and support the 12th amendment. [[16:27:48]] For 214 Colleagues, I see that not everyone is ready to vote. Let's support the agrarians. Colleagues, once again, 12 amendments, Sergey Sobolev. Draft Act amending Ukraine’s Land Trade Code (second reading). The committee supported it. You've just heard that the committee has supported this amendment. Ready to vote? 12th Amendment. Come on, colleagues, rediscover yourself and then we'll vote in general. Please. 12th Amendment. Sobolen. Vote. 12th Amendment. [[16:29:18]] For 214 Well, obviously there are no votes, 214. And respected colleagues, then in second reading and throughout the draft Law (registration number 2279). 2279 in the second reading and in general with technical legal rights. Please vote. 2279. Second reading in general with technical legal remedies. Vote. [[16:29:50]] For 213 Obviously there are no votes for this law, colleagues. Dear colleagues, please put the motion 2279 to the vote for a second reading again. Second reading again, 2279, please. Vote. Another second. Vote. Second reading again, to the committee. [[16:30:40]] For 243 You got it. You got it. The law is sent to the Committee for re-reading. Dear colleagues, we have a number of decisions on the issues that we are. previously discussed and not voted. Draft Law. Listen carefully! I'll make a signal vote on all of it. So the draft Law (Registration No. 1403), the draft Law amending the Ukrainian Tax Code (for free transfer to the administration and use of confiscated and non-economic means of transport) (1403). Please. Please report to the committee for a moment.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-08-m1.u27	Dear colleagues! In order not to waste our time, let us narrowly argue the conclusion of the committee on the bill we discussed at the October 7th meeting on amending the Ukrainian Tax Code (for free transfer to power and the use of confiscated and unconsolidated means of transport) (registration No. 1403). This project is related to the project (registering 1402) and relates to the exemption from the value added tax and excise duty on the free transfer of military vehicles that have been transferred to the state. This project is supported by the Government. Thank you. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-08-m1.u28	Colleagues, please make a signal vote, 1403. Ready to vote? Draft Law on Amendments to the Ukrainian Tax Code (for free transfer to power and use of confiscated and non-economic means of transport). Ready? Please, 1403. Signal vote. Signal voting, on the ground. [[16:32:52]] For 197 There are no votes needed. 3191, please, Constantine Ischeikin. Draft Act amending the Ukrainian Act on the State Budget for Ukraine for 2015 (3191). Ready? Ready? 3191. Signal vote. As discussed earlier. Please, Constantine Ischeikin, is there anything to say? 3191, one minute. 3191, signal voting, based on and in general, signal 3191. Ready? Vote 3191, emergency. [[16:34:01]] For-167 No required number of votes, 167. Next, colleagues, 2319a. State Property Fund. Please, just a minute. Ivanchuk, Ivanchuk Andry Volodymyrovich. Please, deputy. Yes, Andrew Ivanchuk, please. Listen carefully to this question, fellow workers.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-08-m1.u29	Dear Mr. Head, honourable members of the people, you are being reviewed by Bill 2319a on amending certain laws of Ukraine (to clarify certain provisions). He had already been discussed by the Supreme Council. And I would like to say again under the transcript that the advisors are distributed to the category, to the group of the Chief Scientific and Experimental Authority of Privatization. Please, honourable Members, because there are representatives of the State Property Fund, so as not to stop this process so that a plan to fill the state budget can be implemented, the bill is supported. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-08-m1.u30	Please, Parthenenko, first deputy head. Out of the way, please inform. Colleagues, let's support it, it's a draft law. Create transparent conditions for privatization. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-08-m1.u31	Ladies and gentlemen, the bill is aimed at improving the mechanisms of privatization and is not aimed at privatizing any predetermined object. Three nouvelles. The mandatory sale of 50 percent of stock exchanges is cancelled. This leads to a decrease in market value and dispersion. Secondly, sanctions are clearly established for the non-addiction of legal and natural persons registered in the territory of the aggressor State to participate in privatization. And thirdly, there's increased information about potential buyers of privatization objects. And the last. Today, a child was born in the head of the State Property Fund at night. Let's give him a gift, vote on the bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-08-m1.u32	Yes, colleagues, this is a very responsible moment. Based on the third argument, it is indeed a great happiness when children are born in the family. 2319a, colleagues, signal vote. On the basis and in general with the rights you brought. Based on the base. On the basis of the rights you have brought, on the ground. Okay, okay, 2319a on the ground. It's an emergency, please support. 2319a on the ground. Let's vote, support, colleagues, please. Signal vote, vote. Based on the base. [[16:37:33]] For-191 Colleagues, Victor Mikhailovich Pinzenik, please. Please take your seats.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-08-m1.u33	Dear colleagues, the Honourable Head, is one controversial norm that takes up many voices and has already been discussed. Because no one can deny that they can cancel the dissipation of a package of shares that only lower prices. No one would object to knowing who is buying our objects. A discussion point about counselors is controversial. There's an offer. I'm asking my colleagues to support me. No one denies these two standards. We're removing the rule that applies to advisors, and we're taking these two positions of the State Property Fund. We've agreed on this position, and at this point, I urge all colleagues to uphold the law.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-08-m1.u34	Please, committee, Ivanchuk, please, Andrew Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-08-m1.u35	Dear Mr. Head, I believe that if there is a mood in the room to abolish the 5-10 percent rule, and the stumbling block is the introduction of the councilors' institution, I propose that Parliament decide without the introduction of the law of this concept as "advisors in privatization." I support Victor Mikhailovich. If it unites the hall, I'm under. Mr. Head, I'm saying by the transcript that we can remove this from the body of the law, and in technical law, if you give the commission, we'll clear it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-08-m1.u36	Dear colleagues, a proposal has been made, in line with Victor Mikhailovich Pinzenik's proposal to adopt this law as a basis and as a whole, in line with the proposal made by Viktor Mikhailovich Pinzenik and to remove it. You're making it up, aren't you? Please, Victor Mikhailovich Pinzenik.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-08-m1.u37	Dear colleagues, I'd like to address the Self-Help faction. I know you're preparing special rights, additional rights to the Privatization Act. But these two standards do not give rise to discussion. Let's give them a road trip and then go back to other changes, to privatization legislation. I'd like to support that position.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-08-m1.u38	Colleagues, that's the norm, that's what I understand, no one's doubting. Please, Vladislav Dove, one minute. And let's go to the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-08-m1.u39	Vladislav Dove, Peter Dustenka's Block. Dear colleagues, in support of what Victor Mikhailovich Pinzenik has already said. I just want to make it clear that this law does not actually introduce an institution of counsellors, it exists now, but only for the objects of the privatization of group "G," that is, for objects of great privatization and strategic privatization. That's why if we remove from this bill all the novels that relate to the introduction of an institution of advisors for all the other groups and leave the norm to what Victor Mikhailovich has already said, this law is perfectly normal and can be adopted. Because it's not really the law that is passed by the councilors' institute, it is now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-08-m1.u40	Thank you. Colleagues, please take your seats. Act 2319a with proposals by Victor Mikhailovich Pinzenic on the basis, with suggestions, to take into account when preparing for the second reading, according to technical law, what Victor Mikhailovich Pinzenik said. His proposal as a basis. Based on Pinzenic's suggestions, based on what he said. Are we making a signal or voting? Signal based on Pinzenic's suggestions. Please, on the basis of this, colleagues, alert, I ask everyone to support, with the proposals of Victor Mikhailovich Pinzenik, a signal vote. Please, on the basis of this, it's a signal based on Pinzenic's suggestions. Please vote on the basis, vote on. Please support me, colleagues. Based on the base. [[16:42:19]] For 215 Colleagues, 215 votes. It was a signal vote. Now we're going to look at the factions. Colleagues, we need to start this process, work on this law. On the basis of Victor Mikhailovich Pinzenic’s suggestions, he is able to vote, start working on it for a second reading. Please. Please take your seats. Please base your proposal on Victor Mikhailovich Pinzenik's signal vote. Take your seats, national deputies. Ready? Let's give the signal, based on Pinzenic 2319a. Personally, the head of the Holding Foundation came, regardless of what happened to him. Welcome to your daughter's birthday. Do not stop; do not stop at what you have accomplished. I wish you two things: that you have more children and that you have more transparent, effective privatization for the country. Colleagues ready to vote? Please, 2319a, signal, based on Pinzenik's suggestions. Vote. We're voting on the basis of Victor Mikhailovich's proposals. Let's vote on the basis. Signal. [[16:44:53]] For the 220. 220. Let's do it again, signal, let's do it again. Please, colleagues, based on 2319a, with Victor Mikhailovich Pinzenik's proposal for a vote, please. Vote. Signal on the base. Let's support and start preparing this bill for second reading. [[16:46:09]] For 216 None. All right, let's move on. 3224, colleagues, draft Act amending certain Ukrainian legislation on documents confirming Ukrainian citizenship, certify a person or his or her special status, aimed at liberalising the European Union visa regime for Ukraine. Alexander Danchenko, please give me a minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-08-m1.u41	Ladies and gentlemen, this bill has already been discussed several times. Once again, I ask him to support it, because this is in line with European standards. And we've already discussed with all of them what was the anti-corruption issue. The committee was corrected. So all the comments were corrected. That's why I'm asking you to back me up.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-08-m1.u42	Colleagues, Law 3224 on the basis. Please take your seats. 3224. The signal will also make the vote now. Ready, colleagues? Please 3224, signal on the base. Alexander Danchenko, the head of the profile committee has told you that all the disagreements have been worked out. 3224 on the base, signal. Vote. Signal, we're voting for a base. [[16:48:23]] For 210 Colleagues, proposal: 3224 on the basis of a signal vote. We got 210 votes for the rating vote, 3224. Ready? Please give the signal on the base, 3224 shall be voted on by the signal. On the basis of 3224, we vote, we vote, we vote. [[16:49:41]] For 206 I didn't get the required number of votes. And 2060a: draft Act on the measures of economic stability of the Black Mornaftegas State Shareholder Society in connection with the temporary occupation of Crimea territory. 2060a is also the basis for a signal vote. 2060a, based on it. Please identify yourself. [[B in m in s a l in]] On the basis of a signal vote. [[16:50:20]] For-195 I didn't get the required number of votes either. Dear colleagues, let's move on. We have laws that are prepared for the first reading. 3168: Draft Act amending the Decree of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine on Standardization and Certification. The Dove National MP prepared this bill. There is an offer by the author to consider this draft law by a reduced procedure. Please support the author's proposal. Short-term procedure, colleagues. [[16:51:04]] For-157. The decision has been made. Please, Vladislav Dove.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-08-m1.u43	Dear Vladimir Borisovich, distinguished colleagues! Allow me to present your consideration of the draft Ukrainian Act amending the Ukrainian Cabinet Decree on Standardization and Certification (on voluntary product certification). In fact, the purpose of making changes to the decree is a double purpose. Our colleagues in their previous vocation made changes to legislation that regulates food certification, such as cancelling it. But when the bill was passed, it was unfortunately forgotten that the Cabinet decree had the power of the law. And now we have two standards that conflict with each other. So the first goal is to harmonise the standards. The second goal is that we have an industry, including raw materials, meat processing, which export food abroad. And there's a country that actually recognizes our certificates. Given that we have not yet introduced the European Union’s technologies, and so far we need to export our products somehow, our manufacturers may fail to meet their external economic obligations since 1 January 2016. That's what I'm proposing to introduce a mechanism for voluntary food certification when the manufacturer has an external economic contract, he's certifying it here, and he's already sending it certified to the country of destination. But it was noted by the committee that this certification should only work for export operations. I fully agree with this right. And given that this bill is of a purely technical nature, I propose that it be accepted in the first reading and generally as a law. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-08-m1.u44	Thank you. Please, Victor Halasyuk, head of the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-08-m1.u45	Dear Volodymyr Borisovich! Dear fellow national MPs! I present to you a bill of 3168 amending the Cabinet of Ministers Decree on Standardization and Certification (registration number 3168). The purpose of the bill is to remove technical barriers for Ukrainian producers, Ukrainian exporters. In order for the funds that Ukrainian manufacturers spend on voluntary certification to be left behind not in other countries, but to be able to spend them here in Ukraine, to go through appropriate certification much cheaper and sell their products abroad. Dear colleagues, this bill is in the interest of Ukrainian producers, Ukrainian exporters, and today we are simply obliged to take all measures to remove these artificial regulatory barriers, such technical barriers for Ukrainian exporters. Moreover, we have to support our exporters, as all other countries that are developing their economies are doing. Therefore, in view of the committee's discussion, I would like to point out that the committee recommended that this bill be submitted to the Supreme Council for consideration, recommending that it be adopted on a basis and generally as a law adding to article 13 of the sentence, as follows: "These certificates cannot be required in the territory of Ukraine." - with appropriate technical legal treatment. Dear colleagues, support this bill in the first reading on the basis and in general so that we can allow our Ukrainian producers to go freely to foreign markets, to bring export earnings to the country, to improve the trade balance accordingly, to improve the currency stability of the bracelets. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-08-m1.u46	Please sign up: two for, two against. Please, Semenha, a national MP.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-08-m1.u47	Please pass the word to Sergei Kiral.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-08-m1.u48	Thank you, Roman. Yes, there is indeed a problem when, after we have revoked the licence required in Ukraine, we have somewhat created barriers for some Ukrainian producers to export their products to traditional markets in specific SND countries. Instead, it should also be noted that the bill does not address the problem of obtaining an international food certificate. Thus, it is also suggested that the second reading be further developed, made possible. In general, we are proposing the adoption of this law in the first reading in order to remove these unnecessary artificial barriers for the Ukrainian manufacturer and preserve behind them these market niches that they had in previous years. Please support your colleagues.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-08-m1.u49	Mikhailo Humil, People's Front. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-08-m1.u50	Mikhailo Humil, People's Front faction. Dear Chairman! Dear fellow national MPs! I suggest not stretching this law into two perspectives, namely, first reading, second reading, because it is completely simple and understandable. Thus, the colossion, which is based on the cancellation of licenses in Ukraine, resulted in the fact that our food exports, primarily in the SND countries, do not have the same certificates. But we can certify this with the consent of the exporter in Ukraine's territory, in the same way that we keep the money in our budget, then they will go, not buy those certificates much more expensive in other countries. I don't see the logic of stretching this into two perspectives, so I suggest, as was the committee's decision to support it in the first reading and in general. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-08-m1.u51	Thank you. Dear colleagues, let's go to the vote. Please take your seats. We have heard in all the speeches both in the reporter and in the head of the committee that it is appropriate to adopt this law as a basis and as a whole. Please take our seats, colleagues. Let's go to the vote. Please, 3168 as a basis and as a whole, a signal vote. Ready? 3168 on the basis and in general, a signal vote. I'd like your support, colleagues. Vote. Please be supportive. [[16:59:14]] For 223 I'd like to ask very carefully, colleagues. On the basis and in general, we only got 223 votes, so every vote is important. Please, colleagues, do it again. Is it the signal again or the vote? Vote. Please 3168 as a base and as a whole. Ready? We vote on the basis as a whole. 3168. I'd like your support, colleagues. Vote. Please be supportive. [[16:59:59]] For 238. The law's been passed. Thank you, Your Honor. 3303: Draft Act amending Chapter XI, Final and Transitional Provisions, of the Ukrainian National Police Act to guarantee the social protection of former employees of the internal affairs authorities of Ukraine and members of their families. Victor the King reports. Ah, there's the author's proposal for a reduced procedure. Please support me. Review of the simplified procedure. As for the bill's consideration of the reduced procedure, please. [[17:00:45]] For-166 The decision has been made. Please report, Victor Mikolaiovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-08-m1.u52	The President-in-Office of the People’s Deputies, the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Law Enforcement, discussed the submission of the National Deputies of Palamarczuk and others on the draft amendment of the National Police Act to Chapter 11 on guarantees of social protection for former employees of the Ukrainian internal affairs authorities and members of their family (Registration No. 3303). The bill proposes to renew guarantees for the social protection of former employees of the Ukrainian Home Affairs Authority and members of their families, as the new National Police Act did not extend guarantees of social protection to these militia personnel and their families. Including families of militia personnel who died (this is postmortem) missing, they became disabled while serving in the police force. Ukrainians from former workers who were released from health, age, and state - of - the - art service. First - group disabilities as a result of injuries and others in the execution of others. Disincentives in the performance of their duties This is being changed to part six of chapter 11, "The Final and Transitional Positions" of the Ukrainian National Police Act, which regulates the recalculation of pensions for these persons, and restores the social protection of these people who have been in internal affairs. The point is that the Police Act came this year, and they have already become disabled, disabled since the early days of operations in the ATO. So I ask you, honourable national deputies, to respect these people who gave and protected our Motherland at first sight, and.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-08-m1.u53	Please finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-08-m1.u54	And vote in favour of this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-08-m1.u55	Thank you. Please, Andrew Anatoliyovich Cosemyakin. Please, head of the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-08-m1.u56	Dear Chairman, dear colleagues! Your opinion is on the draft Ukrainian Law (No. 3303) amending Chapter XI of the Act on National Police on the Protection of Social Protection of Former Workers of Internal Affairs of Ukraine and Members of Their Families. To help me tell you that it's more than 300,000 people, it's about 300,000 people. The project proposes to renew guarantees for the social protection of former workers in the internal affairs of Ukraine and members of their families, who, by the way, are very many of them ATO veterans and fought against Russian invaders. To this end, changes are made to part six of Chapter XI of the Law on National Police, which regulates the recalculation of pensions to persons of the primary and the regular composition of internal rights bodies in the event of changes in the types of financial security and the introduction of new allowances, allowances and increases for police. After reviewing the bill, members of the committee noted the extraordinary significance of the changes he had proposed, which would allow for the social protection of former workers and members of their families. However, it was decided to recommend the Supreme Council of Ukraine to adopt the bill as a basis and as a whole. So, colleagues, please identify and support former internal affairs officials and allow them to benefit from these social guarantees. Thank you for your support.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-08-m1.u57	Thank you. Please sign up: two for, two against, colleagues. Berezenko, National Deputy, Sergey Ivanovich. Miroshenko Yuri.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-08-m1.u58	Dear colleagues, many laws we are considering, many questions we are asking, not all of us are united, but this is a question that I think is meant to unite the entire room. And factions of coalition and opposition should always remember that we are responsible for people, especially those who at times at the expense of their lives, health protects peace, order in our country. So, dear colleagues, I urge you to support this bill, and the faction of the Opposition Block will also vote for it. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-08-m1.u59	Thank you. Yuri Bereza, People's Front, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-08-m1.u60	I want to remind my esteemed colleagues of the story of a year and a half ago. Who became the basis of the opposition against Ukraine in Donetsk, Luhansk? Ex-Militaries. Who betrayed Ukraine in Crimea? Ex-Militaries. The adoption of this law is not in time. Without the adoption of a law that would clearly indicate who and how the State of Ukraine were treated? We are now comparing these separatists who, using their knowledge against Ukraine, have used against the country of Ukraine again, I repeat, again, without a clear distinction between those who are beautiful and beautiful representatives of the country of Ukraine who gave their lives, health for the state of Ukraine is one thing. And when we apply this law now, it is inappropriate for all of us. That's why the People's Front faction clearly doesn't support this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-08-m1.u61	Thank you, Your Honor. They said yes and against, colleagues. Please take your seats. Colleagues, perhaps let us not lose this law, send for re-reading, for preparation? Please give the signal vote, based on 3303, a signal vote, and accept it as a basis. Vote, colleagues, 3303, on the ground. Based on the base. Signal vote. [[17:09:05]] For-160. And there's an offer to bring him back to read again, to read again, to the committee for preparation for the first time again. Please, I'll put the vote back on the committee for one more time. Is it supported? Let's go to the committee again. First to the committee, please support. Let's vote again, firstly, to the committee, please vote. Let's go to the committee again. [[17:09:53]] For 211 Again to the author, the author of the law. To return the subject, the right of legislative initiative, to recast, please vote. The subject for processing. [[17:10:26]] For 215 Colleagues, let's get him now, this law will bring the subject back to work so that we don't lose the law. Next, all of you who have different thoughts, cooperate with him, consult him, and we will return to his consideration. If there is no agreement, then there will be no agreement. Do we have a deal? I ask for the support of my colleagues: to return the subject to the legislative initiative for further work, colleagues. Please take your seats. Please, to further develop the subject of the legislative initiative. Let's vote. Vote the subject for further processing. Please be supportive. [[17:11:37]] For 229 Thank you, we're back. Please consult. 2830: Draft Act amending the Ukrainian Budget Code for the Purpose of Environmental Taxation. Mikola Tomenko. There is an offer by the author of a reduced procedure. Please, the author's proposal, a brief consideration of the bill, please. Review of the reduced procedure, colleagues. [[17:12:13]] For 169 The decision has been made. Please, Mikola Tomenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-08-m1.u62	Dear colleagues, I have a proposal from the committee today to discuss actively, constructively, and to adopt a decision tomorrow. Because everyone under the influence of Vice President Byden's speech, I see. And that's why, in fact, we have most of the deputies, and the living deputies are a little bit smaller. So I propose that this bill, which we are actively discussing on the budget committee for several months now, be held in a mode of discussion. So, guys, we're not making anything new up, the situation looks like this. In the face of our difficult socio-economic life, the government decided to go the next way in 2014-2015: it's a protected article that's being set aside for ecology, converted it into a general budget, into a general fund, and we have a catastrophic problem today. The protected article on environmental taxes, which focused on floods, conservation, water treatment, and so forth, is now being sent to the general budget. We understand that the problem in Ukraine is not easy, and so it is clear that the city authorities are going to try to get the holes patched up and not to deal with the problems of a strategic nature. For example, let me tell you a story like this. In the last two years, 71 million dollars were planned in Zakarpat, for example, for the last year. I didn't give you a penny. Two hundred thousand dollars is planned for this year. So I'll let you know, after the water went down in Zacarpatta, they didn't use a penny. Now the Zacarpathian District Administration has asked the government to allocate just 2 billion dollars to solve the issues that were. So it's better to prevent environmental issues than then to compensate them for billions. So our problem is to get the local budgets back.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-08-m1.u63	Please finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-08-m1.u64	To return to local budgets, and we predict 80 by 20, where we write: the village, the village, the city, the district budget. Well, in the case of Kiev, that's 80 percent straight for Kiev, because there's no distribution here. In order for the local community and the local authorities to draw all things upon themselves, it is still obliged to do so. We didn't build any garbage factory, we didn't do anything about ecology, because there's no physical money. So to protect an environmental article and distribute it in proportion: 80, 20 is not a novel, it's a tested norm that we want to restore. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-08-m1.u65	Thank you. Please, Ivanovich Kulichenko. Head of the Committee on Budget Affairs.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-08-m1.u66	Dear Vladimir Borisovich, distinguished colleagues! Indeed, environmental taxes are now included in the general budget fund of all levels. What Is an Environmental Tax? Not all businesses pay it, only those who pollute the environment pay it. There was a situation where the global fund was filled with disaster - related problems in each region. What is proposed? Of course, this does not coincide with the budget code, but on the other hand, it allows these costs to be accounted for separately and used to solve environmental problems. The Committee on Budgets considered at its meeting, and after lengthy discussions it recommended that the law be adopted in the first reading and that the second reading be determined to take effect in the following year, because this year is already happening as it is, and that the proposals resulting from the discussion be taken into account. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-08-m1.u67	Thank you. Please sign up: two for, two against. Please, Oleg Lazko.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-08-m1.u68	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. Honourable citizens of Ukraine, distinguished colleagues of the national MPs, an extremely important bill. Thousands of businesses in Ukraine are paying for the ecological congregation. What is the purpose of this environmental tax in general: to eliminate the consequences of technological disasters in case they arise to channel these costs to programs like Drinking Water. Talalai district of my hometown of Chernigiv. There's oil and gas. There is no drinking water in the area because it is polluted. There is no gas in the area, even though they live on appropriate mines. He's next door to Talalai district. Profits for oil production are over 400 million dollars per year to the government budget, including environmental taxes. But when water is done in the village, people collect their money. When a technological catastrophe is eliminated, they should seek out almost the most extraordinary fund of the Cabinet of Ministers instead of using environmental taxes as a goal. Where does the environmental tax they pay go now? To the General Fund of the State Budget. And from the general fund, it's about everything in the world: wages, pensions, other needs. The nature of the environmental tax. Ecologically harmful businesses pay environmental taxes to make a favourable life for citizens, a favourable environment. So the purpose of the bill is absolutely correct, logical, understandable. Everything that is correct, logical and understandable is always supported by the Radical Party. So I support this bill and I urge the Ukrainian Parliament to do the same. I'm not Biden, but I hope I convinced you by this performance. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-08-m1.u69	Please, Alexei Muschak.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-08-m1.u70	Asking the environmental fighter to give his word for the justice of Boris Rosenblatt.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-08-m1.u71	Boris Rosenblatt. It's such a nice title for him -- ecological, eco.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-08-m1.u72	Good afternoon, dear fellows! A very good bill, which today allows for special opportunities for areas affected by environmental consequences, will enable a person’s activities to stop and restore a land on which not only we but also our descendants should live. So today, I'd like to call from this rostrum to make a pro, push a button, so that we not only have the opportunity to live, but have the opportunity to do everything we can to ensure that our country's ecology is developed and done for people. I want to remind you of the consequences, especially in the south of our country, and the law that is still in Parliament today and ready for second reading, of amber, which we all mention very much here. And I saw in the 2016 budget it's already going to be like an article protected, we have to accept it. Because there is also a lot of money to go to our country’s environmental situation and recovery. So I ask all my colleagues to support this bill and allow decentralization, I remind you, in decentralization conditions, to have the capacity for local budgets to be filled and do everything to restore our country's environmental state. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-08-m1.u73	Debenkov, National Deputy, Opposition Block.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-08-m1.u74	Hello, respectable colleagues! Respectable citizens of Ukraine! The bill is, of course, correct and deserves to be supported in this plenary room. But what is the point of the bill? It's too simple. The authors of the legislative initiative, the right-holders of the legislative initiative propose the return of environmental taxes to special funds, the Toles of Gosbücket, the Toles of the Local Budget, do not change proportions. But who is to blame for this situation? In the past, the environmental tax has always been designed to improve the environment in order to reduce the pollution from those industries that are the source of these factors. They pay the environmental tax, the local community or the State budget for certain targeted public programmes uses these tax revenues to minimize environmental impacts. Unfortunately, the coalition that voted in favour of tax reform last December changed the situation. It has changed the legal nature of this environmental tax and has indeed begun to join the common funds. Therefore, we do not need to be reassuranced as the former members of the coalition say. We will vote consistently in this case. We have always insisted that the environmental tax should be made available to special funds for the implementation of State environmental programmes to improve the environment at the site of these enterprises. Naturally, this legislative initiative needs to be supported, as in general, by the idea of tax reform, which is not presented by a non-functional Government, and is not put to the vote in this plenary meeting. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-08-m1.u75	Please, Paul Yakimovich Ungurian, People's Front.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-08-m1.u76	Dear colleagues, I think so. One of the achievements of our annual work, one of the achievements of the coalition, the work of the coalition government, is certainly success in budgetary decentralization. I think all the local budgets agree that we have taken the right steps. This year, of course, we have seen a great deal of improvement in terms of administration, congregations, and local taxes and congregations, and the state level. We have also come to appreciate some of the shortcomings of the introduced novelties in education or medical subsidies. We've seen some issues with real estate taxes. We have seen problems with the administration and distribution of the proceeds in an additional five - percent excise regime. Including the issue that we are considering, the issue of environmental tax, which goes from 80 to 20 to the local and state budgets, refers to the category of issues that we need to address in the regime of changes to the Budget Code. The only question we have is: If we fail to do so today, we will certainly need to address this issue in terms of change, systemic changes to the Budget Code as a result of the budget year spent and budget planning for 2016. Clearly, the idea that environmental costs should go towards solving environmental problems is the right idea. So that environmental costs are not spent on others to solve other problems. As we do so, let us wisely do so in the near future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-08-m1.u77	Please, Victor Krivenko, one minute. Victor Krivenko, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-08-m1.u78	Yuri Solovay, 89th constituency. Dear colleagues, I'd like to point out that environmental taxes are a target tax, and they don't pay all businesses. These are businesses that do damage to the environment first. And of course, there's a logic here that this tax should be directed solely in a targeted direction. I want to give an example of the region of Ivano-Frankiv. When the Burstin TEC, which pays 100 million environmental taxes each year to solve environmental problems, in 2015 it was just 5 million dollars. And that's why I'm asking all of my fellow national MPs to accept this bill as a basis for these amounts being paid to be of a purpose. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-08-m1.u79	Please, Victor Krivenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-08-m1.u80	Dear colleagues, let's be clear. First. After decentralization, there was a single speaker who said that we didn't accept something. We took it the right way. We put 80 percent in place: 55 percent in the district budget and 25 percent in the local budget. But the target function was lost. For example, in my native Dniprodijnsk, a former city chief from the Party of Regions sent along with a majority of his 5 million dollars to repair the three lawns in the city and called them ecological measures. In a city that is one of the leaders of environmental pollution. So the idea of the bill is very correct. We need to fix this, the mistake that was, and continue what we started. Request to put him to the vote and to a reduced procedure for the second reading of the preparation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-08-m1.u81	Thank you. Sergey Eutuszek.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-08-m1.u82	Sergey Eutuszek, Equinox, Fatherland. The Fatherland faction will support this bill in the first reading. But what I'm trying to say is that just recently, local budgets had this kind of congregation from the location and operation of these auto-fuelling stations, other businesses that are defined as harmful. But then, later, somehow, the tax was sent to the general fund of the state budget. We therefore suggest that it be sent to a special fund, but local budgets, from such a type of tax. I'm also going to give an example in the city of Sarna, in Plains, where people can't quite understand, from the company that makes galvanic, why 300 dollars a month or a year is even paid to local budgets, and everything else goes somewhere to the budget in Kiev. So we're going to support the distribution that the committee head pointed out: 80 by 20 to go to the local budget.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-08-m1.u83	Andrew Gordjeev, please, Peter Dusty's Block.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-08-m1.u84	Dear colleagues, I have two prisons in the district. One "110's" is called the other "foot." There are people from all over Ukraine who are in so-called places, but at the same time who suffer from very severe diseases: tuberculosis, HIV/AIDS, and so on. So all the sewers from these prisons are going directly, without clearings, into the Ingulatz River. This bill allows us to form a goal of this tax in 2016, and this is the money that will go towards environmental goals. But, Vladimir Borisovich, the Committee on Budget Affairs suggested that it be accepted as a basis. But there is a proposal to accept it as a whole. Why? Since 2016 is near, 20 days remain. The bill was being tabled in May, and so the question is that we need to enter into a normal environmental tax relationship from the following fiscal year. Colleagues, please support him as a whole. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-08-m1.u85	Colleagues, please take our seats, prepare for the vote. Please. In line with the committee’s decision, there is an offer to take it as a basis. And there was a proposal to support him in a reduced procedure for second reading.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-08-m1.u86	Of course. And then we're going to prepare it for the second reading by a reduced procedure. And together with budget laws, we're going to adopt it, and it's going to work since January 1, 2016. And we won't make any mistakes, because. Colleagues, base vote, 2830. Please take your seats. Please base the alarm, 2830. Vote, signal, base, please. [[17:31:25]] For 218. There are voices, colleagues, please take your seats. But very carefully, I'd like to ask my colleagues on a basis. Let's go, colleagues, 2830, on the basis of that, I'd like everyone to prepare for the vote, colleagues. 2830, signal, base. Let's support local communities! Based on the base. Vote, signal, base. [[17:32:39]] For 235 Thank you. Colleagues, based on. Please, on the basis of 2830, vote. Based on the committee. It was a signal. 2830 as a base, we vote. 2830 based. Vote. [[17:33:02]] For 233 The decision has been made. And the law was passed in the first reading, on the basis. There's a proposal for a reduced procedure. Attention, colleagues! Short procedure for second reading, then we get to the next plenary week. Vote. We also need 226 votes. Vote. Short procedure for second reading. Vote. [[17:33:34]] For 204 Colleagues, pay attention! Okay. Thank you, the law has been passed. I think for the next plenary week we'll be able to look at it for the next plenary. I'd like the committee to prepare him for the second reading. Next. Oh, next plenary week. 2293a: Draft Act amending article 2 of the Ukrainian Act on State Support and Features of the Functioning of the Children's Centres "Artek" and "Young Guards". Please, 2293, Arthur the Chamber. There is a proposal for a reduced procedure to consider. [[17:34:39]] For-160.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-08-m1.u87	Dear Volodymira Borisovich, distinguished colleagues, I ask all Ukrainian national deputies to support this bill important and to accept it will allow the Youth Guard Children's Centre to receive a state act on the land. For no one is a secret, how many would like to cut off a forest piece of land on the shore of the Black Sea. Today the courts are coming and the only health-care center of the children's Youth Guard has no land document today. Dear colleagues, the bill is very important, but today there are differences in the hall and I see that. And I ask that today Vladimir Borisovich transfer this bill to the second sessional week so that we can unite and support this bill, accept it as a basis and as a whole. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-08-m1.u88	Thank you for the author's offer to transfer him to the next plenary week. I don't think anyone has any objections, it's important. 2487 is the amendment to article 15 of the Ukrainian Law on the judiciary and the status of judges on improving the mechanism for determining the level of burden on judges of the relevant court. Please, 2487, there is an offer to consider it as a reduced procedure. Please. [[17:36:21]] For-166 Please, Janicko Basil.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-08-m1.u89	Dear Vladimir Borisovich, distinguished colleagues! The bill, which I have proposed with our colleague Roman Romanyuk, proposes to make such changes to article 15 of the Law on the Judiciary and the Status of Judges. First, delete part of the eighth article 15, which currently provides that the courts of the relevant court have the right to reduce the burden of judicial proceedings on judges who hold administrative posts, but not more than 60 per cent in relation to and compared to the workload of other judges. In practice, the standard limits somewhat the rights of judges, the congregations of judges, when dealing with the issue of reducing the burden on judges who hold administrative positions, depending on the state of affairs in the relevant court. I note that article 126, which already defines the authority of the congregations of judges, contains a specific rule that the congregations of judges determine the level of workload on judges of the relevant court, taking into account their administrative and other responsibilities. Since the law itself requires judicial authorities to create proper organizational and other conditions for ensuring the normal functioning of the courts, it is therefore appropriate to allow the courts to determine the workload of the courts and their deputies, including the percentage of the workload. Secondly, the draft law proposes to establish that all aspects of the distribution of court cases as defined in article 15 of the Act will be determined by the provision of an automated court record-keeping system, not just in the event of a situation that actually makes it impossible to operate an automated documentary system and lasts more than 5 working days, which are now provided for by valid legislation. In connection with this part XI, it is suggested that a new edition should be made that the features of the allocation of cases defined by this article and the order of operation of the automated system of court documentation should be determined by the provisions on the automated system of court documentation approved by the Council of Judges of Ukraine and agreed with the State Court.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-08-m1.u90	How long does it take to finish? 30 seconds? 30 seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-08-m1.u91	I want to add that the GNEU believes that the bill as a result of the first reading may be accepted as a basis. On July 15, our Committee on Legal Policy and Justice, in its conclusion, recommended that the Supreme Council adopt the bill as a basis and as a whole. Dear colleagues, I ask you to support this bill and vote it as a basis and as a whole. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-08-m1.u92	Thank you. Dear colleagues, there is a need for discussion. Is that right? [[B in m in s a l in]] Well, we'll give Ruslan Knyazevitch a minute. Let him inspire us to vote. Please turn on Ruslan Knyazevich's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-08-m1.u93	Thank you. Dear Lord Chairman! Dear colleagues! On behalf of the committee, I ask you to support this bill. Its essence is simple and understandable. Remember, last year we passed the Law on Restoration of Trust in the Judiciary, where the main, as it were, is the institution that now decides on administrative positions in the courts. And among other things, the congregations of judges who assign a person to an administrative office should determine the workload of this person, as a judge, because every head or deputy in the court is at the same time a judge who executes justice. But unfortunately, we have a conflict where the general rule says that the courts themselves have to determine this kind of pressure, and then the special rule says that this load should be no more than 60 percent. We need such a bill in support of it, allowing the courts themselves to determine the appropriateness of setting a certain percentage, given the workload that is directly in each court. So there's a general scale that frankly measures average temperature in all courts in Ukraine, and that's not correct in terms of methodology. Thank you. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-08-m1.u94	Thank you. Dear colleagues! Ready to vote? Then I ask the National Deputies to come into the hall and take up their jobs. Workplaces, colleagues! It's as close to your cards as possible to the vote. I'm not going to name names, but I'm going to call on the national deputies to take up jobs and prepare for the vote. Mustafa! Well, we've come to the Supreme Council to work! Please put to the vote first on the basis of the draft Law on Amendments to Article 15 of the Law on the Judiciary and the Status of Judges on improving the mechanism for determining the level of burden on judges of the relevant court (number 2487). First, on the ground. Vote. Signal vote, 2487. Please vote. [[17:41:48]] For 205 They say they didn't make it. Okay. I'm gonna do it again. I'm asking my fellow MPs. I see there's no objection in the hall, there's just little and low discipline. I'm asking you to take up jobs. I'm going to put the vote again. Is everyone ready to vote? I'm re-voting Bill 2487. Please, who supports this bill, the vote, please. [[17:42:38]] For 204 Then, with your permission, we give you a bill, we postpone the vote as a previously discussed bill. Is there an agreement, company? Is that right? Let's put it down. We discussed it in the section on the issues discussed earlier, and we will vote later. Now, colleagues, I was approached by the head of the Committee on Youth and Sports, and in fact he says we voted in favour of Bill 2293a and there were no votes. But after the discussions, after the discussions, there was understanding in the hall and ready to vote. I'm another minute for the Chamber, if there are votes, let's support and vote on this bill. 1 minute, Arthur the Chamber, please. 2293a.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-08-m1.u95	No, no, we talked, it's okay. Dear colleagues, we've had discussions with all the factions, I think this bill today, we need to consolidate and accept as a basis and as a whole. We need to think and care for our children today. Thank you. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-08-m1.u96	So, colleagues seemed to have come to an understanding, if I understand correctly, of the bill. I will re-vote the draft Act amending article 2 of the Ukrainian Act on State Support and Features of the Functioning of the Children's Centres "Artek" and "Young Guard" (number 2293a). Please take your seats and take part in the signal vote. 2293a, please vote. Vote. [[17:44:37]] For 234 Thank you for your understanding. For finding compromise. And now I'm going to vote, but I'm going to put it in sequence. Based on the whole thing, right? I'm putting a draft Act amending article 2 of the Ukrainian Act on State Support and the Features of the Functioning of the Children's Centres Artek and Youth Guards (number 2293a) as a foundation and as a whole. Please vote. Please take part in the vote. On the basis of a total of 2,293a. Vote. [[17:45:24]] For 236 Decision taken. We're restoring the potential gradually by the end of the day. Let's move on to the next question of order of the day. This is Bill 2169a: a draft Act amending certain Ukrainian laws on the purchase of goods, jobs and services needed for the implementation of state information policy. There is a request to consider it as a reduced procedure. I ask you to support the proposal for a reduced procedure. Please vote in favour of the summary procedure. Please be supportive. [[17:46:11]] For 158. Decision taken. And I invite the head of the State Committee on Television and Radio to report to Mr. Nadweik Oleg Igorovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-08-m1.u97	Dear Chairman, distinguished national MPs! On April 10th last year, the Supreme Council of Ukraine passed the Ukrainian Act on State Procurement. This law applies the term "public procurement" only in the context of procedures for purchasing services for the training of professionals in science and teaching and labour, and for the promotion of qualifications. In addition, section XI, paragraph 5, of the Act is recognized as having lost the validity of the Ukrainian State Procurement Act in order to meet the priority public needs. This led to the need for a bill to amend some Ukrainian laws on the purchase of goods, jobs and services needed to implement state information policy. The introduction of this law does not require any additional material and other expenses. Thus, the adoption of the proposed bill will ensure that a number of Ukrainian laws are brought into conformity with the Ukrainian Act on State Procurement. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-08-m1.u98	Thank you. Before I give you the word for co-reporting, dear colleagues, I see some leave the hall. We have 13 minutes to work. And I very much ask the National Deputies to stay in the workplace and whoever's in the towers to come into the hall and participate in the work of the Supreme Council. And I would like to give you the floor to report to the head of the Committee on Freedom of Speech and Information Policy of Sumar Victoria Petrovni. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-08-m1.u99	Thank you, Mr. Andrey. Dear colleagues, this is a completely technical bill. The point is, on April 10th, we passed a bill on public procurement. And in this law, the term "public procurement" is applied only in the context of very limited things, including procedures for the purchase of services for the preparation of professionals, scientific, scientific and pedagogical personnel. It automatically eliminates the possibility of using government purchases, such as book purchases, production of film products, and all the other systems that existed. Accordingly, the purpose of this bill is to bring Ukraine’s publishing laws into line with the law, on State support for the publishing industry, on television and on radio broadcasting, and on how public authorities should be informed in accordance with the law already adopted. The Committee of the Supreme Council on Freedom of Word and Information Policy considered the Cabinet bill and adopted a decision to recommend to the Supreme Council a draft law on the results of the first reading and to adopt it as a basis and as a whole with the following, literally, one amendment. Subparagraph 2 of Section 4 and of the bill will be printed in the next edition. In the first part of article 19, the words "to execute a government order" should be deleted. In the second part of article 19, after the words "State authorities," add the words "except for the national social radio company of Ukraine." The point is, in public speaking, we've set up fixed funds from the budget in order not to stop it, which is actually what it takes. We can take the basis of this technical bill as a whole. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-08-m1.u100	This is really a bill that needs our decision, which is not debated. And I propose putting him to a vote without discussion, because he is a short and clear technical bill. I very much ask all the deputies to take their seats and prepare for the vote. I very much ask those colleagues who are in the towers to come into the hall and take jobs. Anton Heratchenko, I very much ask you, Heratchenka, I very much ask you to take your place and prepare for the vote. Dear colleagues, please, boys, I'm asking you to come to the workplace. So I put to the vote a bill amending some of the Ukrainian laws on the purchase of goods, jobs and services necessary for the implementation of the State Information Policy (2169a) a signal vote. Dear colleagues, please take part in the vote, the signal vote (2169a), please vote, let's support! Vote. [[17:51:32]] For 199 Colleagues, can we invite those MPs who are in the towers into the hall? I'm asking you to come into the hall that's in the towers. Dear colleagues! Mikhail, please vote, take part in the vote. I'm re-voting 2169a. I ask you to take part in the signal vote, 2169a, please. [[17:52:23]] For 206 Again. Is there anyone else who hasn't arrived? Once again, I will ask the honourable deputies to take up their jobs. Let us end this day with a dignified, effective vote. I ask the Secretary of the Supreme Council to invite those deputies who are discussing in the towers to come into the hall and prepare for the vote. We have two laws that support our nation's information policy. We have seven minutes to work. I'm asking you to focus and mobilize for the seven minutes. I'm re-voting, draft Law 2169a. I'm asking you to take part in the signal vote, and I'm asking you to support me. 2169a. Please vote. Let's vote, colleagues. [[17:53:34]] For 213 Let's look at the next one. They're circumstantial bills, and then I'm going to ask the factions to invite the deputies into the hall so that we can vote on both of those laws. I'm really asking my colleagues to responsibly invite the deputies into the hall so that we can make a successful vote in five minutes. Now we're going into the agenda of the next bill, which is actually compatible with that bill. It's 3048, and we can talk about it at least. And I'm asking the MPs to support the proposal, consider it as a reduced procedure. Please support me, please vote on the simplified procedure. Vote. [[17:54:34]] For 184 Please invite Information Policy Minister Bidenko Artem Igorevich, representative, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-08-m1.u101	Honourable National Deputies, Bill (No. 3048), the basis for drafting this bill is the Supreme Council's decree to suspend the accreditation of journalists and representatives of some Russian Federation media, as well as a plan of action for visa liberalisation from the EU, according to which accreditation by the State of Journalists is considered inadmissible. Therefore, together with representatives of foreign media, such as the news agency France-Presse, Associated Press, and executive authorities, we have drafted a bill, as well as a series of decrees of the Cabinet of Ministers that simplify the presence of foreign journalists in Ukraine. Thus today, the need for a long - term visa for foreign journalists has been canceled and the 90 - day extension has been simplified. The next step is actually the adoption of this bill, which simplifies the presence of foreign media, and in addition to the implementation of the Act that was passed today, on the system of innovation is planned for the creation of the so-called honey habu in the "Ukriinfo", in which it will be created. There is also a need to simplify the situation in Ukraine. Please be supportive. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-08-m1.u102	Thank you. The co - report invites the head of the Committee on Human Rights, the National Minorities and the International Relations of the Nemira Grigory Mihajlovich. Please. And I'm asking the deputies to come into the hall, and there's going to be a vote. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-08-m1.u103	Dear colleagues, this is a very simple law, which, apart from what the deputy minister said, aims to define more clearly the areas of responsibility. The point is that when journalists from other countries, the media, are planning to work in Ukraine, they have to be granted residence permits. They should turn to the authorized state authority, which then applies to the State Migration Service. So far, this function of conversion is performed by the Derzcomteleradio. Since there is a Ministry of Information Policy, which is appropriately mandated by such powers, it is proposed to amend article 5 of the Ukrainian Law on the Legal Status of Foreigners and Persons Without Citizenship. That's literally one phrase. In view of the simple logic of this law, the Human Rights Committee, after considering it, proposes to the Supreme Council that it be approved on the basis and as a whole for the results of the first reading. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-08-m1.u104	Thank you. One more minute of Victoria Sumar, please. I'm asking my fellow classmates to come in from the dining room, and in a minute, there's gonna be a vote. Please come into the hall, we're taking up jobs. Now turn on Victoria Sumar's microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-08-m1.u105	Colleagues, we talk a lot about what we want to be at the centre of the world. And that's normal. In Ukraine we need this attention because it is our support. But our Western journalists have huge problems with visa procedures. This problem has existed for many years. When foreign journalists, who are here constantly, are forced to travel every 90 days and actually change visas. This bill is aimed at facilitating their ability, their being here, which is extremely important and what Ukraine needs today in the information war we are waging. This is, indeed, a harmonized bill with the entire journalistic community, with those Western journalists who are now in Ukraine, and this is really important to them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-08-m1.u106	Thank you. Dear colleagues, please take your seats and prepare for the vote. I ask you to come into the hall and prepare for the vote. I'm putting a signal vote on draft Law No. 3048. I'm asking you to take part in the signal vote, and I'm asking you to support me. 3048. Please vote. [[17:59:24]] For 205 The decision is not taken. I have a proposal for us to consider Bills 2169a and 3048 on Thursday in the preceding chapter. Is there a general agreement? Yes. Thank you for your work today. We had an important day and a fruitful, productive day. At this I declare the evening session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine closed. The next meeting will take place tomorrow at 10 a.m. And I'm asking everyone at ten o'clock to come into the hall in a disciplined manner to continue our work. Thank you. Good-bye. See you tomorrow.
