ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-14-m0.u1	Good morning, distinguished national MPs! I'm asking all Ukrainian national deputies to take their jobs. I would like to ask the factions and groups to invite their national deputies to the Supreme Council Hall so that we can begin our work. Ladies and gentlemen, I ask you to take your seats in the session room so that we can start our work. Dear fellow national deputies before we begin our work. Ladies and gentlemen, before we begin our work, I would like to reiterate our common sympathy for what happened in Volnovas yesterday. And I would ask everyone, your attention, dear friends, because yesterday, at the hands of the aggressor, the invader, the terrorists supported by the aggressor, innocent people were killed. And these are not the first sacrifices in our country, unfortunately. We have 11 dead today, 17 wounded civilians. Twelve. Unfortunately, 12 people died for the moment. And first of all, I want to announce a minute of silence for the dead. Everlasting memory and light are lost. [[A Minute of Silence]] Have a seat, dear fellows. Ladies and gentlemen, you know that there will be a debate today in the European Parliament on Ukraine, and yesterday the President of Ukraine made a statement to the Ukrainian people, as well as to the European Parliament to recognize the DNR and the LNR as terrorist organizations. I think that the Ukrainian Parliament should support this call, that it should form its position and appeal to European colleagues, namely, to confirm today our desire for peace in Ukraine and that our European partners should support Ukraine in the struggle against the invader, the terrorists, the Russian diverters, because every day, unfortunately, we are losing, and especially when we are talking about the loss of peaceful people, children. Barbarians! I would now like to assign the Committee of European Integration to form our joint appeal at this plenary session, so that we can vote and send it to the European Parliamentarians today! – the European Parliamentarians on Ukraine's support and the pressure on the aggressor to put an end to this aggression. So I would ask the committee, head of the committee, board of directors to meet up and make agreed proposals to the people's deputies. No objection, dear colleagues? Thank you for your support and understanding. Dear national MPs, life lasts and we have our nominee colleagues today. And I'd like to welcome them today with my birthday. I would very much like us to start each day with good news. And I believe that the Lord God will grant us success in the lives of our nation and the Ukrainian people. And I would like now to welcome with the birthday of our fellow national MPs: Andrija Viktorovich Artemenka let's welcome our colleague) (oh, Alexander Alexander Marchenka, Vasil Petrovich Janicki. [[applause]] [[Congrats]] [[Congrats]] Honorable fellow workers, health, peace, and the pure heavens above your head! Dear colleagues, I have received a statement from two factions, "Peter Prashenko's Block" and "The People's Front" to announce the break, but we can replace it with a statement by the representative of "Peter Prashenko's Block" Lubinec Dmitry Valeriyovich, as defined by the faction, and from "The People's Front" by Teteruk Andriy Anatoliyovich. So, in order not to announce a recess, I invite the Lubinian national deputy to the presentation.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-14-m0.u2	Hello, dear members of the Supreme Council, citizens of Ukraine! Yesterday, in my hometown of Volnovah, there was a tragedy, not only my small town in the Donetsk region, but the tragedy of our entire Ukraine. Yesterday, 12 civilians, innocent people, were cynically killed in the wake of a bus fire. You know, it's revenge for terrorists, special attention to Volnovahe. Volnovaha never took off a Ukrainian flag, never had ideas about separatism. That's why all the residents of the city of Volnovahi, the Volnovat region, you know, are particularly close to us terrorists. I would like to see all the members of the Supreme Council, all the politicians, join the civil peace march initiative so that every day every dead Ukrainian citizen will be our reaction, only by uniting itself, only to prevent this evil. I address all the Ukrainians of the world, we are a nation that has defeated the tyrant, we are a nation that has made our Majdan, are we not able to make a march of peace and of all civilized society, show how we feel about terrorism, the Russian Federation, let us speak frankly, we all know that war is going on, but we are all afraid to utter that word. Let us, by peaceful action, show our attitude and, in the end, try the whole world by uniting ourselves to stop this terrorist threat on our home land. I appeal to the diaspora: in the course of the peace march, to organize a picketing of the embassies of the Russian Federation, demanding that the financing of terrorists be stopped and stopped. Thank you very much. The glory of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-14-m0.u3	Please, Andrew Teteruk, People's Front.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-14-m0.u4	Deputies! Dear Ukrainians! We have witnessed the lives of Ukrainian civilians during the terrorist fighting. When my friends and I personally decided to protect the land of Ukraine from the enemy, we fully and fully realized that we were going to war and ready to die. But we do have a situation where our peaceful citizens of Ukraine are killed by the hands and weapons of terrorist organizations. I want to fully and fully support all the initiatives that are being put forward by every deputy on this matter, first of all. Secondly, we must take full and complete responsibility to recognize the LNR and the DNR as terrorist organizations. And to support our President, in order for the peace community to also recognize the LNR and the DNR as terrorist organizations with all the consequences they have. [[Congrats]] Secondly, I consider it necessary to express the opinion of every MP, I take this responsibility that every MP will support me, to ask the President of Ukraine for tomorrow to announce a day of mourning for the dead civilians. [[Applause]] I hope that the kindness of the Ukrainians will help us to unite and to endure that violent pressure from the aggressor country that it exerts on every home, for every single family, for every family. When we unite against the enemy, he will never defeat us. We must do everything we can to ensure that every Ukrainian understands that the aggression of Russia will not have that effect when we are together. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-14-m0.u5	Thank you, Andriy Anatolyovich. Please turn on the "Race" system. [[10:19:02]] 332 national deputies are in the hall. Ladies and gentlemen, I'd like to make a few announcements. In accordance with article 60 of the Supreme Council Rules, an interfractional parliamentary association of Ukrainian Majorities has been established. The National Deputy of Ukraine, Anton Volodymyrovich Yatzenka, was elected head of the association. [[B in m in s a l in]] Dear National Deputies! "Ukrainian Majors"! [[B in m in s a l in]] Dear fellow members of the national parliament, in accordance with article 25 of the Rules, we have 30 minutes of public speaking on Wednesday. I'm asking the National MPs to sign up for the speech. 30 minutes. Please, Oleg Lazko, Radical Party.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-14-m0.u6	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. Honorable citizens of Ukraine, respected colleagues, distinguished representatives of international organizations, diplomatic corps, our partners all over the world, who today hear and watch events in the Ukrainian Parliament and watch events in Ukraine! Yesterday Russian terrorists, Russian weapons, City, were killed, innocent Ukrainian civilians were shot. 12 people died, 18 people are in the hospital right now. Some of them are on the verge of life and death. This is the price that Ukraine pays for its independence, this is the price that Ukraine pays for wanting to live a free independent democratic European state. Kremlin Aggressor Putin stands ready to lay down millions of his own lives, willing to lay down millions of Ukrainian citizens in order to rebuild the Soviet Union in order to restore the Russian Empire with Ukraine. We want to tell Putin, we want to tell this enemy of ours today: you can't do anything, Ukraine is free and independent, and we will protect our country. And yesterday's tragic events -- the murder of innocent civilians -- are an unnecessary excuse to realize that you can't negotiate with an aggressor about anything, an aggressor only understands power. And when we tell you that we want peace, that we have to deal with an aggressor, that for the sake of peace, an aggressor should search our fighters, for the sake of peace, let the aggressor humiliate our warriors. There will be no peace! It's an illusion. Think of Homer’s sirens, who fell in love with the songs of those who swam by — dragged into their nets and then killed. That's what's happening right now. We are fed with the illusion of peace. What kind of peace? Now we see what's going on in Donbass. Dozens of gunfire, dozens of dead, wounded, attacks, and Russian terrorists twice after the Minsk talks increased the territory they control. These are the results of this so - called peace. That's why we call on all political parties, all social organizations, all Ukrainian citizens: let's go on a Sunday march, an anti-terrorist march of peace. If we turn out to be a million people, as it was when Midan began December 1st, we'll stop Putin, we'll give the world leaders who are supporting Ukraine today, additional support before the Munich Conference, where we have to defend our interests again. Dear Ukrainians all over the country, from west to east, from north to south! We're going on an anti-putinian anti-fascist anti-terror march. Let's show the world that Ukraine is unique, independent and Sunday. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-14-m0.u7	National Deputy Matvienkov Sergey Anatoliyovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-14-m0.u8	Dear colleagues, on 29 December, the Supreme Council adopted Ukraine's budget for 2015. Since then, many of his assessments have been made. All of them were generally emotional. Most of the time, however, was estimated at the cost of the budget. Income is either in or out of the blue. But for those involved in the real economy, it's at least weird. The first thing to look at is an increase in the government debt ceiling of up to 1 trillion 176 billion grivens. That is, the Government is trying to solve the problem through new loans rather than to deal with the real economy and stimulate its income increase. But even in this case, there must be an open conversation: how much external borrowing do we need, how long do we take them, what exactly, and how we are going to give them. It's the security of the State. If we are talking about energy dependence on one side, where is the guarantee that we will not get into the other — the financial, debt dependence of the other side? What other sources of budget filling are envisaged? 65 billion bracelets should be credited to the Nutzbank Treasury. Where will he take them? The answer is obvious: print. This will be the purest issue that will lead to an increase in inflation. This would be justified if the issue money went to State restructuring programmes, such as housing, roads and so on, with a simultaneous solution to the problem of unemployment. But we do not see anything like it in the Cabinet of Ministers' plans. And the billions printed will most likely be directed to the banking sector where money will make money. 15 billion from privatisation. Government securities are proposed for $90 billion. All of this is virtual money that will increase the deficit already or lead to a new turn of inflation and price and tariff growth. Regrettably, the budget does not provide for any steps to create conditions for economic growth, particularly its real sector, which is experiencing enormous difficulties. In the event of normal conditions, the industrial complex is able to fill the treasury and remove the national economy from the crisis. In fact, there is no State programme. Let's take the same Azomash enterprise that I have in Mariupola in the district, an enterprise that has around 25,000 workers, has been a city-based, huge social burden, and today has virtually stopped without an order. I understand that there should be a state programme for railway wagons, semi-cars, tanks, the same ATCs. Some of these 65 billion from Nitzbank could go to enterprises like this, to create jobs and to pay taxes. But we don't see such programs. 90 billion have been given to the army. There's no doubt about it. It really does. But once again, there is no comprehensive programme for the resurgence of our defence industry. There are items related to the purchase of arms, but our defence industry does not exist. The same "Azumash", which was able to produce the ATRs, was able to implement the programme and strengthen it.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-14-m0.u9	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-14-m0.u10	The defence capacity of our State with regard to procurement to other States. Therefore, I would like to take it as my request to the Government that it plan to do as a shareholder with 50 per cent of the shares for enterprises such as Azomash. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-14-m0.u11	National MP Galchenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-14-m0.u12	Dear Vladimir Borisovic, distinguished colleagues, respectable people of Ukraine! The budget code, which was extended by the Government on 28 December, aimed directly at reducing the rights of local budgets. And as a result, it will strike at our citizens. Instead of the promised decentralization, we have actually received the growl of the locusts. Local communities simply break through their knees, throw unfunded costs at them, select powers and stable sources of income. As a result, very soon we will see the harshest budgetary imbalance and the impossibility of financing critical sectors of the budget area. It's not fiscal decentralization, it's fiction. Local budgets have collected 25 per cent of the per capita income tax, which is the main stable source of their filling. What do we have? In exchange, some of the income tax and the introduction of new payments have been offered, the amount of which is currently quite difficult to predict. But the government's $30 billion extra income is virtual resources that have to receive regional budgets. However, it is not the fact that local budgets will receive those funds in the territories of those enterprises. As a result, the share of own income on the ground will not exceed 22 per cent. That's last year's figure. The same applies to the decentralization of funds and environmental taxes, which are also transferred from the State budget to the regional budgets. Again, the same situation does not know whether local budgets will receive funds to improve the environmental situation on the ground. The next moment is critical and important for every Ukrainian. This is the content of medicine and education. The Government has introduced new types of subsidies for these purposes. And it had to cover those expenses completely. But the amount of funds that will arrive on the ground covers only three quarters of their needs. Only in my hometown is the actual amount. Inadequate subsidies for medicine and education amount to 240 million bracelets. What's that supposed to mean? The city budget will have to cut costs for JCX, transportation and construction to cover this shortfall, to support medicine. Moreover, 900 facilities throughout Ukraine are currently under threat of closure. The responsibility for their funding is fully transferred to local budgets. These are libraries, kindergartens and clinics. And behind each of these objects, abandoned by fate, are the lives and well-being of our people, our citizens, who work or receive services. These are antisocial and anti-regional initiatives. The 2015 Budget Act should be amended on the basis of economic recovery and improvement.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-14-m0.u13	Before inviting a national MP, there's one thing I'd like to say that's very important. I'd like to ask you, when we talk about the VAT, about the tax on the income of individuals who are counted on local budgets, to be said very correctly. Because 75 percent of the cities had this tax, they spent on the wages and energy of the budget. Today, we have not received 60 percent of this tax on our own. And before that, they had zero. This is the first position. So it's not negative 15, it's plus 60. And 75 percent of the state replaced education, health, social protection, and so on with targeted subsidies. This must be understood simply so that those who listen understand this so that there are no differences. Please, please, National Deputy Illenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-14-m0.u14	Illenko, the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union. Yesterday there was a terrible tragedy in Volnovas. Yesterday, in the day, 75 shots were fired at Ukrainian positions by Russian mercenaries and terrorists. And we clearly understand that the diplomatic format doesn't work at all. We can see that no mining arrangements are being implemented. We see that the Russian occupation of Ukrainian territory continues, terror against the local population continues, the destruction of Ukrainian soldiers continues. And you know, you have to be clear here, unfortunately, but Russia is not going to do anything clearly. Russia will not make any arrangements. The only thing that can save Ukraine in this situation is the force of the Ukrainian army that will beat the enemy, and that is the reinforcement, and the new sanctions against Russia, which will force it to compromise. And in this situation, there are a lot of questions about today's leadership: why is it that, even though there is an appropriate decision by the ORP, there is still no vote in Parliament to repeal the disgraceful law of September 16 on the special status of Donbas? Why is this question silent? I want to remind you that Freedom was the only faction in the past that gave no vote for this disgraceful law. Why is this question not raised today? Why is there no possibility in our soldiers today to open fire on terrorists and Russian mercenaries? What should they expect when they are killed? Only then will they be able to strike back. Who gave this foolish command? On what basis does this command work? Based on the arrangements with the terrorists we're about to make. Is it the 158th time that we decide that we recognize them as terrorists? On the basis of arrangements with these terrorists, does this senseless criminal order work, banning the use of fire on the same terrorists? And, society, I'd like to say, in our country, there's already another wave of mobilization going on right now. Yet, war is not yet called war, victims of constant, constant shootings. At the same time, once again there is no political will to make the decision that Freedom has been talking about since the Crimea occupation began. We need to introduce a state of war! It must really be recognized as a war! It's a war with no terrorists, it's a war with the Russian Federation, which is aimed at destroying the Ukrainian state. And in this war, we only win if we call things our names, and only if we don't give our army orders not to shoot the enemy. And only then will we, indeed, and I am sure, win. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-14-m0.u15	National Deputy Bereza Borislav Yuriovich. Yuhimovich, please. Yuhimovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-14-m0.u16	Good afternoon, gentlemen of the people, I would like to draw attention to the regular violation of the law in this sessional room. We're already reacting normally when someone doesn't press a button for themselves. We are already responding normally when more than 100 people are absent from the session. We respond well to many violations of the law. We also react normally when there has been a parliamentary association for more than a month where there are fewer participants than in the smallest faction in the BIT. You can see that there's an "Economy Development" with 18 people. However, no one raises the question: on what basis does this education exist here? Obviously, we are all used to the fact that a violation of the law is the norm for the Supreme Council of Ukraine. I wish there had been some change. I would like the Speaker of the Supreme Council to raise the question whether or not there is a parliamentary association. I would also like to see a law in the near future that would allow for the removal of parliamentary integrity from a person who would not press a button in the vote. The People's Derevianco and the Bereza People's Deputy make this commitment to drafting a bill for which I hope you will all vote. I would also like the gentlemen of the coalition majority to ensure that their members are present in the sessional room when the session is under way, because the duties of the arduous MP are to participate in legislative processes. And right now we're seeing 300 people. I understand that each of us has its own problems and tasks, but at a time when Ukraine's leading patriots are given their lives, at a time when civilians are under fire and killed (what we see in Volnovahe), perhaps the front of the people's MP is the sessional hall. If it's hard for the people's deputies to come here, if it's hard to press a button for themselves, then perhaps it's easier for them to give up the status of the people's MP and do their own work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-14-m0.u17	Please, People's Front, National Deputy Gus Igor Volodymyrovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-14-m0.u18	Glory to Ukraine! Deputy Gus, 19th constituency, Volin. I would like my speech to be considered a request to the Minister of the Coal Industry and Energy, Mr. Smokey. The thing is, yesterday I and the Volin miners from Novovolinsk were present at a meeting where the perspective of the Lviv-Volin coal pool and, in particular, the mines that are in the Novovolinsk constituency of my constituency was discussed. Unfortunately, yesterday’s situation was not very strong and optimistic by Mr. Dimchino. The point is that the city of Novovolinsk was built in the late 1950s and even today it's a depressing zone. But the city of Novovolinsk is 4.5 thousand miners, multiplying it by 30, up to 15,000 people, in a city where there are 57,000 people who are concentrated on the coal industry. What do we have today? There is an effort this year to close the first and ninth mines. There's no alternative to miners, they're ready to be thrown out on the street, that's a huge problem. The second question. In Ukraine, the only mine on the Wall is built, including the tenth mine, where there are layers where miners are able to develop and provide jobs. Unfortunately, today there is no understanding of how the tenth mine will be financed in 2015. And so the people who built it this year, 2014 and before that, will also be on the street. I would like to point out that in the 10th mine, you and I, the government, the Supreme Council, have already invested a billion 400 million dollars. Today, to freeze this process is simply to collapse into a specific city of the Volin district subordination. So, I ask you, in the urgent order of Mr. Demchikin, to pay attention to this and suggest a solution to the situation. The point is that the Novovolinian miners had already covered the road five times, including yesterday. If there is no movement this week, the people, the simple people of a thousand and a half, are ready to cover the line of the Yagodin Customs. So I would very much ask Mr. Demchikin and the vice-premiers who care about this issue to go to Volin, to Novovolinsk, and answer the question of miners' eyes, which is the proportion of coal industry in Volin. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-14-m0.u19	Please, National Deputy Illenko, pass the word to National Deputy Krulko, Fatherland, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-14-m0.u20	Ivan Krulko, "The Fatherland" faction. Dear National Deputies! Dear Ukrainians! Yesterday, indeed, there was an extraordinary tragedy in Volnovas when Russian terrorists killed innocent civilians. The 12 dead are not on the conscience of just the LNR, the DNR is on the conscience of the Russian Federation, which is a real terrorist organization, because it finances terrorism and places its fighters and weapons there. So at the international level, we need to ask not just about the recognition of terrorists by the LNR and the DNR, but we need to recognize the Russian Federation as a State that finances terrorism, which in turn is causing serious sanctions. Sanctions that have not yet been imposed against Russia by Ukraine, and we must turn from this rostrum to the Council of National Security and Defence, to the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine regarding Ukraine's need to impose sanctions against the Russian Federation, as the United States and the European Union have done. At the same time, the budget we adopted for the following year provided a special line for the payment of contributions to the partnership of independent states. This line was masked along with the payment of contributions to the World Trade Organization. This seems to me to be an absolute indiscretion. Therefore, when preparing the changes to the budget, it is necessary to remove the payment of SND contributions from the State budget, which should be zero. Because SND is a zero organization created by the Russian Federation with one goal: to keep Ukraine and other countries of the former RSR in orbit. And at the same time, in this context, I would like to point out that in the Supreme Council of Ukraine, for the initiative of the Fatherland faction, the registered draft decree number 1015, this is a decree on the cessation of Ukraine's participation in all SND organs. This decision was passed by a committee of the Supreme Council in foreign affairs. And there's nothing stopping us from putting this decision right now into the agenda, voting it, and finally multiplying politically by zero. This is going to be our principle position. And the Supreme Council in this context must come out of the national interests of Ukraine, and Ukraine must win. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-14-m0.u21	Sergey Leschenko, Peter Dustenka's Block.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-14-m0.u22	Good afternoon, dear fellows! I wanted to thank everyone for yesterday, when the Supreme Council really approved a historic decision -- a decision that indicated that the election to the Supreme Council was free of charge, and there was a change of political elites. The Supreme Council voted on the Law on the Change of Quorum in the Meetings of Shareholders, audiences, and radio audiences may not have understood the reading in the session hall when all of this was happening. But indeed, all the deputies knew what was going on. For the first time in Ukraine's history, a decision was taken to allow shareholders to hold a shareholder's meeting at one of the most powerful oil and gas companies in the Ukrnafta, an enterprise where the state owned a controlling stock package, but for more than ten years it was unable to hold shareholders' meetings and appoint managers, could not distribute dividends and obtain them in the budget, without agreeing with one of the oligarchic clans. Yesterday this law was passed, and it was one of the historic decisions during our first session, for which a huge thank you to all the national MPs. [[Applause]] At the same time, yesterday, when the question was being heard, we all understood what the vote was about, we all understood what it was about the firm UkrNafta, but in the draft of the bill, which was approved, there was a formulation that could allow the lawyers of this enterprise, which is still controlled by one of the oligarchic clans, to make sure that the norm did not extend to this enterprise. Because as a national deputy, I refer to the Head of the Supreme Council, in accordance with article 131 of the Supreme Council Rules, to take the initiative and even without the inclusion of the day in order to propose a final drafting of this law in a way that would allow this enterprise. which would allow this rule of law to be extended to this enterprise, in particular by using the wording that the rule of quorum legislation is 50 per cent plus one share is extended to an enterprise where the shareholder is a legal person, where the state controls the package of shares. Thank you for your attention. And the rest of my speech, please hand over to the national deputy Oleg Barna, who wishes to speak on the issue of Volnovaha.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-14-m0.u23	That's not supposed to happen, your honors, to pass on a piece of the speech.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-14-m0.u24	On the question of Volnovah.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-14-m0.u25	Not foreseen.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-14-m0.u26	One minute, would you excuse me?
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-14-m0.u27	30 seconds. It's not predictable and it can't be, dear colleagues.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-14-m0.u28	Deputies! I want to ask you one request: how long do we have to see the blood of our heroes so that we can finally understand that Putin is a person who goes beyond any human civilized relationship, and therefore, diplomatic? The blood on Maidan is their special forces, the betrayal under Ilowaysk, whatever. No question of officer honor. And this is now being done in relation to our civilian population. I want you to finally understand that until we, each and every one of us, an officer and we, representing the people of Ukraine, have a clear condition of attitude towards Putin as a inhuman, until we destroy all the bridges that link one of the politicians to this monster, we will not yet see a specific, hard political deputy of this Herod. So I would like to ask you to acknowledge, at last, at the level of our Parliament, by removing all diplomatic, so to speak, adhering to the words of Bismarck, that any agreement with Russia is worth nothing but. Even that paper, and tell me.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-14-m0.u29	Ten seconds, complete.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-14-m0.u30	And everyone must say together that Putin is x.lo! And you say again: Putin – x.lo!
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-14-m0.u31	Dear fellow national MPs! [[Applause]] I would like to point out that there was now a handover, which is contrary to the Rules. But since the subject of Volnovaha and the actions of the aggressor are extremely sensitive, especially the tragedy that took place yesterday under Volnovaha, it was allowed, but I want to warn all the national MPs that the word you receive in the order of writing cannot be passed on in part -- only completely. You have a desire to transmit – pass it on, let another national MP speak, but part of the word cannot be passed on. I'd like to take this into account, and it won't be allowed in the future. Thank you. National MP Derevyanco Please, National Deputy Derevyanco, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-14-m0.u32	Yuri Derevyanko, Will Party. Honorable colleagues, honourable chairman, distinguished Ukrainian people! First of all, I would like to express my deep sympathy to all the families of the dead, the families injured in the tragedy that took place under Volnobach. I am convinced that all my fellow Members of Parliament express such deep sympathy to all our Ukrainian families. But today I would like to draw the attention of the distinguished colleagues of the national MPs to another problem that we have today. This problem relates to the adoption of the Budget Act and the adoption of amendments to the Budget Code. And this problem concerns the underfunding of rural and rural councils, in fact local self-government authorities in rural areas, due to the fact that part of their income tax has been eliminated and the other part has not even been able to fund the necessary direct protected expenditure articles. This is about articles on expenses such as salary. This is about articles such as energy. And if you look at, for example, my 87th major constituency, which is in Ivano-Frankishte, then the two major districts are the region of Transviran and the region of Bogorican, which consists of more than 32. 30 and 32 rural and rural communities, we have a scary picture, namely: only 5 rural and rural councils are in a position to fund their direct expenses (these are salaries and energy supplies); everyone else will not have the income from the current taxes they receive today. Dear colleagues! Today, together with fellow MPs, we tabled a bill concerning changes to the Transitional Code in paragraph 20. The bill provides for the possibility of financing the necessary funds by the district councils if the rural and rural councils need it. Dear Vladimir Borisovich, we had a conversation with you yesterday. I thank you very much for your support for this initiative and I would like to draw our colleagues' attention to the fact that many district councils have not accepted their budgets and will only accept next week. I would like this bill, which will now be registered, to be included today in the agenda, and to be supported by, honourable colleagues, and we could give the task. I ask the Head of the Supreme Council to give the commission to the committees today to consider it so that we can adopt it as a whole tomorrow or after tomorrow. It's a very short bill that allows it to determine, if necessary, that the budgets of the districts can fund local self-government expenditure. Thank you for your understanding and please support this bill. And the head of the Supreme Council is to be included in the agenda today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-14-m0.u33	Dear people's deputies, we're running out of time. But since there was a minute of talk, then I would suggest that for justice's sake, one minute more be allowed to speak to the 2nd People's Deputies. We have Rudik, and then we have the Shepherd Taras. One minute at a time. Ladies and gentlemen, please. Sergey Rudik and the National Deputy Shepherd. In a minute, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-14-m0.u34	Sergei Rudik, Cherkas region, 198 constituency, member of the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union. I'm trying to shorten three minutes to one. We have a huge problem. A year ago, a seven - year - old man died in an unexplained situation in the town of Kamyanka, Cherka district. But the tragedy continued because he was accused of his death by his peers, who are not 16 years old today. But the court decided that he should be in prison for eight years. Tomorrow, January 15th, an appeal will take place. But the deadline for this boy’s legal detention ended yesterday. The court has no right not to release him, but does not release him with the motivation that until the Ukrainian national deputies take him on bail, this decision cannot be approved. We understand it's a propaganda, but that's the question. Today, this guy's lawyer told me that two people's deputies besides me are Irina Suslov and Victor Bodnar, who unfortunately is.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-14-m0.u35	Ten seconds to complete.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-14-m0.u36	They agreed to take this guy on bail. Help me by taking the opportunity to reach out to other national MPs who have the right desire! Call me, I'll give you all the contact coordinates, I'll contact your lawyer. It's really important.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-14-m0.u37	Thank you. National Deputy Shepherd, please. Wait a minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-14-m0.u38	Christ was born! Your Honor, the chairman, the honourable deputies! Just two weeks ago we met the New Year, a week ago we met Christmas, and we wished each other peace. We met with our constituents and told them that we were going back to Parliament and that there was something we could do to make sure that the issues raised today on the military issue were resolved much faster. But what is happening? Every day in Parliament, we become a moment of silence, and we honor our fallen heroes again. And we all have a lot of questions. Each one of you went to Parliament in his own way, and that's the way I went. My entire electoral campaign was made up of 128 brigades in Debaltsevé. And after the election, I've been there four or five times and I can't give the guys the answer any more than you can give. Where, today, are those weapons that are being bought and supposedly handed over to the armies? 128 teams didn't get any. 128 crews don't get clothes for today. 128 brigades now stand for more than three and a half months without rotation. The boys are no longer physically able to endure to this day. And when we return after Friday, after working on the county committee, we will not be able to give it to our people again.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-14-m0.u39	Ten seconds, complete, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-14-m0.u40	To make it easy for the boys to work there. So today I'm making a proposal and a proposition from our faction. We have a government day on Friday to send all our questions to the Secretary of Defense, the Minister of Interior and the Chief of Security.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-14-m0.u41	Give me 10 seconds to finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-14-m0.u42	Finally, let people understand what we are in. We are being attacked, and we reflect on whether we are protecting our homeland in our territory. We must finally understand what laws are needed by the Ministry of Defence, the Ministry of Internal Affairs. They should come and say, "Deputy."
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-14-m0.u43	Thank you, distinguished national MPs. Dear colleagues, the time for the national MPs has run out. We have three decrees, these are draft decrees for the permanent suspension of the powers of the Ukrainian national deputies. And I would like to invite the first deputy chairman of the regulatory committee of Paul Pinzenic to report on these regulations. Please, Decree 1717, we begin consideration, 1717-1, 1717-2. Ladies and gentlemen, I ask you to prepare for the vote on the rulings. I'm asking you to invite the people's deputies into the hall. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-14-m0.u44	Dear colleagues, the committee at its meeting on 13 January this year reviewed the application of the National Deputy of Ukraine, Mr. Alexander Valentinović, for the submission of parliamentary powers in accordance with the requirements of article 81, paragraph 1, of the Constitution of Ukraine and article 4 of the Ukrainian Law "On the Status of the People's Deputy of Ukraine". By order of the President of Ukraine, on 15 December 2014, the National Deputy of Ukraine Turkinov was appointed Secretary of the National Security and Defence Council of Ukraine. The committee decided to submit to the Committee members of Ukraine for consideration by the Supreme Council a draft Decision on the early termination of the powers of the Ukrainian national deputy Turkinova (registration number 1717). Please be supportive. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-14-m0.u45	Thank you. Dear colleagues, may we vote? I ask you to prepare yourself for the vote, your honor. Dear people. Two more to report the rulings. People's deputies, please come into the hall. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-14-m0.u46	Dear colleagues, the committee at its meeting on 13 January also considered the application of National Deputy Kovalczuk Vitaliy Anatoliyovich for his appointment as a deputy in accordance with the requirements of article 81, paragraph 1, of the Constitution of Ukraine and article 4 of the Ukrainian Law on the Status of the People's Deputy of Ukraine. By order of the President of Ukraine, on 26 December 2014, the Ukrainian National Deputy Kovalczuk was appointed the first Deputy Head of the Ukrainian President's Administration. The committee decided to submit to the Committee members of Ukraine for consideration by the Supreme Council of Ukraine a draft decree on the permanent suspension of the authority of the Ukrainian national deputy Kowalczuk (registration number 1717-1). Please support the agreed decision. Finally, the committee considered the application of the Ukrainian National Deputy Pavelek Rostislav Mikolaiovich for his parliamentary powers in accordance with the requirements of article 81, paragraph 1, of the second part of the Constitution of Ukraine and article 4 of the Ukrainian Law "On the Status of the People's Deputy". By order of the President of Ukraine, on December 26, 2014, the National Deputy of Ukraine, Pavlenko, was appointed Deputy Chief of the President's Administration. The committee decided to submit to the Supreme Council of Ukraine a draft decree on the early termination of the authority of the Ukrainian national deputy Paulenka, registration number of Decree 1717-2. The committee is requesting support for all three decisions that have just been made. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-14-m0.u47	Thank you, Your Honor. I think we can vote on these decisions. I ask the National Deputies to take their seats for the rulings that have just been announced by the First Vice-President of the Regulatory Committee. I am putting to the vote, honourable colleagues, a decree to suspend the mandate of the National Deputy of Ukraine, Mr. Alexander Valentinović, for the term of office of the National Deputy of Ukraine, Mr. Alexander Valentinović (registration number 1717). It's the right thing to do. Please support the draft decision. Please vote on the basis as a whole. [[11:01:59]] For 275 Decision taken. The factions. Next, dear colleagues. Draft decree (registration number 1717) on the permanent suspension of the powers of Ukrainian national deputy Kovalczuk Vitaliy Anatoliyovich. Please put to the vote, please vote, Your Honor. [[11:02:42]] For 270. Decision taken. Next question, distinguished national MPs. Draft decree to terminate the mandate of Ukrainian national deputy Pavelek Rostislav Mikolaiovich (registration number 1717-2). Please vote and please support the draft ruling. [[11:03:20]] For 269 I'll take the order. Thank you, Your Honor. So let's move on to the day-to-day issues. I am announcing in the first reading of the draft Ukrainian Law on Amendments to Article 188-1 of the Criminal Code of Ukraine (unaccepting the theft of natural gas). The Minister's spokesman. I propose that all of these laws be considered by a reduced procedure, as suggested by Andrew Cosemyakin. Let me put her to the vote. Please consider the short procedure for the bill in the first reading. I'd like you to identify the national MPs. [[11:04:13]] For 213 Decision taken. Reporter of Minister of Energy and Coal Industry Vladimir Demchishin According to the Regulations of the Supreme Council of Ukraine We need 150 votes, we get 213. Please report.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-14-m0.u48	Dear colleagues! Good afternoon! Dear Vladimir Borisovich, national MPs! The Ministry of Fuel and Energy has recently identified many additional violations in the field of the oil and gas complex, and we have therefore developed further changes to article 188 (1) of the Criminal Code, which proposes to create criminal responsibility for gas theft. At this point, as I said, we identify the gas distribution at all stages: the extraction phase, the preparation stage for transport, transportation, distribution, and consumption by end consumers. Today, this responsibility has not been fully regulated, and Article 188 provides for the responsibility of three years for the theft of heat and electricity, but nothing has been said about the gas. So we suggest, first of all, that we expand this article on the part of gas theft, and we also suggest that we increase criminal responsibility from three years to five years. In principle, this is the basic message of this article, so I would like to consider it and accept it in the first reading. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-14-m0.u49	Thank you. Please, the co-reporter is the head of the committee, Andriy Anatoliyovich Kožemjakin.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-14-m0.u50	Honorable Head and Honorable Fellows! I also want to express my personal sympathy on behalf of the members of the committee and the families of the dead and the families of those who have died. those heroes who died during this time, this war with the Russian Federation and Ukraine. The Committee on Legislative Security and Law Protection considered draft Law No. 1544. In fact, I support and support the initiative that Vladimir Vasilovich has just said is indeed monitoring the situation that took place today in the oil and gas sector. And, indeed, there are a great many willing to steal this gas, and more, there have been them long in Ukraine for many, and long years. Therefore, after considering the matter, the committee unanimously decided to recommend to the Supreme Council: to adopt the bill as a basis and to redraft it when preparing for consideration in the second reading. And all the questions that have been raised, including the committee headed by Mr. Yegor Sobolev, are of anticorruption issues that really relate to some point. I think that by the second reading, committee members and experts will be working, and this law will work. And it will not allow these people who are profiting from large, small gas thefts today to strike them in the hand. Thank you. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-14-m0.u51	Andriy Anatoliyovich, based Yes. Thank you. Please, is there a need for two for, two for against? Please. Please. Sign up for two, two for the other. Please, Deputy of the People's Party, Andriy Valeriyovich, Self-Help.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-14-m0.u52	Egor Soboljevo, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-14-m0.u53	Yegor Sobolev.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-14-m0.u54	Please. Colleagues, I ask you to pay attention to this law very seriously, very good idea is given by very bad machination. The point is that now large-scale gas thefts, and that's what we have to fight against, are being pursued by another article that provides much more punishment than that article that the government is proposing. In fact, it is suggested that gas thefts be combined on a massive scale with petty water and electricity thefts made by humans. Because of this punishment for people who steal gas again on an industrial scale, it will be smaller than the existing articles of the Criminal Code. Therefore, we propose to reject this law and to invite the government to create a special article in the Criminal Code that will severely punish gas theft on a large scale. That'll be fair.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-14-m0.u55	Please, Andrew Cosemiakin, Fatherland.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-14-m0.u56	Andrew Kozemyakin, faction of the Fatherland. Dear colleagues, indeed. Dear colleague Mr. Sobolev, indeed, I agree that there is very much. There is a question for this bill and there is a question for legal technology. But I want to say one thing. In my own time as I was in charge. was the deputy head of the Ukrainian Security Service and headed the Anti-Corruption and Organized Crime Authority, and we also tried to do that with Naftogaz, you know. Hit on the hands of those who stole gas from the states. And you know, just when we started doing this very actively, it became, let's say, a reason for me to be sent to where I was sent. In due time, retired. Since then. So I think that any articles, any reinforcements related to gas theft, should. We have to support why? Because the mafia that exists in Ukraine today continues to work and continues to influence and pressure Naftogaz today. And what Naftogaz is offering today is their initiative, and that's why we supported it. And second reading, Mr. Yegor, we'll work it out, and believe me, we'll reinforce the sanctions, we'll do it. But stealing when they're investigating when, according to the 185th article you said, gas when they did. The DA's office is starting an investigation into the theft of gas, and they never qualify as "a gas thief," so they just have "a thief," and it goes through the first paragraph and the second part of this article, and that's it. And in the fourth, fifth article, they even close the case, and it doesn't work, and no one else is to blame, no gas is to be stolen, and everything is fine. That's why I think it is. Our faction supports it in the first, just on the basis. The committee will work on the second reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-14-m0.u57	Thank you. Please, the People's Deputy of Doubenkov, the Opposition Block.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-14-m0.u58	Please pass the word to Alexander Wilcule.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-14-m0.u59	Alexander Wilcule.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-14-m0.u60	Dear colleagues, the Opposition Unit supports the need to fight gas theft, but professionally speaking, it is a mechanism for the theft of two species: the first is a classic theft when the pipe is hit or the counters are untangled, in large or small quantities. It's all clear: here's the responsibility. But over the last 20 years, heat utility companies, smaller boilers that work in schools, hospitals, kindergartens, start a heating season without so-called limits, i.e. quotas, from Naftogaza for gas supply. And the adoption of a law in such a way that a principal, a school principal who gave warmth to the sick or children, is not acceptable for this purpose. There are no limits because the State, the State budget, does not compensate for differences in tariffs. I mean, it's a closed circle: the state didn't give money, but it wants to plant it in jail. A comprehensive project, which includes the responsibility for the theft of gas and the guarantee of compensation for the difference in tariffs, is needed, because otherwise, if the bill is adopted in this form, it is another step towards cold schools, gardens, apartments and houses. The opposition bloc will not vote in favour of the bill and proposes to finalize all these issues in preparation for second reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-14-m0.u61	Thank you, Your Honor. Groups that. Anton Yatzenko, please give me a minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-14-m0.u62	Dear colleagues, this is really a necessary law. The only thing that really needs to be worked out is the way a colleague is doing it right now. But there is still a problem in Ukraine that many businesses, unfortunately, also steal water, and. how to say sewerage, i.e. plumbing. So there's a proposition, we've discussed it on the committee, and on the second reading, add sanctions for water theft, plumbing. It'll be comfortable. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-14-m0.u63	Thank you. You should not confuse two concepts: theft and overlying consumption. The heating season in the budget area (in hospitals, schools) begins with the decision of the local government. This is no longer in a position to match the theft of natural resources. Dear colleagues, there is a desire. Vote. So there's a proposal for a committee to adopt this bill as a basis. I'd like the national deputies to come into the hall. Please come into the hall! Invite the National Deputies to the Supreme Council Hall so that we can begin the voting procedure. Ladies and gentlemen, I am voting on the draft Act amending article 188-1 of the Criminal Code of Ukraine (for the non-disclosure of natural gas) (registration number 1544) on the committee's recommendation, on the basis of the committee's decision. Please determine by vote on the basis, 1544. Based on the base. [[11:16:39]] For 184 The decision is not taken. The bill was rejected. [[B in m in s a l in]] Shall we work on the author's work? All right, good fellows. I then put the vote back on the subject of the right of legislative initiative to work. For processing. I'll bet you a vote. I'd like to make a statement. To return to the draft bill. [[11:17:14]] For 235 I would ask the minister to work more closely with the committees so that the laws that enter into the House of Parliament are harmonized, and all the shortcomings have been corrected before the first reading. This will be more effective. Please, Your Honor, Minister. Dear colleagues, let us turn to the question, the registration number of draft law 1549, amending article 255 of the Code of Administrative Offences (as regards maritime and river safety). Report to the First Deputy. The procedure's been shortened. There's a proposal for a reduced procedure. I'm putting her to the vote. Define a simplified procedure for dealing with this issue. [[11:18:13]] For 217 Decision taken. We're looking at a reduced procedure. He will report to the First Deputy Minister of Infrastructure, Šulmeister Vladimir Yuriovich. Please, two minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-14-m0.u64	Good afternoon. Dear Mr. Head, distinguished national MPs! You are considering a draft Ukrainian Law amending article 255 of the Code of Administrative Offences. The main objective of the draft Law is to improve the organizational principles of the activities of officials of the State Inspectorate of Ukraine regarding the implementation of State policy in the field of maritime and river transport in the area of control of economic activity by the provision of services for the transport of passengers, dangerous cargo, baggage by river, maritime transport. The purpose of the draft law is to conduct a procedure to monitor the availability of appropriate licences for economic operators. Ukrmorričinspection is the authority for licensing the type of farm activity for the provision of services for the transport of passengers by river and sea. The adoption of the draft law will allow officials of the Ukrmorchinspection licensing body to draw up protocols on administrative offences in the event of operators carrying out business activities for the provision of passenger services, dangerous cargo, luggage, shipping without appropriate licences. That is to say, the control procedures are supervised by the relevant Ukrmorpichinspekcija authorities, which will in turn help to improve the safety of shipping and reduce the number of accidents. Please support the bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-14-m0.u65	Thank you. Please, the co-rapporteur is the head of the Committee, Cosemiakin Andriy Anatoliyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-14-m0.u66	Dear colleagues, the Committee on Law Enforcement at its meeting on 24 December, discussed the draft Law amending article 255 of the Code of Administrative Offences No. 1549. The bill, as noted in the explanatory note to it, is designed to implement State policy in the area of maritime and river transport. The project is intended to expand the list of offences involving the provision of services for the carriage of passengers, dangerous goods, cargo by river and maritime transport, for which authorized persons of the central executive authority are entitled to draw up reports on administrative offences provided for in article 164 of the Ukrainian Code on Administrative Offences. To this end, it is proposed to amend article 255, paragraph 1, of the Code. The committee considered the bill, which is simple and simple. Therefore, it is suggested that the Supreme Council of Ukraine be recommended to accept the project in the first reading as a basis. That's the opinion of the Chief Scientific and Scientific Administration. Although, of course, I support the initiative that the issue of the authorities that are responsible for licensing today should be in order today and there should be a separate bill that regulates it. Please support me as a base. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-14-m0.u67	Thank you. Please sign two for, two against. National MP Palamarczuk Mikola Petrovich, "Block of Petra Prashenko". Prepare the People's Deputy Krivenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-14-m0.u68	Please pass the word Dubnevich.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-14-m0.u69	Please, National Deputy Dubnevich. Jaroslav Dubnevich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-14-m0.u70	Dear colleagues, my first question. The government’s decision to merge the two inspections (I refer to the Ministry) will these powers be automatically delegated to the inspectors? That's the first question. And the second question. Will the administration and, inspectors, the number of inspectors and the budget spending on their maintenance be covered by the so-called fines, the functions they will perform? Are we not producing yet, and are we increasing the number of inspectors for entrepreneurs who go and just check the entrepreneurs themselves? Please answer.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-14-m0.u71	Thank you. I'll give you my closing statement, the First Deputy Minister, and he'll give you an answer in closing. Please, People's Deputy Krivenko, Self-Help. Please, Victor Mikolaiovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-14-m0.u72	I'd like to give Alona Babak the floor.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-14-m0.u73	Please, people's deputy Babak.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-14-m0.u74	Babak Alona, Self-Help faction. Ladies and gentlemen, the Self-Help faction is proposing to return this bill to the initiators, because the Supreme Council today has a draft Act of 1580 on the simplification of business procedures and 0934 on the licensing of business activities. We believe that these laws, one or the other, should address the following issues: define a comprehensive list of licensing controls, as well as the imposition of fines and sanctions by licensing authorities. This should be systematic in relation to all organs that license economic activities in Ukraine. So please turn around.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-14-m0.u75	Thank you, Your Honor. Please, Alexander Kugel.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-14-m0.u76	Thank you very much, Mr. Head. Tomorrow you and I are considering the Second Reading License Act. In the bill, this activity is subject to licensing. And I'm supporting a self-help colleague that all control issues that are controlled should be included in the licensing conditions under the law of licensing the order of issue and control. And that's why we're proposing to reject this bill. And continue to work for the Ministry of Transport to create a single inspection that will include inspection of all modes of transport. Cut them all off, as if left alone. And like this, for example, is in Ireland.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-14-m0.u77	Vladimir Parasuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-14-m0.u78	At the Anti-Corruption Committee, we concluded to completely reject this bill, because there is a corruption component. We don't need another body in the state that's going to be gathering fights. And we need to write a new law that will apply to river transport. Therefore, the committee's conclusion is unanimous – to reject.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-14-m0.u79	Thank you. The head of the profile committee, Andry Cosemyakin, literally a replica, and then Maxim Burbak, People's Front.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-14-m0.u80	Dear colleagues, really, I also support the initiative to fight corruption and shorten anything that could give birth to it. But I'm just going to give you a little insight so you can understand. This is not the case with this amendment in this article about the creation of some additional licensing. Moreover, this article, the amendment, appeared after they investigated accidents on river and sea transport. I mean, when the person who took the ship didn't get the license and when people died, they started to figure it out, but they don't have any rights, you know, legal rights to do it. That's why they wanted to do it, and they're proposing, that's their initiative, that's all, and there's no license, so don't confuse each other a little bit. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-14-m0.u81	Thank you. Please, Maxim Yuriovich Burbak, People's Front.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-14-m0.u82	Good afternoon, I would like to support my colleague, Mr. Cosemyakin, and yet explain that the Ukrmorpicinspection has the authority to check for a license, and if it is not available, others have no authority to impose a fine. This includes transporting dangerous goods and passengers. And by the way, I would like to remind all the deputies that the government has put in place moratoriums on the conduct of checks on small and medium-sized enterprises. So this rule will only apply to large carriers and they should be responsible for the absence of a licence to carry out the transport data. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-14-m0.u83	Thank you. Please, are they still desirable? I'm going to give the floor to the first deputy minister for the final word, but maybe if this is the issue that regulates transportation, including passengers, maybe it would be appropriate to look at it in the first reading, to take it as a basis, to work it out. This does not have a bearing on the licensing conditions, to refine it, and to make a concerted proposal to the second reading. Please invite me to the floor of the final Deputy Minister of Infrastructure, Mr. Šulmeister Vladimir Juriovich. People's deputies, I'd like to invite you to the Supreme Council Hall for a proper vote. Please invite the national MPs.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-14-m0.u84	Thank you for asking. It's only about security, transport security, it's not about licensing, there's no further licensing here. A single inspection is now being created, where what we are checking will be reduced to European standards and will therefore be less tested. Only those to be checked will be checked. And about the Irish survey -- thank you for asking -- we're going to shorten what we're checking, and so fewer inspectors are going to need less funding. So there's no extra funding here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-14-m0.u85	Thank you. Dear colleagues! I think everyone must have expressed themselves and understood for themselves what we should do to everyone. I then put to the vote the Committee's conclusion to adopt this bill as a basis (registration number 1549) for draft legislation amending article 255 of the Code of Administrative Offences. Dear colleagues, I ask you to determine your vote. Based on the committee's recommendation, on the basis. [[11:30:19]] For 190 The decision is not taken. Thank you. Was there another offer from the Babak People's Deputy to return, to be put to the vote? Let me put to the vote the bill (1549 registration number) of the subject for processing. Dear National Deputies! I ask everyone to come to the hall, attention, please prepare for the return of the bill (registration number 1549) to the developer for further processing. Please identify yourself by voting, returning to the developer for processing. The developer's return to preprocessing. [[11:31:19]] For 241 Turn around. Let's move on to the next question of order of the day. The registration number of the bill is 1552. What suggestions will be made regarding the procedure? Short cut? Dear colleagues! I'd like to invite the people's deputies. By procedure. There is a proposal to consider the bill in a simplified manner. I ask you to determine how to vote: by a reduced procedure. [[11:32:02]] For 210 Decision taken. We are now considering the issue of daily order (registration No. 1552) of the draft Act amending the Criminal Code of Ukraine to increase liability for individual war crimes. Deputy Justice Minister Bondarchuk Igor Volodymyrovich. I'd like you, your honor, to concentrate on an important bill. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-14-m0.u86	Thank you. Dear Mr. Head! Dear National Deputies! Your opinion is proposed by the draft Law of Ukraine amending the Criminal Code of Ukraine to increase liability for individual war crimes (hereinafter: draft law), designed by the Ministry of Justice to implement sub-paragraph three, paragraph one, of the decision of the National Security and Defence Council of Ukraine of 4 November 2014 "On urgent measures and security of the State", introduced by Decree of the President of Ukraine of 14 November 2014 No. 880. The draft law has been prepared with the aim of increasing the criminal responsibility of military personnel for committing individual war crimes in a special period. To this end, the draft law proposes to amend a series of articles of the Criminal Code of Ukraine (hereinafter: the Criminal Code), which are foreseen for war crimes, by establishing a stricter responsibility for their conduct not only in the context of war, but also in the context of a special period, which includes the period of mobilization, military time and partly reconstruction after the end of hostilities (paragraph 11 of article 1 of the Ukrainian Defence Act). This increase of responsibility will apply to: failure to comply with an order, to resist the boss or to force him to violate his duties, to threaten or violence against the boss (art. 402-405 CC); voluntary abandonment of the military or duty station, desertion, avoidance of military service by way of self-calculation or other means, kidnapping, possession, requirement of military personnel by weapons, munitions, explosives or other combat materials, means of movement of military and special equipment or other military property, and the seizure of them by means of fraud or abuse of a military position, deliberate destruction or damage to military property (arts. 407-411 KK); loss of military property (art. 413 KK); violation of statutory rules of guard service or patrolling, internal service, breach of military assets (arts. 407-411 KC). Powers (art. 426 CC); Abandonment of a missing warship (art. 428 CC).
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-14-m0.u87	I'm asking you to finish the date.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-14-m0.u88	The illegal use of and abuse of the symbols of the Red Cross, the Red Crescent, and the Red Crystal. — Article 435 CC. The Law Enforcement Committee proposes that the adoption of this bill will strengthen the discipline of military personnel, which is particularly relevant in connection with the conduct of an antiterrorist operation. And we ask that we accept it in connection with events in the country as a whole. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-14-m0.u89	Thank you. I invite the head of the committee, Andriy Anatoliyovich, to the report.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-14-m0.u90	Dear Chairman, distinguished national MPs! The Committee on Law Enforcement has considered a draft Act amending the Criminal Code of Ukraine to increase liability for individual war crimes (number 1552), submitted by the Cabinet of Ministers The draft law proposes to amend articles 402-405, 407-411. I'm not gonna count everyone, I'm just a representative. The deputy minister of justice said all this. The only thing that the committee said during the discussion was that the bill in question would be essential today for the adoption of legal decisions, for the decision-making of courts, prosecutors, all law enforcement officers in the East. And members of the committee supported the bill and recommended that the Supreme Council accept it as a basis during its consideration. We can't support it. Do you want to Support the Ministry of Justice's recommendation on "in general," because there's work to be done here. We're working on it, and it's going to be a normal law that works with increased sanctions. I mean, I'm asking you to support me. Thank you. Just on the ground.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-14-m0.u91	Thank you, Andriy Anatolyovich. Please two for, two for against. Please, Ivchenko, National Deputy, Fatherland.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-14-m0.u92	Please pass the word to Kožemiakina Andrija Anatoliyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-14-m0.u93	Andrew Kožemiakin, “The Fatherland. ”
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-14-m0.u94	Dear colleagues, once again, I would like to say the following. What, apart from the Committee of the Supreme Council, this bill, having examined and studied it, all the law enforcement agencies and the Ukrainian Special Services, I also mean the Ministry of Internal Affairs, the Ukrainian Security Service, the Foreign Intelligence Service, all of them have spoken for this bill to be considered today and given it the opportunity to exist and live. So, really, today we've expressed our sympathy for all the dead in Volnovas, but you know how many other people we've lost have already been killed in the fighting. And in order to increase discipline, military discipline, and the organization of our combat units: the units of the Ministry of Defense, the Ukrainian Security Service, the Ministry of Defence, and the Ministry of Justice, have drafted this bill, analysing the jurisprudence that is coming today, including the Committee of the Supreme Council. So once again, I would like to say that our faction will support this bill as a basis. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-14-m0.u95	Thank you. Please, National Deputy Galchenko Andry Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-14-m0.u96	Please pass the word to Deputy Dudenkov.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-14-m0.u97	People's deputy to Dudenkov, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-14-m0.u98	Dear colleagues! Respectable citizens! I would like to clarify a little bit about the substance of the bill, which is the case. In such a calm tone, representatives of our coalition are being discussed. The bottom line is that this bill proposes those men who will be subjected to several waves of mobilization, which our Head of State has abrogated, in fact, to impose strict, severe enough criminal sanctions for military crimes under military conditions. What does the situation look like? The authorities lack the will to declare a military situation, that is to say, they are motivated by their narrow political motives (whether fear or lack of political will), but in fact they impose severe penalties on specific parts of the Criminal Code for crimes that may be committed intentionally or unintentionally by these people. In fact, they will be judged on terms of military time. Let me give you some examples. Moreover, the representative of the Ministry of Justice had brought a number of them. For example. In a special period, a prison sentence of 5 to 10 years may be imposed for violations of the rules of the border service, and for violations of the statutory rules of the internal service up to 5 years, a prison sentence of 3 to 8 years shall be imposed for violations of the rules of patrol. I would like to warn you that we have no moral right to vote in favour of this absurd bill in general. We're not standing on the fronts, we're not standing on this side. This may be the responsibility of any soldier who, during this difficult period for the Family, has come to carry out his constitutional duty to protect his Fatherland. We have to make the laws, to finalize the bill. The most serious crimes may be the responsibility, but not all that is proposed. And I'm asking.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-14-m0.u99	Thank you. Are you done? Thank you. Please, The People's Front, Teteruk Andriy Anatolyovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-14-m0.u100	Deputies! I want to make a statement about voting for this law. It is very important to understand that emotionally some MPs are pushing the situation and say that it is not possible to do so. But if we are to take the basis for the situation that day - to - day commanders face, we need to understand that not all military personnel and volunteer battalions have patriots and are conscientiously carrying out their military duties as Ukrainian citizens. Some of them allow themselves to be armed and act in such a way that their actions are completely and completely subject to the Ukrainian Criminal Code. And by no means will anyone here say that the role models of our heroes or military officials who perform their duties conscientiously will be subject to this law is a lie. I ask each and every one of you to support those commanders who daily work to support discipline in their assigned departments. Every military officer who violates the law must understand that he will be responsible for the military and criminal acts of looting or committing other crimes under the Criminal Code. That's why I and the People's Front faction are asking all MPs to support this law in voting. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-14-m0.u101	Thank you, Your Honor. Please, Mikola Tomenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-14-m0.u102	Dear colleagues, I wanted to tell my colleagues from the Party of Regions that when military aggression started in Russia, they staged a hysteria here and said Putin would settle down with us and come here in peace. You'd better keep your mouth shut about the state of war, because you brought this war when you worked in the Party of Regions. And now you're teaching the President and us how to fight. Rather than being smart, give thanks to those who save the country and you. Now for the law. Sadly, this is the case. We've got a lot of skyscrapers. As there were skyscrapers in Afghanistan, so there is today. And that's what we need to talk about. So order and discipline must be in the army. The other thing that needs to be written clearly is that I agree here, and Andrew Cosemiakin said that we only have to take the first reading and go over the points again so that there is no abuse by the common military on the part of the officers, and that we understand that we have discipline, order, and we will win. I.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-14-m0.u103	Let me finish. Done? We're done. Please, Mishchenka, a national MP.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-14-m0.u104	Dear colleagues, Sergey Mishchenko, Kyivščina, 98th District. I fully support my friend Nicholas Tomenck in what he said. That this law was to be passed six months ago. And that's why I'm here to see him on the first reading right now, because we don't have to play with the special condition. Because a special state is this military state. So you can determine when it will work and how it will work. And second. My recommendation. We've returned the military prosecutor's office. These crimes are now being committed by military prosecutors. Where are the military courts? Why do civilians judge these specific cases? They don't have any experience. But why don't you give us a law that provides for the return of the military tribunals? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-14-m0.u105	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I think there's a full understanding that this is an extremely necessary bill. The point is that we are now looking at it in the first reading as a basis. We've heard the words of the combatants who directly know what's going on and the expressions of the national MPs. The law is important, and we need to support it in the first reading. To process it, to prepare it qualitatively for the second reading and to provide opportunities for our military to be responsible, because most, the absolute majority of our military today, will abide by both the constitution and the statute and all other rules. But there are individual cases that need to be punished, and that needs to be settled at the level of the law. Therefore, my fellow Members, I ask the members of the people to prepare themselves for the vote. Ladies and gentlemen, please come into the hall. Please invite people's deputies to the National Assembly Hall. I have an idea: I think I'm going to put this, you know, magnetic lock in the door, 10 hours -- so closed and at 6 o'clock, it opened. If you don't mind? If you don't mind? I hear you don't mind, so I do. I'm sure, with your permission, only the honourable national MPs are on your permission. Please prepare for the vote. I put to the vote a bill amending the Criminal Code of Ukraine to increase responsibility for individual war crimes (registration No. 1552) on the basis of first reading on the basis. Please vote, and I ask you to support this as a basis, Your Honor. Based on the base. [[11:47:57]] For 238. Decision taken. Thank you, Your Honor. Next question 10 (registration No. 1086) is the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Act "On mandatory public pension insurance" (to improve pension insurance). Reported by Ukrainian national deputy Sukhevich Yuri, Bogdan Romanovich. Please. Oh, let's do it the way we do it. There is a proposal for a simplified procedure to be considered and I am voting on this proposal. The bill (registration number 1086). I'd like to make up my mind. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. [[11:48:49]] For 214 Decision taken. Dear Yuri Romanovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-14-m0.u106	Dear Mr. Head, distinguished national MPs! That's the law. The bill you're proposing for consideration is that according to the pension reform of Tihypak women. [[do not hear]] [[do not hear]] By 55 years of age.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-14-m0.u107	Mr. Yuri, you'd better sit down because you can't hear it, Mr. Yuri. Sit down because you're away from the microphone if you don't mind. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-14-m0.u108	It would be now retirement at the age of 60. But you need another 30-year job. Women wanted to be denied the right to retire in general until the age of 60, but under pressure from the streets of the multi-thousand, and so on, the Supreme Council was forced to amend and allowed to leave by 31 December 2013 at the age of 55 when there was 30 years of work and release from work. Now there's a catastrophe. The thing is, every month, according to the Ministry of Social Policy, 50,000 women retire. That's a big number. They come out on time, no matter how early they retire. 60 years of impact on the decrease, the decrease is constant to 50 percent. But the bottomless way out is to get them out.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-14-m0.u109	Please let me finish the report.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-14-m0.u110	Please. In general, this law gives an opportunity to. That's what the Ministry is proposing, and I agree, by the 22nd year, to allow women to retire at 55 years of age at 30 years of age and when they're fired because otherwise it's a disaster. I would ask you all to vote for this law, to accept it as a basis and as a whole. I'll be very grateful, I think a lot of people, a lot of women will be grateful to you, because this is really a disaster. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-14-m0.u111	Thank you. Correspondent: head of the subcommittee Druuk Sergey Evseiovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-14-m0.u112	Dear colleagues, the Honourable Head, the Committee on Social Policy, Employment and Retirement, reviewed the bill at its meeting on December 24, which was submitted by the National Deputy of Ukraine, Shuhevich (registration number 1086). The law proposes to extend until 2022 the rights of early retirement to women of 55 years of age who are at least 30 years of age and under the conditions of dismissal, as well as in the same article 40, to continue to provide assistance for any period of work. The Committee supports the above-mentioned proposals aimed at ensuring the rights of citizens and respecting the principle of equality before the law. The adoption of the bill will ensure the equality of women who have a higher retirement age in the event of early retirement. The bill was also supported by the Ministry of Social Policy. Nor does the Chief Scientific and Expert Authority of the Supreme Council object to its acceptance as a basis. But, honourable colleagues, I would like to point out that the author of the bill notes that the adoption of the act requires additional expenditure from the state budget. However, adequate financial and economic calculations have not been made to the bill. In addition, some national deputies who wish to submit an amendment to the draft were contacted by the committee at this time. Accordingly, the Committee recommends to the Supreme Council of Ukraine, in accordance with article 114, paragraph 1, of article 1, of the Supreme Council of Ukraine’s Rules of Law.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-14-m0.u113	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-14-m0.u114	Ukraine's Retirement Insurance Act. And, Mr. Head, in referring him to our committee for the preparation of his second reading, we ask that we give him a shorter term so that we can rework him briefly and submit him to the second reading. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-14-m0.u115	For the next plenary week, it will come out in the early days. Thank you. Two for, two against. Please sign up. Please, Peter Dusty Block, Oleg Barn.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-14-m0.u116	I'm handing Barna Stepan over.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-14-m0.u117	Stepan Barna. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-14-m0.u118	Deputies! Dear colleagues! Of course, the social orientation of the bill is extremely important. That is why I believe that this initiative by Ukrainian national deputy Yuri Suhevich needs to be supported. As a result, even if we are facing a serious social economic crisis, we have to help and promote the population category that needs social support from the state. So, friends, as we step out of the way to get as far away from ourselves as possible the possibilities of social privileges that apply to national MPs, we need to target them to support the social categories of the population, the people who need them. That's why the Petra Prashenko bloc will support this initiative in principle and we stand in the position that our position and the legislative initiatives that Parliament is initiating should be aimed at protecting the social protection of the people of Ukraine and the Ukrainians. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-14-m0.u119	Thank you. Please, Oleg Kuprienko, Radical Party. Please, Oleg Vasilovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-14-m0.u120	Oleg Kuprienko, Oleg Laska Radical Party. Dear colleagues, I am very grateful for your support of the idea, for your support of the bill, which is a very important bill. I note who may not have read every letter yet: The right to retire is granted at 55 years of age to women who are 30 years of age. I mean, she already is. A woman should have worked at 25 years of age continuously -- this is a very important moment, a very important moment. Given that at 55 years of age it is extremely difficult for women to find employment in order to work on a legal term, it is this law that protects the rights of our women, especially those living in rural areas. If you look at our mothers at the age of 55 who look at all 70, it's a very important bill, and I'm asking you to support it. I also point out that this bill provides that a person has the right to have a five-year retirement allowance, which is defined accordingly, is also an important point for a person to be able to use his or her employment to maximize his or her pension. And the committee's final thesis that there is no financial justification, although this may require additional budgetary expenditure. Tell me, who can now predict how many women will benefit from this right? This is impossible in principle, and budgeting can be predicted. But there's no clear budgeting here in principle. So I'm asking you to support this bill. We're going to make a gift for the old New Year to our women who can take advantage of that right. And I also remind you, we have a large number of people who have retired who have lived less than this internship that is set out in this law. So I would like to support the bill of members of our Radical Party faction, Oleg Lášk. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-14-m0.u121	Please, Mikhail Papiev.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-14-m0.u122	Thank you. Honorable National Deputies of Ukraine! Mikhail Papiev, faction of the political party "The Opposition Block". I welcome this bill, and it is positive because it regulates some of the inadequacy of the law, which, in principle, has limited the constitutional rights of our citizens since 1 January 2015. In addition, the faction of the political party "The Opposition Block" will vote in favour of this law. Moreover, we propose that this law be voted upon in general today. Why? Because, in fact, the proposal of the committee that was taking place today to further develop it for the second reading and to supplement it with some other standards is contrary to the Supreme Council of Ukraine rules. We will be able to add to our second reading only articles that refer to the law that was adopted in the first reading. Other articles of the National Pension Insurance Act will not be able to be violated. So I ask you very much to take my advice: Let us take this law as a basis for it as a whole. And we're about to give a mandate to the Supreme Council of Ukraine now, already registered Act No. 1017 on the restoration of the violated pension rights of certain categories of citizens. I suggest that we put this bill into the hall for the next plenary week, and it deals with other issues, because there are a lot of them. Except. We need to leave 55 years of retirement for women and 60 years for men, because to regulate and raise the retirement age in a shadow economy is nonsense. The countries of the world go to a higher retirement age only when other resources and sources of the pension fund have been exhausted. Today, the Ukrainian economy allows the income of the Pension Fund to be filled without.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-14-m0.u123	Thank you. Litvin Volodymyr Mihajlovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-14-m0.u124	Dear Head, distinguished national MPs! It is obvious that this bill needs to be supported and voted on as a whole today. If the Supreme Council of Ukraine has the will to accept it as a basis, the question arises: What will we work on in the second reading? Nothing. It's a desire that has been made before to demonstrate people's support, and then not to consider it. Therefore, the suggestion is to withdraw the objection, to vote it as a law. [[Applause]] And the second. Dear Head, I draw your attention to the chaotic nature of our work. There are a number of drafts on this subject, and they're not being considered at all. In particular, 20 people's deputies have introduced a bill to which they are expected (I mean the People's Will Group) to radically address this issue, by the way, as discussed during the electoral campaign. Let's keep our pre-election promises. Radically, given that women cannot have insurance to receive a minimum pension for 30 years. I'm going to remind you of the transcript and you're going to have to give the commission to review these laws. This is draft registration number 1663, as well as bill registration number 1031-2. In particular, if we can't solve this problem right now, dear colleagues, let's introduce an increased insurance system to obtain a minimum pension gradually, and the bills predict it. So the proposal is to adopt this law now and consider the whole range of social pension bills this week and finally determine on them. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-14-m0.u125	Thank you. Please, from the Alexander Kugel faction. Then Oleg Berezuk. "Economic development," Jacenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-14-m0.u126	Dear colleagues, distinguished voters! I don't think there's anyone here who hasn't made a promise to the electorate that she's going to undo this disgraceful pension reform of Mr. Tighippek. Please tell me, most of the men here, you don't know that a woman after 45 years just can't find a job?Oh, my God! Do they not approach you as voters? And if we say that today. And they're also looking at some of them to work up to 60. Please tell me. So get out of work and make room for Ukrainian women! Today, although we have no inequality, women after 45 have a very difficult relationship with their employer. It's different. Please tell me, who will give birth when you put in an internship for a woman for 30 years? Then sit on specific vacations, and women will give birth and work. And that's a lot.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-14-m0.u127	Please, let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-14-m0.u128	And that's why this law by the "Fatherland" faction in support of its electoral promises will vote both on the basis and in general. And I suggest you do the same. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-14-m0.u129	Oleg Beresuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-14-m0.u130	Dear colleagues! Dear Mr. Head! Respect for a woman, respect for a mother, is a sign of a culture of a nation. The respect of a working woman who worked for 30 years gave her time to work, often sacrificing her children is a special moment. So we have to give these women a chance, a fair chance, at least 55 years later, to find time for themselves and grandchildren! This is an important psychological moment in raising a nation. Money. There's money in the budget. Today, our self-help faction deputies, looking at the budget, find tens of billions that we didn't agree to spend when we were sitting here at night. There's money! On behalf of the self-help faction, I support the offer of Jury Suhevich of Ukraine to vote on this law today as a basis and as a whole. That's why I'm inviting you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-14-m0.u131	Please, Anton Yatzenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-14-m0.u132	Dear Mr. Head, dear colleagues. Indeed, this law, no questions asked, will be voted in the Hall today and will be supported. But this does not solve in any way the problem that exists in Ukraine today, as the previous speakers said. Women who now have to work are unemployed, so it would be nice for women to retire at 55 years of age. In general, improve pension legislation. So the Economic Development Group is asking for the inclusion of this week's package of laws related to the elimination of the so-called pension reform and the return of women to retirement at 55 years of age. We ask you very much to do this for the people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-14-m0.u133	Thank you. Please. One of the non-fractional ones. Sergei Mishchenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-14-m0.u134	Thank you. Sergei Mishchenko, Kyivščina, 98 district. I do not agree with the committee to accept it as a basis. Because if you look at the bill, there are two changes. From January 1st, 16th to continue the term for the insurance period until January 1st, 22nd. And since January 1st, 15th, give women 55 years of retirement. What's to change? By January 1nd, 22. What's to change? Only in general, only in general. But I don't agree with those colleagues who say it's a gift for our women. It's not a gift. A gift is when they make all the promises of abolishing pension reform. This is a gift for our women and for our people. If we don't do this, all your promises will go to whoever's tail.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-14-m0.u135	Thank you. Please, Ludmila Denisov, head of the profile committee. Please. Let's take the closing statement and go to the vote. People's deputies, please come to the Supreme Council Hall.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-14-m0.u136	Dear Mr. Head, dear colleagues! You know, the very important question that we're looking at today is the retirement of our women, who are now 55 years old or who may be 55 years old tomorrow. You know, today is a very difficult situation in the labor market. 49,000 vacancies are all in our country for today. And the unemployed registered are over half a million. So it's also a solution to some employment problem: if women retire, release these places. Today, 78,000 displaced persons are to be employed. If they are not employed, they will not receive state aid for renting housing. Because as chairman of the committee, I support what is now being proposed, voted on the basis and in general. And if this proposal, Mr. Head, gets the votes, we will certainly be glad that such a right in women will be. If you don't mind.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-14-m0.u137	Please, let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-14-m0.u138	I ask you to put it to a vote in the first reading. And I guarantee that our committee will work on it urgently and make this decision in the hall. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-14-m0.u139	Thank you, distinguished national MPs. All right, we can go to the vote. People's deputies please move into the hall. There's a committee proposal to take it as a basis. But given the importance of this issue, I will now put it to a vote on the basis and in general. Is there no objection? None. Ladies and gentlemen, please come to the hall. Is there a denial? [[B in m in s a l in]] Let's talk about it. [[B in m in s a l in]] Come on. There was an offer by the committee head. Okay. Please prepare for the vote on the basis and for the whole of Bill No. 1086, the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Act on "On Stately Compulsory Pension Insurance" to improve pension insurance. Please vote on the basis as a whole. On the basis and in general. [[12:11:37]] For 256 Decision taken. Thank you, distinguished national MPs. We have concluded our consideration of this important, important issue. I'll sign it very soon and send it to the President of Ukraine. Now, according to the Rules, I have to announce a 30-minute break. One minute. You and I have one more question left. But we are now preparing, if you remember, for our European partners a statement from the Ukrainian Parliament. So I would ask you now at 12:45 a.m. we're going to meet in this room (no one is stalling), we're going to discuss the agenda that's left over -- one, and there's going to be a speech by the head of the Committee of European Integration on our appeal to our European partners. Thank you very much for your attention. At 12:45 p.m., we're meeting in the hall. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-14-m0.u140	Ladies and gentlemen, please come to the hall and prepare for work. Dear national deputies, the heads of factions, please invite everyone to the hall so that we can begin our fruitful, hard work. Please come into the hall and take your seats. Mr. Groisman will be here soon. And we can't start our work. Only the People's Front faction gathered in the workplace. I'm asking all the other factions to come in and take their jobs. We'll start work in one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-14-m0.u141	Ladies and gentlemen, I ask you to take your seats in the hall. We can continue our work. Please invite the national deputies to the Supreme Council Hall of Ukraine so that we can continue our work. We have two issues of order left to consider, please, dear colleagues, please concentrate. Ladies and gentlemen, I ask you to take your place. We begin our consideration of the draft Decision marking the 200th anniversary of Michael Verbicki's birth (4 March 2015) (registration number 1318). Dear colleagues, I ask you to take your seats. We started to consider the matter. I invite the rapporteur for the Ukrainian national deputy, Oxana Vasilevna Jurinec. Ladies and gentlemen, I ask you to come into the hall. Please, colleagues, lead the factions.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-14-m0.u142	Christ is born, dear fellows! Oksana Jurinec, Petra Prashenko Block, Vitalia Klitka strike group. On March 4, 2015, Michael Verbicki was born as a Ukrainian priest, composer, conductor, public actor, music author to the Anthem of Ukrainian, National and National Hymn. With the aim of raising respect for history, patriotism, and the national symbols of Ukraine. Taking into account the importance of the character of Mikhail Verbitsky for the development of Ukrainian nationality and Ukrainian culture to mark the 200th anniversary of Michael Verbicki's birth. The text of the decision is on the Supreme Council website, and we complement it with some other recommendations concerning the Ministry of Education and Science of Ukraine, youth and sport, to hold scientific and scientific conferences, round tables on life and activities of Mikhail Verbicki. Recommend to the Lviv City Council a monument to Mikhail Verbicki in Lviv, where he lived and worked. To initiate the preparation of scientific materials and artifacts for the creation of the Michael Verbicke Museum. The Lviv State Administration and the District State Administration set up memorial boards in the churches of the village of Zawadów in the Yavorów region and the village of Stari Arrow in the Old Sambir district, where Mikhailo Verbicki was a parish. There may not be such a historical figure that today would talk about how it united Ukraine, how the celebration of Ukraine today unites the East and the West. And this is the man who is worthy of honor today. Sad to say, there may not be all colleagues of national deputies who may not be interested in the Hymn of Ukraine. But I think that history is rectified, and yet we will be singing it in the future, not with sadness, as we do today in honor of our heroes, but with pride and smile, looking confidently at the future. On January 12th, the President of Ukraine signed a decree to commemorate the 150th anniversary of this anthem and also to release the anniversary stamp, coin and envelope. We cannot celebrate today, but we honor the memory. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-14-m0.u143	I would like to invite you to speak to the co-rapporteur, deputy head of the Committee on Culture and Spirituality, Victor Eugenovich Yelensky. Please, Victor Evgenovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-14-m0.u144	Dear colleagues, the Committee on Culture and Spirituality at its meeting discussed the draft Order on the Celebration of the 200th anniversary of Michael Verbicki's birth and proposes to support it. I don't think there's any need to talk about the meaning of Michael Verbick. If only the whole history of Ukraine. The entire history of Ukraine would have to be laid out on one sheet of paper, and then for Michael Verbitsky, it would have been on this page. Social, religious, and religious organizations are joining in. As we know, Mikhail Verbicki was a priest and a son of a priest. Ukrainians in the diaspora are involved. I also want to remind you that March 10th is 150 years old from the day the first public anthem of Ukraine "Not Dead Ukraine" was performed, the music that Mikhailo Verbicki wrote to. I am very insistent, and on behalf of the committee, to support this decision. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-14-m0.u145	Thank you. Please, Mikola Tomenko. Mikola Volodymyrovich Tomenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-14-m0.u146	Dear colleagues, I wanted to join my colleagues, Oksana Jurinec and Taras Batenka, who took this wise initiative, and to the colleagues from the committee, to add that UNESCO has declared this year the Year of Mikhail Verbicki. So this is about our ability at the international level, in fact 2015, to make the Year of Promotion of the Hymn of Ukraine. This is a unique hymn - making story, for Paul Chubinsky, who from Great Ukraine wrote the hymn text, is still not quite known when Mikhailo Verbicki read the text, but after reading it in Galicín, he made music. And Galicina and the Great Ukraine were then united by writing this anthem. So I think that as Midan's anthem has made such a spiritual basis for our lives and survival then in an anthem, we have to raise it in 2015 so that everyone doesn't just know -- respect, and let the world know the Hymn of Ukraine. And I'm asking all the hygienists who want to change the anthem this year, not to change the anthem. Let us sing the hymn as it is, and let us honor it!
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-14-m0.u147	Please, Stephen Barna.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-14-m0.u148	Stephen Barna, Peter Dustenka's Block. Clearly, we need to talk about the importance of Michael Verbicke's character in the history of Ukrainian statehood. What's more, we're not only celebrating 200 years from the day he was born, but we're also celebrating 150 years this year's first performance of the State Hymn of Ukraine. In principle, we know that on January 12th, the President of Ukraine signed the Presidential Decree on the celebration of the 200th anniversary of Mikhail Verbicki's birth, and 150th anniversary of the first day of the State Hymn of Ukraine. So this is a symbolic moment that gives us the opportunity to honor the history of the man who was born in the Premysl district in the village of Mlina, which is now in the Republic of Poland, but which is symbolic because living in the far west of ethnic Ukrainian lands.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-14-m0.u149	Let me finish, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-14-m0.u150	This man united the whole of Ukraine. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-14-m0.u151	Deputies! We suggest that we proceed to the vote and ask the deputies to prepare for the vote. So whoever's not in the hall, please come into the Chamber of Deputies, and the Heads of the factions please follow. We see a completely empty corner of the hall where the faction of the Opposition Block and other factions should be on such important issues. I stress very much that we have to be at work and work. And I'd like you to call me back and invite all the deputies.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-14-m0.u152	Dear National Deputies! I'm voting on the draft decree marking the 200th anniversary of Michael Verbicki's birth. [[B in m in s a l in]] A signal vote? Come on, alert. Come on. There are voices, I see. What are you doing? I can see there are voices. We're registered. All right. I mean, cards can be, it doesn't mean anything. Let's have a signal vote, please. Signal vote, we've got votes. Signal vote. [[13:03:50]] For 227 I'd like to ask the distinguished national MPs once again carefully, concentrate, take your seats, please. Invite the National Deputies to the Supreme Council Hall. Again with the signal vote, please. Is it normal? Vote, vote. It'll be a signal. Wait till you do. [[13:04:21]] For 226 It's okay. Ladies and gentlemen, I'm putting to the vote the draft decree on the celebration of the 200th anniversary of Michael Verbickeski's birth on March 4, 2015, registration number 1318. I'm asking the people's deputies of Ukraine to concentrate. The vote is about to begin. Ladies and gentlemen, may I have your vote, please? Vote, Your Honor, on the basis and in general. On the basis and in general, we vote, honourable colleagues. [[13:05:01]] For 236 Decision taken. [[Applause]] Dear colleagues, I'll bet. [[Deputy asleeps]] in
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-14-m0.u153	Thank you, Your Honor. Please take the seats of the people's deputies. In accordance with the commission I gave at the beginning of our plenary meeting, I am introducing a draft Decision (registration No. 1766). The Supreme Council of Ukraine decrees to refer the Supreme Council of Ukraine to the European Parliament, the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe, the national parliaments, the members of the European Union, the United States, Canada, Japan and Australia on the mass shooting of people under Volnovaha. Irina Heratchenko, head of the European Integration Committee, has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-14-m0.u154	Irina Heratchenko, Block of Petra Dustenka, strike group. Dear Mr. Head, we would like to thank the Committee on European Integration and the Committee on Foreign Affairs for promptly responding to this terrible tragedy, for further commissioning our committees, we have decided to prepare a statement. And I also want to thank the diplomats who are sitting in this session room who helped us prepare the expert text of the address. Honorable colleagues, simply considering the lack of time, did not give you the text of the decree. I'll give you a call. Please listen carefully so that we can take a call to the European Parliament, the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe, the national parliaments of the EU member states, the US, Canada, Japan, Australia for the mass shooting of people under Volnovah in Ukraine. On January 13, 2015, the aftermath of the massacre of civilians in eastern Ukraine in the area of the town of Volnovah in Donbasa was horrendous. As a result of the rocket strike by terrorists from the so - called DNR on a bus with civilians, more than 10 people were killed. Among them were children. More than 15 were seriously injured. Despite the Minsk Protocol signed in September 2014 by the representatives of the OSCE, Ukraine and the Russian Federation, which provides for compliance by all parties with the ceasefire regime, the shelling of Ukrainian villages, villages, cities in eastern Ukraine, Donbassa and the position of Ukrainian forces by terrorists called the LNR and the DNR do not diminish. The shootings are carried out from areas under the control of LNR and DNR fighters from weapons of Russian origin. Ukraine, experts from many international organizations have numerous evidence that it is the Russian origin of weapons that is regularly supplied by the Russian Federation to militants at Donbassa through Ukraine's uncontrollable border area, the Ukrainian-Russian border. Every day the world is witnessing a flagrant violation of international law, fundamental human rights, the right to life of Ukrainian civilians who have become hostages of the militants in their territory of Donbas. The civilized world cannot and has no right to observe the tragedy of the Ukrainian people in silence. Ukraine has suffered numerous human losses that have been measured in thousands of lives. The entire civilized world must make every effort to calm the aggressor. It can only be stopped by the power of our common resistance, the power of unity and solidarity with Ukraine of all European and world democratic circles. Recently, Ukraine, along with other leading countries in the world and millions of French, honored the memory of the victims of the attack in the capital of France. The massacre of people in Paris and Volnovas is an event of the same order. The civilised world must be united in the fight against terrorism, bearing in mind that the conflict in Donbas has already led to thousands of human losses, and hundreds of thousands of people in the Donetsk and Lugansk regions have been forced to leave their homes and seek refuge in the peaceful part of Ukraine under the control of Ukrainian authorities, taking into account the continued support of the Russian Federation of Terrorists through the continuous provision of military equipment, firearms, artillery, tanks and living forces, the Supreme Council of Ukraine calls on the European Parliament, the Parliament of Parliament, the Parliament of the European Assembly for the European Union’s National Parliaments, and the governments of the EU member states of Ukraine, the United States of America, the United States of America and the United States of America: firstly, to continue its policy of pre-elections of the Russian Federation, the Republic of America, the Republic of America, the United States of America, the United States of America and the United States of America. The other one. Include the so - called DNR and LNR and other similar formations in the list of terrorist organizations. Third. To explore the possibility of providing military assistance to Ukraine in order to strengthen its defence capabilities, particularly with regard to the protection of our borders. Four. To continue the policy of not recognizing the illegal annexation of Crimea. Fifth. Develop a program of assistance to Ukraine over the next two months in response to the worsening humanitarian situation in Donbas. Six. To promote a political solution to the situation in Donbas in a dream of full territorial integrity, stability of Ukraine’s borders, respect for its sovereignty and independence. And the last. Continue to act together against Russian propaganda. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-14-m0.u155	Thank you. Thank you for the prepared text. I'm asking Julia Volodymyrna Timoshenko, please. You can say it from every faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-14-m0.u156	Dear colleagues, dear Ukraine! We certainly support this appeal. We were involved in its development. But right now I'd like us to be against what the Russian Federation does, Putin versus Ukraine. They kill children, they kill peaceful people. They're practically fighting Ukraine, destroying our country. So that we can take certain historical steps, responsible and clear, so that we don't have any confusion, so that we have our position clearly and clearly defined. So we are now proposing to include in the agenda an additional reference that we are now voting on, I have no doubt, a 1015 ruling that has passed through the committee, which foresees an immediate cessation of Ukraine's participation in all SND bodies, which foresees an end to the payment of Ukraine's membership contributions to the SND. [[Congrats]]
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-14-m0.u157	Let me finish, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-14-m0.u158	which terminates the activity of Ukraine's permanent representation with the SND and also terminates the decision to accede the Supreme Council of Ukraine to the Agreement on the Parliamentary Assembly of States Parties to the Commonwealth of Independent States. I want to say today that finding Ukraine in this structure, where absolute leadership belongs to the Russian Federation and Putin, is simply a humiliation for Ukraine. And I want to remind you that at the time of the aggression, Georgia took this step immediately, we can't take this step for a year. And so I ask you to put the vote to the vote now for inclusion in the agenda and to immediately vote on this ruling. There is a positive conclusion of a profile committee that is unanimously accepted on the committee concerned by all the deputies who enter there. I think if we don't look at it now, it's essentially going to be weak.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-14-m0.u159	Thank you. Please, Oleg Berezuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-14-m0.u160	Ladies and gentlemen, there is no doubt that the response should be accepted, but the Ukrainian Parliament should not use diplomatic language. We shouldn't say "neither," "already," "they came" is an open Russian aggression, Parliament has the right to say it, Parliament is not a diplomat. The other one. We should not ask for consideration of the possibility that we, as full partners of the world partnership, should say that the world should help, must help Ukraine stop this aggression, it is aggression against the world. So ladies and gentlemen, there's a proposal to edit this decision immediately, to make it more direct, more rigid and less diplomatic, no time for diplomacy, the canon sounds.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-14-m0.u161	Please, Oleg Easy, one minute. Then Gerasimov's "BPP" and Andrew Ivanchuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-14-m0.u162	Oleg Lazko, "Radical Party." I think that no one in Ukrainian society or in the international community has any doubt that Ukraine is today a victim of Russian military aggression. And we should not be afraid to call things our names. By shyly covering up Russian aggression, the ATO, inventing ATOs by inventing veterans, our descendants ask us: What is the ATO when it is a real liberation war for Ukraine’s independence? So we're proposing in the draft decisions that we're now going to be voting for and directly recognizing Russia's status as the aggressor who's doing, is now conducting aggression and military action on Donbassa, the occupation of Crimea, and so on. Enough diplomacy, enough equinoxes, enough telling us about peace that is gone, there will be no peace when we are weak, there will be no peace if we don't show our teeth. There will be no peace if we do not surrender and there will be no peace if we do not defend ourselves.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-14-m0.u163	Please, Gerasimov.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-14-m0.u164	We went out to this rostrum this morning because our colleague, Dmitri Lubinec, of Walnovah, suffered his family and suffered his family and loved ones and all the people of Volnovah, and this is not just Volnovah. We have, indeed, to support, and, indeed, to admit that this is not a battle for Ukraine, there is a battle for a civilized world. There is a battle for the principles on which a normal world, the normal life - style of people, countries, and continents should be built. And what were we going to say? What's enough Europe is enough for other countries to express their concern. It's quite simple, let's say, to close our eyes on what's going on here. They have to clearly recognize the DNR, the LNR by terrorist organizations, and they have to be clearly supported and not just by words, but by real actions, by real steps, what our fighters are trying to do today. What Parliament is trying to do is what all normal people in this country are trying to do. But the only thing I'd like to pay attention to is that we don't have to mix it all up into one pile right now, and we have, really,
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-14-m0.u165	Let me finish, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-14-m0.u166	All our efforts are that everything, you know, that the European bureaucratic mechanism, you know the Bureaucratic PARE mechanism. Now it's not a clear task, let them do this clear work, because if we're pushing a bunch of other people there now, they could, let's say, put it off. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-14-m0.u167	Please, Yuri Lewchenko of the opposition, then Michael Papiev and then Andrew Ivanchuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-14-m0.u168	Thank you. Mr. Chairman! I remind you that from the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union, we thank God, we have no relationship with the Opposition Block. Leuchenko, Freedom, 223 County. Of course, association is vital, and this decision must be taken today. There's only one but: we have some constant half-time methods, we're talking to someone, we're asking someone for something abroad, we're asking for support, we're asking for sanctions, but we're actually in some kind of suspended state. We have a war, but we have no military status, we have Russia's aggressor, but their businesses are working peacefully in Ukraine, and we're fine. They're feeling it. So let's say that if we've gone into the practice of putting something out of the voice right now, no one can see this document in their hands. So I propose, the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union is now proposing that the Supreme Council should make a political statement to the President of Ukraine, we know the constitutional norms, but with a political statement, asking for a War State Order as soon as possible. Then, indeed, it will be real steps, not butaphoria. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-14-m0.u169	Please, Mikhail Papiev.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-14-m0.u170	Thank you. Honorable National Deputies of Ukraine! For the transcript, I would like to say about the observation of the First Vice-Speaker of the Supreme Council of Ukraine in the vote on Michael Verbicki's ruling, when there were 227 votes, just two votes needed, given by the Opposition Block. Therefore, we need to be correct in this regard. Dear colleagues, and I'd like to, Your Honor Chairman, these are very serious decisions that we make. Let us not repeat the shameful principle of adopting the budget when something out of the vote is taken. I would very much ask that the Ukrainian national MPs have at least a basic text in hand so that we will vote deliberately for very serious decisions. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-14-m0.u171	Please, Andrew Ivanchuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-14-m0.u172	Dear Mr. Head, the People's Front faction. Thank you for your commission, and we've all worked together on a draft of this decision, and I think that addressing the Ukrainian Parliament is not a request, it's a normal political step. Heratschenko, head of the committee, read this document for all the deputies. We will support it unanimously, and we ask all factions in Parliament to support this appeal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-14-m0.u173	Thank you. Dear colleagues, two committees have been preparing, and a statement has been made on my assignment. Please let Parliament decide on such a statement. I'm voting on the basis and the whole draft of Decree No. 1736, which has just been reported by the head of Irina Heratchenko's committee of profile. Please determine by vote, please support this motion for a ruling. Vote, dear friends. Please prepare your fellow national MPs, we vote. [[13:22:11]] For 241 Decision taken, my dear fellows. [[Applause]] As for what was announced. What was announced today came to me as the head of the probation committee during the break, and I gave the commission that we would meet with all the committees on this subject, consider this issue and bring it into the agenda of the day session, according to the procedure. Dear colleagues, the meeting is closed. The meeting will take place tomorrow at 10 a.m. on Thursday. Thank you for your attention and for your work, dear colleagues.
