ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-10-m1.u1	Good afternoon, fellow countrymen! If you don't mind, a few words. Attention, please! I need your attention, dear colleagues! Dear colleagues, perhaps for the first time since 2004, we have now come before not allowing any escalation of violence, we need to consider and adopt a political decision on the city of Krivy Rig. A committee meeting is now under way to address this issue. And it's obvious that today we have to consider it and approve it. But I think that Yuri Wilkul would have had to make a decision by now, resign and not be the cause of this conflict. At the same time, we need to hold more technical consultations and enter this room with a negotiated decision that can be voted in the session room. In this regard, I appeal to the faction leaders and the parliamentary groups not to disperse, to ensure that there are deputies so that we can put a stop to this issue. So I'm going to have lunch, and Andrew Volodymyrovich is going to open an evening meeting, and he's going to call it a 30-minute break. I'd like to ask you at 4:30 a.m. for all the national deputies to come to the hall, and after the technical consultations, we will begin the evening session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Please prepare for registration.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-10-m1.u2	Dear colleagues, I'd like you to sign up for the opening of the evening meeting. Please register and please include the registration. [[16:03:22]] 327 deputies registered. I declare the evening meeting of the Supreme Council open. At the same time, I remind you that the Head of the Supreme Council, under the Rules, announced a half-hour recess to consult with the heads of the groups and factions of Parliament and stressed that we should take a decision on the Horn of the Curve today, immediately after the consultations have been concluded. This is a political and legal decision, and we should, first of all, be maximized in the hall to have enough votes, and in half an hour, at 16.35, I ask everyone to be in the room after the break. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-10-m1.u3	Good evening, dear fellows! Please take your seats in the session room. I want to apologize for the delay, but you understand that legal advice is very difficult. Please continue our work. Dear colleagues, is there a need for a few minutes from the factions? None. Okay. Please sit down, dear fellows. Technical consultations with four factions have just been completed. It was initiated by four factions as a technical meeting. As a result of this meeting, it is determined that the Deputy Head of the Supreme Council, Ivanovna Siroid, will be a reporter on the issue of the Horn of the Curve. Please invite Oksana Ivanovna to the floor.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-10-m1.u4	First of all, I would like to propose that Bill 3613 be included in the agenda with the possibility of further adoption. This is a bill jointly drafted by representatives of coalition factions that solves the situation with regard to the Horn of Curve. So I'm asking you to support the inclusion in the agenda with further decision-making.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-10-m1.u5	Dear colleagues, we have heard Oxana Ivanovna Siroid's proposal for a special procedure for dealing with this issue. One minute, Auntie Blackwall.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-10-m1.u6	The People's Front supports the election in Krivom.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-10-m1.u7	Is that okay? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-10-m1.u8	No, no, no, I haven't said yet. The People's Front supports the election in Bloody Rose, but there are some questions about the legitimacy of such a decision by the Supreme Council. But once again, in order to establish the real will of the people, I think we can make that decision. Here's the question that the election needs money in particular. We have a beautiful Law 3025: on the special confiscation of Janukovic's assets. The point is that once the law is passed, 40 billion dollars will come into the state budget. However, Portnow arranged to discredit this law and block it from being placed in the agenda of the Supreme Council. And that's why the People's Front requires the Supreme Council to review this law and vote. This law will be passed -- we will vote in favour of the election in Bloody Rose.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-10-m1.u9	Dear colleagues. [[B in m in s a l in]] Everyone, calm down, dear fellows! Please, once again, offer Oksana Ivanovna Siroid, please. Prepare to vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-10-m1.u10	Once again, Bill 3613 (this is the draft resolution bill) and the draft Decree 3616 (this is the draft Decision on the results of the temporary special commission) for inclusion in the agenda and decision-making. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-10-m1.u11	Thank you. Irina Heratschenko from the Peter Dusty Block.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-10-m1.u12	Dear colleagues, honourable voters, I would like to inform you that during this break, for the first time, two factions are the factions of BPP and Self-Help. We agreed on some points there. We are now waiting for the words of Jegor Sobolev after this meeting, which is very important. Our faction is likewise, of course, in order to establish justice in Bloody Rose. And we're going to support the solution, because it's really important. But we want to point out a few points of principle. First. Unfortunately, even voting for this bill will not solve the criminal responsibility of counterfeiting, and criminal responsibility must be borne. The second question. We're talking to our self-help peers. Notice, when it comes to such an important decision, the BPT faction doesn't blackmail anyone, we're saying, yes, we're going to do it, even though there's a violation of the Rules. And that is why we urge you, dear colleagues, when the principles are important to the country, not to cover up the Rules as you sometimes love them.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-10-m1.u13	Ten seconds, complete.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-10-m1.u14	Do not cover yourself with regulations, as you sometimes like to do, but vote with us in order to resolve such important matters without delay. As we used to have when we voted on important laws relating to matters of European integration.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-10-m1.u15	Thank you. Please, Yegor Sobolev. And we move on to the vote, the proposal of Oksani Ivanovna Siroid, and then there will be the proposal of Auntie Blackwall.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-10-m1.u16	At the meeting of the Self-Help faction and the Peter Prashenko Block, my colleagues informed me that my statement that the representative of their faction did not at that time act as the author of the law was offensive, and they asked me to apologize. In order to resolve the problem together, I offer my sincere apologies to all the deputies who found it offensive. I propose that together we adopt a joint decision in the interests of the inhabitants of the Horn of Curve to restore justice there, but do so by special procedure, so that we do not really violate the Rules with you. Once again, I apologize to all the members of the Perth Dust Block, which seemed offensive to me.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-10-m1.u17	Thank you. And so, the first in line of arrivals. Andrew Derkach, please, one minute, rebirth group.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-10-m1.u18	Dear Vladimir Borisovic, once again the “Will of the People” Group invites you to introduce the activities of the Supreme Council into the legal field. Not to gather politely, not to organize meetings between coalition representatives in your office, but to hold boards under the Rules of Understanding, is the first. Second. On the basis of all the documents we see for voting, there is no authority for the interim special commission to propose such a solution. We offered you a month ago to adopt a law on the TSC, where it would be possible for the TSC to participate in the search and search for documents. We also suggested that you adopt the Opposition Act, which was not adopted. You are now proposing an unconstitutional decision on the holding of elections, in a revolutionary sense. There is no such authority in the Supreme Council. Any proposed decision, at least what we see, is unconstitutional. And whoever takes them will be responsible for it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-10-m1.u19	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to inform you in part that there was no meeting at my initiative in the office of the Chief of the Supreme Council. That's the first one. Second position. In fact, four factions of the coalition held a meeting on this issue after the committee meeting, where I was invited. And the third position. The Supreme Council of Ukraine may, or may, consider matters in accordance with its decisions. Please, what? Thank you. Colleagues, offers. I'm betting on the vote on the proposal of Oksana Ivanovna Siroid. I don't get it, again? Please, Yuri Voropeyev, Opposition Block. Then Oleg Lazko, a minute, and then Sergei Sobolev, and we vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-10-m1.u20	Dear colleagues, first of all, I did not understand: for an hour the entire room was sitting here waiting for a meeting of a separate coalition to be held in a room, inviting the Head of the Supreme Council. Do we have such a separate government? And the whole room is supposed to be waiting for such an administration? That's the first one. And the second. Dear colleagues, let us, after all, abide by the Constitution and the laws. Until when, on the basis of some desirability, will we violate the laws, regulations of the Supreme Council and the Constitution of Ukraine?
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-10-m1.u21	Please, Oleg Easy, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-10-m1.u22	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. I am now primarily addressing the people of the famous city of Krivi Rig. I want to honor you for fighting for your rights, for wanting to run the city. I mean, just so you know, don't mind what our opponents write and make up. I want you to hear from me the position of the Radical Party, which almost 9 percent of the people of the Horn of Curve have supported in the elections. We support your fight. We are definitely against whether in the Bloody Rose or in any city a person becomes a mayor as a result of falsifications. That's why we've sent our deputies to sell to the local regions, we've switched board members, we've launched our party organization in Bloody Rose. And we support the recalculation of votes in order to establish the facts of falsification. And if so, let those who have done these forgeries answer. And then let there be elections. Anything else they tell is a lie to discredit us. I am.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-10-m1.u23	Please, Sergey Sobolev, Fatherland. And let's go to the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-10-m1.u24	If very briefly, the "Paternity" faction will support a decision that will be in the constitutional plane. And I think the fact that we've been negotiating for an hour brings us back to the constitutional plane. We believe that there can be no voluntary decisions, and decisions must be in accordance with the Constitution and the Electoral Law. The other one. We think that what happened is, unfortunately, the right to money works when political views, when conviction, when the confidence of the people who expressed this trust in the "Fatherland" party in Bloody Rose has been replaced by things that are not political, I think it should be corrected. That's why we're in favour of the election in Bloody Rose, and we're going to vote for it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-10-m1.u25	Colleagues, all right, we've finished the factions. Please offer Oksana Ivanovna Siroid. Say it again, Oksana Ivanovna, by law.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-10-m1.u26	Two bills -- Bill 3613 and 3616 -- for inclusion in the agenda and decision-making.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-10-m1.u27	Thank you. Dear colleagues, please. Please vote, please support. Ready? Ready to vote? Two laws for inclusion in the agenda for consideration and decision-making according to the proposal of Oksana Ivanova Siroid. Please vote. [[17:36:22]] For 229 Laws. The offer is accepted. Please, 3613. 3616: Draft Law, draft decree on the report of the temporary special commission. There's an offer. Leonid Jemetz. There is a proposal for a reduced procedure to consider this provision. Please, by summary procedure, this order, please. [[17:37:10]] For 199 The decision has been made. Please report to Leonid Yemen.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-10-m1.u28	Dear colleagues, Leonid Jemetz, the People's Front, the head of the Temporary Special Commission to examine the facts of the violations during the re-election of the Crimson City Head on 15 November 2015. Unfortunately, two minutes, well, is not enough as a minimum to allow us to discuss the report properly. And here I would like to have a full procedure. But each of you has this report on your desk. And I'll, if you don't mind, just give a little bit of information about the basic facts of the violations that our commission has set up. So, just so you know, between the first and second rounds, the head of the territorial city election committee gathered a committee meeting to discuss the need to print an extra 12 ballots on 21 special polling stations. The members of the commission told him that the law did not provide for such a procedure, especially that it was a direct violation of the law. Then they approached the Central Election Commission for clarification. The Central Election Commission directly informed them that no additional ballot papers could be printed between the first and the second rounds. But imagine what happened next. In a strange coincidence, the factory printed the same amount that they wanted to order, and in another more strange coincidence, exactly 12-13 ballots went to the special room. This is the first part of the situation. The second is that those members of the commission who were assigned to these special offices were appointed according to a document submitted by the head of the territorial city commission to the court of the first instance, that was the minutes of the meeting and the appendix, which were assigned on the day of the election, that is, 15 November. And according to the law, vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-10-m1.u29	Please complete, four minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-10-m1.u30	I'll try very briefly. To vote as members of the commission they may only be allowed to vote no later than if they were appointed members of the commission rather than two days before the vote. So to be clear, on the 15th, they become members of the committees, and between the ninth and the 12th, they bring themselves, without being assigned, to the voter lists and participate in the vote. After seven of these wards, the court of the first instance demanded these lists, where it was clear that these individuals who were assigned 15 numbers had already been added to the voters' lists and were voting. If we open the Elections Act, article 81(1), he clearly states that if there was an illegal vote or vote in the field, more than 5 percent of those who participated in the vote, the elections in this area would be illegal, such that they did not take place. At these seven locations, where it's confirmed, and at twenty-one, what we've been asking for information, the total number of members, that's those on the voters' lists, is about 200. So 12 members of the constituency are more than 5 percent. So now imagine what the overall outcome of the election is. If. One candidate wins for the results of these special rooms if the results of these special rooms, such as those that have been declared illegal, according to article 81, are eliminated by another candidate with a breakup of 151 votes. So in the first case, Wilkul wins, and in the second, Milobóg wins. And now the main task for the commission, for the territorial city commission, for the central electoral commission for all of us, is how do we establish a real outcome? For your information, just a short period of time, the city commission gave another version of the protocol to the court's second appeal. There are several criminal investigations that need to determine which protocol was real. Today, the Temporary Special Commission, coming out of the information it has from the exit session to the Horn of Curve, on the basis of a survey of the head of the territorial city commission, the members of the commission, the members of the district election committees, coming out of our letter to the authorities to keep a register of voter lists.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-10-m1.u31	Finish up, please, 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-10-m1.u32	I've come to the conclusion that I'm going to read you the recommendations of our report. In view of the fact that it is not possible to establish the results of the elections during the re-election of the Crimson City Head on November 15, 2015, a temporary special commission proposes to the Supreme Council of Ukraine to appoint an extracurricular election of the city’s head. Item 2. The temporary special commission recommends that the Supreme Council address the law enforcement authorities.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-10-m1.u33	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-10-m1.u34	Demanding responsibility for violations during the re-election of the Crimson - Headed City. And paragraph 3. The temporary special commission recommends to the Supreme Council as soon as possible a change in the composition of the Central Electoral Commission. Thank you. The report is presented to your mind, and it is in your hands in full. The Supreme Council is empowered and has, and is obliged to make, decisions on the basis of our report because the electorate of the Horn of Crimson according to the Constitution has the right to choose a city’s head. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-10-m1.u35	Please report complete, please complete. Two for, two against, please. Two for, two against. Sergey High, People's Front.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-10-m1.u36	Good afternoon, colleagues! I was a member of the TSC on the investigation of violations in Bloody Rose, and I want to say that in circumstances where it is impossible to establish the results of the elections, Parliament must decide on the political settlement of this conflict situation. Let the situation happen again when we have conflicts in Ukrainian cities between aunts and activists, between one part of society in the city and another part of society, allowing civil conflict, not political one, we have no right. So I see that the only way to resolve this situation, which has gained the whole of Ukraine's resonance, is just like a member of the TSC, setting up an out-of-order election. This will remove all the questions, it will remove the question of the legitimate perception of these elections in society, and it will also enable us to promote these elections in order to make sure that they go honestly. Because the right to honestly choose power is exactly what we've been fighting for on two of the courses. That's why I urge the Supreme Council to vote in favour. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-10-m1.u37	Please, Ivan Krulko. Sergei Sobolev, Fatherland.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-10-m1.u38	Sergio Soboljevo's word, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-10-m1.u39	Sobolje, Fatherland. Dear colleagues, we are now facing a very important decision. We cannot allow the situation in 2012 when the candidates won 12, 8, 6, 4 thousand votes! And these people did not become Ukrainian national deputies because of the political pressure of the Yanukovic regime. At the same time, we cannot play political games when any precedent can be used to remove any measure in the country. That's why what the Temporary Special Commission is proposing, I'm absolutely in agreement with those who have been demanding long ago to vote on the Special Investigation Commissions Act so that they can be questioned so that they can be legally accountable to all those who testify to the MPs. But this decision gives us the opportunity, by no means, to make political and legal decisions. And that's the decision that determines the fact. We cannot continue to have the fate of almost a million cities decided on the surfaces. Elections should be held, and there should be no fear of elections. It is the citizens who live in the city of Curve Rose who have the right to determine the reality of the will to express themselves. And our faction therefore insists that, with this wording, without violating the articles of the Constitution, we establish the very fact that enables citizens living in the city of Krivom Rose to choose a measure in accordance with the Constitution and the Electoral Act. But we need to make immediate changes to the existing Law so that such situations will never happen again, and that the Law will set the order for any re-elections, out-of-order elections or other elections to be held. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-10-m1.u40	Please, National Deputy Pavlov, Opposition Block.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-10-m1.u41	Respectable voters, respectable colleagues! As a member of the electoral special commission of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the verification of violations during the re-vote in the elections of the Crivoorozian Urban Head on 15 November 2015, I would like to convey to Parliament the essence of what has happened in the work of the Commission, to express my separate opinion, which I have expressed in a “particularly” opinion. First, the commission itself was formed in violation of the rules, but we agreed to work with the Commission only for the common good and for the resolution of the situation. However, the WCC took the position of one of the parties to the electoral conflict almost immediately, and the Commission's work was only in that direction. Secondly, the Commission went beyond its powers, thus replacing the electoral commission with the judiciary. The Supreme Council's decision determined that the purpose of the interim special commission was to verify the facts and circumstances leading to electoral violations during the re-vote in the elections of the Khmer Rouge City Head on 15 November 2015 and not to establish the results of the elections. However, the Commission found that the true will of the electorate had not been established in the decision of the Puerto Rican municipal electoral commission on the results of the elections. The Courts of First and Appeal found that there were no violations that might affect the outcome of the elections. The Central Electoral Commission agreed with these arguments. Thirdly, the commission had in fact begun to verify the facts which had already been thoroughly examined in court. In my special opinion on the report of the WCC, I point out by paragraph that the facts reflected in the report of the WCC are those which do not correspond to the actual circumstances of the case and the law. If very short, the Commission's report does not contain any real violations of the law, all arguments are analysed at the outset of a special opinion and refuted by the materials provided by the SC. The Interim Special Commission had adopted a political decision rather than a legal one. In the rule of law, the question of the election of the mayor of the city cannot be governed by political necessity instead of law. Ukraine is a rule of law, a democratic State and it cannot be allowed to make political decisions that form an axiom in society, that the law is worthless and policy-making. We must be guided solely by the rule of law, otherwise what democracy, European values, can this be? Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-10-m1.u42	Please, Igor Nasalik, the Peter Dust Block.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-10-m1.u43	Dear friends! I can't tell if I'm responsible for this decision or if I'm against it. But I want to support Sergio Soboljev, who was speaking, and I really have to say, as head of the Temporary Investigation Commission, that we just need the Law on the Temporary Investigation Commission. The findings of the interim commission of inquiry, which today is sounded by Yemen, do not hold completely no investigative or other functions. What makes such conclusions and conclusions, for example, seem to me to be incomprehensible. Is there a court decision to be made by a temporary commission of inquiry? I didn't hear them either. And as an uninvolved person, I have to say that today a political decision is being made in the room to get rid of the election results. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-10-m1.u44	Thank you. Please give me a minute, Yuri Lewchenko. And let's move on to the vote on the project. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-10-m1.u45	Leuchenko, Freedom, 223 County. I'd like to say two words right now as a member of a temporary special commission, on the one hand, and on the other hand, as a person who went through exactly the same situation in the elections to the 223rd Supreme Council in Kiev, half the country heard that. And when I was on my way to Curve Rig, I was on the committee. I saw the exact same situation. I've seen special commissions in hospitals prescribe people who aren't actually supposed to be there because they're healthy, not sick. And the hospital, which is usually filled with 25 percent, suddenly becomes filled with 85-90 percent. I've seen it grow in some strange way in areas where there's more than one candidate, anomalously more than the other candidate. I saw the local territorial election committee rejecting the complaint, rejecting the complaints, and refusing to count. I saw all of this, and I was going through it myself in 2012 and then in 2013. So, of course, I fully support the conclusion of our committee. What's more, I added to it.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-10-m1.u46	Ten seconds, complete.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-10-m1.u47	One thought is where I gave a list of other violations that are not even mentioned in this report, because there were actually more of them, these violations. And, of course, I now urge the Supreme Council to make the same decision as it did two years ago, and to send for the next election to do so.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-10-m1.u48	Thank you. Please. Please, from the People's Front faction for a minute. Yemen? A minute from the faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-10-m1.u49	Thank you. Dear colleagues, a line was made. I'd like to quote a simple paragraph in our report, where there's a clear reference to a court ruling claiming that there were illegal acts. Yes, the decision of the Dnipropetrov Court of Appeal (from 30.11.15) met the appeal requirements of candidate Milobog and established the illegality of the actions of six districts in the city. election committees and it is decided to list the votes in special offices, but it is not possible to list them today, because the offices, the members of these committees are no longer members of the committees, because they exist only 15 days after the elections, so they cannot count. And this is exactly one argument that shows that it is not possible to actually establish the result of the will of the Horn of Curve community today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-10-m1.u50	Thank you. Please, Deputy Sphinx, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-10-m1.u51	Good afternoon, distinguished colleagues, the People's MP of Sphenov, the majority MP just from the Horn of the Curve. I would like to briefly point out that, first of all, the Commission has taken over its powers and has not been authorized to establish the facts. I would also like to say that read carefully the Commission's report on whether there are valid arguments that there have been violations that have led to the distortion of results. If you take the facts specifically, the first thing they say about the extra ballot papers that were printed was a typographical error that the commission itself said. The Commission itself found that these ballots could not be used, they had been extinguished, they had not been used, they had all been confirmed by the court's decision and should also be remembered, the Central Electoral Commission had also explained in this regard. We have only the opportunity to establish results by a decision of the court and only by the Central Electoral Commission. The Commission, which is in favour of the Supreme Council, has no right to withdraw. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-10-m1.u52	Please, Oksana Ivanovna Siroid.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-10-m1.u53	I would like to consider before making a decision on the decision, immediately considering a draft law in order to adopt two decisions. I think it'll make sense, because the bill is coming out.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-10-m1.u54	Is there no objection? All right, the only thing I had to offer was not put to the vote. Attention. It was Auntie Blackwall's offer. Aunty Blackwall, a minute, make an offer, I'll put her to the vote. Please, colleagues, take your seats.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-10-m1.u55	I'm asking you to put 3025 into the agenda.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-10-m1.u56	Please, colleagues, Tetjana Blackwall's offer from the People's Front faction. Ready? Ready? Ready? Proposal for inclusion. Colleagues, this is a day-to-day inclusion, please. All right, calm down. Vote? 3025, inclusion in the agenda, according to the proposal of the session. That's right. We're done here, we're still going to vote on the ruling. Oksana Ivanovna’s proposal was that of Siroid. We agreed with her. Once again, colleagues, day-to-day entry 3025. Vote! [[17:56:55]] For 169 The decision is not taken. The decision is not taken. Colleagues, let's move on to question 3613. Oxana Ivanovna Siroid is a reporter. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-10-m1.u57	Dear Mr. Head, distinguished national MPs, Ukrainians! Please, yes, I'm asking you to put this under a reduced procedure, a consideration of this matter.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-10-m1.u58	According to the proposal, there is a proposal to consider this draft law in a simplified procedure. I'd like to make up my mind. [[17:57:51]] For-170. Please, the decision has been made. Report by summary procedure.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-10-m1.u59	Dear Mr. Head, honourable deputies, distinguished Ukrainians, venerable poachers! Today we are discussing this issue, this is, indeed, a political decision. But this decision must be made today because it was also so difficult to bear, because the fundamental right, the right to choose, has been violated and has not been protected in time. The electoral law was violated by the constituency of counterfeiting, but it was violated by those law enforcement agencies that did not see and close their eyes. It was violated by politically dependent corrupt courts, which were not even meant to ensure an independent and fair hearing of cases and to protect human rights. So Parliament has actually remained the only body that can intervene today, restore the legitimacy of will and actually protect the electoral rights of poachers. So I'd like to introduce you to a draft law that has been drafted jointly by members of the Coalition Council and members of the Temporary Special Commission. I'm going to do a report by reading the draft text of the law, because it was further developed by the outcome of the examination on the profile committee. Ukraine's Law on Conducting Extra-Trial Elections of the Crimson City Head. "In view of the impossibility of exercising the Crimson City Head of its powers, with a view to ensuring the implementation by the citizens of Ukraine of the Constitution of the Ukrainian Electoral Law in the election of the Crimson City Head, the Supreme Council decides to appoint the next election of the Crimson City Head on 27 March 2016 and to conduct them in accordance with the order set out in the Ukrainian Law on Local Elections." Section II, Ending and Transition Positions. "This law. Item 1. "This law shall take effect from the day following the day of its publication, and shall cease to be valid on the day.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-10-m1.u60	Please finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-10-m1.u61	and loses its validity on the day following the day of the acquisition of powers by the Crimson City Head, selected for the consecutive election of the Crimson City Head on March 27, 2016." Amend the Ukrainian Law on Local Elections (since 14.07.2015, issue 595-VIII) "The Supreme Council News" by supplementing part seven of article 97 after the words "two days from the date of its submission" with the words "but not later than the decision to establish the voting summary and to establish the results of the elections." The Central Electoral Commission, taking into account the proposals made by the relevant territorial electoral commission, shall determine in the established order the amount of budgetary expenditure required for the conduct of the extracurricular election of the city’s head. Second, take steps to provide material and technical support for the preparation and conduct of the extracurricular election of the city head in accordance with the Ukrainian Law on Local Elections.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-10-m1.u62	Please report to the committee head, Sergey Vlasenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-10-m1.u63	Dear colleagues, at today’s meeting, the committee considered the proposed bill. The only thing that we haven't considered is the text that Mrs. Siroid now read, because it was born later. The committee considered the bill in its original form. The committee did not agree on the bill for only one reason. We fully and fully support the right of the people of the Horn of the Curve to an honest and transparent election. But in the original proposed, I emphasize this, the formulas, they didn't exactly meet the requirements of the functioning Ukrainian Constitution. These shortcomings have also been partially corrected in the text proposed by Oksan Ivanovna Siroid. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-10-m1.u64	Please sign up for two for two, two for the other. Yegor Sobolev, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-10-m1.u65	Colleagues, we all understand that this is a political decision. We ask Parliament in fact to perform police functions, to serve as a prosecutor, to serve as a court, and to serve as a Central Elections Officer. This is a huge lesson for all of us, but we can't give up the function of a state because we are the last institution in this state, the last. There is nothing left but the right to self - justice. I'm going to open a secret for members of the Opposition Block. Many times I've heard proposals to kill a candidate from the Opposition Block in these elections. And I said, you can't do that, let's stay human, let's stay European. Let's make an election and make a European way out of this.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-10-m1.u66	Igor Lucenko. Ivan Krulko.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-10-m1.u67	Ivan Krulko, "The Fatherland" faction. Dear colleagues, there is no alternative to solving this situation in Bloody Rose than to re-election. Elections are the only democratic means of choosing power. And if there is doubt in society, if there is doubt in the interim commission of inquiry of the Supreme Council, which has studied this question, if there is doubt in all the deputies that the elections have gone in a legitimate way, and the electorates can properly express their will, then the elections need to be held, and there is no need to be afraid of that. In many countries of the European Union, and we long for the European Union, the early elections, the elections are the only way out of the deadlock. That's exactly how we should do it now. And let the electorate of the Horn of Curves, once again, come to the polling station, determine who is the winner and who should be the city’s head in this million - dollar place. Thank you. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-10-m1.u68	Dear colleagues, before I invite a representative of the Opposition Block to the floor, I want to say one thing. If maybe someone wants to kill each other, but I think because of violence and murder, we will never build a successful, kind, prosperous European democratic Ukraine with you. And we all have to realize that, regardless of who has political views. So I would urge everyone to be tolerant, to have human expressions and respect for each other, whoever it is, first of all, for the Ukrainian people. Please. Respect for the Ukrainian people.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-10-m1.u69	First. Dear colleagues, this bill, which is under consideration, begins with the deception of all and all voters. Paragraph 5 of the bill does not require time-consuming expenditure from the state budget of Ukraine. This is a lie, more than 10 million have been spent and will be spent on elections. Second. I have signed my remarks with my colleagues and registered directly with the secretariat of the Supreme Council, and I also hand over a respected leader. This indicates that we do not have the right to violate the Rules, and this bill should be considered on second reading, on the basis of the paragraphs that have been said. I would also like to say that, in addition to violating the Constitutional Court's decision, the proposed bill for the next elections is unconstitutional. The Constitution of Ukraine, in article 7, establishes that Ukraine is recognized and guaranteed local self-government, thereby protecting the rights of local self-government. In accordance with article 85, paragraph 30, of the Constitution, the Supreme Council may appoint regular, extraordinary elections of self-government bodies. The Constitution does not provide for the power of Parliament to terminate the mayor's mandate early. Parliament cannot go beyond its powers, and this is confirmed by the decision of the Constitutional Court. The question of the early termination of the authority of the city's head is solely the authority of the city council, article 26 on local self-government. I would also like to point out that article 79 of the Law on Local Self-Government provides: an exhaustive list is established when either the mayor dies or refuses to do so, or other paragraphs that are not appropriate, but elections are not only one of the fundamental human rights, the guarantee of his freedom, but also the basic principle of democracy. It is unacceptable to derogate from the law for political benefit. If we decide today on re-elections, extraordinary elections without proper reasoning, it is a delay bomb. We will set a precedent that the results of the elections can be replaced depending on political feasibility. It is not the path of Europe, it is not democracy, it is degradation. I want to, too.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-10-m1.u70	Please, 30 seconds, finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-10-m1.u71	To note that I have registered a bill of mirrors on the election of the Horn of Curve, on the election of Sadov and on the election of Lviv. Please also put it on, and let's vote. And I also have a village called Kukuyevka in my district. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-10-m1.u72	Dear colleagues, the discussion is over. Please, all national deputies, please come to the hall and take your seats. Please come into the hall and take your seats. [[B in m in s a l in]] Colleagues, we're taking our seats! [[B in m in s a l in]] So, colleagues, it's okay to discuss. [[B in m in s a l in]] Attention, colleagues! Let's go to the vote. The first was a review of Decree 3616 — the report of the Provisional Special Commission of the Supreme Council. It is proposed that the decree be adopted as a whole (register number 3616). Ready? Vote. [[18:10:24]] For 203 [[B in m in s a l in]] Honorable fellow members of the national MPs came forward with an offer to return to the consideration of Decree 3616 with a view to its approval. Order 3616, ready? We vote in favour of the return to debate 3616. This is a return to consideration. [[18.11:19]] For 215 Dear colleagues, we're not back. Okay, I get it. Please, Oksana Ivanovna Siroid, a draft of the Law on the conduct of consecutive elections of the Crimson City Head (3613). I beg your pardon, an offer? Attention!
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-10-m1.u73	Please support the bill. Please support the bill (No. 3613) on the holding of the consecutive election of the Crimson City Head. Please be supportive. Signal.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-10-m1.u74	Corresponding to the proposal, colleagues, the signal vote proposed by Oksana Ivanovna Siroid. Please vote, signal vote. [[18:12:20]] For 203 203 votes. Dear colleagues, give me a minute from the factions. It was a signal vote. Is it a warning again? Again with the signal? [[B in m in s a l in]] All right, colleagues. There is a proposal from the Ukrainian national deputies to re-vote the proposal of Oxana Ivanovna Siroid. Please invite the deputies to the hall. Please, colleagues, re-vote on the proposal of Oksana Ivanovna Siroid. [[18:14:03]] For 216 Please, by the factions, a minute. If you do, let's do it. Please, Oleg Berezuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-10-m1.u75	Ladies and gentlemen of parliament, the noble citizens of Ukraine! In favour of this bill, we vote in favour of the respect and attention of every voter of the Horn of Curve who voted in favour of any candidate. By not voting in favour of this law, we despise both of us. Let's give people a chance to come and choose their candidate honestly and transparently! And it's respect for people, it's respect for candidates. The opposite is contempt for candidates and contempt for people. Why are we doing this? This is the European way of solving any conflict, not the way of bending over knee, arms or contempt. Let us take a step that will turn Ukrainian politics into a policy of respect, not contempt.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-10-m1.u76	Colleagues, please, Yuri Boyko, Opposition Block. A minute, a minute of faction. I'd like to ask the invitees to behave a little better.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-10-m1.u77	Dear Mr. Head, distinguished national MPs! Well, it is not clear that the law is adopted with such gross violations of the Constitution and the law itself that it is not even possible for the governing coalition to make such a decision. Well, you can't film the mayor with a parliamentary decision. Tomorrow some mayor of another city is going to do something wrong - a few active deputies will gather, make decisions and take him out of work. That's impossible. This is a direct violation of the law and Parliament cannot do so. Parliament should set an example in legislative work! Parliament should set an example in how to work! Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-10-m1.u78	Ladies and gentlemen, this decision offers a constitutional solution to the problem. In accordance with the Constitution, Parliament has the authority to appoint out of turn local self-government bodies. No one makes the decision to remove the effective measure. It is the appointment of out - of - turn elections so that people can identify themselves without falsifications. This is the task of this decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-10-m1.u79	Please, it's Oleg Berezuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-10-m1.u80	Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, this bill does not contain a sense of exclusion. There's no such thing. There is a pre-election in connection with the decision of the TSC and the impossibility of counting the votes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-10-m1.u81	Please, Borislav Bereza. Borisl Bereza, please, a minute. Calm down, colleagues.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-10-m1.u82	Borislav Bereza, 213 District. It is very nice that someone in Parliament says that justice needs to be restored. Very nice. But they're very interested in why this selective justice from Self-Help is now. Why doesn't anyone raise the question that there's a criminal case in Uzhgrad right now, that the money elections went through? Why doesn't anyone ask, because Unity in Kiev faked the election? Why don't you say so? Huh? Why do you only ask about one thing? I want to say what it takes to be fair. But it shouldn't be selective. And why does Self-Help see here and not here? Ask and answer them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-10-m1.u83	Colleagues, Yuri Lucenko, Peter Dusty Block.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-10-m1.u84	Dear Mr. Head, honourable national deputies, I would now like to appeal once again to the legal part of today's decision. In Ukraine, there is the Law on the Order of the Early Elections, and there is. It provides reasons for the measure to be taken by the court. The Court of Appeal of the Administrative Court of Dnipropetrov. So today's decision is within the framework of existing legislation, that's the first. The other one. This Supreme Council can work in this room and in this warehouse because the two courts went out for the purpose of establishing fair elections. No one is going to deprive Mr. Wilcule or any other Ukrainian citizen of the right to go to the people of the Horn of Curve and get their support or not. But what we have to say today is that the 100 million that will go to the organization of these early elections mean.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-10-m1.u85	Please continue.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-10-m1.u86	First, the mayor will never take an oath to deal with all complaints in court again. The other one. 10 million is the minimum price for fair elections in this country. I urge everyone to vote, and tomorrow to go to the Horn and greet the people that they can choose any measure of their great city.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-10-m1.u87	Colleagues, a signal vote proposed by Oksana Ivanova Siroid (3613) Please, 3613, signal vote. Ready? One minute. Invite MPs. Please, are you ready? Please give me a signal vote, 3613. Oksana Siroid made an offer. The signal vote for this proposal. Please. [[18:21:22]] For 208 Dear colleagues, once again, everyone will take their seats. Once again, everyone will take their seats and prepare for the vote. My colleagues, this is the last time I'm going to put up a vote! Invite all your colleagues! Please take your seats! Please give us 3613 votes. A proposal made by Oksana Siroid. [[18:22:34]] For 212
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-10-m1.u88	Ladies and gentlemen, we must take very seriously the role of Parliament today in this second, whether it is the ability or inability of Parliament to resolve the conflict in a civilized way, ability or inability. People are waiting for the ability and we have it, and we can, let's do it. I call on all factions to make a qualitative democratic decision on the election, not the punishment of anyone else.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-10-m1.u89	Colleagues, there are obviously two things. It's the first thing. We're re-voting. If we don't find the votes, I'm going to ask the factions to hold consultations again, the law is under discussion, and we can make decisions on it. Please, are you ready for the vote? Vote 3613. [[6:25:08]] For 209 I call on all coalition factions to hold further consultations, the law is discussed and may be voted on at any time. I'm asking you to do it, colleagues. We need to find a political and legal solution to this conflict. I'm calling a meeting. Colleagues, one minute! [[B in m in s a l in]] Please! [[B in m in s a l in]] Please hold consultations, coalition factions. Please. Dear colleagues, since there is no understanding of this issue right now and we do not have enough votes to adopt a positive decision, but we have already discussed it, we will hold further consultations. I want to emphasize once again that we need to find ways to make a decision and remove the tension that has taken place. That's why I'm calling on the political forces to find a compromise -- 226 votes -- to do whatever it takes to contribute. Thank you now. We're closing the session today. Further consultations will be held. And I think we'll find the strength to make a positive decision. Thank you. I declare the evening session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine closed. Tomorrow morning, the meeting will take place at 10 a.m.
