ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-14-m1.u1	Dear fellow national MPs! Please enter the hall to continue our constructive work. I ask the Secretary of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to invite deputies to continue our work and ask the heads of factions to invite deputies to the Hall. Dear colleagues, in order to start work, to see if there are enough deputies, I ask you to register. Please register for the opening of the evening session. Please register. [[16:06:50]] Thank you. A total of 309 deputies registered. It's a high level of mobilization. Therefore, the evening session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is open. And according to our agenda, Bill 2493 is under consideration. This is a draft law amending the Ukrainian Law on State Registration of Legal Persons and Business Persons. And there's a proposal for this bill to be considered in a simplified procedure. Please support this constructive proposal and vote in favour of the reduced procedure. Please vote. [[16:07:47]] For-90 Thank you. I understand it's the principle of the position of deputies not to consider a reduced procedure, right? And accordingly, I can put it again, but if there's not enough votes, we're going to consider the full procedure. So I'm going to re-vote the proposal to consider the reduced procedure. Dear colleagues who support the proposal for a reduced procedure, please vote. Please be supportive. Please vote. [[16:08:37]] For 116 Thank you very much. There is a desire for national MPs to consider the full procedure. And that's why I invite the reporter -- the first deputy minister of justice, Sevostian Natalia Ilarionovna. Please go to the rostrum. Please report, try to bet in 10 minutes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-14-m1.u2	Thank you very much. Dearly beloved, good day to all. Today, the government is presenting a draft Ukrainian Act amending the Ukrainian Law on State Registration of Legal Persons and Business Persons, designed for the purpose of legislative settlement of the issue of the introduction of a state registration for the cessation of central executive authorities, whose administration belongs to legal persons, which, in turn, is also terminated. I want to make a simple example of why we need this and how it's happening. Today, there are about 30 central executives in the country who are in a state of extermination or reorganization, and it cannot be completed. Why? For example, if the State Tax Service, which does not already exist today, has three state-owned enterprises that are also in liquidation, the company statute states that they are the founder of a tax service that is being eliminated. That's why it's a closed circuit. We're proposing that we hand these companies over to the tax service, to the fiscal service that's got the function, and that they will be able to eliminate these state-owned enterprises and complete the liquidation of the tax service. This is in this example of Minneergocarbon, for example, has 439 state-owned enterprises, 35 percent of which are in liquidation. This question is now very relevant in order to finally complete this endless process. Therefore, given the above, the draft law proposes to amend articles 35th and 37th of the Ukrainian Law on State Registration of Legal Persons and Persons of Entrepreneurs. Two changes at the end of state enterprises, institutions, and organizations are allowed to make changes to the installation documents, for example, to change the name. When a state registration is carried out, the termination of a legal person is allowed by the organization to submit a copy of the original transfer or distribution act approved by the central executive authority to which the functions have been transferred and to take a decision on termination. This issue is now very relevant and for the already decommissioned State Registration Service, whose function has been transferred to the Ministry of Justice. Thank you very much for your attention. And please support this project. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-14-m1.u3	Thank you very much. The co - report invites the head of the Committee on Industrial Policy and Entrepreneurship, Halasyuk Viktor Valeriyovich. Halasjuk Viktor Valeriyovich. Dear colleagues of the Radical Party, who is ready to report instead of head of the committee? It's a crooked one, isn't it? Please, if you can tell us the position of the committee, please go to the rostrum and tell us about the position of the committee. Ten minutes. Try to fit in. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-14-m1.u4	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, the committee had before it Bill 2493, the draft Law, which had been passed. For submission of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. I'd like to report this. First. The two amendments recommended have been considered in detail. in the two articles that recommend making changes. In fact, the bill was decided to accept it and recommend the sessions of the Supreme Council to accept it as a basis, that is, in the first reading. And then recommend it by a reduced procedure to prepare for the second reading. At the same time, I would like to point out that the initiative would like to be supported in the hall. This will be quite a positive result for our enterprises, including state property, ministries and others, to be able to conduct appropriate checks, re-register documents fairly quickly. This bill will help resolve relevant issues, particularly those relating to the registration service and so on, which have passed under the jurisdiction of the Ministry of Justice. Therefore, it is a great request for each MP to support this bill, to vote on it in the first reading. I want to say it from the faction myself. The People's Front faction will unanimously support it. Thank you for your attention. Thank you, everybody.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-14-m1.u5	Thank you very much. Please don't leave the rostrum. According to the Rules, you will now have questions. Deputy Krivoshia, please return to the rostrum. Once again, I urge the MP to turn to the rostrum, the reporter! You'll have questions from the hall. Thus, according to the Rules, we have three minutes to answer the questions and questions of the coconspirator. People's deputies would like to sign up for a question to a co-rapporteur. An entry is being made on the question of the co-reporter. Please log in. Thank you. Sadly, there were no speakers.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-14-m1.u6	There is a motion to put it to a vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-14-m1.u7	Thank you. Next. Thank you so much for the thorough report. Once there's no question, our next item is three minutes of factions. It's given to this point for up to 24 minutes. So please record from the factions to 3 minutes. Please record statements from factions. Thank you. So the word is from the Self-Help faction of Deputy Kishkar. Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-14-m1.u8	Please tell Aunty Ostrich.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-14-m1.u9	Again, I didn't hear. Oh, pass it on, yeah, Ostrich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-14-m1.u10	Good afternoon, dear fellows! The Self-Help faction will support this government initiative. We have just heard from the deputy minister's report that today it is impossible to eliminate the State Tax Administration and the Ministry of Revenue and Congregations, and only for the reasons they have, in their custody, several state-owned enterprises that cannot be eliminated without these changes to the Law on State Registration of Legal Persons. In fact, for today we do not know: the current new head of the State Fiscal Service? He runs only the State Fiscal Service or the Ministry of Income and Tax Administration? We need to think with you about the need to cut down on the government budget, the elimination of all the government heritage that we've gotten, how can we eliminate all of this? To that end, of course, these changes are essential, so we ask for my support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-14-m1.u11	Thank you very much. The word is given to Ribak Ivan Petrovich, "Peter Dust Block." Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-14-m1.u12	Fisherman, 202nd constituency. This law really needs to be supported, and our faction will support the bill. The point is that today there are a lot of authorities in general in this situation. In particular, the State Environmental Investment Agency has been eliminated on January 1. To date, there has not been an absolute department in the Ministry of Ecology, and Ukraine has lost face in front of donors, in front of investors under the Kyoto Protocol. The bill needs to be voted on, please support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-14-m1.u13	Thank you. The word is given to Lensky Alexiyovich of the Radical Party.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-14-m1.u14	Please pass the word to Halasyuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-14-m1.u15	Please, Halasyuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-14-m1.u16	Dear Vladimir Borisovich! Dear fellow national MPs! I just got back from meeting small entrepreneurs, they're expecting a new economic policy. They expect us, like in other parts of the world, to finally run real programs to support small businesses. Even in the United States, in the most liberal country, a small business agency that spends credits gives small businesses access to government purchases, provides comprehensive advice, helps them to enter the external markets. As long as we keep going!? How long do we think that deregulation is the only economic reform? A radical party is demanding a change in its economic course. We today have to include all the important economic influences, economic support, to overcome the mass unemployment that exists today. In order to create those conditions, for small businesses, so that they can make a normal living, not just for life, but for development. For them to live, not at the expense of these subsidies, to pay for the utilities and so forth, but to live normally in their country because they work. We're working on a number of drafts now. Today, including a group of interfractional deputies, a new Industrial Park Bill has been registered to allow investment in industry to change the course of state development. I once again appeal to the President's Administration, to the President of Ukraine. Dear Peter Alexiyovich, sign the Law on the Moratorium for the Export of Unprocessed Wood for the Export of the Roundwood Forest. These are tens of thousands of jobs for the woodworking sector. I'm talking to the Minister of Economics again. Let's finally create an anti-crisis economic headquarters and start a normal dialogue with business. The problems that industrialists have today in small businesses should not be silenced today. They need to be discussed openly today in the Cabinet of Ministers, the economy, along with the head of the Committee of Profiles, with representatives of the President's Administration. They need to be systematized and resolved. And this will create the right conditions for business development, for tax executions, for development. Because the country can't live on IMF loans. Only by developing our own industry can we fill our own business. And we can have a strong economy, a strong army, a strong education. So, dear colleagues, once again I insist, let's approach the economy in a sectoral way. Introduce powerful incentives for all industries. Only in this way can we build a strong and successful country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-14-m1.u17	Thank you very much. The word is Bondar Mikhailo, People's Front. Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-14-m1.u18	People's Front. The People's Front will unanimously support this bill and urge everyone to also support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-14-m1.u19	Thank you very much. Now we have the next item, the national MPs' speeches. It's not the factions anymore, it's the people's deputies. Gives you up to 15 minutes. Three minutes. Please keep the rules. And I'd like to ask the MPs to sign up for this bill. Please record. Thank you. Igor Mosiyczuk, "Radical Party" is invited to the floor. Please turn on the microphone. From the rostrum, right? Igor Musiyczuk from the rostrum will perform. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-14-m1.u20	Dear colleagues! Dear Ukrainian people! Today a bill has been passed in Parliament to strengthen the protection of journalists in Ukraine. At the same time, I would like to inform the public that in the city of Žitomir, Moskal's assistant governor of the Lugansk region ex-region, Puchtaevich, was brutally beaten by the camera of journalist "112 channel," which was referring to this apherist in the court of Gitomir. This is unacceptable. I'm sure the law enforcement authorities have to respond, and they have responded, but unfortunately they don't. Instead of violating a criminal case for obstructing journalistic activity, the case for bullying was violated, and the journalist was recognized as a witness. It's a disgrace! It's not just for us after the People's Deputies Revolution, it's a disgrace to the unreformed law enforcement agencies, it's a disgrace to those prosecutors who cover the activities of this ex-region in Žitomir, who are engaged in illegal sand mining, illegal granite mining. And now he's raised his hand on a woman, on a journalist, and the answer is simple bullying, and she's still a witness. So I think it's necessary for law enforcement authorities to look into the case right now, to bring Puchtaevich's criminal responsibility, a woman to be recognized as a journalist, because she was doing her duty, with a video camera that was broken, by the way. And I believe that similar precedents in the country after the Dignity Revolution are unacceptable and must be punished. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-14-m1.u21	Colleagues, I suggest we move on to the vote. Everyone's backing it up. He even supports the non-fractional Mikhailo Golovko. Let's, dear fellows, give Michael Golovka a minute and start voting. Please, everyone, please come into the hall.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-14-m1.u22	Mikhail Golovko, the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union. Dear colleagues, the bill is slightly different from the conclusion, by the way, of the GNEU. And we think the project doesn't fit this in the Explanatory Note. Appropriately, since this will not only apply to state-owned enterprises, this will, of course, apply to other businesses. The project is about simplifying state registration, stopping not only the designated executive authorities and state enterprises, but all businesses. I would like to point out that there is a bill in the agenda that allows for the privatization of strategic state-owned enterprises. And in the context of that, that's exactly what's going to apply. Moreover, our political power strongly opposes the massive sale today of the latest value and value of government property, including strategic enterprises. We believe that today, for nothing, we can afford to sell everything that has been built by our people for years. We consider such steps to be a deliberate genocide against the Ukrainian people and the destruction of the entire economy of the Ukrainian State. Other European states have, so examples are France, Germany, where they are.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-14-m1.u23	Please finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-14-m1.u24	More than 20-30 percent are highly represented. We have less than 7 percent in Ukraine today. And this goal is to finally sell out state-owned enterprises. We won't allow it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-14-m1.u25	Dear colleagues, there is a proposal to complete the discussion of the draft law. Everyone has expressed their position. Please be prepared. I want to remind you that this bill is voted on in the first reading, and we're looking at it in the first reading. And there is a proposal for the outcome of the consideration to take it as a basis. So please prepare. Please, colleagues, prepare for the vote. Dear colleagues, draft Law (Registration No. 2493) amending the Ukrainian Law on State Registration of Legal Persons and Natural Persons. Committee proposal: accept as a basis. Please prepare, vote on the basis of colleagues (2493). Friends, on the ground. Please vote on the basis. Based on the base. [[16:27:29]] For 232 Thank you, fellows of honor! Decision taken. Colleagues, you and I stopped before we closed the meeting in the morning, 2464. Remember, we stopped and did not vote. This is about privatizing state property with regard to the privatization mechanism. There was a position, Victor Mikhailovich Pinzenic spoke to her, and the deputies also asked for his support. There is a proposal, colleagues, 2464 are mechanisms for privatization to be improved, and again, the question is the basis for accepting it. There is a suggestion to go back to his consideration and reconsider it, and to continue to determine the fate of this law. We literally didn't have two votes in the first vote. Please, colleagues, let us return 2464 - to improve the privatization mechanism, 2464 - for the return. Let me be clear, 2464, for the return, this is for the return. [[16:28:46]] For-189 There are no voices I understand. Haven't you got it yet? The law is not accepted, my dear fellows. Thank you. Let's move on. Draft Law 2804: Draft Act amending certain Ukrainian legislation on the granting of powers to military law enforcement authorities in the Armed Forces of Ukraine to carry out pre-trial investigations into criminal offences and to carry out operational investigations. Please, there is an offer by author John Vinnick that we should consider this bill in a simplified manner. Please determine how to proceed with the reduced procedure, please. Short-term procedure, please support. [[16:29:46]] For a hundred and Thank you. Decision taken. Please report.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-14-m1.u26	Dear colleagues, the purpose of the bill on military law enforcement reform, which is now in force in the Armed Forces of Ukraine and is established in accordance with the current Ukrainian law on military law enforcement. Why did it exist and exist today? It was used to prevent the investigation of war crimes committed by military personnel in the Armed Forces of Ukraine, as well as by personnel of the Armed Forces of Ukraine. I would like to point out that the subjective composition of those who may be investigated in the commission of these crimes is clearly limited solely by military personnel and by personnel of the Ukrainian Armed Forces. In the Criminal Code of Ukraine, article 401 clearly states that we have soldiers of the Armed Forces of Ukraine, we have military officers of the BSS, and we have soldiers of the Nazgwardia. Therefore, there is no indication that this army of law enforcement can investigate any other crimes in other military formations. Instead of preventing crime, raising discipline, preventing war crimes in the Ukrainian Armed Forces -- today this is a question of our defence, the issue of the effectiveness and the ability of our Armed Forces to give a decent answer to the enemy. It should be made clear that, unfortunately, the number of military casualties today has increased greatly in the Armed Forces of Ukraine, and this is a matter of discipline. The issue of discipline without investigating war crimes cannot effectively address the issue of its creation. That's why we're giving the Army's law and order service the function of pretrial investigation. This bill gives us the task of operational and search activities of the Military Law Enforcement Service.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-14-m1.u27	Please finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-14-m1.u28	The relevant changes are made to the Criminal Procedure Code. And we clearly set up a number of these crimes and a number of the crimes that this military service will be responsible for. I would like to point out immediately that the initiatives that were taking place in this Parliament with regard to the establishment of the military police and police had one flaw: it was about what the reform was planning. In fact, this reform was planned to last for three months. So for three months, we have no service in the military at all to monitor the discipline that investigates crimes. That's why we're proposing that we give the military's mandate to the rule of law that it had before its adoption in 2012 of the current Code of Criminal Procedure, we don't give any further powers. So please support this bill as a basis. I'd like to explain why. Because today the National Security and Defence Committee is established as the main committee for this law. Perhaps this is the right thing to do, to be included in the preparation for the second reading of the Committee on Law Enforcement. Because as the author of the bill will ask me to adopt this law as a basis for the first reading and to entrust it to the Committee on Law Enforcement to work on it for a second reading and finally to vote for it to be a valid bill. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-14-m1.u29	You can hear the offer very much. Please, Sergey Pashinsky. Is there a need for changes, additions to this law? Changes and additions are to this law? None. The committee also approved, there is an offer to consider it as a basis, colleagues, and for a second reading to prepare it already in the law enforcement committee. There's a speech. Please, Sergey Sobolev.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-14-m1.u30	Dear colleagues, I don't understand what's going on in our room. As it might be, the law that regulates the Criminal Procedure Code, the creation of a completely new body that will learn about investigation, knowledge, and this bill is somehow not written down by a professional committee that was created for this purpose, but by a committee that has nothing to do with criminal and procedural legislation and investigative bodies at all. I don't even know what's going on! Secondly, please tell me, how long are we going to create a new organ? I'm sure it'll take years. It's not months, it's years. We need to create a structure, pick up investigators, make appropriate changes not only to KPC, but we need to make changes to dozens of other laws in order to have a new body. I have a question: why did this room create a war prosecutor's office? The U.S. Attorney's Office now has every opportunity. The reasons set out in the CPC Act, which are the basis for the investigating bodies, for operational and search activities. Yes, as long as we're producing this organ, I don't know how there's going to be an investigation, an investigation, an investigation into war crimes. That's why I have a proposal: to send him back for a first-reading read, if necessary, but he has to be analyzed by a parliamentary committee that deals specifically with criminal matters. Then let the committee consider the purpose of its existence, see if it is appropriate and how it relates to the work of a war prosecutor, and only then return to the matter. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-14-m1.u31	Thank you. Colleagues, there was an offer from a hearing colleague of Winnick. He said that he would accept it now on a basis, this draft law, send it back to the law enforcement committee, and the committee would identify and make recommendations to the Ukrainian National Deputies to reject it, send it back to the second. recommend rescheduling and so on. Please, Sergey Pashinsky.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-14-m1.u32	Dear colleagues, here or there is a little misunderstanding. First of all, the Ukrainian Armed Forces Military Order Service is a special law enforcement force in the Ukrainian Armed Forces. But in order to address this issue, we point out that no new body is being created. That's the first one. The other one. In 2013, the army’s rule of law was destroyed. We're just offering to regenerate it. Third. In order to ensure that there is no claim that this committee is or is not this committee, our committee is proposing, after the first reading, that it be transferred to the Committee of Law Enforcement to prepare it for second reading. And let us use the urgent needs of the army, society, not fairies and demagogies in our legislative activities. I very much request that all deputies be supported in the first reading. We support the initiative of some deputies to hand it over to prepare for the second reading together on the basis of the Committee on Law Enforcement. If there's any good points, we'll take them into this room. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-14-m1.u33	Thank you. Please, Sergey Mishchenko, one minute. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-14-m1.u34	Dear colleagues, if we take a closer look at what the Supreme Council is going to do to create another additional body of inquiry, are we going to create a National Bureau of Investigation, the only body involved in the investigation? Today, the prosecutor's office in the Transitional Positions of the Constitution of Ukraine is investigating cases, including military matters. So I think we're going back to the side where we're creating new and new investigative organs again, not what we've been telling our European partners, that we're going to be creating the only investigative organ. So I don't understand, there's gonna be military investigation, there's gonna be an arraignment of the indictment, there's gonna be military prosecutors, and there's gonna be a civil court handling these cases? So whether we're going to Europe with the only investigating organ, whether we're creating any new organs on this basis.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-14-m1.u35	Dmitry Timchuk, please, People's Front.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-14-m1.u36	Dear colleagues, we are not creating any new body. He exists, but he was deprived of appropriate authority. Instead. I'm sorry, colleague, but there are such bodies in a number of countries around the world, and they do the same functions, they do the job of investigating war crimes. One thing I would like to point out is that today certain actions are to be carried out on restricted objects, in restricted areas. And this stuff can. and these actions can only be done by an appropriate body, which is a military formation with appropriate law and order functions. I want to read to you about the countries where such organs already exist. There are military police in the United States, there are gendarmerie, there are carbiners in France, in the People's Republic of China, in Japan, in the United Kingdom of Great Britain. We're all saying that we're moving towards NATO standards, so let's do it, not just say it. Please support the proposal made by the chairman of the committee that I proposed, supported by the Head of the Supreme Council. Let's move, not talk about it. Otherwise, every life that we lose at the expense of battleless loss will be on our conscience. Please support and refer to the law enforcement committee for second reading. And all those who want to read, make the right adjustments, and we'll finish this question. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-14-m1.u37	Thank you. Dear colleagues, please, Sergey Vlasenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-14-m1.u38	Dear colleagues, in fact, there is a formal body that our colleagues are talking about, but today this is essentially the equivalent of patrols and no more. They're invited to hand over the investigative functions. This means that this body actually needs to be re-created by recruiting new people with completely different education, with completely different functions and powers, and we're going to spend this crazy cost. At a time when we're introducing a pension tax, when we're reducing wages and pensions, we're creating an investigative body that duplicates the functions of an existing military prosecutor's office. Some colleagues say that the reason for this is that military prosecutors are not allowed to use objects. Forgive me, but it is a crime to prevent a military investigator from allowing any military objects, and it is not necessary to create a new investigative body. So I support my colleague Sobolev's offer again.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-14-m1.u39	Please, Dmitri Timchuk, one minute. Then Igor Mosiyczuk, a minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-14-m1.u40	I ask colleagues, before criticizing, to learn a little bit about the history of the subject. First of all, in the Ukrainian Armed Forces, even when there was no law enforcement service, there was still military police -- "militars police" -- in contingents, because we had to, as it were, bring the structure of our contingents into international standards. For example, such a structure was in our contingent in Iraq. In addition to being an international world, it should be understood that allowing the defence minister to regulate himself and somehow influence the level of war crimes in the military. The Military Prosecutor's Office is still the parish of the Attorney General's Office. In all the normal armies of civilized countries in the world there are military law enforcement agencies that are actually being proposed to do so now. And not just do it, but play what was already in the Ukrainian army. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-14-m1.u41	Please, Igor Mosiyczuk. Turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-14-m1.u42	Igor Mosiyczuk, Radical Party. Now, under the cover of good intentions, under the cover of hostilities, they're trying to create an investigative body in parallel to the military prosecutor's office. These efforts are not even made by a professional committee, but by another. It is the same if the Committee on Law Enforcement considered an international law and invited Parliament to adopt it in the first reading and then to send it to an international committee for examination. Let's stop making fun of the country. I propose that the bill be sent to the first-reading committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-14-m1.u43	Colleagues! Yuri Lucenko. And we're going to go to the vote. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-14-m1.u44	Dear Mr. Head, distinguished national MPs! I will not evaluate the proposed bill. It has both positive and many negative aspects. But obviously there aren't enough voices in the room. So, Mr. Head, I propose that this bill be submitted to the committee of profile, so that next week he will go out to the prepared experts and not excite the hall. We're working on it in this committee literally until next week.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-14-m1.u45	It's a deal. I think it'll be a fair offer, dear colleagues. Let's, let's now consolidate and vote for the orientations for the re-first reading to the profile committee. Yeah? Please take your seats. An offer has been made. Re-reading, preparing for re-first reading on the profile committee of the law enforcement committee. And we agree to take him out for the next plenary week. Copy that? Roger that. Please take your seats. Let's vote, colleagues. You heard the offer. To read again. For re-reading the profile committee. Vote, colleagues, please. Let's re-read it. [[16:46:35]] For 211 Who couldn't vote? Very much. Colleagues, offer to resend. Attention! Attention! Send the bill for re-reading, for re-reading, to the profile committee, a law enforcement committee. Please support this proposal, 2804. Please vote. Let's vote, colleagues. Vote. Vote. Please be supportive. Let's get the profile committee ready and get on. [[16:47:26]] For 240 Thank you, Your Honor. 240. Decision taken. A normal, wise decision not to make mistakes. Please, 2493 draft law registration number. Colleagues, draft law registration number 1735, national deputy Martovicki. There is a request from the author of the bill to transfer his consideration to the next plenary week. Yeah? Move to the next plenary week, do I understand? Please, Martovicki. Is there no such offer? I've just been informed. Colleagues, please consider the possibility of reviewing the reduced procedure of 1735 at the request of the author. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'll give everyone the floor to speak, so back up, please. [[16:48:50]] For 168 Decision taken. Thank you. Please report.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-14-m1.u46	Dear Volodymira Borisovich, distinguished colleagues, your opinion is proposed for consideration by the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on the regulation of urban activities to ensure conditions for the development of urban activities and urban agriculture (registration No. 1735). The draft law aims to remove real difficulties, both in terms of physical and legal persons who intend to establish ownership or use land from state or municipal property after 1 January 2015. Similar problems, without the ability to meet people’s demands, will be faced by local governments and, in some cases, by government authorities, due to the almost complete absence of zoning plans or detailed plans for areas of the population. In line with the current legislation after 1 January 2015, the process of transfer to ownership and use of land from state or municipal property by natural and legal persons has virtually stopped, since the main condition for carrying out these operations is the availability of a zoning plan or a detailed territorial plan. Taking into account the considerable cost and the long-term development of urban documentation, the lack of adequate funding for the proposed work at the expense of the budget, as well as the complex policy of the country’s economic situation, the development of such documentation has not been fully carried out until 1 January of this year. So it is necessary to amend the legislation in force by 1 January 2017 the term of paragraphs 6 and 6.1 of the Final Provisions Act of Ukraine "On the regulation of urban activities" for the transfer of land from state or municipal property for the use of natural and legal persons. Therefore, in view of the relevance and necessity of the bill, I propose that draft Law No. 1735 be adopted as a basis and generally as a law. Please be supportive. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-14-m1.u47	Please report to Peter Sabashuk, deputy head of the committee. Please report. Then get ready to sign up for two, two for the other.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-14-m1.u48	Ladies and gentlemen, Your Majesty! Well, first of all, I want to say that we're not filming this law, but we're asking to vote today. I'll be brief enough. On the committee, we decided to uphold this law. But there are three aspects. The first aspect is that we do not understand why, in order to order the barren mayors of cities and towns, we now command the entire Ukrainian people. Because people can't take away land, the construction business can't think about tomorrow and take the land for development for years to come, and for some reason we've decided not to adopt this law, and we're putting it there and there. What's more, we've got a new view on the committee of the law on how to set up city mayors in 2017 and still make a master plan, and it's very simple, very simple. There's a regional development fund, there's a master plan of construction -- there's funding from the central budget, there's a regional fund. And no, I'm sorry, I'm not. It's very simple to do that, and this law will appear in the hall in the near future. So, please, gentlemen, let's think about business and let's think about people who can't take away land today. Please vote everyone in favour of this law. But I guarantee, I'm the construction mastermind responsible for the construction that will change the City Activities Act, and that will be the last delay that could ever be. We're going to introduce a law that will make it impossible to finance the region's budget without a general framework of oblivion. Thank you!
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-14-m1.u49	Thank you! Please take your place. Please sign two for, two for against.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-14-m1.u50	Please, Lozova, Radical Party, please come to the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-14-m1.u51	Andrew Lozova, Radical Party of Lazka. Dear colleagues, I would very much ask you to uphold this law. Today the social tragedy of our nation number one is unemployment. People don't have jobs, they don't have wages, they don't know how to live their lives, and they just lose their minds, and some of them vote for the Opposition Block because they don't have a normal life. Today, under the Urban Control Act, land is prohibited from being placed under construction in the absence of land zoning. There's no zoning in Kiev at all, and it hasn't been done in years, and it's only 8-10 percent today. What do we see now? Wojciechowski, other illegal builders -- those who have already started building with a violation of the law -- are building, and those who are willing to make an honest living, invest money, create jobs, bring billions, are actually billions into the budget, it's not just Kiev, it's the whole country -- they can't start these buildings today because they can't get land. And today’s regulation of urban activities law is seriously exacerbating the investment climate in Kiev and throughout the country. So I encourage you to think about people, about what they have to do, about an economy that will just go down without investment, and support Law 1735. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-14-m1.u52	Peter Dustock's Block, turn on the microphone at the rostrum.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-14-m1.u53	Dear colleagues! Chicken Maxim, town of Dnipropetrovsk, 25 constituency. Today, we must take into account the difficult economic and financial situation in Ukraine when almost the entire economy of the state is being transferred to military rails. Every city’s inhabitants, every district center, make a powerful contribution to ensuring the security of the state. Under these conditions, the Supreme Council of Ukraine must, not make special efforts, but only act of goodwill, help local councils to develop territories and local farms. We have to get into the position of the territorial communities when the local budgets are unfortunately limited. Today, in almost every local community, for objective reasons, land rights have been suspended. Because of the lack of funds, local councils cannot afford to develop detailed planning and zoning plans. This matter really needs to be done, but in peacetime, not today. It's not possible for local budgets when every extra penny should be sent to social programs, it's the first time. Secondly, the income part of the local budget has to be provided, of course. This includes the need to develop land rights and documentation in order to pay for land. It's a closed circuit. The earth must be formed both under schools and under hospitals and under house rules. Last but not least, colleagues, especially majorists: government funds are now being allocated to the regional development fund, public funds are being allocated to capital investments, both in hospitals and clubs, and many other social infrastructure objects. The ground beneath them must be documented, but these institutions cannot form them because this moratorium is in effect. We have to get into this difficult situation today and continue temporarily for only one and a half years, until January 1, 2017. There is a firm position on this issue of the Association of Ukrainian Cities.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-14-m1.u54	Please give 10 seconds to complete.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-14-m1.u55	It is a great request to support this question. There is the position of the Association of Ukrainian Cities. Let's take a step to meet our local communities. Thank you for your support.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-14-m1.u56	Thank you. Please, Anointed Andrew Vitaliovich, People's Front. The crooked one will be speaking, please, the microphone at the rostrum.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-14-m1.u57	Good day again, dear friends! Gennady Kryvoshea, faction of the People's Front. At first glance, it seems to be a rather interesting and correct bill, and it'll seem to give support, and jobs to a particular business. But what do we have today, and what results do we have? First, in Kiev, for example, at least half a hundred illegal forgets. All of these illegal sites are happening according to the fact that the city of Kiev, first of all, has no master plan, no DPT. What will we result in? If we get it right now. We stop the relevant moratorium, all illegal construction in Kiev, Kiev, in Ukraine over the past two and a half years will be legalized, and the business that can legally build can continue to work legally. That's the first one. The other one. The People's Front faction would like to draw the attention of every MP and all of Ukraine to the fact that the Anti-Corruption Committee has given a definite negative conclusion on this issue. I ask you to consider their suggestions, their comments. And at this stage, I ask that we turn this bill or reject it at all. I urge everyone not to vote for him. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-14-m1.u58	Please, Vlasenko Sergey Volodymyrovich, faction of Fatherland.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-14-m1.u59	Dear Lord Chairman! Dear colleagues! In Ukraine, there is a situation where about two thirds of the local communities do not have the right plans. Can we make sure that these plans are implemented as soon as possible? No, we can't do that. Not only is it that, as colleagues said here, there is no desire for mayors. Some of the mayors had a desire. Suppose the city of Lviv has such a plan. The city of Winnitz has such a plan. Several other cities and settlements have such plans. But maybe it makes sense to ask the Cabinet of Ministers to set up an appropriate state-level programme to develop forward-looking plans for cities so that our communities that do not have adequate financial security will be able to make such payments by 2017. That's why the "Fatherland" faction is calling for support for this bill. However, ensure that 1 January 2017 is the last date of suspension and a moratorium on the implementation of appropriate plans in the territorial communities. Because without plans, it is not possible to pursue normal building policies in the city. Indeed, it is not possible to systematize the walls. Indeed, it is not possible to allocate land properly without understanding the overall plan. But today there is a situation that is, so we come out of an emergency situation, we propose to vote in favour of this bill, but to ensure that after January 1, 2017, there are no more burnouts, and the state has provided assistance to local communities in making appropriate plans. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-14-m1.u60	Thank you, colleagues. Are there any other speakers? Please, Yuri Lewchenko. [[B in m in s a l in]] Look, everybody, let's just calm down, and everyone gets a word to speak out. Please, Yuri Lewchenko, a minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-14-m1.u61	Lewchenko, Freedom, 223rd District, Kiev. The city of Kiev, by the way, suffers or is not the largest of these building mafias, even though the whole country suffers from it. Now I'm going to tell our audience and our viewers directly: every national MP who is about to vote for this law is on the payroll of the building mafia. A building mafia that's been destroying our cities for years, that's been doing what it wants to do, that's building parks, that's waking up neighborhoods, that's building playgrounds, that's breaking up old houses, because there's five bushes standing next to them, and there's a 20-story monolithary building, and people are losing their homes, and that's what the building mafia is doing when they're squeezing local authorities, and they're pushing bills like that that that they're now stretching out. I'm, by the way, reminding those who are now standing up for him that he's been exposed five times now. You didn't vote for him before, you were against him. What? Got a little cash, didn't they? I call on all national MPs to vote "against."
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-14-m1.u62	Colleagues, please, have a lot to say about this law, I see. [[B in m in s a l in]] Calm down, please! Please calm down. Please, Yegor Sobolev. Yegor Sobolev, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-14-m1.u63	You've had a performance since the faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-14-m1.u64	Colleagues, I would like to point out that the Anti-Corruption Committee has declared this law corrupt. It was all said here. Five years ago, the builders asked them to simplify their construction conditions, and in exchange they committed themselves to establishing normal plans for the construction of areas so that cities could develop. And for five years, they're asking them to postpone this requirement of making plans. You're talking about war. Friends, who hasn't faced a war in their own city? When parks are destroyed, when squares are destroyed, when courtyards are built. These wars are not just in Kiev. Let us not take sin upon ourselves, help cities to develop these plans, and begin a normal building that will be harmonious in the development of our cities. It's a law on continuing corruption, about chaotic oblivion, it can't be maintained.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-14-m1.u65	Thank you, Your Honor. Igor Nasalik, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-14-m1.u66	Dear friends! One of the rare cases where I want to support Lewchenko of Liberty. Questions. I'm more than convinced that the absence of a master plan is the ground for corruption. Question: Why does Vladimir Borisovich Groysman, who was the city’s head of Winnitz, have two master plans? Why does the capital city of Kiev have no prospects for development? That's why I'm talking to the deputies. Please do not support this legislation. For three years, for three years, it was possible to start a plan. the general development plan. We haven't developed anything completely in Kiev, and there's not even the money to implement the master plan on Kiev. Therefore, it is a great request not to support the bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-14-m1.u67	Thank you, colleagues. One minute, please, Victor Chumak. 30 seconds, Victor Chumak. 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-14-m1.u68	Dear colleagues, I'll really be there in 30 seconds. I'll just say, what a wonderful Ukrainian policy. This law was rejected twice by the Parliament of the past calling. On two occasions, we torpedoed this law with fights. Why? Because we said that the absence of general plans, the absence of zoning is an ingredient, a huge component of corruption. Today's situation has changed, and look, we're in power, so let's reschedule again? You can't do that, guys. You have to have a really normal, consistent position. I'm talking to my one-party people: you can't do that. We've always talked about what we have.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-14-m1.u69	Thank you. National MP Antonishtak, please, Peter Dusty Block. We're ready to vote, we're ready to vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-14-m1.u70	Respectable Society! Dear National Deputies! First of all, I'd like to be polite and tolerant of each other in sayings, because the people of Ukraine are looking at us. That's the first one. And second. Neither this year nor the following year, many budgets of Ukrainian cities do not have the resources to develop in detail. And the non-admission of this bill will stop the development of the infrastructure of cities. So I ask the MPs to stop using populism and vote in favour of this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-14-m1.u71	Thank you. Colleagues, asked Leonid Yemen, a minute. Then the national MP, Shinkovic, and then Mikola Fedoruk. Just a minute, that's all. I'm begging you, colleagues.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-14-m1.u72	Leonid Yemen, People's Front faction, city of Kiev. I want all the national MPs to understand for themselves.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-14-m1.u73	Leonide, one minute! Dear colleagues, could I have your attention for a moment? Please concentrate. Thank you. Keep going.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-14-m1.u74	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like each of you to realize that in the case of the adoption of this law in the form it is given, hundreds of illegal forgetfulness in Kiev and thousands in Ukraine will automatically become legal after that. And all the court practices that are in this direction are covered with copper pelvis. I have a proposition: let's delete these positions, work out this bill, it's not that long, because there are positive points, and next sessional week we're going to bring it back to Parliament. And we're voting for the things that the Ukrainian people need, not the invaders, the builders who are trying to exploit people, are trying to illegally own their territory and build thousands of apartments there without agreeing to the general plan, which will absolutely disagree with the infrastructure of the city or the population. So I urge you now to take this bill off the table and accept it as it should be next week. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-14-m1.u75	Guys, please! Andrew Shinkovich. Then there's Mikola Fedoruk. That's it.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-14-m1.u76	Andry Shinkovic, deputy head of the Committee on Construction, Urban and Housing. Dear colleagues, my colleague, who represents the strike party, said quite justly. And you have to say that the year today we have the city's head and the largest fraction of the impact in Kiev. And answer, why is there no detailed territorial plan? One. I agree with Freedom. Those who build on playgrounds are criminals. But there are those who build nonliving buildings that create jobs. And this is thousands of jobs. The committee requests that we receive the first reading and build it up for all of us. And for the following year, budget for cities the cost of developing detailed land plans. And take control. Let's make these plans. Please be supportive. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-14-m1.u77	Thank you, colleagues. Mikola Fedoruk. And then Victor Halasyuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-14-m1.u78	Dear National Deputies! The point is that we considered the same law two months ago. All that's changed is a number and a name. And the point is, we've already given a suspension of the entry into force of those provisions that are now being proposed to be rescheduled. I am sure that if we accept it by 2017, no one will do anything until 2017. This law does not need to be supported. It's going to hurt. And normal builders in normal cities, there are master plans, there are zonings, there are everything. There are no complications here. Local budgets are under way today. And they have to do the necessary work during this year to build legally. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-14-m1.u79	Please, Victor Halasyuk. And let's move on to making a decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-14-m1.u80	Thank you. Dear Vladimir Borisovich, distinguished colleagues, is a rare case where I do not agree with colleague Sobolev. You know, if this law isn't passed, we're going to cover up oxygen: legal builders -- once; those industrial enterprises that plan to expand their production and allocate land -- two. So why do this? Why cover it with slogans when there are no general plans today? They need to be developed -- it's a huge problem, we need to ask those who didn't. What, though, was the cause of these legal builders? Because I assure you that the illegals will continue, and we will make a problem for the legal ones. So I propose this bill in the first reading to support, if there's anything to add to the second reading, but it's the right bill, the honourable colleagues. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-14-m1.u81	Colleagues, I feel like we just don't have a vote for this bill. Both the position and the position of the factions. What? Calm down, please! Calm down, please.Oh, my God! I feel like there are no votes for this bill. I think you're feeling it, too. There's the next offer, and she was right, she was right. We're going to consolidate, we're going to decide to send this bill to the committee to prepare for the re-reading. Look, I want to say one thing that you all agree with. You can't stop the development of cities, you can't. But cities are created not for construction companies, but for people. So we need to adopt a law that would allow: (a) let us make a decision for a temporary period of time so that this law regulates construction by 1 January 2016, but given that no one can ever build anything in parks or squares or playgrounds in recreational zones. On the other hand, it did not stop construction in cities. Because, I'm sorry, they said today for Kiev, but we understand that the election of the new Kyivrada and the new city head of Kiev have now passed, yes. Who could have done it in six months, the master plan? I don't think so. I want to tell you what there are, well, 3-5 people who have been working on general plans, including me. I understand, well, I know there's 10, maybe. Colleagues, and it's hard, that's a long time. I don't think we need to support the state funding programme. Today, under financial decentralization, it is possible, if you want, to find the funds and make the master plan quality. So I ask that this does not separate us now, but unites us. Let's make this consolidated decision, let's go back to the committee. The committee will reconsider. Let's take into account the suggestions to make it humane and conscientious. And let's make a decision. Is such an offer accepted? If the author now insists on another. Are you insisting on another, author? Isn't that right? We're voting on the committee, right? That's right. We vote for the re-reading of preparations for the committee. Please vote. Please vote. Please support this. [[17:15:41]] For 237 Do we have to talk about not getting it? Put this bill to the vote? Colleagues, we've already voted him out. We've already voted on it. Guys, don't go anywhere. I have an offer, I just want to show you. Please show by a signal vote how ready you were to vote in favour of this bill. Prepared? Vote who's in favour, please. Please vote. Signal, please vote. Please vote. Please. [[17:16:26]] For-146 Hey, guys, again? You don't have to? Thank you for your understanding! Let's move on. Draft Registration No. 2527: Draft Act amending the Ukrainian Tax Code to create fair conditions for the implementation of agricultural production and support for direct farmers. 2527, author of the Kutov People's Deputy. There is an offer by the author to review the reduced procedure of this bill. Please identify yourself with regard to consideration of the reduced procedure. Review of the simplified procedure. [[17:17:15]] For-195 Decision taken. Please, Taras Viktorovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-14-m1.u82	Dear colleagues! Well, it's a complicated law, and we've discussed it with you a lot, and I'd like to focus on a couple of thesis. The first is to explain in general what this bill is about. Simply put, when agrarians are operating today, they are purchasing the necessary materials to carry out their operations — seeds, fuels, plant protection products, fertilizers, and so forth. The purchase price consists of VAT, which agrarians, producers of agricultural products pay, so the money paid to the budget. It's a very important thesis. What happens today after this? After we adopted the 2015 budget, and actually then at night we canceled that rule, in the event that the farmer transported this product, the VAT actually paid off does not come back to him. This standard is totally discriminatory in terms of industry: metallurgists, chemists, all who spend it, they have the input VAT paid to the state, they're reimbursed when they're exported. I would like to stress that only the VAT paid to the actual exporting State is the first thesis. The second novelty of the bill is that those enterprises that are not on a special regime and are actually paying VAT in full to the State, when exported, they have the right to recover the VAT. So if we're talking in a situation where VAT is paid to the state but not compensated, it's just that we discriminate. I would also like to point out that this is part of a coalition agreement signed by all factions, and this rule is the commitment we made to agriculture. Besides. Mr. Head, I'll ask you two more minutes because it's a complicated bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-14-m1.u83	Please, two minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-14-m1.u84	There's a standard that I'd like to focus on, and the discussion came up, including on the tax committee during the discussion, and I'm grateful to our colleagues, Ivan Miroshnichenko, Tetjana Ostrikovi, Yuri, who raised this question. It's a question of selling from the manufacturer to the manufacturer. Indeed, there is a defect to be worked on. As the author, I guarantee that by the second reading, and today it's just about the first reading, this defect will be removed. And I want to say the same thing about State support in general if we don't talk about the bill. We were promised that there would be State support in both interest rates and construction, and so on. I'm reporting that the soybeans are out -- no bracelets, unfortunately, did not get the branch. We will not analyze the reasons, but there is no other support in the field than the support of the producers themselves, which is actually. You know, the fate of whoever's drowning is his personal destiny. This is how farming works today. But we need to level the conditions for all market participants, and this is the basic point that regulates this bill. Actually, I mean, nobody hears the agrarians out on the street today. We often hear fairy tales, we hear so much, they're not here today, because they have their hands, I'm sorry, by the elbow in the ground on the sower. And the fact that they're not here, and the fact that there's no deep turbulence, it's not because agrarians are easy today, but because we have to take steps on our own in order to support the industry. And that's not the support we're going to get from the budget. According to Minfin, VAT is paid to agriculture -- 3.5 billion dollars, state surplus, if this law is passed, one and a half billion plus, not minus, but plus. So the agrarians are actually squeezing the government budget, and we're just a little bit helping them restore justice. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-14-m1.u85	Thank you, Your Honor. Please, from the committee, head of the Southern Committee, Nina Petrovna. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-14-m1.u86	Ladies and gentlemen, on April 20, our committee considered a bill amending the Tax Code to create a fair environment for agricultural production and support for direct agricultural products submitted by the Kutov People's Deputy. Indeed, the bill proposes to exempt taxation from the added cost of an export operation in the customs regime of grain and technical crops, in addition to operations carried out directly by agricultural producers and enterprises that have purchased such products directly from such producers and are paid by the fourth group and do not apply a special regime. So they have to pay this VAT directly to the budget. To this end, the bill proposes that article 197.21, paragraph 197, of the Tax Code should be redrafted and paragraph 15 should be deleted. Section 20, subsection 2, of the Transitional Regulations of the Tax Code. Accordingly, to the current edition of subsection 15, paragraph 2, of subsection 2 of the Tax Code, export transactions in the customs export of cereals are exempt from taxation, i.e. they do not have the right to a tax refund on added value. In support of the whole idea of the bill, national deputies present on the committee noted that improving taxes on added value of agricultural producers requires a comprehensive approach. And in our view, this is one of the steps that we're going to take to the general VAT system. So this is where it starts.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-14-m1.u87	Please finish 20 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-14-m1.u88	We're starting to introduce such a standard so that the farmer can decide for himself: stay on a special VAT regime for some time or switch to a hall system to get VAT compensation from the budget.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-14-m1.u89	Thank you. Please announce the committee’s decision so that we can proceed to the discussion. Please, 10 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-14-m1.u90	The committee decided to recommend a draft law to the Supreme Council of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-14-m1.u91	Thank you very much. Please, Your Honor, we're writing two in favour, two in front. Please record. Please, Bondar Victor Vasilovich, Rebirth faction. Turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-14-m1.u92	Please pass the word to Oleg Kulinich.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-14-m1.u93	Thank you. Oleg Kulinich, Rebirth, Poltavščina. Dear colleagues, an extremely important bill for agrarians, for Ukrainian agrarians. Today, the tax code puts grain producers in the worst position. For any other goods, VAT on export is returned and grain exports are not. What kind of justice is there for Ukrainian agrarians? A manufacturer to produce grain must acquire plant protection products, mineral fertilizers, fuel-oil materials. And that's basically what he's going to buy in currency. And so in fact, the manufacturer has already paid VAT to the State Budget. And when he did. He's getting a tax credit. And when he decided to export this product, that is, not sell it on. market, he doesn't have a tax liability. Therefore, this standard must work. And also, if this rule works, it's an extra cost for that. At a tone of grain about $15-20 per tonne for agrarians. And this is the salary. These are local budgets that, unfortunately, are not in a very good position today. So I ask my colleagues to support this bill in the first reading, and we are on the committee, if necessary, to work on the second reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-14-m1.u94	Thank you. Please, Lensky Alexyyyovich, Party. A radical party. From the rostrum.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-14-m1.u95	Victor Halasyuk, faction of the Radical Party. Dear colleagues, we support this bill in the first reading. Of course, it has to be done. This creates opportunities for the primary manufacturer to work normally, to get the same VAT compensation conditions as all other sectors of the economy. This has to be done because it's a sacred profession, it's a sacred product that's produced in Ukraine, so it has to be done, it's just an imperative. But at the same time, I want to emphasize that the next step that we need to take is to adopt a set of laws to stimulate deep processing, to support the food industry in Ukraine, not just to export grain abroad, not just products that have grown and sold immediately abroad, but to build us here to make juices so that we can make flour here and so forth. We have to do this in all areas. And the role of the state is to provide a tax regime that will stimulate it. The role of the state is to create lending conditions that will make the country competitive with other states so that we can produce ready-made products, so that people have jobs working in their home country, so that they can pay taxes, and that the country can live at the expense of these taxes, live and develop. Therefore, honourable colleagues, the faction of the Radical Party calls for support for this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-14-m1.u96	Thank you very much. Please, from the Self-Help faction of Oleg Barresuk. Yeah? From the rostrum. Turn on the microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-14-m1.u97	Ladies and gentlemen! There are two approaches to this law: commercial, business and socio-state. From a commercial point of view, everything is just perfect, and from a socio-state point of view, we want to give 3 billion dollars to the people of VAT, two percent of the producers, but at the same time we're taking 800 million out of what we're taking 15 percent of the pensions from the people who work. Is that a government, social approach? We ask the Prime Minister: Mr. Prime Minister, give 1.5 billion dollars of subsidies to farmers of small, medium and family businesses in the country. There's no money, says the Prime Minister, but we're giving 3 billion dollars. On the street in 2015, and we agreed with you that in 2015 we would be talking about the question that everyone has to give up part of what we can. So there's a proposal in 2015 that this bill will not be adopted. And one more thing. You want to get a VAT -- go to general taxation right away. Why do you say that this is a complex approach and you have to wait a year and some say two? Dear fellows, we will not cheat with you. This bill is only fair in terms of the business for profit, but not in terms of 2015, the economic, social and military catastrophe that is in Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-14-m1.u98	Thank you. From Peter Poshenko's Block, Vadatursky Andry Alexiyovich. Please turn on the microphone. Lucenka, right? Then please, Lucenka from the rostrum. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-14-m1.u99	Dear Mr. Head! Dear National Deputies! In all the elections, at all the celebrations, we often talk about what a village is called the cradle of Ukraine. And good words go from year to year into all the performances. And yet we tolerate a situation where the only business that pays VAT, but doesn't get it, is in this neighborhood. I understand that the country is in a very difficult financial situation, but let's ask ourselves, who's pulling the country still in this difficult situation? The village, transportation and industry. But listen, the APC today is one of the main engines in Ukrainian production. And if this engine doesn't have butter, it just breaks down, and it breaks down the entire country's host. Next. Another important thesis. We're told, "You want to give the oligarchs VAT money." When colleagues return VAT, it does not mean that they are taken by the owner of the company. That means it's going to be given to the manufacturer, and either it's going to be worth minus 20, or it's going to have to increase its cost and raise its prices. Well, there's no other way to be competitive: either you're counting on VAT return -- and you have one cost, or you're increasing the cost and the cost of the population. Otherwise the economy doesn't work. During the great time, the Ukrainian APC had not been able to raise its value or obtain VAT. But there was a time when the engine could break. Today on behalf of the faction, at least most of it is absolute, I want to say that we want to support the idea of pay and pensions. And that's what it's gonna be.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-14-m1.u100	Please give us the opportunity to finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-14-m1.u101	And given the budget surplus, there's a lot of room for that. But no wages and pensions will be paid at all unless production works. That's what I'm telling you, the man who worked as chief designer of the 6,000th factory. Production is the foundation of any country, the economy is the foundation of any issue. We are voting for this law!
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-14-m1.u102	Thank you. Ivan Grigorovich Kirilenko. And then we'll vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-14-m1.u103	Dear friends! Dear colleagues! The law is called “justice. ” It is that the replining was said in the room when we were emotionally voting in favour of the 2015 budget and when it came to the question whether or not the traders should be compensated -- of course not. But the noise was such that the baby was splashed with water. Nobody forgets to tell anyone then: both the industrialists and the pirates and everyone else is nobody! Then 2015 must be a fair year. Let's call it off! All to one, let them share. If not, then let us restore justice. What was the reason why they hit the village? For what? Friends, 70 billion is the cost of spring and field work. 70 percent came from a credit resource. Ask everyone who took the loan, who took the bracelet?Oh, my God! Under 30 percent is the rate of refinancing. 40-50 percent who's going to take this loan? Guys, what are we talking about? The fuel cost has tripled. Mineral fertilizers have tripled since they are being made. Three times is protection because they're imported. The fuel is also imported. Listen, people are good! The only one.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-14-m1.u104	Let me finish. 30 seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-14-m1.u105	The only correction I can make to Yuri Vitaliovich, whom I respect, is only one. Friends, not three locomotives of the economy, no industry, no transport. There's a village left! Let us restore justice. Let's vote!
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-14-m1.u106	Thank you, dear colleagues, I see that there are very many willing speakers. But I propose that everyone speak by voting. Please prepare, colleagues. Please take your seats. Take your seats. Andrew Ivanchuk, one minute. Take your seats, national deputies. Andrew Ivanchuk. Andrew Volodymyrovich, did you want a minute? Please, just a minute. Take your seats, dear fellows. Please take your seats.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-14-m1.u107	Dear friends, dear Mr. Head! My performance won't be that hot. I will not say that the village is dying and must be saved. But I would like to say literally a few words. First. The bill contains rules that force agricultural producers to get VAT back into the general system. Plus the People's Front faction will support this bill in this edition only in the first reading. Because we think that the transfer of agricultural products to the general taxation system will allow both the budget to be filled and the pensions to be raised, and everything that is needed for the country. I agree with the leader of the Petra Prashenka bloc, that if we just do something shortening, limiting, we won't build a country. We need to create jobs, extra costs. Then there'll be some results. The People's Front faction will support this bill in the first reading and in the second reading, we will only vote in favour if everyone is transferred to the general tax system.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-14-m1.u108	Thank you. Please vote, colleagues, based on 2527. They all took the floor and made enough statements. Please vote 2527 on the basis. Please, colleagues. Based on the base. [[17:36:55]] For 290 Decision taken. Colleagues, and now I would ask everyone, stay in your seats, there are a number of questions that we have to consider with you. One minute. Look, we have the law of the 2067 World Bank. This law is very important from the point of view of thermo-modernization of energy efficiency. 2670. 2833 and 2834 are two draft decrees for the visa-free regime for the Risk Summit to be adopted. So I have an offer. Plus 2079 is a defense law. I have a proposal that we now include 2079 in the agenda to make a decision on the proposal of the Peter Prashenko faction. Then we looked at 2670 and 2833, and 2834 in order, and others. Please support this by voting. Please vote. Please support, colleagues, everyone.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-14-m1.u109	2617 and 2618.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-14-m1.u110	2670, 2079 for inclusion and decision-making immediately, 2833 and 2834. Please vote, colleagues. And 2794 Crimean Tatars are also included for adoption. Please, colleagues, back up, please. [[17:38:26]] For 171 We didn't make it. Take your seats, colleagues. Please, please, take your seats so we can vote. 2670 is a World Bank law. 2079 is defensive. 2833 and 2834 are 2 calls under visa-free regime. Next. All right, that's four decisions, and I'm asking that we just look at them right now, and they're in the agenda. Please, let us vote in a consolidated manner for this order of consideration, and we will continue to work. Please support me. Vote please, colleagues. [[17:39:19]] For-182 They're fine in the daytime, these laws are 2670, 2833. They're just standing there. I'm talking about picking them up now. And 2079 is one defense law, 2079. It's just an involvement in his consideration, please support. It's at the suggestion of the deputies I'm putting to the vote to see them now. Social Defence, 2079. He's standing in line for the day session. Please, let's support and vote. And then we'll look at it, explain. He's in an orderly session, he wasn't on the schedule today. 2079, who's going to explain? Let's put it this way: 2670, 2833, 2834 -- pick them up in order of the day, they're included. And 2079 will now be discussed separately. Let's talk. Please 2067, 2833, 2834 -- they're on. It's about turn, please support. Please be supportive. Please be supportive. That's what consideration raises them. [[17:40:50]] For 199 Okay. I'll read it to you again, colleagues. 2670: Draft Law amending certain laws of Ukraine on improving legislation in the field of heating and housing services. The World Bank, there are a number of programs in Ukraine that finance the modernization of municipal heat. In order for them to finance the modernization of municipal heat, they need tariffs not to be below their own cost, and this law provides for this. That's it, totally normal stuff. So I'm asking 2670 to raise his consideration now higher than he is now at the end. We have 35 minutes to work, colleagues. Please, 2670, please back up, please back up. [[17:41:56]] For-200 My colleagues, have they been able to vote? Again. But I'm betting 2670. 2670 — World Bank. Colleagues, 2670, prepare, please. No matter who the faction refers to is the World Bank question, it concerns all the cities of the East and the West. Please vote 2670 so that we can now consider it, and this is not the whole acceptance of it, please. Please support me. I don't understand why they don't vote. [[17:43:11]] For-200 Okay, not accepted. Next: 2833, 2834, two visa-free orders. Need an explanation? Please vote to consider them now, please, let's support it. We are now voting on the postponement of the debate. I didn't pick it up either. Please, let's do it again. Why, everyone's willing to vote. Self-help, please support these are visa-free orders. Please. [[17:44:01]] For 229 Copy that. Please. 2833. Then 2079, social protection of the military, what was just said by the National MP Ionova, 2079. Please, Oksana Korchinska. 2079? Please, just a minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-14-m1.u111	The Radical Party faction, Oksana Korchinska. Dear colleagues, we very much ask you to consider this bill right now, because it depends on now saving the jobs of our demobilized boys. Because there, according to the old legislation, they have 12 months, and the Demobilization Act is signed, that is, orders, later, and that is why we need to vote in 18 months on an urgent basis today so that our boys, the heroes returning from the front, don't run out of jobs. We ask that he be supported and placed in the order of the day. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-14-m1.u112	There is a proposal to support this initiative. 2079. Please, Paul Kishkar, a minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-14-m1.u113	Dear colleagues, of course, will support such a faction, not a counterversive bill at all, but point out that if today the issue of demobilization is not being carried out by the Ministry of Defence or another authorized state authority, someone has to be responsible, someone does not perform his duties. And that's why, of course, we support, once again, the bill for people to save their jobs, but business in the future shouldn't pay these people money. Not the business responsible for fighting, the state must bear this responsibility. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-14-m1.u114	Thank you, colleagues. Let's do 2079, of course, for inclusion in the plenary meeting of the evening and the decision-making session. Please be supportive. Please vote 2079. What we haven't discussed yet. [[17:46:25]] For 234 Colleagues, we still have 2670 left. Please, Rosenblatt. 2670, brief legal aid. Listen very carefully.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-14-m1.u115	Dear colleagues, last month's group. The government commission received 800 million euros to support our energy efficiency. I want to ask you again to understand that there's a 40-percent home-warming OSB program. There's 30 percent for the warm-up of private homes. If we don't get that money today, in the fall, what are we going to pay for our enemy's gas? So please think again, we need to consider this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-14-m1.u116	Thank you, colleagues. Once again, 2670 to pick him up for consideration, I ask you all to support him, colleagues. It's not separate for someone. 2670, please support, colleagues! The transfer of consideration will now be considered. 2670. Let's vote, colleagues. Please identify yourself. [[17:47:47:47]] For 201 The decision is not taken. Please, 2079, draft Act amending some Ukrainian legislation on social protection issues for Ukrainian citizens who serve in military service during a special period. Vinnik John. There is an offer to consider it in a simplified way. Identify yourself. [[17:48:25]] For 177 Decision taken. Please report.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-14-m1.u117	Dear colleagues, the Supreme Council of the Eighth Call, as the Supreme Council of the Seventh Call, has adopted several very successful legislative initiatives that increase the social protection of military personnel. The point is that today, when military workers are mobilized to the ranks of the Ukrainian Armed Forces, jobs and average wages are reserved. This average salary is paid by companies and is compensated by the State Budget of Ukraine. Yesterday, we had a committee report from a representative of the Ministry of Social Policy, and he made it clear that there are almost 1.8 billion dollars in this year's budget to compensate businesses for such salaries for persons who have been mobilized and are now serving in the Armed Forces of Ukraine. Already today, March 4, compensation was in order, and 231 million have already been paid. But we have a "but." As self-help colleagues have pointed out, in fact, after the decision to demobilize, many military personnel remain in the ranks of the Ukrainian Armed Forces today, because they have not yet returned, and this period has been more than 12 months. But in the current legislation, it only spreads for 12 months. So today, increasing this term to 18 months is extremely important to support the defense of our state. We don't have the right to make a mistake today and to make certain debasing factors for our fighters. That's why we're amending article 119 of the Labour Code, which sets the maximum term for this benefit for 18 months. This will allow our boys today to understand peacefully that they are socially protected and that their jobs in the main city of employment will be preserved. In addition, given the situation of actual demobilization, we ask, under the transcript, for a bill that is currently under consideration in 2079.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-14-m1.u118	Please, please finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-14-m1.u119	The 2079 bill, which we are considering today, puts forward the following sentence, instead of the words, "before declaring a decision on demobilisation, but not for more than 18 months", to read: "to add actual demobilization, not more than 18 months." In this way, the state budget will be responsible for certain intransigence of individual officials of the Ministry of Defence who today do not comply with the President's decrees. Please support this law today on the basis and in general, it's very important, because we're already hearing a number of cases today where fighters are talking about not saving their jobs, not saving their wages. In our country, it's very important. Please support as a whole. Thank you. Glory to Ukraine! Praise the Ukrainian Armed Forces!
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-14-m1.u120	Thank you. According to the bill, the head of the Committee on Social Policy's subcommittee, Drozdik Alexander Valeriyovich, gives the floor. Please report.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-14-m1.u121	Dear colleagues, the Committee on Social Policy, Employment and Retirement at its meeting on April 22, 2015, discussed the bill. The Committee fully supports the need to secure social security for our men who were appointed to military service in connection with mobilization. I want to remind you that the first wave of mobilization took place in March 2014, and then, remember, all of us, together with you, the Supreme Council, decided to give these people a job guarantee, an average wage, and compensation to the employer from the state budget. And now it's working. However, military action in eastern Ukraine has stalled, and to this day our defenders remain outside the protection of their labour rights and guarantees. So our social committee has certainly supported Project No. 2079, which will preserve a person who is mobilized and appointed to the term service as guarantors of returning to his post after demobilization and exemption from military service, and will provide a stay from the appeal for teachers who work in general educational institutions. We support the amendment that has now been highlighted by the author of this bill, and we propose that we accept this transcript as a basis and as a whole. The People's Front faction also supports that proposal. Glory to Ukraine! Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-14-m1.u122	Thank you. Is there a need to discuss? There's a need. Please sign two for two, two for the other. Please record. Lásko Oleg Valeriovich, Radical Party of Oleg Láška, please go to the rostrum.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-14-m1.u123	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. Heroic MPs, whose members today, including the defense, territorial integrity and independence of our country in the eastern part of our country. Dear Ukrainian national deputies, I understand that all of you are respectable. Many of you have much more important questions than the ones we are discussing and considering right now. But I am convinced that the fighters who have been protecting our country for over a year are looking to you for a solution. For there is nothing more important than building up security, increasing the fighting spirit of our glorious Armed Forces. Our heroes today on the front, our famous workers and peasants today defend and strengthen our country. And in order for us to win, in order for the enemy to be exterminated from our homeland, so that the foot of the Russian invader does not trample upon our own Donbas, our own Crime, the task of Parliament, the task of the President, the task of the government all as one example of our heroes, who saved Ukraine from fascism 70 years ago, today, by uniting efforts to protect our own country. It is the sacred duty of every Ukrainian citizen foreshadowed by our Constitution. That's why all of us, as one, and a democratic European coalition, and the members of the thieving bloc who are sitting in the Supreme Council today, because they tricked people, powdered their brains, all of us have to support our fighters, our volunteers, our heroes. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-14-m1.u124	Heroim Slava! The Lystic Leo Theophilic from the Self-Help faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-14-m1.u125	I give the word to the Shepherd.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-14-m1.u126	The shepherd will be. Please go to the rostrum.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-14-m1.u127	Dear Chairman, dear colleagues! The Self-Help faction calls for everyone to support the bill. And actually one of the co-authors of this bill, John Winnick, has already announced the amendment that I want to stop your attention. Indeed, we have a precedent when military officials in March last year carried out their military duties for more than a year, that is, 13 months and 14 months. However, the bill states that the workplace is reserved for them not later than the day before the decision to demobilize is announced. I want to remind you that the decision itself and the demobilization itself takes up a certain amount of time. And if you remember: The president announced a decree to demobilize the 15th of January of those who had to be demobilized in March — a time gap. So we're actually asking, under the transcript, this amendment to make and vote on the bill as a whole, not until the day of the demobilisation decision, but until the day of the actual demobilization. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-14-m1.u128	Thank you. Please, Novak Natalia Vasilovna, "Peter Dust Block."
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-14-m1.u129	The honourable chairman, the honourable deputies, is that I want to support my colleague Kiskar. Why? Because the state has done well today, it pays the poor wages of its protectors, and at the same time it does not pay a penny of compensation to those businessmen who continue to pay the wages to those on the front. It is the complete irresponsibility of the state and the attempt to put responsibility on the shoulders of business. Of course, those serving in the service today should be sure that the seats behind them will be reserved, and they should be sure that they will receive compensation in their workplaces. But I propose what Paul Kishkar suggested, that after a year of service in the discharge, the Ministry of Defense pays the sum in two months or three months or six months for which they held the demobilization. With this amendment, I propose to vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-14-m1.u130	Thank you. Dear colleagues, come on, just the longer we talk about the less likely we are to adopt a bill, it's our usual practice. I have heard a consolidated opinion from all of the speakers that we are able to adopt this bill as a basis and as a whole with the amendment of the national MP Vinnik Ivan Juryovich. Did I make the right proposal? Can I put her to the vote? Then I'll put it to a vote. Please, by the way, everyone go into the hall, prepare, the important law is safe. I am voting on a draft Act amending some Ukrainian legislation (on social protection issues for Ukrainian citizens serving in special periods) (number 2079 as a basis and as a whole with the amendment of the national MP Winnik. Whoever supports this proposal, please vote. I'd like you to support the people's deputies, please. [[18:00:07]] For 217 Dear colleagues, it's irresponsible to go out in the pools at this hour. I very much ask you to join all the deputies in the hall. I'm on the right to continue my work for 15 minutes. So we can still look at it. I'm asking you a lot, it's about the fate of our boys soldiers, going back to the hall, going to their jobs, and now we're going to vote for the return, and I hope we'll support this bill. I made a mistake, it was the amendment of Vinnik and Shepherd, and apparently this correction of mine led to a wave vote. And I'm actually going to keep stressing it. So I'm proposing to go back to voting for bill 2079. Please vote carefully and in a focused manner: return to the vote. We're voting for the return. [[18:01:15]] For 218. Dear colleagues, tell me, do we have the potential? Because I can see that Ruslan Knyazevich was on his way. Let's make a signal vote, or we're enough to make decisions. I very much ask all the deputies to come into the hall and take their jobs. Please hold a signal vote. Please vote, signal vote. Please take part in the vote. [[18:02:01]] For 229 There are voices in the hall. I ask you once again to concentrate, get into the hall, get together, and now I'm putting the vote again, that's the last time I've offered to go back to 2079. Please go to the office, to the cards. We're voting for the return. Please vote. Please be supportive. Vote. [[18:02:35]] For 235 Thank you. So I beg you carefully! Don't go! Sergei Leschchenko, you taught us all to vote in the room when you were a journalist. Oh, Olya Chervakova votes instead of Lechchenka. Excuse me. The bill amending some Ukrainian legislation on social protection issues for Ukrainian citizens who are serving in military service during a special period, 2079, is currently under the heading. I ask you to take part in the vote and support it. Vote, national MP, please. Vote, please. [[18:03:31]] For 233 Thank you very much. Society, let's consult. I've got two drafts in my hands. [[B in m in s a l in]] Can we vote on them? Then, please, pay attention! First. [[B in m in s a l in]] I've moved on. Olya, I've moved on. You need to be more careful. So, the first draft of the Parliamentary Hearing Recommendation on "Provisions for the implementation by the European Union of a visa-free regime for Ukrainian citizens" (No.2833). Irina Heratchenko. Short. Everyone, please don't leave the hall. Please, Irina Heratschenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-14-m1.u131	Dear colleagues, saving your time, I will immediately make two decisions in one minute. There's just two editorials that I'm asking you to take into account under the stenogram. In Decree 2833 this is about the prospects for the introduction by the European Union of a visa-free regime -- please delete the Supreme Council of Ukraine, which we have to adopt as a prime law (registration number 2567) on services and service centres of the Ministry of Internal Affairs of Ukraine. Please remove this, this is consistent with the Foreign Ministry's position. And in the second decree regarding our appeal to the European Union parliaments, I ask you in the last paragraph to delete the reply of: "for two months to the Risk Summit," because we take the ruling much later. And it will simply sound that: given the scope of the reforms already undertaken by Ukraine in the implementation of the action plan, as well as the strong intentions of the Parliament, the President and the Prime Minister of Ukraine, the Supreme Council of Ukraine calls on the institutions and Member States of the EU. And still what we urge you to do. Thank you for your attention. Please support two decisions at once.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-14-m1.u132	Thank you very much. Dear colleagues, for a few minutes, don't leave the hall. I put to the vote first the draft Parliamentary Hearings Regulation on "The prospects for the introduction by the European Union of a visa-free regime for Ukrainian citizens" (number 2833) with an amendment announced by Irina Heratchenko from the rostrum of this Parliament. Please vote on the ruling. Can I have your back, please? Please support and vote. [[18:06:01]] For 214
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-14-m1.u133	Thank you. I'm asking my honourable colleagues to come into the hall if they don't. These are two decisions that relate to important issues, not debates, not brief ones. I'm asking you to come back to work, and I'm asking you to come back to work. Dear colleagues, are you in the hall? I'll be right there. The consultation is brief on the subject. Everyone, please remain seated. I am redrafting the Parliamentary Hearings Regulation on "Provisions for the implementation by the European Union of a visa-free regime for Ukrainian citizens" (2833). We held parliamentary hearings on this bill and prepared it. I very much ask all the deputies to support and I ask them to vote. Please support this decision (2833). Please vote. [[6:07:50]] For 224 Lucenko didn't make it. Society, I'm putting the 2833 draft again, please support. 2833, please. 2833 please support this Order. Vote. [[18:08:21]] For 235 Thank you. We have an unexpected potential and resource. Three more minutes, one more vote. Stay where you are. I am voting on the draft Resolution on the Appeal to the Institutions and Member States of the European Union on the Implementation of the EU Visa Liberalisation Action Plan for Ukraine (No. 2834), as amended by the amendment from the rostrum of the Supreme Council, Irina Herashchenko. I would like to vote in favour of this ruling with the amendment of Heratchenko, please, on the basis of it as a whole. Please support and vote. Vote. [[18:09:18]] For 228 Thank you very much. Dear colleagues, pay attention! Attention! I'm begging you, one second, company! I'm asking for one second! We have a decree to mark May 18 as the Day of Deportation of the Crimean People.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-14-m1.u134	There's a committee, it's an important event -- the support of our brothers. I'm asking you, this decision is very short, it's very simple. I am voting on the Order for Supplements to the Order of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the Marking of Memorial Dates and Jubilee in 2015 (number 2794). Please be supportive. Please vote on the basis of 2794 as a whole. Please. Vote. I ask you to include the voting system for the vote, the Supreme Council's apparatus. Please. Vote. Let's focus, let's vote. 2794. [[18:10:31]] For 227 Thank you very much. We entered the regulations, and at the price of supersoul we spent a working day. Thank you very much. You've adopted a number of important bills for the country. At that evening meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, I declare closed. Thank you.
