ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-04-m1.u1	Dear fellow members of the National Parliament, please come into the hall and take up jobs. The Secretary of the Supreme Council, please inform the National Deputies of the continuation of our work. Heads of factions, please invite deputies to the Hall. Please come into the hall, we're taking up jobs. Dear colleagues, once again I urge you to enter the hall, please don't shout "The Opposition Block" out of place, because there will be no money, please be polite and disciplined, and ask the people's deputies to enter the hall. Dear colleagues, according to the order of the day, we're moving to the 2660 Bill and once again I'm asking the people's deputies to take up jobs, there's a proposal from the authors that this bill should be considered in a simplified procedure. The 2660 next in the afternoon and I have a request that the national MPs support the proposal to consider the reduced procedure. Dear colleagues, I ask you to vote in favour of the shorter procedure of 2660, please. Please support the reduced procedure, we vote. I'm asking you to turn on the voting system. While the honourable colleagues are still coming into the hall, I ask you to conduct the registration, please prepare for the registration and please do not go outside, but come into the hall. People's deputies, please register. Please. [[16:10:39]] Registered - 329 There are 329 deputies in the hall. So we can start work. And I'm putting the motion to a vote, and I'm looking at the short-term draft Act amending the Ukrainian Act on the Transfer of Objects of State and Municipal Property Law, 2660. Please be supportive. Please vote in favour of the summary procedure. [[16:11:15]] For-149 We haven't been able to vote on the national MPs. George Timoshenko was unable to reach his post due to obstacles to transitions, and I am revoting the government’s strong offer to consider the reduced procedure. Please support me, not to be distracted by provocations. Please support the shorter procedure of 2660. Vote. Please support. [[16:11:57]] For-147 The potential remains high in the hall, although a few more votes are not enough. I ask those deputies who have not reached the workplace to get as close to their cards as possible. And I'm using regulatory law once again to propose that we deal with this issue in a simplified way. Please, carefully and responsibly, please prepare for the vote and vote. Please support the shorter procedure of 2660. Please support, we vote. [[16:12:52]] For-152. We were able to do it. Here we go to the question, to the report we invite the Deputy Minister for Economic Development and Trade, Korge Ruslan Adolfovich. Please. And I'm going to ask you very much in the hall for more silence so that we have a more working atmosphere so that we can work productively. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-04-m1.u2	Good afternoon, distinguished national MPs! Today, there is a problem with the transfer of computer technology, cars, furniture, and other individualized property of state property for use by local governments, educational institutions, cultural, physical, sports, health, social security, and child health camps. To address the issue, the government is proposing a draft Ukrainian Law on the Transfer of Objects of State and Municipal Property. The adoption of the bill will allow for the free transfer of individual property — cars, computer technology, furniture, and so forth. From state to municipal property from state authorities to local self - government authorities to the use of local self - government authorities by educational institutions, institutions of culture, physical culture, and sports, health care, social security, and child health camps. Such a transfer will be made by decision of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, provided that the authorities of the local self - government are obliged to use it for a purpose and not to alienate it into private property. The adoption of the bill will contribute to strengthening the material and technical base of local self-government bodies and their establishment, at the expense of state-owned property, including through the implementation of national projects. Ladies and gentlemen, please accept the proposed bill as a basis. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-04-m1.u3	Thank you. The report invites the head of the Economic Policy Committee, Ivanchuk Andry Volodymyrovich. Ivanchuk Andry Volodymyrovich is to report. We'll wait for his presence. He is evidently preparing for the report. Then I suggest we move on to a discussion of the bill before the co-reporter comes along. I'm asking you to sign two for, two against. Please sign two for, two against. Peter Prashenko's Block, Gerasimov Arthur Volodymyrovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-04-m1.u4	Please pass the word to the national deputy Belkovi.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-04-m1.u5	Excuse me, Peter Dusty Block, will you be speaking? Name your last name. Gerasimov, please. Passes the word to Belkovy?
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-04-m1.u6	Arthur Gerasimov, Block of Petra Dustenka. Hello. Dear colleagues, the Peter Prashenko bloc will support this bill on the basis. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-04-m1.u7	Thank you. Thank you for your position. Radical Party, Mosiyczuk Igor Volodymyrovich, please. He's giving the word to the leader of the Radical Party, Oleg Laska – Oleg Lašk, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-04-m1.u8	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. Honorable citizens of Ukraine, distinguished colleagues of the national MPs. Of course, the Radical Party faction will support this very important law aimed at decentralization, to strengthen the role of local self-government to give additional powers to the local authorities so that when elected by the people, they will have real powers rather than go with their bribes to Kiev to resolve their issues. But at the same time, my fellow national MPs, I would like to make a request to you, separately, to my colleague, National Deputy Mikli Tomenka, Lilia Grinevich, and to note that today, in the House of Parliament, several very important bills were put in place to remove land taxes from reserves, parks, education facilities, preschools, etc. This is, in particular, the Bill of Second Reading 1850-1 and Bill 2276, which allow for the exemption of land taxes, property maintenance payments, preschools, reserves, educational institutions, etc. I am addressing you, fellow citizens of the nation, on behalf of millions of Ukrainian citizens, from education institutions, from education institutions, from pre-school institutions to raise these laws, not to depart from the Supreme Council Hall today until we vote them out of paying taxes on these very important social institutions. In 23 years, you and I were only taxing each other. The time has come to free the country from tax fairs to reduce taxes, to allow people to breathe freely in the social sphere to earn money rather than tax them.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-04-m1.u9	Thank you. From the Fatherland faction, the Kugel Alexander Volodymyrna. Please give it to Ichchenka. The word Yvchenku from the rostrum.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-04-m1.u10	Dear colleagues! The Fatherland faction, Vadim Ivchenko. Dear colleagues, indeed, there is a bill. There are two novices in this bill. But I want to point out that today, from the state to municipal property, they're passed on free of charge as decided by the Cabinet of Ministers. But the government introduces two good novels (and I want to thank you). The first novel is that an organ of local self - government that takes on balance objects that will continue to be used for education, medicine, and sports, so that it has financial capacity. That's the first one. And the second novelty is that the local self - government authority, after taking this property, should not change its purpose. And if he was changing, it's only by agreeing with the Ministry of Finance, the Ministry of Economic Development and the State Property Fund. That's why the bill is valid. Indeed, it strengthens the organs of local self - government. Above all, it helps prevent these objects from going into the shadow market, and the authorities of local self - government have not changed the purpose of those objects that are passed on to them. Thank you. And I'm asking you to back me up.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-04-m1.u11	Thank you. And at that time, a co-reporter came in with a ready report. And I invite the head of the Economic Policy Committee, Ivanchuk Andriy Volodymirovich, to speak. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-04-m1.u12	Thank you. Dear Lord Chairman! Dear friends! You are being reviewed by the Government Bill 2660, which amends the Ukrainian Act on the Transfer of Objects of State and Municipal Property Rights. On 13 May, the Economic Policy Committee considered the bill at its meeting and decided to recommend it to Parliament on its first reading as a basis. The bill regulates the transfer of individual property from state property to municipal property, except for immovable property. Please support this bill in the first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-04-m1.u13	Thank you. Colleagues, we had a discussion. There is a responsible position for the committee to support it as a basis for the first reading. And I'm going to put the proposal to the vote first. So I'd like to ask the National Deputies to come into the hall and take up jobs. The vote is about to begin. I'm asking you to stop blocking the government's bed, get back to work. Mr. Chairman of the Committee, Ivanchuk Andry Volodymyrovich. And please prepare for the vote. Andrew Volodymyrovich, your bill will fail without you. Thus, the bill amending the Ukrainian Law on the Transfer of Objects of State and Municipal Property (for the free transfer of separately defined property) No.2660 is put to the vote. Please support me on the basis of this. Please vote, support. [[16:23:45]] For 247 Thank you for your support. There is a proposal to put it all together. Is there a denial? There's no objection to putting it all together? There's a denial. I'm sorry, if there's a objection in this room, I don't have the right to put the bill in general to the vote. Thank you. Our next draft law is the draft Law amending article 282 of the Ukrainian Customs Code (registration number 2659). There is a proposal from the government that this bill be voted on and considered in favour of a reduced procedure. Please support the consideration of the reduced procedure. Please vote. Please be supportive. Please. [[16:25:02]] For 175 Thank you. Deputy Justice Minister Janchuk Anton Volodymyrovich is invited to the report. Please report.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-04-m1.u14	Ladies and gentlemen, a draft Law amending article 282 of the Ukrainian Customs Code (registration number 2659) is proposed for your consideration. The essence of the bill. Article 282 of the Customs Code currently provides that documents and publications sent in international exchange to educational, scientific or cultural institutions, including libraries, are exempt from customs duties. There are no archiving institutions among these institutions and institutions. At the same time, article 5 of the National Archives and Archives Act provides that the State is taking steps to fill the National Archives with documents of cultural heritage located abroad and documents of foreign origin relating to the history of Ukraine in the highest order. Appropriately, there is a need for exemption from customs duties when imported into or exported to Ukrainian customs territory, including documents and publications sent through international exchange to archives. This is the addition to the bill that was passed for your consideration. The main scientific and expert management of the Supreme Council's apparatus is supported in the first reading on the basis. At the same time, the expert committee decided to recommend the adoption of the draft law as a basis and as a whole. Please be supportive. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-04-m1.u15	Thank you. The co-report invites the head of the Committee on Tax and Customs Policy, Nina Petrovna, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-04-m1.u16	Dear colleagues, in principle, you have already been informed of the change that is being made to this bill. So for the moment, there is a rule on the exemption from the payment of import duties for the acquisition of archival documents for the purpose of entering the Ukraine Archive Fund. is proposed to amend free archive documents with a view to entering the Ukraine Archive Fund. Following consideration of the bill, the committee decided to recommend that the Supreme Council adopt the bill as a basis and generally as a law.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-04-m1.u17	Colleagues, thank you. I want to talk to you. It's a very simple bill. Are you ready to vote? No, there is a requirement for discussion. Then please, Ivan Kirilenko, one minute. Ivan Kirilenko, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-04-m1.u18	Dear colleagues, I'd like to invite everyone. You have heard that there is a proposal to vote only on the basis. No, we should vote in general. It's a technical law, a technical regulation. Really, the archival values, what tax? What kind of bribe? Ukraine returns its historical values. Thus, a technical issue of great political importance. One word is added to the Customs Code: "archive institutions defined by the Cabinet of Ministers." Without discussion, first and second readings are accepted, and let it work as a law.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-04-m1.u19	Thank you. I want to remind you that the committee's decision is to make a proposal on the basis and in general. And I'm going to put that proposal to the vote. So I'm asking the national MPs to come into the hall and take jobs. And I'm voting on the draft Act amending article 282 of the Customs Code of Ukraine (for the exemption from the payment of gifts to the State) number 2659 as a basis and as a whole. Please be supportive. Please vote. [[16:29:39]] For 258. The law has been passed, congratulations. Let's move on to the next bill of order. 2878 is a draft law amending article 2 of the Ukrainian Customs Code on the takeover of acts by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. There is a proposal from the government to consider a reduced procedure. Please be supportive. Please vote in favour of the summary procedure, please. [[16:30:22]] For-173 Thank you. Deputy Justice Minister Janchuk Anton Volodymyrovich is invited to the report. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-04-m1.u20	Dear National Deputies! The main objective of the draft law is to improve the speedy delivery of information on the decisions taken by the Cabinet of Ministers on matters of State customs to the public, as well as to ensure the acceleration of the take-up of such acts by the government. Today, acts of the Cabinet of Ministers of the Ukrainian State of Customs take effect 45 days from the day of their official publication, unless otherwise provided by the acts themselves, but not before the day of their publication in official publications: "The Official Gazette of Ukraine" and the newspaper "Governmental Courier". In view of the need to accelerate the take-up of acts by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, the proposed draft Law proposes to expand the scope of information technology in activities by predicting other ways of bringing to the known population the contents of acts of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, particularly by placing them on the official website of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. Yes, the draft law proposes to amend article 2 of the Ukrainian Customs Code to provide that the legal and regulatory acts of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine on matters of State Customs take effect 45 days from the date of their publication on the official website of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, unless otherwise provided by such acts, but not before the day of their publication on the official website. Thank you and please support.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-04-m1.u21	Thank you. The co - report invites the head of the Tax and Customs Committee, Eugene Nina Petrovna. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-04-m1.u22	Dear colleagues, the purpose of this bill is to accelerate the take-up of actions by the Cabinet of Ministers by expanding the scope of information technology in government activities. This goal is intended to be achieved through the formal recognition of the population of the Cabinet of Ministers by placing them on the official website of the Cabinet of Ministers. The committee agrees with the need to expand the scope of information technology in government activities. However, it is believed that the implementation of the bill may result in an unjustified reduction in the time limits for the entry into force of acts by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine on matters of State customs. In this regard, it should be noted that standard rule 9.2 of the General Appendix to the International Convention on the Simplification and Harmonization of Customs Procedures to which Ukraine has joined explicitly requires that interested parties be given sufficient time to familiarize themselves with the changes in customs legislation, thus the bill in question does not comply with Ukraine’s international obligations. The Committee has also noted that the Chief Scientific and Experimental Authority of the Supreme Council has made numerous remarks to Bills 2878 and 2877, which are systematically linked. Taking into account what has been said, the committee decided to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine the Cabinet of Ministers draft Law No. 2878 as a result of the first reading of the rejection.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-04-m1.u23	Thank you. Tell me, colleagues, is there a need to discuss it? There's a need. That's why I'm asking you to sign in, two for, two against. They raise their hands, and that's why there's going to be a discussion. Two for, two against. Please. "The People's Front," Curved Gennady Grigorovich, please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-04-m1.u24	Thank you. Please pass the word to Mr. Kirsch.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-04-m1.u25	Ladies and gentlemen, I very much beg you to adopt this law, because it cannot be considered a normal situation when, in the 21st century, the entry into force of the legislation depends on whether it is on paper, or in the newspaper, free space. And if there is no free space in the newspaper, then the entry into force of an important normative act is carried over, that is not the norm. It's about the Customs Code. The course is changing very quickly, there is a real need, an urgent need for normative acts to also enter into force quickly. What's more, when the government courier has a free place not of the 1st number, but from the 2nd or the 3rd, two days, the whole country works on one principle, one law, and from the 3rd law, it can't be. I plead with you on behalf of all the Ukrainian accountants, on behalf of all those involved in accounting, these are challenges that need to be overcome and that are very easy to overcome. It's just that when the Cabinet thinks it's appropriate, then they come into force because they're printed not on paper, but because they're published on an act by the Cabinet of Ministers, it's the 21st century. So what do we do when everything depends on the free space in the paper? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-04-m1.u26	Ribak Ivan Petrovich, Block of Petra Dustenka.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-04-m1.u27	Please pass the word Sold to Oksani Petrovni.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-04-m1.u28	Honorary colleagues, one of the provisions proposed by this bill, are that all normative acts relating to customs have become effective since the publication on the Cabinet of Ministers' website. What will we have in that case if the Supreme Council supports this bill? We're going to have a situation where, today, we're going to have a draft or a draft decision, whether the government's draft decision or order was adopted today, published today. And no person who hasn't seen a project has expected such a change will know that it's no longer working in the right field. We still have a very common situation today when businesses fail to meet the standards that the government today accepts. If we accept this bill with you then we'll have a situation where people will be held accountable for what they didn't do because they couldn't do it. So we ask you not to support this bill. And leave in force the rules of law and the Constitution that oblige both government and government, including publicizing in accordance with international standards and bringing to the attention of citizens the laws that are adopted by the government. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-04-m1.u29	Thank you. Kirilenko Ivan Grigorovich, the "Fatherland" faction, passes Sobolev. Sergey Soboljevo, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-04-m1.u30	Sobolje, Fatherland. In fact, our faction doesn't understand why the profile committee has rejected the absolutely correct proposal made for electronic publishing of all this data. We are no longer living in the 19th century, and we will wait for the newspaper vendor to hand them over and say, should we not? But there are other underwater stones here, I'm paying attention to the government, this bill can really only be passed on the first reading because you didn't foresee free access to this information, because you can go to any of the Ukrainian Cabinet's websites right now. And then you're going to have to pay for that, and then you're only going to get this information, so how can that be? The government’s official regulatory act further requires further payment in order to access and obtain such information. So our faction, or you're making this decision out of a voice, we're going to support it as a whole or in the first reading. And for the second reading, it is imperative to correct the rule that this publication is made available free of charge. And second, which is very important, I don't understand the logic when it's required in any way not to do it because business doesn't know about it. That's why there's a standard: an act approved, 45 days to get to know it, to see it. And it's only then that this act is officially published on the electronic website of the government or the relevant ministry and department. So if an amendment is approved that it is a base access, no questions asked, it can be voted for in general. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-04-m1.u31	Thank you. Dudenko's Alexander Valeriyovich, Opposition Block.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-04-m1.u32	Thank you. Dear Chairman, dear colleagues! I'd like to bring some trailers for this bill. First, the bill does not publish it 45 days after its adoption. the acquisition of validity. This is the first time. Secondly, if this legislative initiative is to go along with the time and speedily publish these legislations, I do not understand why there is no other order for the laws of Ukraine, for the sub-legislative central authorities of the executive branch. These are the arguments that have been put to the ground by the head of the identity committee. By the way, I also took part in the meeting and took a firm stand against the support of this legislative initiative. I want to point out that it has nothing to do with the technological process. I would like to point out that who wants to get to know some of the legal regulations that are illegal -- the decisions, the orders of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, there's no problem; the Office of the Ministers of Ukraine's website is open to information. But anyway, to make it. It's not enough to understand the content of this norm, and it's enough for people to prepare, as the previous reports have said, for the purpose of this norm, because the rule of law entails legal consequences rather than just a sense of content. I would like to point out that the next bill also applies to this problem. With respect to the representative of Alexander Viktorovich of the People's Front and all my respect, but this will not be reflected on the accountants, because the position of the Standard Book is confirmed by the order of the Minfin, not by the order or decree of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. All tax rules are governed by the Tax Code. Cabins do not have any legal standards under certain exceptions on the spot with regard to the rules on tax accounting. So I think the order of publication should be the same for.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-04-m1.u33	Ten seconds, please finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-04-m1.u34	is the same for the laws of Ukraine, both for the regulations of the central executive authorities and for the regulations of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. I mean.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-04-m1.u35	All of it. Halasyuk, the Radical Party is one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-04-m1.u36	Victor Halasyuk, faction of the Radical Party. Dear colleagues, our faction fully supports the conclusion reached by Nina Petrovn Jujanin, the conclusion of the Main Committee. This law cannot be passed, nor can it change the publicity regime in such subtle matters when it comes to the Customs Code, when it comes to taxation, to the regulatory sphere. Nobody prevents the Cabinet of Ministers from informing through their website, but together with the fact that it is very clear that a date has to be set so that there is no dispute and so on, we insist on preserving the existing regime of publication, because it is the protection of the interests of entrepreneurs, it is the protection of the taxpayers' interests that each of us is with you. The Radical Party faction therefore supports the conclusion of the Main Committee on the rejection of the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-04-m1.u37	Thank you. Lechenko Yuri is one minute. And we're closing the discussion.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-04-m1.u38	Lewchenko, Freedom, 223rd District, Kiev. Here the national MPs have said a lot of things about fixing the date of publication, about, in fact, not always being able to quickly look at the Internet. But there's another issue in this bill that's not settled, which I don't think we can vote for. And please tell me, who gives the assurance that then our sassy Cabinet officials won't change the dot with a coma and a few words in an Internet-published decision? Is there such a guarantee? And I don't trust these officials at all. I don't think any entrepreneur in Ukraine trusts Kabmin officials. If such a law is to be adopted or anything like it, it must be prescribed in any case to be the highest. The highest legal significance is the actual documentary publication of the document, the real decision on paper, not what's written on the Internet. Then you can vote for that. And when you talk about what's posted on the Internet, it's a decision that can be changed.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-04-m1.u39	Thank you. Thus, respectable colleagues, in the discussion, expressed differing thoughts. We also have a committee decision. I propose to go through this procedure: vote first as a basis, then return the subject to the legislative initiative. If these two proposals don't go away, this is going to be a rejection of the bill, as the committee suggests. Is that the procedure? [[B in m in s a l in]] So let's do it. Let's put it on the ground first. People's deputies are requested to enter the hall, take up jobs, prepare for the vote. The first is the proposal to vote on the draft Law on Amendments to Article 2. [[B in m in s a l in]] A ministur does not require a word. I'm sorry, there's a voting procedure. The draft Law amending article 2 of the Ukrainian Customs Code on the take-up of acts by the Cabinet of Ministers (2878) is therefore put to the vote. Please be supportive. Based on the base. Please vote. [[16:46:09]] For-98 The proposal did not receive the required number of votes. Next question. The proposal is to return draft Law No. 2878 to the legislative initiative. Anyone who supports the proposal to return the subject to the legislative initiative, please vote. Please vote. [[16:46:47]] For-182 180 votes in favour, the initiative, too, did not get the required number of votes. Thus, the bill is regarded as being rejected. Thank you. Let's move on to the next bill of order of the day. 2877 Draft Act amending certain Ukrainian laws on the take-up of acts by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. So this is also a government bill. And the government is asking to consider it as a simplified procedure. Please support the proposal and vote in favour of the reduced procedure. Please. [[16:47:42]] For-163 Thank you. Deputy Justice Minister Janchuk Anton Volodymyrovich is invited to the report. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-04-m1.u40	Dear National Deputies! The draft Law 2877 is a certain analogy to the content of Law 2878. The point is that the actions of the Cabinet of Ministers have become effective since their official publication on the Cabinet of Ministers' website. The arguments are the same. So I'm going to let myself try to take off the warnings that were made in the hall. First. Yes, indeed, there is a constitutional warning about the moment when the laws of Ukraine become effective. In this case, it is a matter of legal acts. So there's no contradiction to the existing normative acts. Second warning. With regard to the possibility of bringing to the public the provisions of the regulations. If we set a standard on the possibility of becoming effective from the time of publication on the site, this rule does not in any way invalidate the obligation to continue to publish. So anyway, the act will be published and brought to the public in an acceptable way. And then there's the third one. I want to ask my fellow lawyers how often do you use official sources to publish normative acts compared to their electronic analogs? Of course, we all realize that this is not convenient at the moment. This legislative initiative is a typical example when regulations try to overwhelm, catch up with social relations, which are now very much ahead of old regulatory regulations. I ask you to support this draft regulatory act. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-04-m1.u41	Thank you. The co - report invites the head of the Committee on Industrial Policy and Entrepreneurship, Halasyuk Viktor Valeriyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-04-m1.u42	The honourable chairman, honourable colleagues of the National MPs, the Committee on Industrial Policy and Entrepreneurship has considered Bill 2877 and, taking into account the comments of the Chief Scientific and Expert Directorate and the committee discussion, recommends that this bill be returned to the subject of the legislative initiative. What does this have to do with anything? With what I've just said in my statement, we are definitely opposed to exposing the additional risks of entrepreneurs, taxpayers in situations where it is not possible to accurately verify the publication of this information on the Cabinet of Ministers' website when the risks arising from the potential adoption of this bill are much greater than its potential benefits. Because how fast can we accelerate the introduction of the bill when official printed editions come out several times a week? For two days, speed up and put all taxpayers and all entrepreneurs at risk of being treated differently. We think it's totally unacceptable. In addition, there are rules in this law that amend, for example, the Law on Technical Regulations and Conformity Assessment, which will only take effect on 10.02. 2016, which is also totally illegal and invalid. So once again, the committee does not support this bill. And I also stress once again for the Cabinet of Ministers that when important laws go out. Come minister, deputy minister to committee and work on these laws. We'll be quick to correct it. Because if there are such problems, they need to be resolved in advance. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-04-m1.u43	Thank you. Is there a need to discuss? Yes. I see the People's Front in the back, there's a need to discuss it. That's why I'm asking you to sign two for, two for against, please. The crooked Gennady Grigorovich, the People's Front.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-04-m1.u44	Thank you. Dear friends, I would like to pay attention and the People's Front faction would like to draw the attention of all members of the coalition to the following. The Cabinet of Ministers wants to show and wants to make sure that all their decisions made by the government become public fairly quickly and that people understand how the government works today. Your decisions on the previous bill, and after that, if I feel that way, there may be a negative decision in the hall. We're not just putting the government at risk, we're talking about a lack of transparency not only to the government, but also to the Supreme Council. Dear friends, all decisions of the Cabinet of Ministers or the Supreme Council can be found at no cost on the site of the same Supreme Council or the Cabinet of Ministers. Let's support this initiative. And if we support this bill, I'd like to go back to the last one. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-04-m1.u45	Thank you. Ustin Glibovich, Peter Prashenko's Block, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-04-m1.u46	Dear colleagues, I fully support the discussion that has unfolded in this room around this bill. You can really agree with the warnings that our coalition colleagues make. However, it is worth noting that we, like the national MPs and other legal entities in Ukraine, are often faced with an unjustified delay in such a procedure as the publication of normative acts that directly affect the speed of our decisions, the speed of our bureaucracy, the speed at which the state works. I especially wait until the Ministry of Justice, for the third week, sends a very simple normative act to the public, and along with me there are a lot of people waiting for it in the city of Krivi Rig, from which I was elected. So I'd like to ask the room to consider adopting this decision on the first reading, maybe working with it on committees. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-04-m1.u47	Thank you. Sergey, the faction. Ah, it's Kugel, the "Fatherland" faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-04-m1.u48	Dear friends, let us not twist. Personally to Mr. Squirrel. Listen, do you want to publish on the website? But whoever doesn't give it to you, please publish. The only question. In all countries of the world, this is used to expand your knowledge of the information, and you want to use it to introduce documents. This is a violation of the rights and the Constitution. An entrepreneur has the right to go to court with a document that is only officially printed. That's the first one. Secondly, I have the right time to put in your accepted documents at night. And the second. The Justice Department, well, shame! Please learn the law. Laws that have not yet come into force cannot be amended. Thank you. This bill cannot be adopted.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-04-m1.u49	Papiev Mikhailo Mikolaiovich, "The Opposition Block."
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-04-m1.u50	Thank you. Dear Ukrainian National Deputies, I would like to remind you that there is another very important book called the Constitution of Ukraine. And I'd like to ask the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine when they're drafting a bill so that they'll get acquainted with the constitutional norms of Ukraine that contradict, because that's the basic law, those bills that are being tabled. And one more thing. Note, then, the quality of the bills prepared. I can't remember when the three laws of the order that the Cabinet of the Ministers of Ukraine take 80 votes, less than 100 votes, with a coalition consisting of 305 Ukrainian national deputies. So I have a proposal for the head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, and so that we can accept it protocolly, to go to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, because every bill that goes to the Supreme Council of Ukraine, I want to tell you that he's preparing for the Ministry, but it's approved by the government as a whole. And if the bill is inconsequential, this is the area of responsibility of the Prime Minister of Ukraine. We need to look personally at the Prime Minister of Ukraine for inadequacy, inadequacy of the bills that are being submitted to the Supreme Council of Ukraine. We will vote against this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-04-m1.u51	We have concluded the discussion, we have the position of the committee to return the subject to the legislative initiative for further work, but first I will lay the groundwork, then the proposal to return the subject to the legislative initiative for further work. People's deputies are invited to come into the hall, take up jobs and prepare for the vote. The draft Law amending certain laws of Ukraine on the take-up of acts by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine is put to the vote on the basis of 2877. Please support the base. [[16:58:38]] For-82 The proposal did not receive a given number of votes. Therefore, I am putting forward the position proposed by the committee: to return the subject of the right of legislative initiative to amend the draft Law amending certain laws of Ukraine on the taking of action by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine 2877. Please support the proposal to return the subject to the 2877 legislative initiative. Please vote, please support. [[16:59:26]] For a hundred and The proposal did not get the required number of votes either, so the bill was rejected. Let's move on to the next bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-04-m1.u52	Dear fellow members of the National MPs, please have a call from the leaders of the faction for the coalition to consider some of the bills that are extremely important, which are included in the agenda for this evening's meeting, but change its order of consideration. That is, the agenda of the day: Registration number 2873 – draft law amending article 216 of the Criminal Procedure Code of Ukraine to clarify the relevance of the National Anti-Corruption Bureau of Ukraine. 2010-d again. Draft Law amending certain Ukrainian laws on competitive conditions for the production of electricity from alternative sources of energy, as well as 2956 on the introduction of a moratorium on the enforcement of property (for the mechanism of influence on borrowers) 2956, i.e. three laws. We're still waiting for 1831 -- this is a draft law, and the committee is about to come to a conclusion. And I'm going to put in 1831 as soon as the material comes in, as soon as the papers come in, we're going to vote it out. I'm going to take him up to speed, as soon as he's ready, we'll move on to his consideration. So 2873, 2010, 2956 and 1831. And 1831, ready, committee decision, conclusion. Colleagues, it's a day-to-day inclusion, now. It's not an inclusion. Colleagues, please prepare for the vote. So four laws have been passed and submitted by the five factions of the coalition to change the order of its consideration. This decision requires a vote of 226. So, your honors, please take your seats, prepare for the vote, and I'm going to put this proposal to the vote now, and we're going to start looking at these draft laws. Please, about the sequence I announced. Dear National Deputy Kishkar, distinguished national MP Dubnevich with great respect invite you to take your seats and start your work. Please. We're voting on the proposal I made. Please make an offer. Let's vote, colleagues, on how to deal with matters. Colleagues, concentrate, invite MPs. [[17:03:27]] For 208 Dear colleagues, please reconsider the proposal to start the bill now to raise it above the list 2873, 2010, 2956 and 1831.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-04-m1.u53	Provided there's a committee decision and we're looking at it. Dear colleagues, please. Please, get ready! Ready, colleagues? At the suggestion of five faction leaders. Four factions. Please, colleagues, are you ready to vote? We're voting on the proposals in order. Please, colleagues. [[17:05:09]] For 211 Please, Oleg Lazko, one minute, coalition coordinator.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-04-m1.u54	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. Honorable coalition colleagues may not have figured out what laws the Head of the Supreme Council is proposing for us to vote on, I will briefly say, and so that the citizens of Ukraine know. The 2010 law, which pushes away from the Clovis budget, which has raised three billion in this year to its so-called "sun energy." Those who do not vote in favour of this law continue to rob the country’s budget. Law 1831 is about transparency of media property, so that everyone in the country knows who owns media property, so that there are no offshore owners and so on. Those who do not vote to consider this bill today actually cover the owners of media resources and allow offshore, including Russian, Putin, to own our channels in Ukraine. Likewise, bills that withdraw taxes from parks, from educational institutions.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-04-m1.u55	Dear colleagues, the coordinator of the coalition spoke. This proposal was made by factions of a coalition, four out of five factions. Once again, I stress that draft laws are important. I'm going to read this one again. the names of the laws. 2873 is a bill amending article 216 of the Ukrainian Criminal Procedural Code to clarify the nationality of the Ukrainian National Anti-Corruption Bureau. An Important Decision? It's important. Next. 2010-d is a draft law amending certain Ukrainian laws on competitive conditions for electricity production from alternative sources of energy. An Important Law? It's important. Next. Draft Act on Amendments to the Ukrainian Law on the Introduction of a Moratorium to Forced Realization of Property. [[B in m in s a l in]] Why is that in the second? Why is that in the second? Colleagues, come on, let me stress again, it's about. Listen. This is about his consideration; it is about his consideration. Now we're going to start looking at it. If you think that this bill is not worth supporting, then you don't vote at the time, it won't go through. And then you will determine by your vote. And so, colleagues, this is the last time I'm going to propose to the coalition factions that have come to change the order of today's agenda, which are included in the agenda for the evening session: 2873, 2010-d, 2956 and 1831. Please prepare yourself, concentrate, adjust to constructive work and vote on this. Ready to vote? Please, Your Honor, do we vote? Please, let's vote. [[17:08:58]] For 223 Almost. They didn't vote. Let's do it again. Once again, the offer of Lyszko for the vote. Please. It's a proposal from the people's deputy Láška. Once more to vote on these four laws. Vote! Vote, colleagues. Vote, fellows! [[17:09:29]] For 226 Decision taken. I would like to ask for a 2873 bill amending article 216 of the Ukrainian Criminal Procedure Code to clarify the traceability of the Ukrainian National Anti-Corruption Bureau. Reported Deputy Justice Minister Yanchuk Anton Volodymyrovich. There is a proposal to consider this draft law in a simplified procedure. I'd like to make a statement. [[17:10:17]] For 171 Decision taken. Please, Anton Volodymyrovich Yanchuk. Please report.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-04-m1.u56	Dear National Deputies! Draft Act No. 2873 amending article 216 of the Criminal Procedural Code of Ukraine to clarify the traceability of the National Anti-Corruption Bureau of Ukraine. The essence of the bill is very simple. To follow the National Anti-Corruption Bureau of Ukraine, refer article 366. The Criminal Code of Ukraine. This article is called “Declaration of Untrustworthy Information. ” According to this article, the National Anti - Corruption Bureau of Ukraine is completely relevant. In addition, this amendment to the Criminal Procedure Code of Ukraine is a recommendation of the International Monetary Fund. The adoption of this draft law is based on and generally supported by both the Chief Scientific and Scientific Administration and the Professional Committee. This is a very simple, logical change. Yet, which is extremely valuable in fulfilling its obligations to the International Monetary Fund. So I'm asking you to support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-04-m1.u57	Andriy Anatoliyovich Kožemjakin, please. A report by the chairman of the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-04-m1.u58	Dear colleagues! The Committee on Law Enforcement Services considered the draft Law on Amendments to Article 216 of the Criminal Procedure Code of Ukraine to clarify the nationality of the National Anti-Corruption Bureau, submitted by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. I agree with the Deputy Minister of Justice, really, it's an important law. And perhaps the importance of it should have been confirmed by the presence of the minister of justice, as he did yesterday on the committee. Today he's gone, although he's been telling me for a week that it's a signal law for the IMF. Unfortunately, today I do not see his interest in this law. Well, we're working on it. The project proposes to amend part five, paragraph 1, of article 216 of the Ukrainian KPC, by empowering the detectives of the National Anti - Corruption Bureau of Ukraine to carry out judicial investigations into crimes provided for in article 366-1 of the Criminal Code. This is a declaration of unreliable information. When amending article 216 of the CPC, article 366 of the 1st Criminal Code, which became effective on April 26, 2015, remained out of the question. At the same time as the Ukrainian Anti-Corruption Act was enacted. Thus, the bill, the amendments to the bill, will remove the legislative gap. The main science-expert department supports it. The committee supports. He recommends accepting it as a whole. Thank you. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-04-m1.u59	Thank you, Andriy Anatolyovich. Dear colleagues, is there a need for two, two, against? Yes. Wait a minute, wait a minute. Please sign two for two, two for no. There are proposals from the National Deputies. Victor Vasilovich Chumak, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-04-m1.u60	I thank the electronic system for its objectivity and impartiality. I've just asked for a 15-minute word with the Head of the Supreme Council on the basis of a vote he didn't give me. First of all, this bill, reported by Andrew Volodymyrovich Kožemjakin, needs to be done. Andriy Anatoliyovich Kožemjakin, who will be supported by our faction, is very important. At the same time, honourable colleagues, we've just talked about the need to adopt very important bills that should be put into the agenda. At the same time, the procedure for putting bills into the agenda is laid down by the Supreme Council Rules, paragraphs 21, 22, 23. Could not put the package. We should vote in favour of each individual law and consider it in accordance with the procedure provided for in the simplified procedure. We have also broken the Law of the Rules six times with you today. Let us either repeal the Law of the Rules or abide by it.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-04-m1.u61	Please, Storobubu, national deputy, People's Front.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-04-m1.u62	Please give the word of Victoria Sumar.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-04-m1.u63	Victoria Sumar.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-04-m1.u64	Dear colleagues, we support the adoption of this bill on the basis and in general. It's about entering into the Anti-Corruption Bureau's investigation of the possibilities for them, in fact, to verify the declarations of officials and other declarants. It is clear to everyone that without such subordination it is virtually impossible to fight corruption. So this law is actually one article that gives the Anti-Corruption Bureau the right to follow up. There's nothing to stretch for two readings. The People's Front will vote on the basis as a whole. The request of the hall also to support this simple, clear, perfectly logical bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-04-m1.u65	Thank you. Please, People's Deputy Doubenkov, Opposition Block.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-04-m1.u66	Please pass the word to Natalia Royal.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-04-m1.u67	Natalie Royal, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-04-m1.u68	Dear colleagues, the Opposition Block will not support the bill. And you know, today, you've taken and removed from the agenda the consideration of very important, socially meaningful bills. It is the social protection of child victims of hostilities. These are the rights of people with disabilities to travel free of charge. It is the support of self-employed people in our country. It is the social protection of people with disabilities. You rejected these bills and decided to consider completely technical, without affecting anything so far. Therefore, "The opposition bloc insists that the extremely approved agendas be returned to review all the relevant social bills, and that we stop juggling the Supreme Council Rules today. There is a law, and we have a duty to obey it. And I would like to remind you that the next bill that we had to consider under the Rules concerned people with disabilities, two million 800,000 persons with disabilities in our country who were denied free travel rights. Which you have deprived of social protection, and which you have put to death today. Therefore, please let us consider the issues of social relevance rather than the technical points that the IMF is dictated to you today. And at the request of the IMF, you're starting to work. This is the Parliament of Ukraine, the Supreme Council, which must protect the people of Ukraine first. That is why we insist on the consideration of socially important laws in our country. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-04-m1.u69	Please, Igor Mosiyczuk, Radical Party.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-04-m1.u70	Igor Mosiyczuk, Radical Party. We will certainly support this bill, not because it requires the IMF, but because it is a time challenge, and it is necessary to give these powers to the Anti-Corruption Bureau. But first of all, with the opportunity, on behalf of the faction of the Radical Party of Oleg Láška, I would like to contact the Attorney General of Ukraine with a request. In connection with an attempt to escape yesterday from the country of Sergio Clovis to bring to the Supreme Council. and today, the fact that he did not appear for questioning, submit to the Supreme Council regarding the arrest and arrest of Serius Clovis. The other one. In Kiev, the leader of the DUSS, Andrew Kravec, walked freely for four years along with Yanukovic, who stole the country. We demand that the Attorney General immediately file a criminal case, arrest and arrest. Because no matter how many laws we adopt, if there is no action by the Attorney General, all these laws will not work. As far as I'm There have been attempts, to hide from social bills and not conduct anti-corruption. So let me tell you, by covering for the social protection of the population, ladies and gentlemen of the block of thieves, you've ripped the country apart, and now you're trying to blow people's heads off. It won't work! Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-04-m1.u71	Please, from the Self-Help faction, Yegor Sobolev.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-04-m1.u72	Colleagues, please listen to one very important detail. This bill contains one serious danger, and you and I have created an agency. National Anti-Corruption Bureau for Combating Top Corruption. If we put upon them the responsibility to investigate all cases of misfilling the declaration, they will be buried with hundreds of thousands of cases of minor errors of petty officials. We asked the new director of the bureau, and he, by the way, found out about this bill from us, he said, "We agree to investigate wrongly filled declarations and fraud in them only with respect to first and second-class seniors, only in cases that are referred to the authority of the bureau, otherwise they will be buried in small matters." Therefore, a request is made only in the first reading, or a draft is sent for further work.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-04-m1.u73	Thank you, Your Honor. I think we can go over, exchange thoughts, and we can go to the vote. Please take your seats, distinguished national MPs, and we will vote on this important bill as a basis. Please take your seats. Are you ready to vote, Your Honor? On the basis of the 2873 draft Act amending article 216 of the Criminal Procedural Code of Ukraine to clarify the subordination of the National Anti-Corruption Bureau of Ukraine. On the basis of 2873, please, 2873, please vote on the basis, on the basis. [[17:23:45]] For 232 Decision taken. Thank you, Your Honor. Let's move on: the 2010 draft of the Law. She will report to Alexander Dombrowski, the first deputy head of the committee of profile. There is a suggestion that the bill's rapporteur should consider the reduced procedure. Please, Your Honor, determine how to proceed with the reduced procedure. As far as the procedure is concerned, colleagues. Thank you. [[17:24:29]] For-191 Please report, Alexander Georgievich.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-04-m1.u74	Dear Volodymira Borisovich, distinguished colleagues of the people's deputies, your thoughts are presented by several alternative and basic bills, which refer to the very important topic of the development of renewable, environmentally friendly energy in Ukraine. I would like to point out that the issue is long, historical, politically numerous things that have been discussed and discussed both within and outside Parliament, and so I would like to provide some additional information. I would like to say that in the last few years, there has been a whole field of alternative energy in Ukraine. By the beginning of 2014, investors had built up almost one and a half gigawatts of energy in Ukraine. Given that with Crimea, when it was taken away by the Russian Federation of Crimea, we have 1.1 gigawatts left -- that's the power of renewable energy, which is equal to one atomic block. So to understand about money and investment, if we want to build one atomic block today, we're going to have to spend about $8 billion with you if we want to do it from scratch. So this is a huge energy resource that we should be able to use. Second position. I want to point out that we have an enormously developed sun, a slightly less developed wind, and biogas, biomass, and hydropower, unfortunately, are not well developed. If we look at from a generation point of view, we'll see that the wind has a left and the main question is, the big problem is, if we look at the calculations, the sun takes almost 60 percent of the payments out of all of the renewable energy.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-04-m1.u75	Please finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-04-m1.u76	And the last diagram. If we look at the structure of the sun and look at large solar stations, which are more than 10 megawatts, their share of payments for 2013 and 2014 will be about 90 or 80 percent of all solar energy. This is wrong, and this rule in the law is being corrected. What did we do when the committee was working? We discussed all the projects that were also implemented by the Balogo people's deputies, Bill 2179. We discussed the 1457 bill, which was introduced by the National MP Lewchenk and co-authors. And the committee of profile determined that the basic bill would define the bill 2010. All the proposals made by the Balogo people's deputy were made in the basic bill 2010. Also, virtually all the proposals that have been made in alternative bills in the process of redrafting have been introduced into the 2010 Bill. And so today I can say from this rostrum, after the meeting and the vote, and the vote of the committee, we leave the bill as the basis. And we propose it on the basis of the 2010-d vote, the alternative Bill of Victor Baloga is being removed. And the 2010 bill is also being deleted. I would like to say that in our proposals for this bill, we take away a concept that contradicts our commitments to the European Union, which is a local ingredient. We're reducing the tariffs on solar energy substantially, we're leaving, we're not raising the prices of any kind of energy: wind, biomass, biogas, hydropower, and we're allowing for simplified procedures to develop these renewable energy directions. The bill also foresees a number of norms that allow renewable energy to develop intensively in Ukraine, because this is the main trend that today is in the global energy market. Therefore, on behalf of the committee, I propose to vote, to take the floor and to vote in the first reading on Bill 2010d, and to consider the issue of second reading in a simplified procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-04-m1.u77	Thank you. Please two for, two for against, please sign in. National Deputy Rybchin, Fatherland.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-04-m1.u78	National Deputy Rybchin, Fatherland. The Fatherland faction will support this bill. And as one of the co-authors, I can say that I am very proud that the Supreme Council is finally looking at alternative energy. This is exactly what I came to the Supreme Council for. This is the only sector that is now growing around the world. So I think we were finally able to normalize the high tariffs that were. We cleaned up a local component that is used worldwide as a tool for the development of the field, but we used it as nontariff barriers to enrich certain individuals. So we just replaced it with a very progressive bonus system. And I think that the adoption of this bill will finally allow us to depoliticize this sector and restore to it the reputation it deserves. So I propose to my colleagues that we support this bill in the first reading and give the committee the right to prepare a reduced procedure for us to be able to accept it as a whole in the next plenary week. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-04-m1.u79	Thank you, Your Honor. Please, Grigory Mikhailovich Smoky, Peter Dust Block.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-04-m1.u80	Grigory Smoky, Peter Dust Block. Well, first of all, I want to thank Alexander Dombrowski for making such a professional presentation of a bill that is very important to our nation today. You know, we've already tried several times to go to alternative sources of energy, but it didn't work out. At first it was bioethanol, which oil traders did everything they could to prevent it from becoming effective in the state and from working. Today we have the opportunity to start a different time with you, a different era in the development of cheap energy, and energy, which is today renewable, which has much lower self-sustainability and is a prospect in general for the state. What's more, we think today the cost of this energy is about 2.5-3 times cheaper than traditional energy. So the development of bioenergy, of cheap fuels, I think it should be constantly under the control of the Supreme Council, the ministries, and we strongly believe that such bills deserve support. And I'm also making a proposal, and I'm supporting my colleague, to take it as a basis in the first reading, to complete it, and to accept it as soon as I can get it ready for the short version. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-04-m1.u81	Thank you. Please, Michael Papiev, the Opposition Block.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-04-m1.u82	Please give the MP the floor.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-04-m1.u83	National MP Martovicki.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-04-m1.u84	Dear colleagues, this bill has been prepared seriously and is of course very important in Ukraine's energy. Therefore, the Opposition Block will be the first to support the bill. Well, I'm asking that we meet the requirements for amendments before second reading, so that they can be taken into account and these amendments will enable us not to aggravate the state of the law. I therefore support: to adopt and prepare and adopt, on second reading, as amended. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-04-m1.u85	Thank you. Please, Markevich, National Deputy, Self-Help.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-04-m1.u86	Please give the floor to my colleague Pidlisecki.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-04-m1.u87	Please, People's Deputy Podlisecki, Self-Help.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-04-m1.u88	People's Deputy Podlisecki, Self-Help faction. Dear colleagues, I urge everyone to support the bill in the first reading, to work on the second reading. And I'd like to pay attention to Mrs. Queen and all that. Who called the bill technical. It's so technical that every day Mr. Klue gets 8 million dollars a day through his solar power plants. So this is so technical about the bill. And this bill is the first step towards declavising Ukraine's economy. So we're giving it a chance. We don't let him make any more money. The second question. We canceled, we found an opportunity to do that by canceling the so-called peak load coefficient. All you have to do is think. The solar power plant has introduced a peak load coefficient, where the sun is actually in peak hours in the morning or at night, but it uses a factor of 1.8 for solar stations. In this bill, this peak coefficient was abolished until January 1, 2017. I will urge everyone to support the difference in the peak coefficient until 2030, and in the second reading, I will actually vote that way. As for the local ingredient, indeed, as Mr. Dombrowski said, a decommissioned duty from the local ingredient has been introduced, but a completely new scheme has been introduced to stimulate the use of local ingredients for production. Exactly. If there are 30 percent of the local ingredient, the ratio increases by 5 percent and 50 percent locally.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-04-m1.u89	Please, 10 seconds. Finish up. Undergraduate,
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-04-m1.u90	Thank you. And 50 percent of the local component is increasing by 10 percent. So I urge everyone to vote unanimously in favour of this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-04-m1.u91	Thank you. Please, Sergey Leschenko, Peter Dusty Block. One minute and we'll go to the vote for this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-04-m1.u92	Thank you. Indeed, this bill gives justice. Because when he was Janukovic, and even before when they were in Parliament, they set themselves a cloudy green tariff. This is the business where they make hundreds of millions. And this law reduces at least half their earnings. So this green tariff is going to be reduced by at least a year and a half. But our task, not for a year and a half, is to bring it back to normal for the entire duration of the Green Tariff Act. So we're voting now, and we're putting in a second reading or a further consideration of the bill, new amendments so that this green tariff is really what it should be, not cloudy, as it was done in the corrupt conspiracies of Yanukovich and Clovis. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-04-m1.u93	Thank you. Mikhail Golovko, one minute. People's deputies please take up their jobs. We will now vote in favour of this important law.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-04-m1.u94	Thank you, Vladimir Borisovich. Mikhail Golovko, the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union. I mean, it's too bad we're considering this law so late. Because our political power registered such a bill in December, and we will, of course, support it. But in general, I wanted to speak on a completely different subject. Because, unfortunately, I don't get a word. That's what hurts a lot of Ukrainians, our peasants. Law on raising the price of milk 2089 and 2089-1. Now millions of people are looking and believing, and hopefully eventually the Supreme Council will come back to people's faces. And I urge you to support me. Because people work hard, rub their bees to survive. And today holding a cow is totally awkward. And milk costs 2 bracelets, 2.50 tops! People start giving up cows and cutting up. In the past year, 9 percent of cattle were slaughtered! It's basically death for the village! I call upon these bills, which are in order of the day, to vote and support them so that we can move them up in order. And I urge the factions of the People's Front and Self-Help not to block this issue, but eventually to raise and vote and show whether you're human. Whether you support the village or not. Thank you! Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-04-m1.u95	Please, from the faction of the Radical Party Yuri Chizmar.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-04-m1.u96	Yuri Chizmar, faction of the Radical Party. Dear colleagues! The law that we are currently considering clearly refers to the perspective of the Ukrainian economy -- the alternative energy that we need to develop. Because even this Roma, we've had a break in the balance of electricity and we've been buying energy from abroad. But energy must not be a corrupt component of the Ukrainian economy. And the situation that today is in solar energy, where we're reducing tariffs by this law, is that we've finally come to deligarchize the economy of Ukraine, to trim the corruption components, where the state has built a mass of generating companies, where money has been allocated from the state budget over 400 million irreversibly to connect, which has not been done for any generating company. That's why we think that energy should be a promising sector of the Ukrainian economy, but it has to be completely cleared of the corruption component of the former Yanukovic regime and its counterparts. A radical faction will support this law and call for it.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-04-m1.u97	Ten seconds, complete. Ladies and gentlemen, please take your seats. We're getting ready to vote. [[B in m in s a l in]] Ladies and gentlemen, please take your seats, prepare for the vote. [[B in m in s a l in]] National Deputy Katzer-Buchkowska of the People's Front faction. Wait a minute. We're getting ready to vote, colleagues.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-04-m1.u98	Dear colleagues, I also wanted to speak from the People's Front and say that this bill should be supported by all the halls. Since this is not only an advantage that my colleagues have pointed out and I will not repeat myself, but it is also part of the Euro-energy integration and the fulfilment of our obligations to our European partners. Because Ukraine has committed itself to increasing the share of green energy to 11 percent by 2020. And that is our obligation, and we must follow them. The demonopolization of that market is also very important for Ukraine, since the market has been closed to this day. We should also point out that the adoption of this law will allow for the balancing of tariffs and the possibility of replacing natural gas in Ukraine. We're constantly importing gas from Russia, and we have huge opportunities to make biogas out of biomass, and also to replace expensive Russian gas with cheaper gas made from alternative sources. So I ask you all to support this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-04-m1.u99	Thank you. I understand that there was a proposal to support the bill, and that was the end of the speech. Thank you, Your Honor. Please submit a draft law (registration number 2010-d) to your vote. Draft Act amending certain Ukrainian laws on competitive conditions for the production of electricity from alternative sources of energy. There is a proposal to vote on this bill on the basis of the committee's proposals. Based on the base. 2010d based. Vote, colleagues, 2010-d as a base. Based on the base. [[17:43:13]] For 284 [[B in m in s a l in]] Look, colleagues, if you want to shout or sing chorus, you need to go out and sing. So I want to tell you the next thing. The Self-Help faction, the Obstetrics, Fatherland, do you support as a whole? Well, you see, if there's a denial, we read the Rules. Colleagues, there's a friend's offer. Here's the next offer. There is a next proposal to vote on the simplified procedure for preparing the second reading. And so we are then. We've got a week. So we're a week away. Then we will make a week of preparation and vote on the second reading. Minister. [[B in m in s a l in]] Well, do you want a warning? Look, colleagues, once again, there's a denial of at least two factions. If there's a denial of at least one MP, we can't put it. [[B in m in s a l in]] You don't? Colleagues, that's all. Minister Demchishin.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-04-m1.u100	Dear National Deputies! Vladimir Borisovich, thank you so much for saying this. In fact, the bill has been discussed for quite some time. And I think at this point, most of the deputies, including. Most deputies support him. He was fully supported by the PEKovsky Committee. This law is needed, it will allow you to save up to the end of the year a billion dollars for the energy market, to fill the market. These are substantial costs that will allow for balancing the energy market. Moreover, today, during this meeting, much has been said that this will allow justice to be levelled in the market for alternative energy. Moreover, by lowering the tariff, we, surprisingly, encourage investors to enter this market. Because there will be no risk of tariffs falling. This bill is going to set the base for the next 3-5 years, and it will allow us to actually develop this segment that is very important to Ukrainian energy. So I propose to uphold this law as a whole. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-04-m1.u101	Thank you, Your Honor. Please, the author of the law, the first deputy chairman of the committee, Alexander Dombrowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-04-m1.u102	Dear colleagues, I want to say that the 2010 Bill was a very long, very systematic and deep work, and all the factions, and the government, and the Minpolivenergo, and the NCRE, and the entire energy community, all the associations. In fact, for today’s bill is ready for voting in general. And I think it's the right thing to do if we vote it out in general, because Ukraine is waiting for this law. If, after some time, we need as the Supreme Council to amend this bill, we will be able to return to this bill at any time. I propose to vote on it as a whole. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-04-m1.u103	Dear colleagues, please take your places to vote. There is a proposal for the Ukrainian National MP to put this bill to the vote as a whole, so I will now make a proposal twice. First: a proposal by the national MP of Dombrovski to make ad hoc and vote on the bill as a whole. Dombrowski's first proposal is ad hoc to vote in general. Please identify the people's deputies of Ukraine, please identify yourself on this draft law as a whole. [[17:47:38]] For 259. The Ukrainian Parliament, by an absolute majority, supported the proposal of the national MP, Dombrovski, to vote on the draft law as a whole. That's why I'm putting this proposal, which is supported by Parliament, to a vote, please. 2010 as a whole, please vote. [[17:48:08]] For 273 Now it's legal. You see, no screams, but a round of applause. Thank you, Your Honor, for your decision. Let's move on. 2956 is a draft law amending the Ukrainian Act on the introduction of a moratorium on the enforcement of property. Head of the Billows Holding Fund. The reporter suggested that the draft law be examined in a simplified manner. Please identify yourself with regard to consideration of the reduced procedure. [[17:48:56]] For 171 Decision taken, my dear fellows. Please report. I would like to inform you that the draft law of 1831 amending some of the Ukrainian laws on transparency of media property, prepared by the committee, is the conclusion of the committee and we will consider it after the law. Please, Igor Billows.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-04-m1.u104	Igor Billows, the holding fund. The President-in-Office, honourable national deputies, for consideration by the Supreme Council of Ukraine, is presented a draft law amending the Ukrainian Law on the introduction of a moratorium on the enforcement of property, i.e. on mechanisms of influence on business borrowers (registration number 2956) since 25.05.2015. The proposed Ukrainian Act amending the Ukrainian Act on the introduction of a moratorium on the enforcement of property is prepared to ensure the implementation of paragraph 23E of the memorandum on economic and financial policy to stabilise the financial situation of the National Shareholder Company Naftogaz Ukraine and is a logical continuation of Parliament-backed policies aimed at repaying the debt owed to Naftogaz Ukraine for the natural gas used. The indebtedness of enterprises and the Commonwealth of State ownership before Naftogaz Ukraine is about one and a half billion dollars, stockholders in statutory funds, with at least 25 percent of the nation's shareholding, about 5.5 billion dollars. However, the company has been deprived of effective instruments for the collection of debt and mechanisms of influence on business-traders, to which the Ukrainian Act on the introduction of a moratorium on the enforcement of property is extended, including state-owned enterprises and companies with a government share of at least 25 percent of statutory capital. Given the critical level of consumer debt to the company for natural gas consumption and taking into account the need for guaranteed security of Ukraine's natural gas consumers, it is necessary, at the legislative level, to address the issues of economic and energy security protection, and to identify effective instruments to raise debt in order to improve the financial situation of Naftogaz in Ukraine, to complement the Ukrainian Law on the introduction of a Moratorium for Forced Realisation of Property with a new part "to limit the moratorium on the alienation of the assets of the debtors to Naftogaz" of Ukraine and its subsidiaries that have implemented the provision of natural gas on the basis of a licence. The adoption of the law will make it possible to improve the financial situation of NAC Naftogaz Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-04-m1.u105	Please, go ahead.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-04-m1.u106	By reducing the debt to the company for the natural gas consumed. Please support this bill as a whole. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-04-m1.u107	Thank you. Please take your place. Please report to the committee on economic policy, Mr. Andry Volodymyrovich Ivanchuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-04-m1.u108	Dear Mr. Head! Dear National Deputies! The Economic Policy Committee considered Bill 2956 on June 3 at its meeting. And this is a bill like this that we've already looked at in Parliament's walls, and then we didn't have a few votes. But what I would like to say is that this bill is necessary for Ukraine's cooperation with the International Monetary Fund. Because the International Monetary Fund considers one of the key tasks before Ukraine is to stabilise the financial situation of NAC Naftogaz Ukraine. The bill further allows the National Stockholder Company Naftogaz Ukraine to balance its financial situation, to collect that debt that was created artificially in most cases and does not return to the state company without justification. So I ask the distinguished National Deputies to return to the Hall, and because we are now working with the International Monetary Fund, we expect a second tranche -- to support the government's initiative on the basis and in general. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-04-m1.u109	Thank you. Please sign two for, two against. People's deputy, Ednak.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-04-m1.u110	Please pass on the word Vojtsiecki.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-04-m1.u111	Please, P.O. Vojcitsky, Self-Help.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-04-m1.u112	Dear colleagues, we suggest that our Self-Help faction, with this bill, do the same as we did the bill on receivables under Naftogaz. It's not a work in progress that raises huge questions about what the Naftogazu subsidiaries are also involved in. That's why we're proposing to finalize this bill together with the MP Corps and make it quality. Today we support him in the way he is now, we will not.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-04-m1.u113	Please, Gennady Tchacouk, Peter Dust Block.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-04-m1.u114	Please pass the word to Lucenjak Mikola.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-04-m1.u115	Gennady Tchakouk, please. People's Deputy Doubenkov, Opposition Block.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-04-m1.u116	Please pass the word to Gusak Volodymyr Georgiyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-04-m1.u117	Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-04-m1.u118	Vladimir Gusak, Opposition Block. First of all, we would like to draw attention to today's constant violation of the Rules, particularly the proposal that we may no longer have to vote on the reduced procedure. Because before lunch, there was a violent case when a discussion of the bill was put into a reduced procedure, but the chairman did not support it, but the chairman considered it, and all of them held a discussion on a simplified procedure without being able to ask the rapporteurs of the bill. So we can no longer vote. With regard to this bill, respectable colleagues, its adoption in the present form will lead to the loss of hot water where it is in the summer and the loss of heat in the winter. Because the biggest debtors of NAC Naftogaz Ukraine are the thermalcommunergo enterprises and the enforcement of their assets will make heating and hot water impossible. And the Opposition Block won't vote for it today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-04-m1.u119	Thank you. Please, Vlasenko Sergey Volodymyrovich, faction of Fatherland.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-04-m1.u120	Thank you, Your Honor Chairman. Well, first of all, I'd like to point out that the "Fatherland" faction didn't support the inclusion or promotion of those five bills because of Bill 2956. This law allows for a hidden privatization of thermalcommunergo enterprises. I have a simple question: should I address the issue of repayment of debts to NAC Naftogaz Ukraine? Of course you do. Should this be resolved in the way proposed in this bill? This is not the only way to do it, but it is a crime. So I would like to advise the drafters of the bill to find an opportunity to work together with the MPs on this issue. To invent a mechanism that would ensure not only the NAC of Naftogaz Ukraine, but also the inability to privatize those enterprises that NAC wants to borrow from. And I think in this way, once this bill is finalized by the authors, it can be supported in this room. The way it is to accept it -- I emphasize once again -- is impossible in principle, because. Even on the ground, because between the first and the second readings under our Rules, we have no possibility of changing the conceptual principles of the respective bills. And this bill needs conceptual change. Then again, I urge the Hall to support the decision to return this bill to the authors for further work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-04-m1.u121	Dear fellow national MPs! Welcome to Yuri Lewchenk's word. Wait a minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-04-m1.u122	Lewchenko, Freedom, 223 District, Kiev City. Unfortunately, even though the President said in his letter to the Supreme Council today that he was against privatizing strategic enterprises, we see constant efforts, in fact, to privatize strategic enterprises in this room. You know, it doesn't work, we block, they try differently. Heat - supply enterprises, heat - generation companies, are strategic enterprises for the state. They cannot be privatized either directly or in secret. And this bill proposes a hidden privatization of such enterprises. So, please tell me, if there's a government debt before Naftogaz and Naftogaz gets the property of this state-owned enterprise, what, its debt is automatically repaid? [[B in m in s a l in]] No! No! The debt will only be repaid if the property of this business is sold to someone and the money is paid for it. Then the debt will be paid off. So there's clearly a desire through this bill simply to privatize the mass of state-owned enterprises the warmth of the generation. We are definitely against this bill!
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-04-m1.u123	Alona Babak, Self-help. Wait a minute. Please take your seats, we'll vote. I'm paying attention to the law.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-04-m1.u124	Dear National Deputies! Babak Alona, Self-Help faction. The Self-Help faction thinks it's not a secret privatization. Because it's about one state-owned enterprise taking up compulsory debts in other state-owned enterprises. Because changes are being made to article 1 of the Law on the Moratorium for Forced Acquisition of Property. But in this law we clearly do not see the procedure of this compulsion. That is why we would like to work in the working group before the law comes back in Parliament. And that's what we insist on.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-04-m1.u125	Thank you. Dear colleagues! We discussed this bill, expressed our positions. Here's the deal. Let's focus now. The issue is the adoption of this law as a basis. I'll put it to a vote. If we see that we do not get the required number of votes, we will return to his consideration on the next plenary day as discussed. Colleagues, please take your places to vote. I'm betting on a vote on adoption based on draft law, registration number 2956, on a basis. Signal, signal on the base. Please be sure it's an emergency. The basis of speech is just the basis. Signal vote. [[18:02:50]] For 175 I don't see voices, no voices. Dear colleagues. [[B in m in s a l in]] Dear colleagues, there are no votes. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to inform you that we have concluded the meetings of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. We now have the 18th hour of three minutes. I declare the evening meeting of the Supreme Council closed. There will be a meeting of the Supreme Council tomorrow at 10 a.m. Thank you, Your Honor.
