ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-05-m0.u1	Good morning, fellow countrymen! Please take your seats. Please, everyone, please take your seats. We can start our session. Ladies and gentlemen, please take your seats. Please turn on the "Council" system to register the national MPs. [[10:16:40]] 297 people's deputies. I declare the morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine open. Ladies and gentlemen, before we begin our consideration of the agenda, I would like to inform you that yesterday a special meeting was held for reform before the President of Ukraine for the presence of factions, committees, government, heads of government, where we have considered a number of issues, including electronic governance, including deregulation and many other possible issues regarding reforms in the country. One of the issues I presented was the legislative plan for our joint work, our honourable colleagues, to carry out reforms in the country. It has seven chapters, 44 points and is based on the Coalition Agreement, the Association Agreement with the European Union, the Programme of Action of the Government that we have approved with you, and it needs to be worked out in committees, factions, coalitions, parliamentary groups in order to create a single plan for the systematic work of our legislative work. Today I'm going to send it to you, and I'm going to thank you for working out this plan, for including proposals that are going to be important, and on the basis of this plan, we're going to systematically build work on our legislation. We're going to make groups of groups of people in each chapter: economics, social policy, the defence sector, decentralization, many other issues that we need to address. We all realize that we do not have much time for reforms. And part of the reform work is before the Ukrainian Parliament. So our work needs to be brought together and planned, which is very important for us to move away from the practice of enacting Ukrainian laws with rights, with parts, and move on to serious legislative work. I would also like to inform you that there is a process of decentralization of power. And you know that the President of Ukraine has issued a decree on the creation of a commission that will work on the text of the Constitution, which will be sufficiently inclusive, the commission itself, because there will also be factions of Parliament necessarily, the expert environment, in order to take into account the proposal of the Venice Commission, the experience of our colleagues has been made by the qualitative changes in decentralization and constitutional reform in this part. By order of the President, I have been asked to lead this work. And you know, I've accepted this proposal before: we're going to work with you on this issue. In particular, I would like to point out that the government has also dealt with the issue of decentralization. We realize that we have taken steps, including financial decentralization. In particular, on Monday, when we voted on the IMF's economic laws here, we voted with you to amend the Budget Code, the Tax Code, which allows for the full financing of all the costs of villages, villages and small towns in Ukraine. But we need to move on in order to do our utmost to strengthen local self - government and to carry out serious sign reforms in our country. So it was decided by the Joint President, the government, that an Expert Working Group had been set up on the basis of Parliament, with the participation of the President's Administration, on the basis of the establishment of an Expert Working Group on the decentralization of power in Ukraine. And I'm going to take care of this with you. So I think we have a lot of questions ahead of us about decentralization in 2015. I wanted to inform you, dear colleagues. And now we're moving on to the day-to-day issues. Bill No. 2269: Draft Act on the Number of Armed Forces of Ukraine. Reported Deputy Defence Minister Peter Mikolaiovich Mehad. There is a proposal by the rapporteur to consider the bill. There's an offer to look into the committee a little later, isn't there? Then Bill 2171: Act amending certain laws of Ukraine concerning access to public information in the form of public data. Reported to the deputy head of the Ukrainian President's Office, Dmitry Shimkow. There was also a proposal to consider this bill in a simplified way. Please be prepared, fellow members of the national MPs. And I would like to ask you to determine how this bill is to be reviewed by a reduced procedure. The Secretariat would like to invite members of the people to the hall and the deputies to take their seats. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. [[10:22:10]] For-166 Decision taken. Please report by Dmitry Anatoliyovich, deputy head of the President's Administration. Please, Dmitri Anatolyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-05-m0.u2	Dear Volodymyr Borisovich! Dear National Deputies! At the request of the President of Ukraine today, you are invited to adopt a draft Ukrainian Law amending certain Ukrainian laws on access to public information in the form of "discovered data". This bill is part of a legislative package of information reforms called Digital Ukraine. What are the key positions of this bill? First. Open Data is one of the key elements in the fight against corruption and bureaucracy. The bill provides for the publication of information from public registers of public organizations, information from the Single State Register of Legal and Physical Persons, general plans for population sites, and detailed plans for territory, the Register of State Property Objects, and so on. This bill is, which I represent, as foreseen by the 2014-2017 Anti-Corruption Strategy, approved by the previous Parliament. The other one. The draft fully complies with the rules of the European Union, as well as EU Directive 2013/37/EU of 26 June 2014, which obliges Member States to provide all information and its reuse. This initiative, which we are presenting today, is supported by public organizations, experts in support of the UN and the Danish Ministry of Foreign Affairs. Most importantly, the publication of data in the open data format allows Ukrainian developers to analyze, process and make decisions in electronic format. And finally. Creating a transparent system where data about government decisions can be analyzed helps make the country transparent. And I ask you to support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-05-m0.u3	Thank you. Please report to the head of the Committee on Freedom of Speech, the information of Victoria Sumar. Victoria Sumar. Let's write two in favour, two in the opposite, then there'll be a committee head's report. "Peter Prashenko's Block", national deputy Jurinec.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-05-m0.u4	Please pass the word to Olga Belkovi.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-05-m0.u5	Dear colleagues, we certainly welcome the initiative of the President and President's Administration to join the world trend in providing data in the form of open data. This bill will allow not only Ukrainian citizens but also experts and business representatives to join all world trends. Open data allows each of us today to obtain the necessary information from registers, to build our own business and personal decisions on the basis of open data. We welcome this initiative and this bill, and the ones that will follow it, and we will support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-05-m0.u6	Thank you. Please, Radical Party, National Deputy Koseljeva. Cooper, National Deputy, Radical Party.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-05-m0.u7	Hey, buddy.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-05-m0.u8	Oleg Kuprienko, the Radical Party of Oleg Laska, Chernigu. Finally, Ukrainian citizens will be given access to these projects, including those of criminal decisions that are being made quietly by city councils, district councils, district councils. But there is one small nuance in this bill. It will be the only portal where everyone has to provide information, and the information is disabled, that is, exclude the names from there. This is a very large amount of work. According to the Final Orders, the law has become effective since publication, and Kabmin is given 3 months to bring his acts into conformity. Then it's time to create this government portal. And people will come to this portal and try to get information. So I think it's appropriate for the law to write out how long this portal is going to work. For example, four months after the law was published. And then all the authorities of the state, of the local government, will be able to get the information there, and there will be no dissatisfaction of people who, once the law is in force, will try to get the information, not get it because it's not ready. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-05-m0.u9	Thank you. Please, National Deputy Abdullin, Fatherland.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-05-m0.u10	I ask you to pass the word to Vadim Ivchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-05-m0.u11	Vadim Ivchenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-05-m0.u12	Dear Ukrainians, honourable Members, we support this bill to amend certain Ukrainian laws regarding access to public information. Our people need to know where the taxpayers' money is spent. But most importantly, in order for us to be open, I ask the Head of the Supreme Council to open today directly to those who have arrived today. I want to thank them. There, colleagues, are standing just like you and I, heads of local self-government. There are small cities, rural and rural heads, there are leaders who are also elected by the people. They came today to support the bill that was drafted by the coalition. Colleagues, I ask that they receive today, now include information on how the session is going on, the broadcast of the Supreme Council as they hold a session in the area so that they can hear every faction, hear every deputy, hear every position on the draft legislation on the return of land, on the bill on the financial capacity of local government on some of the bills on strengthening the financial capacity of local self-government bodies. Vladimir Borisovich, please, and these bills are in order of the day, and they will be considered immediately after our break at 12:30. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-05-m0.u13	Please, factions that did not participate in the discussion. Oleg Beresuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-05-m0.u14	Ladies and gentlemen, Your Honor, may I have your attention? The Self-Help faction wants to make a little statement right now. The statement is that 11 or 13 daily bills appeared in order yesterday at 11 p.m. The faction finished its work at 10 p.m. We just didn't see them physically. So even if there are good ones, and there are good bills among them, particularly this bill that we're talking about, which we've been working on, we're not going to vote for these bills. There's no reason to vote for them, no reason to do it in such a vulgar way. Excuse me, but this is our principle position. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-05-m0.u15	Thank you. Oleg Lazko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-05-m0.u16	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. I want to support my colleague, the self-help faction leader, Oleg Beresuk. We have a procedure to follow in Parliament. The procedure for us is the Rules of Procedure Act, this is our Parliamentary Bible. And so we have to follow it, and the laws have to be considered according to procedure, so that we don't have to have any questions that we're adopting laws, and in two days we're changing them, because someone didn't read and looked. We know that the Head of the Supreme Council, Vladimir Groissman, is the best Head of all time and peoples. But this does not preclude the observance of the parliamentary procedure, it does not prevent us from acting in accordance with the requirements of our Law on the Rules. Therefore, honourable colleagues, we act according to the law and the people will finally see that there are people in Parliament who show themselves to be examples of compliance with the Law and the Constitution of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-05-m0.u17	Thank you. Nestor Schuffrich.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-05-m0.u18	Thank you. Dear Chairman, dear colleagues! A lot of complaints and it's us, the national deputies of Ukraine, that we're hiding something there, that we don't want to tell anyone. It's this law that's a step towards people being able to know about the actions of power. And to tell you the truth, I'm a little bit surprised that our colleagues, who are always yelling that everyone should know about everything, are now avoiding the adoption of this law, hiding at certain procedural moments. If this law has been discussed in the committee, we must now vote on putting it into the agenda, and we have the opportunity to vote immediately. That is why we now urge the Supreme Council of Ukraine to be responsible and not to be afraid of information about themselves, loved ones, but to give it to people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-05-m0.u19	Thank you. Dear colleagues, look, the bills that have been submitted, they've been discussed on the committees according to. Those who have passed the bill by the President, they are, they are being considered immediately. As far as the procedure is concerned, the procedure is open because they have been considered by the committee. I would also like to point out that honourable colleagues, an extremely important bill, and it is introduced in the first reading. So what we're talking about is that we can now spend time looking at it, talking about it. If you need extra time, please don't ask any questions. But as for today's Open Data Bill, well, it's obviously necessary, obviously understandable, it's supported by the entire expertise. I mean, it's not like we're gonna be locked up there, but we need to be open. If it takes more time to get to know him – let's get to know him, let's talk more – let's talk about him, but that's no reason to move him there today or not. If there are any warnings that are serious about the bill, let's talk about it, let's move it, there are no questions. I invite you to speak to the head of the profile committee, Victoria Sumar.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-05-m0.u20	Dear colleagues, well, I honestly don't quite understand why these documents raised questions. Because our committee considered it on Friday, it did not meet during the sessional week, because the president brought it in as a front row. It was all on the site, it was designed by the Reform Council. This is a bill that was drafted by the public by a resuscitation package of reforms for the amendment of the Public Information Act. It just refines it and makes it much more detailed. In particular, what concerns 2172 is changes to the Budget Code. What does that mean? There's one single issue about publishing on the open web portal of budget software passports. Colleagues, what are passports for budget programs? These are documents that hold full information about the purpose of budget planning, about the objectives, about the tasks. And on the basis of these passports, you can monitor the implementation of budgets at all levels. So this is actually called for full disclosure of information, in particular in terms of budget planning, so it's a completely reformative bill. I don't know what his warning might be. Because it's also the requirements of international organizations and it's actually the demands of the public, and it's absolutely what supports philosophy, I think, the parliamentary coalition. The committee therefore adopted a unanimous decision on support for 2,172. The committee’s only warning, and this is stated in the committee’s decree, combine this with the consideration of Law 0949, which was signed by the President. Because it's about creating a special website on which this open data will be published. But in 0949 we've already created such a single resource of all public information. This needs to be brought together to be the only site where data is open and so on.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-05-m0.u21	Don't limit it, let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-05-m0.u22	Ten seconds. And the money, what we call public finances. And here we're going to take a huge step forward on openness. The initiative of the President is proposed by the Committee to endorse, as a whole, position 0949. No, based on the basis of work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-05-m0.u23	Thank you, Victoria Petrovna. Dear colleagues, the law is really important. Let us consider it in the first reading. It's about open data to be as public and transparent as possible. If there is a question of preparation for second reading, there will be a table, there will be revisions, something will be taken into account by parliament deputies, something not counted. So I ask, fellow national MPs, all to take their seats and prepare for the vote. Please, Your Honor, please take your seats and prepare for the vote. Please invite the deputies to the voting room. Dear colleagues, ready to vote? Bill No. 2171, the draft Act amending certain laws of Ukraine regarding access to public information in the form of open data, is before you. Colleagues, prepare, please, this is the transparency and transparency of the data. Please vote on the basis of this bill, on the basis. On the basis of that, respectable colleagues. [[10:38:58]] For 243 Decision taken. The factions. Thank you, Your Honor. Let's move on. Bill registration number. The factions? Please. "Prashenka Block" – 104, "The People's Front" – 55, "The Opposition Block" – 18, "The Self-Help" – 1, "The Radical Party – 18, "The Fatherland" – 14, "The will of the people" – 7, "The Economic Development" – 9, "the non-fractional – 17. Let's move on. Bill 2187, please. [[B in m in s a l in]] Colleagues, if it takes more time to talk, let's talk. But that is no reason to stop voting on drafts. Draft Act amending article 73 of the Code of Laws on the Work of Ukraine (for the establishment of the Day of the Festival – Day of the Defender of Ukraine). Registration number 2187. 2187. 2187. There is a proposal by the rapporteur, the representative of President Stepan Ivanovich Kubiv, to consider this bill in a simplified manner. Please determine how to view it using a reduced procedure. [[10:40:57]] For a hundred and Please, Stepan Kubi.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-05-m0.u24	Dear Ukrainian people! Dear National Deputies! In accordance with article 93 of the Constitution, the President of Ukraine introduced a bill to the Supreme Council amending article 73 of the Ukrainian Labour Code and defined this law as an urgent matter for further consideration. I remind everyone that on October 14, 2014, a Presidential Decree was issued setting up the Motherland Defender's Day. The President's decree of February 23, 1999 at number 202, "On the Day of the Protector of the Motherland" has been annulled. So "February 23" will go into history when the day of the army that Ukraine and the Ukrainian people fight against becomes a foreign holiday. The bill proposes to include in the list of holidays and non-working days, the Day of Protector of Ukraine on October 14th. Because the 14th of October is a symbolic festival, a festival of the patronage of the Ukrainian people, a festival of the patronage of the Cossacks, a symbol that will absolutely help the will of the people to strengthen even more as we celebrate the Day of the Soviet Army. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-05-m0.u25	Thank you. Please write down a co-reporter for Vassil. Head of the Committee on Social Policy, Alexander Valeriovich Drozdik Please come to the rostrum.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-05-m0.u26	On March 4, 2015, the Committee on Social Policy, Employment and Pensions considered a bill under registration number 2187 submitted by the President of Ukraine. The bill proposes to amend article 73 of the Labour Code and to establish an additional weekend – October 14, Ukraine’s Defender’s Day. According to the Committee for the Establishment of the Day of Protector of Ukraine, October 14 shows the State's respect for people who defend their state, protect the territorial integrity, independence and sovereignty of Ukraine. Therefore, the committee at its meeting supported the bill and considered it necessary to accept it as a basis and as a whole. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-05-m0.u27	Ladies and gentlemen, please sign up for two, two for one, two for the other, please. People's MP Moseschuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-05-m0.u28	Dear Ukrainian people, the Ukrainian Parliament! The Radical Party faction absolutely supports the President's initiative to transfer Ukrainian Army Day to October 14th. It's not just Cover Day, and it's not Cossack Day, it's Ukrainian Insurgency Army Day. And it is symbolic that this decision will be taken today by Parliament, because exactly 65 years ago, the Chief Commander of the Ukrainian Insurgency Army, the father of our colleague Yuri Suhevich, Roman Suhevich, was in unequal combat with the forces of the NCSC. Please honor the memory of the Chief of Staff of the UPA for a moment of silence. [[A Minute of Silence]] Thank you. Hence, the need has matured long ago in this festival. Therefore, to show support, the link between generations of Cossacks, Sagittarius, the Ukrainian rebel army, we can now vote. And I would ask Parliament to focus and give the maximum number of votes for this historic decision. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-05-m0.u29	National MP Condratiuk, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-05-m0.u30	Igor Lucenko, please. Lucenka Igoru, please pass on the word.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-05-m0.u31	Please, Igor Lucenka.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-05-m0.u32	Respectable Society! October 14 was always a folk festival, always celebrated in a cheerful and fighting atmosphere! It has always been a celebration of the struggle against occupation, whether internal or external. I must say that on October 14, 2013, two of the deputies here in this room were partisan raided by Yanukovic and destroyed one of his excruciating surpluses. It's just a little episode that actually predicted what would happen next. Shots fired, the bloody essence of Yanukovich and so on. Everything we have now is being updated in this festival. Therefore, knowing that we have a struggle today and, above all, a spiritual fight against external captivity, we have our basic obligation to honor this festival properly in these parliamentary walls. Even though it is, believe me, it will live without our help. But with our help, we will show that our present state is in line with the high desire of those who have fought for centuries for our freedom! Therefore, we clearly advocate that this decision should be made today. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-05-m0.u33	Thank you. Please, Mikola Tomenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-05-m0.u34	Dear colleagues! I think we need to involve historians and professionals in order to optimize and organize the system of national and national holidays once. And so that they do not return in specific positions, although certainly today’s decision is extremely important and must be voted for. What do I mean? Whenever we were in the Supreme Council in the previous convening, we were concerned about the subject of national and national festivals, and we were associated with the norm that, in a social sense, in labour law, talked about the fact that we cannot increase or reduce the number. I think it's a formal situation. But anyway, it provokes us to talk about that we're probably in China alone, and I can't remember right now, we're celebrating an international labor day for two days. It's some kind of misunderstanding. And obviously, if our expert experts agree that May 1st is still necessary, we have to take the second May as a holiday. In general, the holiday system, so our analysis shows that we celebrate the most in the world, especially with the holiday system. So in support of Ukraine's Defender's Day, we need to organize a common system, and we need to do it not by politicians, not by the President's Administration, but by experts. The second thesis is extremely important. And here I am the experts who have been preparing the President's decree, and I want to commend that we are finally getting the right position as Ukraine's advocates' day. The whole terminology that is connected to the country, the country science and so on is basically a Soviet, communist terminology that we have to forget. There is no native science. There's national science, there's national schools. Likewise, there can be no festival of protection there by the Fatherland. There is protection of Ukraine as a state. So, my friends, we support this initiative. It is Ukrainian, correct, and historical.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-05-m0.u35	Please, Paul Kishkar, "self-help." Then there's the Medunica National Deputy, the People's Front.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-05-m0.u36	The faction of the self-help political party strongly supports such an initiative. However, given the economic factor of the concept of "exit day," we will insist that, in the final consideration of this bill, this day be defined as a holiday but not a weekend. Because one weekend for our economy is half of our gross domestic product, about. Therefore, in view of the historical roots of this day, the Day of Ukrainian Cossacks, the Day of Remembrance of UPA warriors, we strongly support such an initiative, but we define it as a holiday. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-05-m0.u37	People's MP Medunica, People's Front.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-05-m0.u38	Dear Ukrainians, distinguished national MPs! The People's Front faction, of course, supports this legislative norm, and we unanimously vote in favour of the holiday day of October 14th, this is the Festival of Cover the Great Christian. The cover has always been the protector of the Ukrainian army. And we have to stop living behind Soviet bars. And that holiday, which someone once celebrated on February 23, the Day of Protector of the so - called Soviet Motherland, is to be established in Ukraine on October 14. At the same time, we want to pay attention to the atheisms that have been left to us in connection with these so - called holiday weekends. Now we don't understand why we have to rest on Monday if the holiday day, for example, falls on the weekend of Saturday or Sunday. Of course, this rule should be repealed. We don't understand why the holidays are left on May 1, 2. Let me remind you, May 1st.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-05-m0.u39	Let me finish, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-05-m0.u40	Let me finish. On May 1st, the festival was celebrated in two major countries: Fascist Germany and the Soviet Union. That is why this festival must be canceled. It's the same thing as May 9th. The whole world celebrates a certain date of the end of World War II, and only for some reason do we celebrate this May 9th. So this sector needs to be reformed further. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-05-m0.u41	Thank you. Please, Andrew Illenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-05-m0.u42	Andrew Illenko, The All-Ukrainian Freedom Union. Dear colleagues, of course, need to be as supportive as possible of the decision as it is a restoration of historical justice. October 14 is the real Day of the Protector of Ukraine, it's the Day of Cossacks, it's the Day of Protection, it's the day of the creation of the Ukrainian rebel army, it's the day that Ukrainian patriots have always been on a multi-million-dollar march in Ukraine, especially that Freedom has organized. And even then, it was 10 years ago, when not so many people were still coming out, when there were great oppositions to these marches, but they were happening. And as a result, today we see that in Parliament, at last, we will vote for this day to be a holiday day. It is a great victory and a great restoration of historical justice. But last but not least, I would like to urge the President of Ukraine to restore historical justice in the same way and to return the title of "Heroy of Ukraine" to Stephen Bandery and Roman Shuhevich. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-05-m0.u43	Please, your fellow national MPs, please take your seats, we may proceed to the vote. The draft Act amending article 73 of the Ukrainian Labour Code for the Day of the Defender of Ukraine (Registration No. 2187). Please prepare for the vote and vote on the basis and in general. On the basis and in general. [[B in m in s a l in]] [[10:55:54]] For 244 Thank you, Your Honor. The factions, please. Thank you. Dear colleagues, you are being reviewed by the bill (registration number 2172) of the draft Act amending article 28 of the Ukrainian Code of Budget on Access to Information on Budget Indicators in the Format of Open Data. We voted with you 2171, this is the law in addition to the law that was passed. There is an offer by the reporter to consider it as a reduced procedure. I'd like you to identify your fellow members of the People's Deputies. [[10:57:12]] For 205 Decision taken. Please report. Shimkov Dmitry Anatoliyovich, deputy head of the Ukrainian Presidential Administration.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-05-m0.u44	Dear National Deputies! This bill, 2172, is an addition to Bill 2171 and relates directly to the budget, and is amended to Article 28 of the Ukrainian Budget Code on Access to Information on Budget Indicators in the Format of Open Data. The key provisions of this bill relate to openness, as already noted. According to an analysis of the budget opening survey. Ukraine moved 35 places in 2012 after 19 seats in 2010. For 2014, data are not yet published, but the closure and opacity of the Ukrainian budget, particularly for use in public analysis, are noted by international organizations, international institutions. Thus, on many issues we do not implement the EU directive, on many issues of budgetary transparency we do not respond to a request from the Ukrainian public, such as budgetary requests not published, budget planning efficiency and distribution of funds require substantial processing of paper information. The transparent publication of open data will allow analytical systems to analyze data quickly and in a timely manner and to draw conclusions. So please support this bill as an addition to Bill 2171. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-05-m0.u45	Thank you, Dmitri Anatolyovich. Correspondent is the first deputy head of the Committee on Finance Vasil Vasil Vasilovich Amelchenko. Please, Vasil Vasilovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-05-m0.u46	Dear Vladimir Borisovich, distinguished national MPs, respected Ukrainians! The Committee on Budget Affairs yesterday at the meeting considered bill 2172 and generally supported or supported the idea of simplifying access and increasing openness to budget information on the draft bill, notes this. First, the publication of information in the form of "discovered data" is designed to be implemented in accordance with the 2171 bill that we have adopted and is fundamental to resolving the issue. Secondly, according to the bill, public information in the form of "discovered data" is published on the single public web portal of public data and on the information providers' websites. Thirdly, the disclosure position of the chief budget administrators does not take into account the general procedure established by the Code for the preparation of the State budget. In addition, in order to preserve the changes that were adopted in February to the code on expanding budget information that came into effect yesterday, we need to clarify the appropriate position of the bill for the second reading. Taking into account the need for further drafting of the bill with a view to resolving the issues raised, the Committee on Budget Issues adopted and decided: to recommend to the Supreme Council bill 2172 on the basis of a first reading review to be adopted today and to entrust the Committee on Budget Issues to finalize the draft bill and to submit a second reading to the Supreme Council, only after the adoption of the whole of Bill 2171, the former. Please support the committee's decision. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-05-m0.u47	Thank you. Please sign two for two, two for no. Please, Victoria Sumar from the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-05-m0.u48	The Committee on Freedom of Speech and Information Policy was the second committee to consider the bill. In fact, it also refers to greater openness with regard to budget programs and budget passports. The changes are made not by the Public Information Act, but by the Budget Code. But since philosophy is similar to 2171, the committee decided to recommend to the Supreme Council that the bill be supported on the basis. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-05-m0.u49	Thank you. Please, Sergey Melnik, the Peter Dust Block.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-05-m0.u50	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that the President recently signed Law 183 on the Open Use of Public Funds, which is broader. And the bill in question narrows the circle of issues set out in the previously adopted Law on Public Web Portal. So I suggest that, in furthering the second reading, we take into account all the positions contained in the law.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-05-m0.u51	National MP Kuprienko, Radical Party.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-05-m0.u52	Oleg Kuprienko, the Radical Party of Oleg Laska, Chernigu. We fully support this bill. It is essential to society, and they will finally have access to information that allows them to determine how much money they spend and where they steal. So this bill needs to be voted on, it's necessary, it's the instrument that will allow the people of Ukraine to control their own, the national, the money they spend on. Let us support and urge all to vote in the first reading, and all minor inaccuracies that may be found in the text will be corrected before the second reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-05-m0.u53	Thank you. Please, Nestor Schuffritch, Opposition Block.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-05-m0.u54	Thank you, Your Honor Chairman. Dear colleagues! It's interesting to vote on the laws on the provision of information to any of us, especially those relating to government officials and state budget expenditure. I want to pay attention, as our Head rightly said, that this is a continuation of the previous Law 2171 on access to public information in the form of open data. The people of Ukraine should know that this law would never have been passed if the opposition had not voted against it. Of the 243 votes that were cast, the very key votes were cast by the Opposition Block. That's why we're asking the authorities today to be responsible and not hide from people, so that right now this law gets more than 300 votes, then we're going to believe that we have a coalition that's not afraid of information about ourselves. You know, we're already talking about you, about the opposition, we know everything. And that's good. It is desirable that people begin to receive information and new authority. And here in the past. Journalists shake their heads. I hope that they will be as principled as they were before they were elected by the Ukrainian people's deputies. I today call on the Supreme Council of Ukraine to focus, return from the towers and vote for people to know where their money is, because they have questions. They pay, and the return is zero. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-05-m0.u55	Please, Sergey Sobolev, Fatherland.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-05-m0.u56	Dear colleagues! This, I would like to remind you, is the bills that the opposition has tried to hold tens of times in the past. These are bills that have been prepared by the expert environment, by the opposition factions of Parliament, but unfortunately then the authorities of Yanukovich have done everything they can to hide information about how budget funds are used, how budget programmes are planned to use those funds that are public, because they are not government, not local communities, and they are really public funds for which they should report to all Ukrainian citizens. That's why our Fatherland faction will support the adoption of these bills. The first one we've already voted "On Access to Public Information," and the second bill that allows on-line mode immediately, from day to day, to control the order in which each copy is used. This enables not only to control the order of their use, but also to allow, in the case of purposeless use, to react to this society at the moment. That's why we think that these bills are absolutely in line with our reform strategies, our progress on European space, where these rules have been in place for decades, and this will actually be in line with the general rules on access to public information, including information on the use of budgetary resources. Please support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-05-m0.u57	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, please take your seats. We will proceed to the vote for this important bill. [[B in m in s a l in]] Please take your seats. Prepare for the vote, fellow members of the national parliament. [[B in m in s a l in]] Please, fellow members of the national parliament, take your seats. Please. The draft Law amending article 28 of the Ukrainian Budget Code on Access to Information on Open Data Budget Indicators (Registration No. 2172) is introduced for the vote. You have heard the report of the reporter, the report and the opinions of the national deputies. The committee decided to vote on the proposal to adopt the bill as a basis. Please, Your Honor, vote for acceptance as a basis of 2172. On open budget data, on budgetary indicators. Please vote. Based on the base. [[11:09:27]] For 279 Thank you, Your Honor. Next bill. For your consideration, the bill (registration number 2072) is the draft bill on the House of Accounts. There is an offer by the reporter to consider it as a reduced procedure. But I will not restrict those who wish to speak; I will give my word. Stepan Kubi's proposal for a reduced procedure, please. Please vote. I'll let everyone speak, I won't limit myself. As far as consideration is concerned, the reduced procedure is concerned. [[11:10:20]] For 185 Decision taken. Please, Stepan Kubi, come in.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-05-m0.u58	Dear fellow MPs! Dear Ukrainian people! This law is very fundamental, fundamental. And this law requires a lot of work from us to provide for what we today require from public organizations, self-government bodies and, in general, individual citizens of Ukraine who want to see how money is spent from the budget, about public finances. And it is this law today that, according to the decision of the Constitutional Court of Ukraine, listen on the date of July 11, 1996, the Court of Auditors is recognized as not in conformity with the Constitution of Ukraine. We are talking about the fact that for more than a decade, we have failed to comply with the Constitutional Court’s decision and that it is not necessary to carry it out. At the same time, I want to say that there was a question, and why does the President bring this bill to the hall today? However, since the adoption of the Constitutional Court's decision of 23 December 1997 in the constitutional case of the President of Ukraine on the conformity of the Constitution of Ukraine or constitutionality, the Court of Auditors' case has not been duly amended by Parliament. Yesterday the project was discussed both on the subcommittee and on the committee. I thank my colleagues for the comments and the additions that are needed today. At the same time, I won't talk about the principles, they're on the presentation. And I'm going to stop at the right positions, which are the ones that are the ones that are the ones that are the ones that are the ones that are the ones that are the ones that are the ones that are the And I'll try to give you a partial answer. Inadequateness of the Ukrainian Budget Code for the establishment of a special procedure for the preparation of the budget request by the Court of Auditors and the provision for the full and timely financing of the Court of Auditors. It was a question on the budget committee. The answer is that the procedure for the formation and use of financial resources for the maintenance of the Chamber is one of the mechanisms for ensuring the independence of the Court of Auditors. Along with article 7 of the Lima Declaration and the guiding principles for auditing public finances, a number of articles to be implemented are to be considered, because we are working with international and lenders today, international financial organizations - donors. A special order for financing the independence of the audit, as mentioned above, is laid down in a series of State laws. These are laws on the judiciary and the status of judges, on the National Anticorruption Bureau, on the Public Prosecutor's Office, where there is a corresponding article and paragraphs where the position is clearly prescribed. The following issue was asked about the inadequacy of real-time access to information systems and treasury bases. I want to answer that the principles of state anti-corruption policy in Ukraine, the Anti-Corruption Strategy 2014-2017, were approved by law on October 14 of last year at 1699-VII. It is also predicted that article 3 of the Public Funding Act was adopted on February 11, 2015. The following question that was before us at the meeting yesterday is that it is necessary to exclude from the draft regulations for the verification of the National Bank of Ukraine's National Court of Auditors. I want to say that according to the National Bank of Ukraine Act (Article 70), there is a direct language: "The National Bank of Ukraine has established that the National Court of Auditors is in the process of controlling the flow of funds to the National Budget of Ukraine and the use of funds from the State Budget of Ukraine is carrying out an audit of the use of income and expenditure of the National Bank of Ukraine." This is a confirmation of the correctness, the reduction of corruption, the transparency of public finances. And for the rest, what I would like to say is that there is an opportunity to create a public council that will allow for maximum publicity of the recommendations, the quality of the documents used in the revenue and expenditure portions of the state finances, the budget of Ukraine, and the powers of those structures that are now reflected. And the rest. The Ukrainian Court of Auditors, the law that was passed, and now the project is being proposed in the first reading, probably requires a committee discussion from the National Deputies. I'd like to ask you as soon as possible to consolidate the supply data, to have a professional discussion. And this law is a necessary state, this law is necessary for the Ukrainian people to reveal more than two millenniums of secrets that have been effectively carried out by the Court of Auditors to this day, and to improve the mechanism. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-05-m0.u59	Thank you. Please report to the head of the budget subcommittee Krulko Ivanović, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-05-m0.u60	Ivan Krulko, "The Fatherland" faction. The Honourable Head of the Supreme Council, the Honourable People's Deputies, the bill on the Court of Auditors number 2072 was submitted by the President of Ukraine and is defined as urgent. The aim of this law is to bring the Constitution into line with the requirements, the legal status of the powers and the order of the Court of Auditors, taking into account international standards for auditing public finances. It is important to note that the adoption of this law is provided for by the Coalition Agreement and that the key issues that are reflected in this document are identified. The Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Budget Issues discussed the bill at its meeting. I would like to point out immediately that a number of points of principle have been made before this bill in the committee. In particular, instead of expanding the mandate of the Accountancy Chamber, existing mandates have been narrowed down. For example, with regard to the financial control of the general government social and pension funds and public finances. The question of the appointment and release of the Head and other members of the Court of Auditors, their terms of office, the marginal number of the apparatus, in view of democratic principles, and the principles of ensuring the independence of the Court of Auditors is also controversial. There is a discrepancy between the provisions of the law and the requirements of the Budget Code, especially the introduction of financial security features of the Court of Auditors. The issue is and needs to be clarified regarding the external audit of the activities of the Court of Auditors. And the provision of services to the members of the Court of Auditors is generally not appropriate, since this involves considerable costs from the state budget. In general, we need to organize and systematize the bill and bring it in.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-05-m0.u61	Please don't limit yourself. Finish up. We agreed, I won't.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-05-m0.u62	And bring some of them, including terminology, into line with budgetary and other legislation. The Committee on Budget Affairs addressed all the key institutions on this bill and came to our conclusions. In particular, the Ministry of Finance proposes to support this bill in its first reading. At the same time, the committee did not come to the conclusion of the Chief Scientific and Scientific Administration. Taking into account the need for further elaboration of the bill with a view to resolving the issues raised, the Committee on Budget Affairs adopted such a decision at its meeting. Recommend to the Supreme Council a draft law on the Court of Auditors (No. 2072) on the basis of a first reading review to be adopted on the basis of which the Committee on Budget Affairs is tasked with developing a draft bill by general procedure, i.e. without shortening the deadlines for its work. Please support the committee's decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-05-m0.u63	Thank you. Please sign two for, two against. "Peter Prashenko's Block," National MP Rybak, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-05-m0.u64	Dear colleagues, this bill really needs to be supported in the first reading today, and the faction of "Peter Prashenko's Block" is asking everyone to support it. For the second reading, the bill will be finalized and put out for consideration. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-05-m0.u65	Thank you. National Deputy Ednak, Self-Help.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-05-m0.u66	Please pass the word to Victoria Vojcitsky.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-05-m0.u67	Victoria Vojticka, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-05-m0.u68	We clearly support this bill and will vote in favour of it in the first reading. Yet we would like to add a few things to our side. First, we feel that we need to make adjustments to the next few moments. A request is made for a second reading so that changes can be made. First. The Supreme Council Rules on the appointment of heads and other members of the Court of Auditors are open, on a competitive basis, and on improving the process of their release. The other one. In the Code of Administrative Offences on the Improvement of Article 188/19, on the Responsibility for Failure to meet the requirements of the Court of Auditors, and on the Procedural Section for the Improvement of the Composition and Consideration of Protocols under Article 188/19; in the Criminal Code on Responsibility for Investigations, Threat and Violence, not only for the Head of the Court of Auditors, but also for other members of the Court of Auditors. And I want to add that in this bill we haven't seen a part that regulates the possibility of conducting checks and auditing of state-owned enterprises, which we're going to directly insist on, because companies like Crushing and others. Regrettably, the Court of Auditors does not have the capacity to conduct audits at this time. And for us, for the deputies and for the people of Ukraine, we need to know what's going on in these companies. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-05-m0.u69	Thank you. Please, National Deputy Galchenko, Opposition Block.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-05-m0.u70	Please pass the word to Deputy Dudenkov.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-05-m0.u71	Ladies and gentlemen of the people, citizens of Ukraine! We are now looking at a situation where the Supreme Council of Ukraine now wants to adopt a bill on the Ukrainian Court of Auditors, fully controlled by the current government. In accordance with article 98 of the Ukrainian Constitution, the Court of Auditors is a body of the Supreme Council, which controls both the coming and the use of public funds. The control function of European Parliamentarian standards is the opposition, but look at the order in which the personal composition of this constitutional body is formed. The head of the Court of Auditors, the head of the Supreme Council, who is the representative of the coalition, is nominated by the members of the Court of Auditors, namely, the controllers and the secretary of the Court of Auditors, for the submission of the corresponding head of the Court of Auditors. So on the face is the complete subversiveness of the constitutional body that is in place and there is a complete lack of participation by opposition representatives and other non-fractional deputies that are not part of the coalition. Therefore, the procedure in question raises a great deal of doubt as to the effectiveness of control and. objectivity and. about the use of these costs. It should be noted that we, the faction of the Opposition Block, require consideration of the specified law with the opposition bill, which provides that, in particular, the Court of Auditors is one of the controlling factors and has a quota of representatives of the opposition and non-fractional deputies who are not members of the coalition. We have a very big request: to take this into account and to put the opposition bill to the vote in the first place, which provides for the position of the Court of Auditors. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-05-m0.u72	Alexander Kugel, Fatherland.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-05-m0.u73	Dear voters, dear colleagues! The Fatherland Party supports the President's efforts to strengthen and review the functions of the Court of Auditors. Why? There's a world experience: they fight corruption, not by prosecutors, not by law enforcement, the world's most important fight against corruption is every minute, I emphasize, every minute of control over the use of budget funds, not by removing a minister, or by escaping, or by simply looking at where he spent his money and how he did it, effectively or not. And so, in support of all the observations of both the budget committee and self-help colleagues, it is absolutely necessary to make a second reading of the strengthening of the function of the Court of Auditors, but in our view we need to make full reform. Turning to the government and supporting the research of Public Audit, we propose to reform the financial aspects of the liquidation, and the Prime Minister's response to corruption in the current financial aspects is clear to us, and to strengthen the House of Auditors and internal audit in every ministry that should not be subordinated to the minister, but to provide information every day on how and where the Minister's money is used. And another part of the people in the finance department are to strengthen the control of local administrations. And it's going to be really reform, and it's going to be transparent state control over government finances. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-05-m0.u74	Thank you. Please, National Deputy Pinzenik Viktor Mikhailovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-05-m0.u75	Ladies and gentlemen, the faction has supported the proposal for a vote in the first reading of this bill, but what warnings are there to this law, which should be taken into account in the work? To a lesser extent, perhaps even they apply to the powers of the Court of Auditors and to things that have no bearing on the Court of Auditors but have somehow become the norm of this law. It's the first thing. In fact, the law introduces a new budget code. Thus, budgeting rules differ from the only budgeting rules provided by the Budget Code. This law contains a rule that the chief budget administrators determine the cost of their maintenance from the State budget on their own. Then this rule should be supplemented by the following point: "At the same time, eliminate the Ministry of Finance of Ukraine." Because in this situation, the Ministry of Finance doesn't have to, it doesn't play any role. Second thing. It's a principle thing. Some things that apply to the powers of the Court of Auditors are excessive, they are not necessary. For example, it's about online access to Treasury operations. I don't have a warning when the Accounts Chamber wants information about the remaining funds that have been spent, but no one else should have access to the Treasury's accounts except the Treasury itself. The same type of observation applies to checks by the National Bank of Ukraine. When it comes to the cost of income and budget expenditure, yes, it's the authorization of the Court of Auditors. But when it comes to accessing and tracking Treasury operations, it doesn't make any sense at all. Why? Because the National Bank of Ukraine, in this case, performs a purely technical function of making payments, and decisions are made. Treasury. Next. The bill contains a lot of norms that smell like communism. By what time will we provide housing? Although it is called a service home. We know exactly how much the apartment costs in Kiev. These standards should be deleted. When it comes to housing insurance, what's the budget here? Fear. There are insurance companies. Property insurance is to go to insurance companies, and this is not to be done at the expense of the Ukrainian budget. We don't scare teachers, and for some reason, we insure an employee of the Court of Auditors. Sorry, we don't even scare MPs. Members of the Supreme Council of Ukraine And the last. The House of Accounts is supposed to be used by public funds, and the Court of Auditors itself is supposed to be the subject of an audit? Yes. The right standard is, but you're not going anywhere to find a rule that these audit results should be published. This must enter into the text of the final law. Therefore, the proposal to support in the first reading, to give complete preparation for the second reading, and then to accept it as a whole.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-05-m0.u76	Thank you. Please, Ivan Melniczuk, Peter Dust Block.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-05-m0.u77	I would like to draw your attention to the fact that, in chapter VIII, paragraph 3, of the Final Provisions, the head and other members of the Court of Auditors are appointed to office and to give effect to this law, are in office pending a decision by the Supreme Council of Ukraine on their dismissal. Note, however, that article 19 does not provide adequate grounds for such release, and from this point on, chapter VIII, paragraph 3, contradicts its position. The conflict between the provisions of article 19, paragraph 3, and article 8, of the bill can be used in order to get the wrong benefit for correct interpretation in quotes, their content and application of a more suitable way for a particular person to resolve the matter. And it can also be the cause of a mass renewal by the courts of the members of the Court of Auditors in their offices, which may also be linked to the gaining of wrong benefits. Therefore, I doubtless ask you to accept in the first reading, the second reading being carefully worked out and accepted as a whole. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-05-m0.u78	Thank you. Please, Mikola Tomenko. Then there's Mikola Levchenko. Yuri Lewchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-05-m0.u79	Dear colleagues, according to the content of the bill, I agree 99 percent with my colleague Victor Pinzenik. But I want to say one more sad story. I don't understand the logic of our decision on the Court of Auditors. I understand that now we are not assigning anyone back to the House of Accounts until we adopt the law. You will be informed that on March 25, 2015 we celebrate in Parliament three years of our inactivity. For exactly three years, we have a deputy head, a secretary, six controllers, and the first deputy is a vacancy. I have a question: do we have a number in the Georgian diaspora that doesn't run out of people, there's no one to assign, or what? Is Parliament unable to place people in budget control positions? I demand the leadership of the Supreme Council to immediately form the legitimate composition of the Court of Auditors and to work in parallel with the law. It is not theoretically necessary to fight corruption, but it is practically the composition of the Court of Auditors.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-05-m0.u80	Please, Yuri Lewchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-05-m0.u81	Leuchenko, Freedom, 223 County. The bill certainly has a number of positive points in comparison with the law in force, so we will certainly be supporting it in the first reading. But it is only in the first reading that we demand that he be closely involved in the second reading. Why? Because there are so many shortcomings. First of all, in a part of more detailed control over the use of loans from the State to foreign states, international financial institutions. Part of drawing on the responsibility of officials responsible for ineffective use of budgetary resources. In part of monitoring the efficiency of the tax service and the efficiency of the use of reserves by the National Bank of Ukraine. So these are just a few points that are very important, that need to be worked out, because they are wrongly or not correctly described in the bill. It should also be noted that this bill now proposes that the House of Accounts, which is to be an independent parliamentary body under the control of the President, be handed over in substance. And yet we have to go back to Parliament to control the House of Accounts, and it was an independent parliamentary body. To properly control government finances. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-05-m0.u82	Thank you. National MP Kuprienko, Radical Party.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-05-m0.u83	Oleg Kuprienko, Oleg Laska Radical Party. Dear friends, the House of Accounts Act in the way it is now, it's not working, it's obvious. And you've heard our colleagues speak. What to do. It's time to adopt a new law. Vote for him in the first reading. Yesterday, a regular committee reported that the number of members of the Supreme Council’s apparatus was smaller than the number of members of the National Deputies along with their assistants in office, receiving the same salary, the fund, as well as the national deputies! This is the account room's work! Because requests are not answered and they hide the expense of the budget. About a hundred MPs from the Radical Party went to the main budget managers, where they used resources in terms of scientific development, in terms of maintaining scientific research institutions, in terms of improving their qualifications -- sorry, terrible! So many pensioners, former civil servants around the country who just don't find their heads. The law must therefore be voted on. Let's vote for second reading all the amendments, all the suggestions, we'll improve this law. He is not entirely perfect. But we should vote in the first reading and work together so that we do not be deceived so as not to be deceived. And so that we can see where the national money is spent!
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-05-m0.u84	Thank you. Dear colleagues, please, we have concluded our discussion. I give the word now to Oksani Siroid. Please invite the national deputies to the hall and prepare for the vote. Please, Oksano Ivanovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-05-m0.u85	Dear colleagues! I would also like to say a few words about the bill on the House of Accounts. Above all, indeed, the Ukrainian Parliament will not become a full-fledged parliament until it forms a full-fledged function of monitoring the use of public finances. It's human money, it's the money of the people we're responsible for, and only parliament can fully control public finances. Regrettably, the Court of Auditors is still unable to perform these functions. That is why such a bill is essential. And it's very good that we got a bill today that gives us a starting point to work and to form a full function and control the use of public finances. Yet, in order for this function to be fully accomplished in order to be honest with the people, we must ensure that the Court of Auditors has sufficient authority, and this has been discussed by the speakers. The other one. This is what we need to ensure that the activities of the Court of Auditors are fully transparent, public and accountable in themselves. Otherwise, we will have no confidence in this body. And the third. It's for colleagues from the Opposition Block. In fact, the composition of the Court of Auditors should be politically neutral and professional, independent. And there's no relation to the opposition. We insist that the Court of Auditors be formed on a competitive basis rather than on political quotas. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-05-m0.u86	Thank you. Dear colleagues, all unanimous in the fact that the bill tabled by the President is important about the House of Accounts. And all agree that we have to support it in the first reading and develop it for the second reading as quality as possible, taking into account the thoughts of the national MPs. Please, Your Honor, please take your seats and we will vote in favour of this bill. Ready to vote? Ladies and gentlemen, please prepare for the vote. The bill on the Court of Auditors (registration number 2072) is put to the vote. Bill introduced by the President. And the committee is proposing to take it as a foundation. We've heard from all the factions that this is a common position, so please vote. On the basis of 2072. Based on the base. On the ground, please vote. [[11:39:41]] For 282 Decision taken. Thank you, Your Honor. The factions, please. Look at the factions. Next, honourable colleagues, the draft Law on the Numbering of the Armed Forces of Ukraine (Registration No. 2269), which was introduced to Parliament by the President of Ukraine, the Supreme Commander-in-Chief. There is an offer by the reporter to consider it in a simplified procedure. Please be sure about this proposal. There is a proposal for a summary report. [[11:40:33]] For 186 Decision taken. Please, Deputy Secretary of Defense, Peter Mikolaiovich Mehed. The head of the profile committee, Sergey Pashinsky, will report.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-05-m0.u87	Honourable Volodymira Borisovich, distinguished national MPs, a bill drafted by the Ministry of Defence of Ukraine to meet the requirements of article 85 of the Constitution of Ukraine and to determine the total number of the Ukrainian Armed Forces in numbers not exceeding 250,000, including 204,000 military personnel. The number set by the bill will allow the armed forces to maintain a corresponding level of threat to the number of military forces and troops. The bill stipulates that during a special period the number of the Armed Forces is increasing by the number of personnel assigned to military service to comply with the Ukrainian Presidential Mobilization Orders approved by the relevant Ukrainian law. Once the anti-terrorist operation has been completed and the demobilization has been completed, the numbers of the Armed Forces will be reduced according to the political and military situation. The implementation of this law is foreseen in 2015 within the limits of the funds planned for the Ministry of Defence in the State Budget of Ukraine. Please accept the bill as a basis and as a whole. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-05-m0.u88	Thank you. Please take your seats. Please, the head of the profile committee is Sergey Pashinsky.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-05-m0.u89	Dear colleagues, the number of the Armed Forces of Ukraine, according to our legislation and the Constitution, is determined by the Supreme Council. Unfortunately, with the start of the war we had to carry out a few waves of mobilization, now we're starting a subpoena, and we're also increasing the number and number of combat units. To that end, we are obliged to introduce appropriate legislation. The law is very simple, it foresees literally two points. This is a confirmation of the number of 250,000 people and a determination of the fact that during a special period the number of Armed Forces automatically increases by the number of mobilized according to current legislation. Once again, I would like to emphasize that this law has to do with improving the resilience of our army and, above all, it has to do with the increase in the number of ground troops, their numbers and the number of combat troops, I reiterate. Please support this law on the basis and in general. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-05-m0.u90	Thank you, Sergey Volodymyrovich. Please 2 for, 2 for against, please sign up, dear colleagues. Paul Kishkar, "self-help", please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-05-m0.u91	The Self-Help faction points out that the procedure for introducing this bill to the Supreme Council meetings has not been followed. But I'd like to talk about something else. Filling and content is understandable, and it needs acceptance. I would like to remind you that today's messages from the front don't say that we're creating wrong laws, we're talking about there's no enforcement of good laws. Today we're talking and talking about what's dead on the front, we're talking and we're talking about what are people wounded on the front, we're talking about that we're unilaterally fulfilling the conditions of pseudo-resurrection and we're still losing these people. I personally went around all the educational centers and saw the problem of training people. The system doesn't change anything. This is the personal responsibility of the Defence Minister, the Secretary of the Security Council and the President of Ukraine. And we are stressing the continued enforcement and adherence of the law, particularly by the Commander-in-Chief. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-05-m0.u92	Please, Mikola Velichovich, People's Front.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-05-m0.u93	Mikola Velitchovich, People's Front. Please pass the word to Yuri Berezi.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-05-m0.u94	Yuri Bereza, People's Front, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-05-m0.u95	Yuri Bereza, People's Front. Nevertheless, my dear colleagues, I stress the adoption of this law, because it will allow today to increase the quantity of the Armed Forces of Ukraine, this is the first time. This is what we still need for today. The question is quality, and as we look at it now, we're working on it. But I stress that this law is necessary for the state today, for the development of the Armed Forces of Ukraine, for the destruction and fighting of the Armed Forces. I'm stressing that. Without the adoption of this law, however, what meets the needs of the East now, without the adoption of this law, we will now stop in our development. I emphasize and urge. Dear colleagues, I ask you to vote on this law. The fact that the committee supported him is one of the factors that says we should vote for him. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-05-m0.u96	Thank you. Please, Nestor Schuffritch, Opposition Block.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-05-m0.u97	Thank you. Thank you, Mr. Head. Dear colleagues, let's speak frankly about what this law is about and what the reason and nature of this law is, our children will go back to serving in the army. I would like to remind all of us who are present in this room on electoral campaigns that have not been alone for the past 10 years, and every time we promised their wives and mothers that their children would be home, that their children would no longer be called into the army. And I want to see today who's gonna press the "for" button on this green button that's gonna send our kids into the army. [[B in m in s a l in]] If anyone today is thinking of raising the strength of our army, it is not at the expense of the children. The one who served in the real army knows that a young fighter's course is when he becomes a soldier, but he's the one who really served. With regard to raising resilience, the Supreme Council has already taken a decisive step, with 126 billion dollars of additional revenue in the state budget, we have already allocated 30 billion. We'll need more, we'll make more. But for whom? For professionals, for people who know what it's like to be a soldier and be a professional soldier. I am absolutely convinced that today the one who votes in favour of this law is voting against mothers, voting against families, and so that children can go and fight. We're against it! We want our children to be home and fight.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-05-m0.u98	Thank you. [[B in m in s a l in]] Colleagues, there's no point. It's also written by Mosiyczuk, the Radical Party, and then it's Yuri Lucenko from Peter Prashenko's Block. Please finish writing. A radical party.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-05-m0.u99	Honorable citizens of Ukraine, distinguished colleagues of national MPs! I'll tell you, whoever votes against this law or does not support this law works for Putin, he works for Russian aggression, he works for the foot of the Russian invader to trample our home land on Donbassa, trampling our Crimean land. Because it's obvious that our country will be strong, it'll be defensive, it'll be successful, it'll be victorious only if we have a powerful army when we have a powerful Armed Forces. Janukovich, who was in power, did everything he could to bring down the army, to destroy the security forces, to destroy the state's security. And today, the disadvantages of Yanukovich's gang in today's parliament are trying to continue their black business by acting as the fifth column of the Kremlin in support of the Russian aggressor. No diplomacy, no negotiations will ever succeed unless a powerful army is behind the diplomat if there are no powerful military forces behind the negotiator. But the powerful Armed Forces and the army are not just numbers, and this, and this is the most important, is the attention and preservation of the lives of Ukrainian military personnel. The army will be strong when military personnel are fed, dressed, armed when they have modern technology when they have modern medical care. So as a parliament, we have to put the task not only of increasing the number of armies, but of increasing the quality of the Ukrainian Armed Forces to make them modern, mobile, high-arms. The one speaking against the army is speaking against Ukraine. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-05-m0.u100	Please, Lucenko Yuri Vitaliyovich, Peter Dustenka's Block.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-05-m0.u101	Dear colleagues, the law that we are currently considering determines the increase in the number of the Ukrainian army. I didn't even think that in the room it might be something other than a vote for. Everyone who sits in this room, including the Opposition Block, owes the army what you're in this room. [[Applause]] Too bad, because after one of the speakers, he'd rather sit in a trench, and one of our soldiers would survive. Nestor asked if we would send our sons there. Yeah, I sent mine. And so I have a moral right to say, Ukraine needs a Ukrainian army, strong, large, protected and confident that politicians are not betraying it. Once again, I want to reiterate that politicians in and around the Supreme Council are not betraying her. Our sacred duty is now to demonstrate that.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-05-m0.u102	Let me finish. Turn on the microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-05-m0.u103	It is our duty to demonstrate that the Supreme Council and the army, together with the President-in-Chief, are one thing. What's more, Your Honor, I'm going to lower my voice and I want you to listen. After two months, it is very likely that large - scale military action will be restored. And every day we go into this room, we have to think what we've done to stop the aggressor, to prevent unnecessary losses and to bring back the entire Ukrainian territory. The pro button is the way to win! Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-05-m0.u104	Heroic glory! Thank you, Yuri Vitaliovich. Please, Oleg Berezuk, Self-Help.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-05-m0.u105	Ladies and gentlemen, every war and front in its place of work: the deputy, the employee of the apparatus, the head of the President's Administration. Everyone has to do it in high quality. This law is not being discussed; this law must be adopted only because it is the security of the people of this country and its sovereignty. But on the other hand, we must tell those who are not doing their job qualitatively, that they must do so, as soldiers do on the front. And this is an important task. This would not have happened, even if it had happened where it was supposed to happen. Everyone's on the front for their own. We vote in favour of this law, and we obey no one else.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-05-m0.u106	Thank you, Your Honor. Please, Dmitri Timchuk, People's Front. And we'll vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-05-m0.u107	Since the beginning of Russia’s military aggression against Ukraine, we have found that the Armed Forces of Ukraine have a rather strange structure. We have very few battle stations and troops and very few security units. Yesterday at the National Security and Defence Committee, we considered this bill very carefully. And it was the Ministry of Defense that gave us a clear explanation of how many brigades, how many battalions, mouths, and platoons would be created. So not all the numbers are just to blow up the army's numbers, but to create, I notice, the new combat units that are now very much needed to reflect Russian aggression. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-05-m0.u108	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, I ask you to take your seats. An extremely important bill. Sergey Sobolev, a minute, please, from factions that do not participate in the discussion. And we're done. Please come in, people's deputies, to the hall, take your seats, please. Sergey Sobolev.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-05-m0.u109	Sergey Sobolev, the Fatherland faction. Our faction will certainly support this bill. In those years when the Ukrainian army collapsed, it was the bill that allowed the preparation of the Armed Forces, the professional Armed Forces, not those who would be called for 20-30 days. In connection with the emergency, we continue to throw ourselves at the front. It is this law that allows us to prepare professional, experienced people who will be able to protect the Father. That's why our faction will support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-05-m0.u110	Dear fellow national MPs! Please take your seats before the vote. Ladies and gentlemen, please take your seats. We're starting the vote. Draft Law by the President of Ukraine on the Number of Armed Forces of Ukraine (Registration No. 2269). The profile committee's proposal is to take it as a whole. I understand that this position is supported by all the factions of Parliament. Dear colleagues, honourable colleagues, put to the vote the registration number of draft Law 2269 — on the basis and in general. On the basis of a total of 22,269. 2269 is based on the whole. [[11:57:33]] For 270. Decision taken. Dear colleagues, a moment of your attention. I informed you yesterday when we started the session, the session, about the tragedy that took place on the pit called the Assembly. Unfortunately, I was not wrong, I had no official information, but I had inside information about the number of people who had died. And only now does the official information match what I said yesterday. Unfortunately, the miners died. And as you know, President Peter Poroshenko announced on March 5, attention, March 5, the day of mourning over the tragic death of miners as a result of an accident that occurred on March 4, on the Doña mine of the name of the West. According to the Decree, the head of state will be honored by the moment of silence on the day of the mourning in all the territory of Ukraine at 12 o’clock. We've got about a minute and a half left. And now we honor the people who have given their lives by doing their job, working for the benefit of the state, its economy. Unfortunately, this is happening in our lives and it is happening. Honorable national deputies, in accordance with Presidential decree of March 5, are determined by the Day of Grief in connection with this tragic tragedy that has taken place. And please, honourable national MPs, honor the memory of the fallen miners for a moment of silence. [[A Minute of Silence]] Everlasting memory of the dead. Our compassion for our family and loved ones. Dear colleagues, a recess of up to 12 hours is announced in accordance with the Rules. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-05-m0.u111	Dear colleagues. While the national MPs are moving into the buffet hall and from the towers, I would like to read two announcements. So the first announcement. I'm reporting on the creation of the eighth interfractional MPs' union called "Memory and Understanding" in the Supreme Council of Ukraine. The head of the interfractional MP's "Memory and Understanding" is the national deputy of Ukraine, Mathios María Vasilovna. We welcome Mary Vasilovna to this important and responsible work line. Next message. I'm reporting on the creation in the Supreme Council of Ukraine of the eighth interfractional parliamentary association "Deputy Group of Friendships of Ukraine - State of Israel". The leader of this interfractional MP was elected the national deputy of Ukraine, Feldman Alexandr Borisovich. We welcome Alexander Borisovich with an interfractional union.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-05-m0.u112	And so that it doesn't sound like "Ukraine is the State of Israel," so I've pointed out the chapter signs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-05-m0.u113	Ladies and gentlemen, please take your seats. I ask the secretariat to invite the people's deputies to the House of Parliament, we continue our work. A bill (registration number 2250) is being submitted to your consideration, the draft Natural Gas Market Act. Please invite fellow members of the national deputies to the hall. Ladies and gentlemen, please come to the hall and let us begin our work. Do you want to continue the meeting in the morning? Dear fellow members of the National Parliament, you are being reviewed by the draft Natural Gas Market Act (Registration No. 2250), prepared by the Government of Ukraine. There is a proposal by the Deputy Minister of Energy and Coal Industry of the rapporteur and the co-rapporteur, the first deputy head of the Committee on Fuel-Energy Complex of Dombrovsky Alexander Georgievovich, to consider this bill on short notice. I'm asking you to prepare for the hearing. Colleagues, pay attention! Please. [[B in m in s a l in]] [[12:43:50]] For 105 I didn't even get to vote. Did you make it? Please come in, distinguished national deputies. Let's re-vote in favour of the reduced procedure. We need 150 votes. Please, Your Honor, please support this proposal, 22,250 for consideration of the reduced procedure. Please vote in person, your honor, 2250. "For" is about consideration of a reduced procedure. [[12:44:28]] For a hundred and Come into the hall, people's deputies, please. Faction leaders, I'd like to ask. Faction leaders, I'd like to come into the hall and invite my deputies into the hall. Ladies and gentlemen, please come to the hall. Ladies and gentlemen, please take your seats. There is a proposal to review Bill 2250 in a simplified manner. Faction leaders, please come to the House of Parliament and invite us. And invite you. Please prepare for the vote on the reduced procedure. Please, Your Honor. With regard to the reduced procedure, 2,250. Prepared, dear fellow national MPs? Let's continue our work. Please come in, take your seats. 2250 - for consideration of the reduced procedure. Please come in. Dear colleagues, an important bill. Please, 2250, there is a proposal by the rapporteurs to consider the bill in a simplified manner. Please support this motion by voting. We are voting on a reduced procedure. Please be supportive. As far as consideration is concerned, the reduced procedure is concerned. [[12:47:29]] For 158. Decision taken. Thank you. Not all the deputies were in the hall. Please, Deputy Minister of Energy and Coal Industry Didenko Igor Mikolayovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-05-m0.u114	Dear chairman, distinguished national deputies, members of the government, good day! Ukraine's Natural Gas Market Act was developed by the Ministry of Energy and Coal Industry of Ukraine, together with the National Commission for Energy Regulation, Municipal Services, NAC Naftogaz Ukraine, in line with the State's commitment to join the Energy Community and implement the Association Agreement between Ukraine and the European Union. This law is designed in close cooperation with the Energy Community Secretariat and is in line with Directives 73 and 715 of the European Parliament and of the European Commission. The draft law is built on the principle of a new legal framework. It doesn't have direct action and it only has conceptual solutions. The bill provides for the full distribution of gas supplies, gas transport, and gas distribution. Similarly, the role of regulator – this is the National Energy Regulatory Commission, which, along with the Cabinet of Ministers, will address the most important and painful issue that arises as a result of the adoption of this law – is market pricing. What does that mean? This means that socially vulnerable groups will receive a personal individual subsidy. It should also be noted that the International Monetary Fund and the World Bank will assist the Government of Ukraine financially in supporting subsidies to the extent needed. A transitional period is established and is set before the beginning of the second quarter of 2017. The law provides for the fight against corruption in the gas market, which is a complete extermination.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-05-m0.u115	Please do not restrict the deputy minister to report.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-05-m0.u116	Thank you. This law completely nullifies the corruption of the gas market. Everybody knows what butterfly companies get overpaid by gas consumers and then disappear with money without giving them any resources. All the ministries were involved in the drafting of this law. All comments are taken into account and are further agreed with the Energy Community Secretariat. Similarly, market representatives — liars, representatives of independent gas companies — were involved before the law was drafted. Therefore, there is a request to uphold the law in the first reading and, as has already been announced, to undergo its final approval in an accelerated regime. For the second reading, the representatives of the Ministry of Naftogaz, the Energy Regulatory Commission, are ready to come to the faction and spend as much time as it takes to answer all the questions. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-05-m0.u117	Thank you. Please refer to the co-report for the First Deputy Chairman of the Dombrovsky Committee, Alexander Georgievic.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-05-m0.u118	Mr. Chairman, Your Honor, your attention is drawn to the bill on the natural gas market in Ukraine, which is one of the most fundamental laws aimed at reforming and modernizing our country's energy sector. I would also like to point out that this is the result of a consolidated system-wide to make the President of Ukraine, the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, the Supreme Council of the Professional Committee, and, as Mr. Didenko, Deputy Minister of the European Energy Society, said. The other one. This is a challenge to our Ukrainian commitment to fulfil the conditions that we have signed by adopting an Association Agreement with the European Union. And we have to answer, our energy sector, the third energy package of the European Union. Of course, today, when we consider the draft Law on the Gas Market, we would need to consider two more basic laws that we are working on at the same time. It's a draft of the Power Market and Regulator Act. Unfortunately, we're somewhat behind schedule, and I think in this regard both the Parliament and the government need to accelerate. Which gives us the adoption of this draft Natural Gas Market Act in Ukraine. This creates a transparent, democratic, liberal tool for Ukraine to have a market for access to a gas transport network, to gas repositories. The law allows non-discriminatory access to the natural gas market, introduces the concept of wholesale, fragmented natural gas markets, provides important standards and conditions for measures in terms of the safety of natural gas supply.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-05-m0.u119	Don't limit it, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-05-m0.u120	for different consumers. We had a discussion at the profile committee meeting yesterday. I want to say that the unanimous committee has supported the adoption of this bill in the first reading and is proposing to the Supreme Council to support and vote on this bill in the first reading right now in the Hall. Of course, there are some comments, some aspects of this bill need to be worked out for the second reading. And I also propose to shorten the bill to second reading twice, considering that these are our obligations to our European partners. And I would like to pay particular attention to the fact that this bill is based on the implementation of our Coalition Agreement, the Ukrainian 2020 President's Programme and the Ukrainian Government's Programme of Action. That's why I'm asking you to back me up. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-05-m0.u121	Thank you. Please, 2 for, 2 for against. Please sign up. I'm asking you to invite the people's deputies into the hall. Please, faction leaders, invite your deputies into the hall. Ivan Krulko, Fatherland.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-05-m0.u122	Please pass the word to Sergio Sobolev.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-05-m0.u123	Sergei Sobolev, Fatherland.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-05-m0.u124	Dear colleagues, it is indeed a decisive bill that will either allow or stop the reform of the gas sector in Ukraine. The fact that the key parameters are absolutely consistent with European standards, where the storage and production networks will be separated, is actually the first step that allows for a clear restructuring of Ukrainian companies and Ukrainian producers and consumers of this market. The second question. This bill for the first time regulates the procedure for accessing competition principles to the state. I emphasize the state gas pipe of private and state gas producers. Third. This bill deals with the issue of what we should continue to do with the frauds that Janukovich received during the regime in fact in the use and full management of the gas distribution system within the areas. This law clearly defines the order that will be followed by the operation of these gas distribution networks as a public company. This law has a series of flaws. And that is why our faction will insist that it be voted only in the first reading. Because those positive points in the law should be corrected on second reading. This applies first of all to the order of the competitive environment that should be in this gas market. Secondly, we need to regulate order if this competition is controlled by the Antimonopoly Committee, because the creation of monopolies in Ukraine will allow the price to continue to be controlled by both the population and industrial consumers. That's why the "Paternity" faction decided to support the first reading and work on the second reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-05-m0.u125	Thank you. Please, Ostap Semierak, People's Front.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-05-m0.u126	Ostap Semiraq, faction of the People's Front. Our faction will support this bill in the first reading and it seems to me that this is a good job done by the Ukrainian government, working together with the Ukrainian Parliament and with the European partners. I would like to point out that the name of the natural gas market is very correct. It seems to me that this law is transforming the natural gas market that existed in Ukraine, which was fueling political corruption, into a European market. It is important to understand that the approval of this law is not only the fulfilment of our obligations to European partners, it is primarily the fulfilment of the obligations laid down in those agreements, primarily the Agreement on the Association of Ukraine-EU with regard to the approximation of Ukrainian legislation to the norms and standards of European law. I would also like to support the proposal to shorten the draft for second reading if approved today in the first reading and due consideration, since this law is in the package of agreements and requirements for Ukraine to receive financial assistance from our external partners. And in support of Sergey Soboleva's speech, I would like to go to the law enforcement agencies to verify the transmission and the legality of the use of gas pipes that are owned by the state, but are, on a free basis, handed over by the oligarchs in exile. I think it's urgent that this government property should be transferred from unclean hands to public hands and used for the benefit of the Ukrainian people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-05-m0.u127	Thank you. Please, Paul Kishkar.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-05-m0.u128	Please hand the Lion over to the Podlisecki.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-05-m0.u129	Podlisetic, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-05-m0.u130	The Self-Help faction will definitely support adoption in the first reading of the bill. I would like to remind all members of the coalition that in the Coalition Agreement we have foreseen chapter VIII, which deals with energy, energy dependence, energy dependence reform, where our commitment to the implementation of the Third Energy Package is a cross-cutting thread. The same principles are also provided for in the Association Agreement, which provides in principle for the division of the function of production and distribution of both sales and electricity and gas. And the Natural Gas Market Act actually provides these functions. I would like to remind and support the rapporteur, Mr. Dombrowski, who said that the bill in question is not the only one and also requires further submission of other bills. In particular, the Independent Regulator Bill, which is a fundamental ingredient in the gas market. So I would like the entire coalition to fully support the bill, and also to work on and improve some minor, minor amendments to the bill. I think we should anticipate a complete procedure for consideration of second reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-05-m0.u131	Thank you. Please, Arthur Martovicki, "The Opposition Block."
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-05-m0.u132	Martovici, 36 constituency. Dear Vladimir Borisovich, national MPs, voters! The bill is essentially aimed at reforming the natural gas market in Ukraine. In itself, the reform is fully in line with Ukraine's responsibilities in the framework of European integration. At the same time, the bill has considerable scope and rules governing the operation of Ukraine's gas complex. It therefore requires a balanced approach, careful preparation and development, taking into account European legislation, with a view to guaranteeing the interest of gas market participants. Therefore, it cannot be accepted without detailed processing and requires compliance with the regulatory procedures of two readings. I support the speaker of my previous colleague. Secondly, there should be a full discussion procedure, given the importance of this law to the Ukrainian economy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-05-m0.u133	Thank you. Please, Gregory Cozy, Peter Dust Block.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-05-m0.u134	Grigory Smoky, Peter Dust Block. Dear colleagues, I am deeply convinced that all of you know very well that ordinary citizens and consumers are always dissatisfied with the lack of knowledge of the tariff mechanism. And today, the main task of this bill, which was clearly explained by the National MP, Alexander Dombrowski's first deputy committee, is to create a transparent, accessible and democratic market. Any case must have serious information support. That is to say, it should be heard, seen and appreciated, and discussed by the public. And if so, then there will be no room for manipulation and corruption. But we also have to say that the bill is very cumbersome, there are many new understandable statements that need to be cleaned before the second reading.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-05-m0.u135	Thank you. Oleg Lazko. You'll finish, won't you? Please, Gregory Mud, let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-05-m0.u136	But I am deeply convinced that its implementation, first of all, will give us effective governance, second of all, will improve organizational and legal principles. And I am deeply convinced that this bill is necessary, important, it needs to be accepted today as a basis. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-05-m0.u137	Thank you. Please, Oleg Lazko, Radical Party.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-05-m0.u138	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. Honorable citizens of Ukraine, distinguished national MPs! The issue of the country's energy security is a key issue of the existence of the Ukrainian State. Sadly, for almost 23 years we ignored this question. Moreover, since the beginning of the Russian military aggression against Ukraine, we have become even more dependent on Russia in the energy industry than before. It would seem a paradox, but it's true. If we used to be dependent on gas alone, today we get electricity from Russia, we get coal. And these are the results of the activities of the Ministry of Energy and Coal Industry. These are the results of NCRE’s activities, which have become a hand - operated mechanism and is actually destroying its own manufacturer. We're closing our own mines. We leave our own miners out of work – Volin, Lviv, Pavlograd, Donetsk. Instead, we buy coal from an aggressor, buy electricity from an aggressor. I stop again and again, I urge you to stop this criminal policy of destroying your own energy.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-05-m0.u139	Ten seconds, complete.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-05-m0.u140	As much as you need. What's more, today we have again in the energy market of the oligarch, the Russian oligarch Grigorishin. What was Midan for? For the Russian oligarchs to wash money through coal, through energy.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-05-m0.u141	Please, Yuri Lewchenko. As much as the chairman gives you, you'll get the word. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-05-m0.u142	Leuchenko, Freedom, 223 County. This bill is another example of how good things and the right things the government somehow mixes with very wrong things in one project. Yes, there is indeed the introduction of many of the norms that the European Union requires of us, in general, of the right standards. But there is one very important moment. The current legislation specifically states that gas depots and gas transport systems can be operated only by a public company, or by a company with more than 6 percent of state ownership and the rest owned by this company from the European Union. For some reason, there's no such norm in this bill, it's gone, it's gone, it's gone, it's gone. According to gas warehouse operators, we could have gas transport operators if we were to adopt this option by anyone, any company. I don't understand. There's no explanation why this is happening. That's why the "Freedom" faction cannot support this bill in the first reading. We demand that he be fully developed between the first and the second, not seven days.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-05-m0.u143	Please finish the word, Alexander Dombrowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-05-m0.u144	Dear colleagues, thank you for your discussion. But at the same time, I would like to point out that really and really the law is big, it's complicated enough, and it's with the European philosophy of creating European energy space in Ukraine. Moreover, I would like to inform you that on February 26, Europe will adopt an entirely new energy concept of the European Union's common energy market. That's why this philosophy has been put together with our European partners in this bill. He needs it. This is a basic, framework law that needs an additional set of secondary legislation and regulations and government regulations. And we also want to get this road map from Minpalevenergo, from NCRE and from the government. But at the same time, by responding to the comments that have just been made, we can make the changes that we just talked about after the vote in the first reading and then, in detail, discuss it fundamentally during the second reading. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-05-m0.u145	Thank you, Your Honor. Please prepare for the vote, all factions. All spoke, had a word, and had the opportunity to express their position. Bill 2250 has been introduced to your vote. Everyone, please take your seats. Draft Natural Gas Market Act. There is a proposal to adopt this bill. Dear colleagues, have you prepared for the vote? Registration number 2250, draft Natural Gas Market Act. There's a voting proposal on the ground. On the basis of that, please vote. On the basis of that, please vote, Your Honor. On the basis of that, please vote. [[13:10:08]] For 237 Decision taken. I'm asking the Secretariat, I'm asking the faction leaders, please invite your national members of the factions to the session room. Please, Your Honor, the faction leaders, I request you to do so. The second was the offer: prepare it according to a reduced procedure. It is perfectly logical, since the following week is not plenary and we will be able to consider it for a second reading in two weeks. It's enough if it's a plenary week. I agree. Therefore, an offer is made. Attention! Get ready, please. With regard to the preparation of this bill for the second reading procedure. That means we'll be working on it for two weeks. All factions. [[B in m in s a l in]] Seven days short. But we have two weeks before the next meeting. Please. [[B in m in s a l in]] Dear colleagues, please prepare for the vote on preparation for the reduced procedure. It's perfectly logical. Please vote and please support. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. Please vote and please support. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. That's how we get there. [[13:11:57]] For-187 Dear colleagues, next week is not a plenary. The short procedure means that in two weeks we can prepare this peacefully absolutely. [[B in m in s a l in]] I see. The position of the national deputies was understood. So we're preparing for the usual procedure. You are being reviewed by Bill Registration No. 2258: draft Act amending the Ukrainian Budget Code on State Investment Projects. Reported to the Minister for Economic Development and Trade, Abromavicius Ivaras. Correspondent is the first Deputy Head of the Committee for Budget Affairs, Amelchenko Vasil Vasilovic. There is an offer by the reporter to consider it as a reduced procedure. I would like to put this motion to the vote for consideration of this bill by a reduced procedure. [[13:13:04]] For 172 Decision taken. Please, Minister, report. Please, you can report from here.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-05-m0.u146	Good afternoon. The bill was discussed on the committee yesterday, and there was support. This is a matter of public investment, 800 million dollars from the World Bank of the Japanese Government, which, if we accept this and several other bills, will come in at the end of April. Therefore, all bills must be adopted and money must be obtained to stabilize the economy in the country. At present, 90 per cent of all public investment has no economic justification. And on these bills it is proposed that public investment be put in order after all. There has been much discussion with the deputies of order, and most of these proposals are ready to be adopted. Therefore, we propose to support this amended bill and then to finalize it, we need some time to adopt it in the second reading in two weeks. What amendments are we prepared to accept? These public investments will not be relevant to local budgets and it is also proposed to exclude the State Regional Development Fund from this bill. Also before the second reading, we suggest that we clarify how an interdepartmental commission on public investment is formed and propose that the members of the budget committee be included. Thank you very much. I propose to support the bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-05-m0.u147	Thank you. Please, Vasil Ammelchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-05-m0.u148	The honourable Ukrainian people, the presiding, honourable colleagues, the Committee on Budget Affairs at its meeting considered a bill amending the Budget Code on State Investment Projects (number 2258). The reporter gave the main message of the bill. And in general, yesterday's committee generally supports improving government investment management. However, during the discussion of the bill, most national deputies made warnings about the purpose of establishing an interdisciplinary commission. We are against the principle of creating non-institutional formations that, in principle, give rise to some irresponsibility in this process. At the same time, however, with the arrival of a new government, new heads of local government administrations are constantly left unbuilt social infrastructures. I'll tell you, in Montenegro alone, I can give you an example that we need today to build a bearing school number five, which is very much in need of today's education sector in the area. Today, we have a garden school in Chernigovishka that is not covered, and the new headmaster is somehow starting other objects. What's more, Talaievsky, a goat hospital long ago needs to be completed and transferred to a bunch of doctors to provide quality medical services. Charmed Corbcans (Chernigy region of the Caribbean) are still searching, and they are born in foreign corners. The maternity ward needs to be completed. An infectious ward at Chernigiv County Hospital also needs urgent reconstruction. I'm sorry I'm setting the example in Montenegro because I'm willing to go tomorrow and take responsibility for bringing the social infrastructure to such a level that our doctors and teachers.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-05-m0.u149	Please, please finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-05-m0.u150	When it comes to providing quality education and medical services. Thus, the Committee on Budgetary Questions asks you to support this initiative of the Ministry of Economics, which will bring about strategic planning and transparency in the allocation of investment projects and funds from the State budget of Ukraine. Thank you for your attention. And please support our bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-05-m0.u151	Thank you. Please sign up: two for, two against. Victor Pinzenick, Peter Dusty Block.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-05-m0.u152	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to make some comments on this bill. If someone thinks it's about the distribution of capital deposits that we're used to sharing with the budget committee, in the budget, it's not. The problem is much deeper. What are we talking about? None of us can figure out what the investment component of the Ukrainian budget is. Because next to the capital investments that we traditionally share, there's every principal who has what's called development costs, a deinvestment component. But there's a code of decision that makes itself, without any logic, without any understanding, without any strategy, without any priorities. What is the government trying to do with this project? He's trying to take some steps to fix it. In principle, the budget should have a separate investment component. And that's the right decision. As far as I can tell, there's a question. And there are some warnings. For example, when it comes to an interdisciplinary commission, I don't understand how an unconstitutional body should make a decision. There are constitutional organs. There's the Cabinet of Ministers, there's the Ministry of Economics. You want any other department. If you have to create different interdisciplinary groups to do that, within the government, you can involve whoever you want in these decisions, because we have, for example. We have a very sad experience of some interdisciplinary commissions where the country is still in debt. There are other warnings. And I would also like to point out that we make a lot of investment decisions when we approve the Budget Act, and we can make a final decision in the Budget Act. I also have a warning about this law, but I would like to ask that, given that this law relates to the cost of the World Bank project, I ask my colleagues to support the bill in the first reading.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-05-m0.u153	Thank you. Please, Radical Party, Victor Halasyuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-05-m0.u154	Dear Volodymyr Borisovich! Dear fellow national MPs! Of course, this law is not ideal, but the Radical Party insists that we adopt it in the first reading, because it will allow Ukraine to have credit resources that will go beyond eating, like IMF funds, but to develop, to development projects. Secondly, we will have the opportunity to make the necessary adjustments to the second reading and we will in principle insist that the Transitional Situations have a rule on the creation of the State Bank for Reconstruction and Development, which will allow the allocation of state capital investments not just through an inter-agency commission but through the involvement of leading economists and foreign professionals and representatives of the real economy to create jobs in Ukraine, in order to stimulate those projects that provide and export ready products with a high technological component. Dear colleagues, let's support this bill in the first reading. For the second reading, we work on it, we anticipate the necessary nuances. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-05-m0.u155	Thank you. Please, Alexander Kugel, Fatherland.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-05-m0.u156	I don't really agree with the previous statement in part that this bill needs to be adopted just to get the World Bank's help. I believe that the efforts of the Minister of Economics and the Ministry of Finance in this bill are a state position in order and order of investment in public funds. We and the Ministry of Economics met with the World Bank, and we looked at what proposals, why the World Bank is adopting this bill as a requirement, and because it's just starting to see that every new government that comes in is throwing out the capital injections that were made by the previous government and starting new buildings. The school started building, there's no more interested people, there's money stolen, let's build something new. Therefore, the use of funds of at least 75 percent to invest new capital investments is a requirement to monitor the efficiency of the use of public funds. I agree with Victor Mikhailovich Pinzenic's remarks. It's rare, but I agree. And I would also like to say that I don't think we need to make an interdisciplinary group, and the expertise of the minister of the economy, his teams are enough to analyse the economic efficiency of the proposed projects. The "Fatherland" faction on first reading will support this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-05-m0.u157	Thank you. Please, Paul Ungurian, the People's Front.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-05-m0.u158	My fellow Members, I think this bill is one of those bills that the government has put forward in our reforms. The reform policy is that our investment, which is made by the state budget, is indeed strategic. They have a really small character that will also have a reverse effect, which will have a multiplicative effect in our economies, and also in our infrastructure upgrades. This is the second draft of the bill. The first draft of the bill was not supported by a hall. But this draft of the bill presented to us by the government today is much better, and I deserve it to be supported in the first reading. It is certainly important to do this as quickly as possible, to support the government in negotiating with the World Bank, the government of Japan.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-05-m0.u159	Please finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-05-m0.u160	so that negotiations with the World Bank and the Government of Japan can be concluded as soon as possible. And with this bill, we're going to be able to invest almost a billion dollars in capital investment. Therefore, the request for support in the first reading will be further worked out by the second committee. The People's Front will support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-05-m0.u161	Thank you. Please, People's Deputy Kiral, Self-Help.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-05-m0.u162	Dear colleagues! Of course, the Self-Help faction will support this bill in the first reading. And we also feel that we cannot give up the money that we are offered, especially at this difficult, difficult time. Instead, I would like to draw attention to another problem that exists today. And this problem concerns the overall coordination of international financial institutions and these projects, and loans, grants that are coming to Ukraine today. Unfortunately, we don't see it at government level yet, maybe it's in the Ministry of Regional Development, in the Ministry of Economic Development, creating some kind of coordination council. Or is it Project Manager's office, some design office that we're seeing today. Which would summarize these proposals coming from both the World Bank and the German bank KfW, and the European Investment Bank, and from the EBRD, and from others, many other organizations, and form the only policy where these funds are to go.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-05-m0.u163	Finish, please, 10 seconds, finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-05-m0.u164	Informed both the public and the MPs, the involvement of an expert environment, how these costs would have to be spent to be transparent and public. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-05-m0.u165	Thank you. Yuri Lewchenko, please. One minute. Please invite the people's deputies to the hall. I'll give the floor to Zubko, vice-premier of profile.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-05-m0.u166	Leuchenko, Freedom, 223 County. I would like to draw the attention of the honourable deputies and our listeners and the audience to the substantial corruption risks that unfortunately are present in this project. That survived the first draft, almost nothing changed in the fall from the two options. The point is that there are absolutely no criteria on which the investment projects will be taken. And so is the notable commission, which has been discussed many times today. This creates a problem. Because Kabmin, in fact, will provide adequate funds to those who are offered suitable discounts. How it worked before. Therefore, for this bill to work truly for the benefit of Ukraine, it must be written between the first and the second readings. Without such criteria, it's just a huge corruption factor, not something that needs to be developed. And the point is that it only takes one year to run investment projects. What are investment projects that can be used for one year? That's what the MAF put.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-05-m0.u167	Thank you. Please, Hennaday Zubko. Please invite the deputies to the hall. We're going to vote, and I'm going to resound the amendments that were announced by the Minister of Economics, which are consistent with the factions. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-05-m0.u168	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to point out at all that the bill is very necessary, but the very condition that is needed to be included in this bill is the question of the transparent distribution of the capital expenditure involved. We also need to understand more about how decisions will be made on the ground, the local self-government that will affect the State Fund. And it's the mechanism for transparent distribution of these costs, for prioritizing how to distribute these costs. Now it's going to be in order that's determined by the Cabinet of Ministers. What was said by the Self-Help faction about the project offices. In fact, we are currently restructuring ministries of engagement and Pryslowterhaus Coopers, and other international organizations for the creation of such project offices. Why? Because each bracelet has its own effectiveness. But the question is that it can be effectively taken into account in the same priority as local self - government. So the projects of the offices that have to determine the effectiveness of these projects that are to be made available to this interdisciplinary commission by these proposals. The interdisciplinary commission should compare just the effectiveness of different projects, because there is a different effect on the economy in each bracelet at a time. And that's why I'd like the international experts, the four audiences who will really appreciate both. And Cash-flow, and all the other indicators that are needed today to analyze these projects. So I would like to support this by excluding local budgets, because this is the influence and decision of self-government, to exclude the State Regional Development Fund. And also to clarify the creation of an interdisciplinary commission and the principles for the establishment of this commission. Thank you for your support.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-05-m0.u169	Thank you. Please prepare for the vote, Your Honorable Fellow National MPs. I'm going to redefine the proposals that were made. Please, have a seat. Concentrate, please. First. In the first part of article 2, in the definition paragraph, state (local) capital injections of the word "local", "local", "communal" are excluded. In the fifth part of article 32, paragraph 5, the words “except those implemented solely with the participation of the State of Loans in loans from foreign states and international financial organizations” should be supplemented by the words “and the State Fund for Regional Development”. And the third. This is to clarify the statute of the Interministerial Commission on State Investment Projects. So there's a proposal to take these changes into account that are agreed between all the factions and are public absolutely, until the second reading. So I'm going to base this on these. Based on these amendments, that's right. Taking these amendments into account in the first, on the basis. Please vote on the basis of the amendments I have made. At the suggestion of the Minister of Economics, I sounded them. [[13:31:45]] For 239. Decision taken. Thank you, Your Honor. Let's go and prepare for the second reading. And there was Anna Hopko's suggestion to consider this bill in a simplified procedure for second reading. There were such proposals, and it was supported by the minister of finance and the minister of the economy in view of the decision to be taken by the World Bank. And the profile committee supported the same thing. So I'm going to put this proposal to the vote. Prepare, fellow believers, to prepare the bill for the second reading of the reduced procedure. Please vote on the preparation of the reduced procedure. [[13:32:38]] For 168 None. I didn't make that offer. Haven't you been able to vote? [[B in m in s a l in]] No, there's no decision. Okay, thanks. Next, please, dear colleagues. Bill number 2264. There is a proposal for a committee of profile to postpone its consideration and it agrees. 2149. 2149 registration number of the bill amending article 8 of the Ukrainian Act on Social and Legal Protection of Military Servants and Members of Their Families. There is an offer by Paul Rosenck to consider this bill in a simplified manner. I ask you to determine how the bill is to be reviewed by a reduced procedure. I'm announcing this proposal, and I think it is, that it deserves attention for the MPs, and the MPs will make a decision. [[13:33:55]] For 176 Thank you. Please, Minister, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-05-m0.u170	Honourable Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, distinguished national deputies! The bill proposes to strengthen the social and legal protection of military personnel and members of their families and refers to the inclusion of mobilized military services for the purpose of assigning benefits on extended terms. Today, the time spent in a vocational and educational institution, the time spent in a special period, which is declared under the Ukrainian Defence Act, is included in the period of service, which gives rise to retirement on extended terms, but should not exceed the available employment, which gives rise to retirement age on extended terms. The need for the proposed amendment to Ukraine’s legislation was due to the fact that valid legislation provides that employees of enterprises and organizations that have been mobilized are included in the special service during a special period of service, but it is not part of the internship that grants the right to an old-age pension on extended terms. That is why the government made a suggestion that the military service during the mobilization would be included in the internship, specifically for the purpose of assigning pensions on the extended conditions that it did. As envisaged for the insurance service. That's why we have a tradition of a bill introduced by the Ministry of Social Policy and the government on social issues to support on the basis and in general, so there is also a proposal.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-05-m0.u171	Let me finish, please. Thank you, there was a minister's proposal as a whole. Please, Sergey Pashinsky, head of the profile committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-05-m0.u172	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like first of all to thank the Cabinet of Ministers and Mr. Rosenk personally, that the Cabinet of Ministers and the Ministry of Social Policy have no regard for the problems of our military officials who are now serving. The essence of the law is very simple, you've come to realize that if a person worked at a job that has the right to a retirement benefit, that this time of service is included in the general service. It's a very simple concept, it's fair, it's right, the committee unanimously supported this proposal by the Cabinet of Ministers and asked the House to vote for the basis and for the whole. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-05-m0.u173	Please sign in, two for, two against. Moses, the Radical Party.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-05-m0.u174	Igor Mosiyczuk, Radical Party. An extremely important bill. There is a need to vote on the basis as a whole. It's about our defense heroes, who are now bleeding for Ukraine, protecting territorial integrity. At the same time, I would like to draw the government's attention to the fact that the disqualification is taking place by assigning the status of a participant in the Anti-Terrorism Operation, a participant in combat. For example, today, they are trying to assign such a title to the General of the Naumenka Police. Everyone on the subject understands that there should be a military prosecutor's office there rather than a name. But the law is worthy and I call upon all my colleagues, and I call upon the whole Parliament to vote for it in general, because by supporting our troops, we support the state, we support the nation in the difficult struggle with the Moscow occupation that is now taking place in the East. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-05-m0.u175	Thank you. Please, Igor Lucenko, Fatherland.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-05-m0.u176	Dear friends, we are unable to help the front today adequately. The Front needs a defence strategy for Ukraine, a military doctrine, many other top intellectual levels of documents. But still small things we can do to support the moral spirit of our soldiers to show that in the back they are ready to be provided, ready to be supported. So this kind of thing that we can now vote on is certainly necessary, of course, our "Paternity" faction supports it and will be supported in all ways. But once again I have to say that soldiers from us, from the leaders of the state, need, first of all, the real work of the entire state machinery to build an army, to make the army a highly intellectual mechanism that can defeat its opponent, first of all tactfully. But right now the age of novels like this, and of course we support morally and materially our soldiers, and such laws are very much needed. And I urge everyone to uphold this law, to show that we are at the back of every possibility, including in money, in social ways, on their side, not on the side of their enemies. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-05-m0.u177	The People's Deputy of Matvienkov, the Opposition Block.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-05-m0.u178	Matvienkov, 57th District, Mariupol City. Dear colleagues, The opposition bloc supports this bill, because such rules have always been in force in the State, and these rules have been in force, work and work, and we have no doubt here. But I would like to take this opportunity to turn to the Minister of Social Policy, Mr. Rosenko, former colleague of ours, to draw his attention to this situation. To date, unfortunately, there has been a generally unhealthy situation in the city of Mariupola and around the city of Mariupola with pensions and social issues. Decree 128-R, which was issued by the Cabinet of Ministers, amended the existing Order 1085, where sites that are not under the control of our State and settlements that simply enter the territory of the city of Mariupola, such as Sartana, Talakovka, Lomakino and a number of other settlements, are allowed. I urge you to pay particular attention to this question because tens, thousands of people today have lost their pensions without social benefits. People living in the city of Mariupola, near the city of Mariupola, knowing that you are committed to addressing such social issues, I strongly ask for order and effective measures to be taken. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-05-m0.u179	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I see that there is a full willingness to vote on the basis and generally the bill. I'd like you to take your seats in the hall, dear colleagues. Ladies and gentlemen, take your seats, we go to the vote in favour of Bill 2149: draft Act amending article 8 of the Ukrainian Act on Social and Legal Protection of Soldiers and Members of Their Families (to include the mobilized military service for the purpose of assigning a pension on extended terms. There is a proposal for a profile committee, supported by the minister, to be accepted as a whole. Vote please, Your Honor. Please be supportive. It's based on 2149. Please vote. On the basis and in general. [[13:43:09]] For 265 Decision taken. Thank you, Your Honor. Next. Next bill (registration number 2081), draft Act amending article 1 of the Ukrainian Act on Ukraine's participation in international peace and security operations. There's a proposal for the head of the Pashinsky Committee to consider this bill on short notice. I'd like to make a statement, fellow officers of honor. [[13:43:49]] For-188. Decision taken. Please, Deputy Secretary of Defense Mehed. Report, Peter Mikolaiovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-05-m0.u180	Dear National Deputies! The draft law was drafted by the Ministry of Defence in an initial order for the purpose. [[B in m in s a l in]] The Special Committee supports this. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-05-m0.u181	Dear colleagues, there is a proposal for a committee of profile to adopt this bill as a basis and as a whole. There's an understanding of all colleagues. There's no change and no additions on the profile committee? None. Prepare for the vote, Your Honor. I see there's no need to discuss it. Please prepare for the vote, fellow members of the national parliament. Please take your places to vote. The draft Act amending article 1 of the Ukrainian Act on Ukraine's participation in international peace and security operations (for the provision of arms and ammunition to Ukrainian national staff) is being submitted to your consideration on the basis and in general. On the basis and in general on the proposal of a profile committee. Please vote on the basis and in general. [[13:45:27]] For 245 Decision taken. Thank you, Your Honor. 2189, a draft law introduced by the Government. There's a government proposal to call off this bill. Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-05-m0.u182	Vladimir Borisovich, honourable national MPs, this is an important bill, it refers, unfortunately, to the fact that today there is a procedure of such judicial carousels that are being used, let's say, for the unsatisfying material condition of our citizens, very often the courts use these citizens and, in summary proceedings, try to make court decisions and then take this money to the citizens. And there have already been complete cooperatives in the service of such court decisions. But a number of comments have been made in the process of discussing this bill among the Ukrainian people's deputies, so there is a proposal to allow us to work on it and thus resolve these issues. I mean, I'm asking you to vote for the return. Well, the committee's decision to give us back our work.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-05-m0.u183	We don't need to vote back, you can call it off and that's it. Why vote? [[B in m in s a l in]] They've taken it, processed it, and moved it. Thank you. Registration number 2182: draft Law. The government called it off. Why vote? Shall we vote? Don't you have to vote? Stop it! All of it. Dear colleagues, the government has called off, and a formal appeal has been made to the government. It's their right. Registration number 2182. Draft Law amending the Ukrainian Law on Electricity on the characteristics of energy regulation in areas where government authorities do not temporarily exercise or exercise full powers (registration No. 2182). Reported to the head of the committee of profile, Martinenko Mikola Volodymyrovich. There is a proposal for the committee head to consider the bill in short notice. Please identify the national MPs for consideration of the bill by a reduced procedure. Please. [[13:47:56]] For 181 Please, Mikola Volodymyrovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-05-m0.u184	Dear Chairman, distinguished national MPs! Your view is on the proposal for a draft Law amending the Law on Electricity on the characteristics of regulating energy relations in areas where the authorities of the State do not temporarily exercise or exercise their full powers (No. 2182) under the authority of the members of the Committee on Fuel and Energy. The purpose of the bill is to take into account the specific complex circumstances and, most of the time, the impossibility of normal state-of-the-art energy companies in the area of anti-terrorist operations. And at the same time, to ensure that the total amount of debt consumed in the ATO area is accounted for and accounted for. And to regulate the relationship between production, transmission, distribution, supply, purchase, sale and use of electricity. The bill provides for a mechanism to regulate the observed relationship in a similar way to the already in place legal mechanism for regulating such relations between Ukraine’s wholesale electricity market and entities in the temporarily occupied Crimea Peninsula. Unfortunately, I want to tell you the numbers that we have today in the wholesale market. At least 20 percent of our electricity production is off the charts. And the main proportion of these incalculations in the area of anti-terrorist operation. So, given these complexities, which are, and the accumulated experience, as I said, in relation to another area, to adopt this bill, put appropriate responsibility on the writing of the relevant sublimative acts by the Cabinet of Ministers. And solve that question. And I propose to adopt this bill as a basis and as a whole as a law. This decision was directly made by the committee. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-05-m0.u185	Thank you, Your Honor. Two for, two for, please sign in. I see there are proposals for deputies. Please, Kuprienko National Deputy.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-05-m0.u186	Oleg Kuprienko, Oleg Laska Radical Party. A very important bill that will allow legal relations to be settled, but there is a very serious one flaw in this bill. There is no indication of who or how it is that the authorities do not exercise authority. And we need to complement this chapter, this rule of law that either the Cabinet of Ministers or another authority of the State has to determine exactly what territory is to be determined where the authorities of the State do not temporarily exercise. And so we will fund terrorists and continue to use our electricity, gas and other residential services, including the services they consume.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-05-m0.u187	Thank you. Please, People's Deputy Podlisecki, Self-Help.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-05-m0.u188	Dear colleagues, the Self-Help faction will clearly support this bill. And I wanted to explain why. We remember very well how literally a few weeks ago there were scandals about the baseless payment of 200 million, 300 million for the wholesale market. Given that there is no damage to the power lines between the occupied territory and the unoccupied area, in fact, all the electricity produced in the occupied territory has the only possible consumption in the occupied territory. According to Ukrainian legislation, all generation electricity produced must pass through the wholesale electricity market. So the wholesale market or the energy market, as it's called, has to pay for the electricity produced, and consumers, namely the skynergo, Lugansköblenergo or Donetskoblenergo, have to pay for the wholesale market. Taking into account the non-payments that Mr. Martinenko has said, non-payments from the wholesale market are actually paid by the State, paying the costs for the electricity produced, which does not come from consumers. Therefore, this must be settled and the right of the Cabinet of Ministers to regulate such matters manually. That's why I'm asking you to back me up. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-05-m0.u189	Thank you. Please, National Deputy Martovicki, Opposition Block.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-05-m0.u190	Deputy Martovicki, 36 constituency. Law 2182 is the legalization of the manual administration of the Kabmin in the field of production, transfer, distribution, supply, purchase, sale, use of electricity in the temporarily occupied territory and in the territory where the public authorities temporarily do not exercise or exercise their full powers. That is, the Cabinet of Ministers will have the right to take any decisions in respect of enterprises producing and supplying electricity located in territories that are not under the control of public authorities. Law 2182 is a repeat attempt by Kabmin, Minergocarbon and NHRIs to obtain unlimited power to manage the electricity market manually. These include obtaining grounds for unlawfully discriminatory decisions on non-payment of electricity produced by Ukrainian generation in the territories of Donetsk and Lugansk areas that have already occurred and in practice have been appealed to in court. Since August 2014, we have had the practice of adopting already six relevant Cabinet of Ministers orders aimed at resolving the energy crisis, with very strong measures, but in practice extremely negative in terms of their effectiveness. I believe that it is necessary to exclude the practice of immediate punctual solutions without a forward-looking view and understanding. In particular, we need, in view of the existing practice of enacting legislation governing the existence of the provisionally occupied territories, to develop and adopt a law that would simultaneously address the crisis issues of the work of producers, electricity suppliers in the Lugansk and Donetsk areas, and guarantee the protection of the rights and interests of such wholesale market participants. Therefore, the Opposition Unit does not support it.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-05-m0.u191	Thank you. Please, Alexander Dombrowski, Peter Dusty Block.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-05-m0.u192	Dear colleagues, Mr. Chairman, I would like to point out that military action in the eastern part of the country and carrying out an anti-terror operation every day is a surprise and not just on the energy market. And not just in terms of solving the energy problems that are in the ATO zone. Clearly, then, the government today needs a legally regulated instrument to address these coal - related challenges, such as electricity related to the supply of gas related to the provision of heat to the East, water, and so forth, a tool to address these issues quickly. Does this law solve the problem by 100 percent? No, it's not. Because every day there are new problems that the government has to respond to. So I support the government's position, and our faction supports it. We believe that.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-05-m0.u193	Please, let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-05-m0.u194	I believe that this law needs to be supported and enabled to respond quickly to problems in the eastern part of the country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-05-m0.u195	Thank you. Is there a need for a final word from the committee head? None. Please, colleagues, please, come into the hall, take your seats, people's deputies. Take your seats, please. Please take your seats and prepare for the vote, dear colleagues. Please take your seats and prepare for the vote. Please, Mikola Martinenko, one minute, head of the profile committee. Please invite the deputies to the hall.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-05-m0.u196	Dear colleagues, during the talks on the bill, there was a proposal from Oleg Kuprienk, a member of the Lášk faction, to identify areas where certain restrictions would be imposed. This should be taken into account in the technical legal drafting of the bill, after the vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-05-m0.u197	Thank you, Your Honor. Ready? I'm introducing a bill (registration number 2782) of the draft Law amending the Law on Electricity (registration number 2782) (registration of energy relations in an area where the authorities of the State do not temporarily exercise or do not fully exercise their powers), taking into account the proposal made by Oleg Kuprienko, the Radical Party, which was confirmed by the head of the Martinenko Professional Committee. Please prepare, vote on the basis and in general with the amendment that I have announced. Please vote. Please vote. On the basis and in general. [[13:58:54]] For 216 The decision is not taken. [[B in m in s a l in]] Haven't you been able to vote? By name, who couldn't vote? [[B in m in s a l in]] Two representatives of the Opposition Block. Got it. Let's go back, fellows. Then there'll be suggestions. To return. Ivan Krulko didn't vote either, I understand. To return to consideration 2182. Ready? Are we going back? Please come back. As for the return of the bill. [[13:59:40]] For 215 There are no votes for the bill. Let's vote it out for 16 hours. Let's vote for that decision. We're not anymore. We have to go back. To view it as a basis, we need to go back. Based on the base. Let's go back and lay the groundwork. It's a deal. We're going back, 2182. The proposal of the Opposition Block is to return and vote on the basis. Please vote in favour and we will vote on the basis. [[14:00:30]] For 212 I'll give my word as a basis. We're on our way. We're going to look at it as a basis now, right? [[B in m in s a l in]] We need to go back and take a look at it. Let's go back, we'll look at it after lunch. Is it accepted? Let us return to the discussion after the afternoon of this law. [[B in m in s a l in]] We're going to vote now. Let's re-vote in return for the 16-hour session. Moving the debate to 16 hours. Come on, let's vote. Transferred to Review. We'll hold consultations if we make decisions, we'll vote, we won't – we won't. [[14:01:33]] For 203 None. Thank you. Thank you, Your Honor. Dear colleagues, we have another bill. Break? I'm calling it a break. I declare the morning session closed. The evening will take place at 4:00 p.m. Thanks for the job, colleagues.
