ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-14-m1.u1	Dear colleagues, break time is over. I'm asking all the MPs to come into the hall to start our work. Dear colleagues, please come into the hall and prepare for registration. The Secretary of the Supreme Council, please inform the deputies of the beginning of our work. Dear colleagues, please come into the hall. Dear colleagues, I ask who is in the towers to enter the hall to begin our work. Get ready to register. Please come into the hall, we're taking up jobs. I'm asking you to prepare for registration. Dear colleagues, please register for the evening meeting. Please register. Please turn on the "Council" system and run the registration. [[15:42:31]] 317 deputies registered. I declare the evening session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine open. First, I want to read the announcement and invite the deputies to take their seats, to come into the hall. So the announcement. I'm reporting on the creation of the eighth interfractional parliamentary association "For Industrial and Technological Parks" in the Supreme Council of Ukraine. The head of the inter-fractional MP for Industrial and Technological Parks has been elected the national deputy of the Ukraine of Humil Mikhail Mikhailovich. Welcome to Michael Mikhailovich's election. And I'm asking you to move on to the agenda. Dear colleagues, I'd like to inform you. The work of the coalition to reconcile all aspects of the Electoral Act is now effectively being completed. In the next 50 minutes, this work will be completed. Then the committee will make all of our agreed proposals into the body of the law. We're going on a daily basis, but there's an offer, when the committee tells us that they've managed all of the agreed proposals, the rights to settle and process, we'll get right to the election law. Today, we have a huge task to adopt a new Electoral Law that would break the old law of Yanukovic, by which we destroyed Ukraine, and as soon as he is in the hall, we will consider him. And I would like to emphasise that it is important for us today to reach out to Law 2423 as one of the key laws in the fight against corruption. So now we're going in the daytime, but as soon as the committee reports that the Law on Local Self-Government and the elections are ready, we're going to ask you to put it to a vote right away. And now we, I'm looking at the law, the draft law amending some of the Ukrainian legislation on protection of the interests of the state, consumers of telecommunications services and improving public regulation in the area of use of radio spectrum in Ukraine (number 1888). And there is a request that we consider the bill in a simplified way. Please support and please vote. Dear colleagues, please take up your jobs and support the proposal for a reduced procedure. Please vote. Short-term procedure, please vote. Short-term procedure, Oleg. [[15:45:29]] For 122 Well, not everyone thought we were voting and not everyone heard the offer. And so I very much ask once again, dear fellows, carefully to approach the beginning of our work carefully and I ask to vote once again in favour of the review of Bill 1888 on a simplified procedure. Please carefully and responsibly vote. Please vote in favour of the summary procedure. [[15:46:08]] For-136 High potential. The members of the columns enter the Hall of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, who have not been able to vote. Society, I'll make it very simple for you. Now, for me, it's not a problem, is it? We'll talk for two hours and we won't have the Election Act, and we won't have the Anti-Corruption Act 2423. And so I ask you not to provoke this situation, but I ask you to come into the hall and prepare for our work. I'm asking respectable colleagues who are in the towers to come into the hall and take jobs. I call on the factions to mobilize their deputies to begin our work. Please come into the hall and prepare for the vote. Let's try it again. Please, Your Honor. Dear colleagues! Halasyuk, I ask you very much to take up your jobs, and you are here to prepare for the vote. Dear Members of Parliament, I ask you to come to your seats. Ready to vote? I'm once again proposing to review Bill 1888 as a simplified procedure. Please support, please vote in favour of the summary procedure. [[15:47:59]] For-144 I remind you that according to the rules, I can put this procedure to the vote several times. I'm asking the deputies who are in the towers to come into the hall, and the apparatus, I'm asking you to inform the deputies of the beginning of our work. Society, it's the blocking of work and the irresponsibility of our deputies. I'm asking you to come into the hall and I'm asking the factions to inform the deputies of our work. Colleagues, please mobilize, let's try again our potential and I'll put you to the vote one more time, please go to the workplace. So once again, I'm putting to the vote the motion to review the reduced procedure of Bill 1888. Please vote carefully and please support. Please vote, please vote, please support. [[15:49:43]] For-154 Thank you for your understanding and support. And I invite you to the report of the National Deputy of Ukraine, Danchenk Alexandre Ivanovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-14-m1.u2	Dear Lord Chairman! Dear colleagues! Your view is on the draft Ukrainian Law amending some Ukrainian legislation on the protection of the interests of the State, consumers of telecommunications services and the improvement of state regulation in the use of radio frequency resources in Ukraine (registration No. 1888). The bill operates within the framework of a state-wide concept of deregulation and openness of public policy. He'll let us solve the issue of a significant reduction in the level of smuggling. And now you know, because of the smuggling, total smuggling in the country that's unfolding. This law here we're arguing that 15 percent of the pensions we've made and added 175 million dollars a year, this law without a single penny from the budget gives an additional 1.3 billion dollars a year. The bill corresponds to the state-wide concept of implementation of domestic legislation into EU rules. First of all, it is a standard of the international electricity union, which requires the control of the passage of a unit of goods from the manufacturer to the consumer under the unique IMEI code. It is worth noting that the bill’s rules on the registration of personal mobile devices have already been in force in Ukraine and have been repealed. According to the State Fiscal Service, the number of customs violations increased 10 times in a quarter since the telephone registration was canceled. I am very much asking you to support this bill. It still has rules that will make it impossible to steal phones because operators will turn them off, have to turn them off, and stop smuggling. I would like to remind you that the President of the Lviv Customs has ordered the blockade unlawfully.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-14-m1.u3	Please give me 20 seconds to finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-14-m1.u4	illegally imported phones into the country. So please support this bill in the first reading. For the second reading, all the comments to this bill have already been prepared. So in the first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-14-m1.u5	Thank you. The report invites the first deputy head of the Committee on Information and Communications, Lukianchuk Ruslan Valeriyovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-14-m1.u6	Thank you. The honourable chairman, honourable national deputies, is brought to your attention by the 1888 registration number bill with a very beautiful name and an equally interesting content, "To amend some Ukrainian legislation on the protection of the interests of the State, consumers of telecommunications services and improve public regulation in the field of the use of radio frequency resources in Ukraine." The drafter himself reported on the purpose of the bill and the lack of expenditure on its implementation. The bill was passed on to the Committee on Public Discussion and Processing, and together with representatives of the field, telecommunications operators and professional public associations, they were able to express their views on the bill and make their suggestions and comments on improvements. The main scientific and expert management has also expressed their comments and suggestions. And the Anti-Corruption and Anti-Corruption Committee believes that this bill meets the requirements of anti-corruption legislation. Our Committee on Information and Communication considered all comments and suggestions, most of which agreed to be taken into account when preparing the bill for second reading. However, our committee voted by majority to recommend to the Supreme Council that the bill be adopted as a basis for the first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-14-m1.u7	Thank you. Dear colleagues, please sign in: two for, two against, please. Dmitry Volodymyrovich, the Radical Party, is handing over Halasyuk, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-14-m1.u8	Dear Chairman, dear fellow national MPs! The Radical Party's faction welcomes this initiative called Self-Help and the persistence with which Self-Help advocates the fight against smuggling. I mean, today smuggling is one of the worst factors that kills the Ukrainian industry. And this does not apply only to this law. The essence of this law is that in Ukraine electronic devices imported illegally will not work. The only register must be entered. There will be a list of the devices that have been imported legally. Others will simply not work in networks. All the other norms contained in this bill, in addition to what I said, they should be very carefully cleared for second reading, because it has to apply to essentially overcoming smuggling. Instead, we insist and try to read the second reading so that this system does not lead to any roadblocks for such products, nor for the importer, nor for the final consumer. How? Because it has to be financed solely by a positive effect, by overcoming smuggling. So we will support all the initiatives and we will continue to initiate draft legislation aimed at overcoming smuggling to protect Ukraine's economic borders. Because when we have one of the highest taxes in the country, including taxes on the income of individuals and the EU in sum. When the value of loans is 40 percent and in Europe 2 percent. When corruption, unfortunately, we see with you that it's no less than we've created special anti-corruption bodies. So in these circumstances, we have to think about both the domestic manufacturer and the legal importer, and create normal, working conditions for them. To protect the interests of consumers and to produce additional components of that electronics in Ukraine at some stage. It is therefore necessary to protect Ukraine’s state economic borders and in no way to protect it.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-14-m1.u9	Please, 10 seconds. Is there no need? Ten seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-14-m1.u10	The "Radical Party" faction supports the bill in the first reading and we're going to go back to the second. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-14-m1.u11	Thank you. Please, Storobuk Dmitry Anatoliyovich, People's Front.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-14-m1.u12	Please give the floor to Lukyanchuku Ruslan Valeriyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-14-m1.u13	Please, Lukyanchuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-14-m1.u14	Thank you. The People's Front faction will support this bill in the first reading and on the ground, because this bill will allow the number of documents of a permissive nature to be reduced. To reduce, to regulate the state’s influence on the right relationship. Strengthen the interests of the state in telecommunications. And bring Ukraine’s legislation into line with European legislation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-14-m1.u15	Thank you. Please, Mikola Tomenko, Peter Dusty Block.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-14-m1.u16	Dear colleagues! The authors of ideas about simplifying the process of working in the telecommunications market deserve support. At the same time, I want to make a few serious warnings that I hope we will regulate and correct for the second reading. Today, this is what the situation looks like. That we have an enna number of structures that compete with each other that are uncoordinated. And that leads to what, for example, we have through the RTD system, we couldn't get our own television and radio in the zone, so to speak, occupying. And in the part that we control, we listen to Novarosia and other trouble. Because we don't understand who it is. Now the question is. We are strengthening the National Liaison Commission. And we're weakening the National Television and Radio Council somewhere. We must strengthen public policy in the field of telecommunications and communication. Let's say we use the radio frequency part. Well, it's clear that radio frequency, as a right to speak, is a priority right to decide the National Council. And by the way, thank God, under our pressure for the first time in a few years now, five district centers will finally be receiving a national radio. I've made up my mind. So it seems to me that before the second reading, we need to make a very clear line here -- what is the common state policy, where is the NCC, where is the National Council for Television and Radio? And generally, in order for the government to define a clear, clear state policy so that we don't be in a situation where you know that, on digital television days, Nazrad has decided that we're not ready to go to digital television because the state hasn't prepared it. So there's no such thing as a radio story. So once again, we support the idea, but we need to work actively on the second reading.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-14-m1.u17	Thank you. From the Self-Help faction of Semimenach. Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-14-m1.u18	Semenha Roman, Self-help faction. Your Honor, Mr. Chairman, Your Honor, I'd like to take a few points. First. According to the Ministry of Internal Affairs, the number of phone thefts per year is 100,000. And only one in nine returns to the owner. Moreover, 70 percent of pocket thefts are mobile phone thefts. The adoption of this law deprives us of the purpose of stealing phones. This law does not violate property rights in any way, since it is only an impossibility of using illegally imported or illegally entered telephones. It is also worth saying that the closure of smuggling schemes will contribute to Ukraine’s annual budget of about 1.5 billion dollars. So I would like to support you in your first reading as a basis. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-14-m1.u19	Thank you. Dear colleagues, we have discussed this bill, and I would like to come to the House of Honorary Fellow Peoples for a vote. Based on, yes, the committee's proposal on the basis. There were no other suggestions. I'm very much asking you to come into the hall and take your seats. Let's maybe try the signal or we have enough, let's go through. An important reform bill, just so we don't let it go. Well, that's it. Dear colleagues, to determine our potential in the hall, there is a proposal for a signal vote. Is it accepted? We're trying, we're concentrating, I'm focusing, I'm putting a signal vote on Bill 1888 to test our potential. Dear colleagues, if you'd like to come in and take your seats, we'll vote for the green button. And I'm asking you to make a signal vote. Please, Your Honor, please vote. Please. [[16:02:40]] For 172 We have 172 -- in, in, in, in, in, in, in, in, in, in, in, in, in, in. What might be the suggestions for that? I think it's like that. First of all, I'd like to go to Peter Dusty Block. I understand your representative has called for support for this bill, right? But in the signal vote, the block of Peter Dustenka is 69 seconds away. Colleagues, let me further urge you to enter the hall. Society, look, let's do what we did the last time. The next bill is for discussion, and then we're voting together. Is such an offer accepted? Roger that. We await the leaders of factions who will be able to give valuable recommendations to the factions. Dear colleagues, I'm putting to the vote the next bill of order of the day, 2254. Draft Act amending certain laws of Ukraine to increase the social protection of children and support for families with children (No. 2254). There is a proposal from the authors to consider it in a simplified way. Ladies and gentlemen, I ask you to support the proposal, with a reduced procedure. Please support and vote. [[16:04:25]] For-154 Decision taken. And I would like to invite the rapporteur, National Deputy Heratchenko Irina Volodymyrovna. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-14-m1.u20	Dear colleagues, this bill has been drafted by the national deputies of Ukraine from various factions and this has been the result of our visits to the anti-terrorist operation zone and our desire to help children who have come under difficult living conditions in order to, first of all, make it a simpler procedure, for example, to restore children's documents if they are lost when they move from occupied territories to Ukraine. And in general, the definition of such a category as children who are in difficult circumstances, orphans who are being transferred from occupied areas without documents, they can be part of the Ukrainian family. And this concept is introduced as a family of protective caregivers. This bill proposes to amend the Family Code, the Ukrainian Health Protection Act, the Ukrainian Law on the Protection of the Rights and Freedoms of Internally Moved Persons Act, the Local Public Administration Act, local self-government Act, and we are actually trying to protect the interests of children who really need it. I also want to inform you about the drafting of this bill has been part of the close cooperation of the Commissioner for Children of the President of Ukraine and a number of public organizations that are involved in this issue. On the need to adopt a series of bills that reinforce the protection of the child in the conflict area during his visit to Kiev now, Mr. Muyzhnieks asked questions – he is the Commissioner of the Council of Europe for Human Rights. And we were actually doing a big job here with the political factions, asking to support them in the first reading. I know that there are, as it were, honourable colleagues, there are observations that, as if the new norm that is being introduced is raising a family, that the guardians will require a certain increase in budgetary expenditure -- that is not the case. First of all, it fits the standards.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-14-m1.u21	Please, 20 seconds, finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-14-m1.u22	Thank you. This is in line with European standards. Second, this rule will not require an increase in public budget expenditure, since it is up to local authorities to decide where to spend the money, whether to keep the child in shelter or to keep the child in foster homes. That’s what this is all about, a protective family, so that you can understand.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-14-m1.u23	Mrs. Irina, I can't hear you anymore. Give me 10 more seconds? Ten more seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-14-m1.u24	Dear colleagues, the most important questions are what a protective family is. For example, a child has parents, but they are in occupied territory and others.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-14-m1.u25	Mrs. Irina, how long does it take? Give me 30 seconds, but finish. 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-14-m1.u26	Dear colleagues, much is simply a discussion, what is a protective family? It is a family that is willing to help a child communicate, to take on its support there when the child is not an orphan. But because of these difficult circumstances of life, she became a refuge. And that's why it's important to have that kind of contact. Please support in the first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-14-m1.u27	Thank you. The co-report invites the head of the Committee's Subcommittee on Family, Youth Policy and Sport and Tourism, Sporis Ivan Dmitrovic. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-14-m1.u28	Dear colleagues, we are now considering Bill 2254. I will say that, during the discussion of the bill, the members of our committee supported the proposal to adopt a bill on the basis of the draft Act amending certain laws of Ukraine on strengthening the social protection of children and supporting families with children under number 2254. Because this bill systematically and comprehensively addresses the protection of children’s rights. We have just heard that Irina Heratschenko, in fact, is justly in this bill along with her national MPs who joined this bill, admitted, in fact, that the bill proposes a way of protecting children in war or armed conflict. To improve the system of intervention and action of the State authorities regarding orphans, children deprived of parental care, children without legal representation, as well as support for families with children, to improve the mechanism for the implementation of the protective form of child rearing that Irina Herachenko has just talked about, and to complement legislation with such terms as "to ensure the best interests of the child and the child in difficult living conditions." The committee therefore decided to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine, as a result of a first reading review, that the draft Law amending some of the laws of Ukraine on strengthening the social protection of children and supporting families with children, number 2254, be adopted on a basis. Please support the committee's decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-14-m1.u29	Thank you. Dear colleagues, is there a need to discuss? Vote. Then I ask all the national deputies to come into the hall. Dear colleagues, as soon as several groups of deputies have left the hall, I ask you very much to hear me come into the hall, and also to take up jobs, please. I appeal to the deputies of Lechchenka, Cervakova, Ariev, to respond responsibly to my new duties as deputies of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Take up jobs, prepare for responsible work, vote. Dear colleagues, I ask the heads of factions to mobilize deputies. I ask the faction secretariat to invite members to the vote. And I ask you to prepare for the vote. So I'm voting on the committee's proposal. Yes, come on, there's a proposal from the President's representative, and he knows what he's saying, to have a preliminary vote. So, society, there is a request to participate in the signal vote on Project 2254 as a basis. And I ask you to come into the hall and take part in the signal vote. I'm asking you to turn on the " Rada" system, have a "yes" signal vote, green one on the board. I would like to vote on the vote. Please take part in the vote. [[16:12:15]] For 245 Thank you. The MPs are mobilized, ready for battle. And I now put to the vote a bill amending some of Ukraine's laws on strengthening child welfare and supporting families with children, number 2254 as a basis. Please support and please vote. Please vote on the basis. [[16:12:52]] For 246 Decision taken. And now I'm putting the results of the discussion of the previous question to the vote. It's a draft law that we've discussed before. So I'm voting on a bill amending some Ukrainian legislation on protecting the interests of the state, consumers of telecommunications services and improving state regulation in the field of radio spectrum use, number 1888, on the basis of a committee proposal. If you'll excuse me, I'd like to vote. Please vote, 1888 as a basis. Please vote. [[16:13:41]] For-174 The decision is not taken. Society, is this a political position? Why don't we exchange our thoughts? Please, "Peter Prashenko's Block," is there a need to make that statement? Colleagues! Yuri Vitaliyovich, voting on this bill is a position or a lack of consideration to understand. Not everyone was in the voting room. I'll be back in a minute. In the meantime, Mr. Oleg, I'd like a minute of the rostrum.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-14-m1.u30	Ladies and gentlemen! I just want to quote the President of Ukraine, his speech in Odessa. This bill, 1888, is this bill that automatically shuts down smuggling. So let's support the President of Ukraine, your honors.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-14-m1.u31	It was an offer to come back, wasn't it? I'm asking my colleagues, carefully, now I'm going to put you back on the vote in 1888. Dear colleagues, we are now voting for the bill as a basis. And there'll be a vote on the return. I am very much asking to support the position on the return to voting in 1888. So we vote for the return. Please be supportive. Please vote. Back to 1888, please. [[16:15:33]] For 184 The decision is not made. I have to make the following proposal under the Rules: return. Ola, I'm glad, but we're short 40 votes, and she's poor, alone. I'll make the next offer. This is to return the subject of the legislative initiative to the committee. Dear colleagues, I ask you to support the 1888 proposal: to return the committee to work. I'm asking you to support this proposal: 1888 return the committee to work. Please vote. Dear colleagues, please take part in the vote and vote. [[16:16:26]] For 210 Well, I think this proposal might take on the majority, as you say? Dear colleagues, well, when someone has a warning, the committee can be reworked. Let me do it again. Give Yuri Lucenk one minute. He will tell the truth about this bill, and then we will accept it. Please, Yuri Vitaliovich Lucenko. 1888, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-14-m1.u32	Dear Chairman, dear colleagues! Law 1888 can be described professionally because I am the author of the Telecommunications Act. What's more, the main money of this law, I wanted to bring in a long-distance year for one reason: this law actually makes it unnecessary to steal mobile phones, because all the mobile phones that come into Ukraine have to be entered into the IMEI register, and after stealing, they just stop working. This is the right system that: A is going to put the money into the budget, because everything that's imported is going to go, not through smuggling, but through customs with entry into the register; B, theft is going to go down sharply, and so all the criminal activity is going to get quieter in the streets. I ask you to support this bill in the first reading, it contains no anti-national norms. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-14-m1.u33	Dear colleagues, it would not have been right if we hadn't passed an important bill because of the banal negligence. Let me put it back again. We haven't made any proposals yet, but there are a lot of deputies in the hall who have apparently heard Yuri Vitaliovich's call and will now take part in the vote. So I'm asking you to vote back in 1888. I ask you to take part in the vote and please support the return to 1888. Please vote, Your Honor, we vote for the return. [[16:18:44]] For 205 Suggestions. Please, Anatoly Matvienko 1 minute. Who else wanted one minute? Kishkar one more minute. Please, Anatoly Matvienko 1 minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-14-m1.u34	If you don't mind, I'd like to put it in because there was a meeting there, a lot of MPs, and they couldn't vote. If possible, go back to the vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-14-m1.u35	Thank you. Please, Kishkar, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-14-m1.u36	Paul Kishkar, "The Self-Help Union." It seems to me that we do not support this bill because of the fear that we will lose our iPhones. Field this fear in the past and support a normal bill that really fights theft. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-14-m1.u37	Dear company, I will once again make a return offer. If we don't get past it, we'll move on to the next issue of the agenda. So I'm asking everyone to come into the hall. And once again, I'm putting a question to the vote. Draft Act on Amendments to Certain Legislative Acts of Ukraine, No. 1888, on the basis of If you'll excuse me, I'd like to vote. 1888, based. Please vote. On the way back, on the way back, I'm sorry. On his return, 1888. Please. [[16:20:35]] For 202 Thank you. 202, no decision taken. I'm moving on to the next bill of order. This is a bill amending some Ukrainian legislation to guarantee the rights of child victims of war and armed conflict, number 1410. I'm asking you to support the proposal, to consider this bill on short notice. Please vote, please support, with a reduced procedure, please. [[16:21:18]] For-154 Decision taken. And I am writing to invite the National Deputy of Ukraine, Pavelka Yuri Alexiyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-14-m1.u38	Honorable National Deputies of Ukraine! This bill provides for amendments to a number of laws on strengthening and providing guarantees for the protection of the rights of children who are victims of war and armed conflict. I would like to remind the distinguished national MPs that, despite the fact that more than a year is going on in Ukraine, there is no category such as a child who is a victim of war or armed conflict today in legislation. Instead, for several years now, the UN Committee on the Rights of the Child has been demanding the Ukrainian authorities, the Ukrainian Parliament to identify such a category, and to guarantee the protection of such children. The bill deals with the topical issues of child rights and the interests of children. In particular, 1 million children who have lived in Donetsk and Lugansk before the outbreak of war and are now scattered throughout the country and the world, and some 400,000 are still living in the ATO area, some 500,000 are living in other parts of the country, and a large number live abroad. There is no guarantee of protection for such children. Moreover, the bill also applies to the tens of thousands of children of our military personnel, the law - enforcement officers who were injured or killed. The bill clearly defines and defines the task, the duty of the State to move children out of the area of armed conflict, the provision of material, medical, social assistance, the granting of orphanage status, children deprived of parental care, the reunification of children with war - torn family members, the return to Ukraine of children who have been deported illegally. Providing medical, psychological, pedagogical care.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-14-m1.u39	Ten seconds, please finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-14-m1.u40	the reintegration of such children. Settlement of the evacuation issue. If an immediate evacuation occurs. Seems like simple tasks.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-14-m1.u41	Let's go to 10. It's been 10 years. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-14-m1.u42	It would seem simple questions. But their legislative imbalances lead to victims, injuries, and loss of children’s future.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-14-m1.u43	Thank you. The co - report invites the head of the Committee’s Subcommittee on Family, Youth Policy, Sport, and Tourism, Spores Ivan Dmitrović. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-14-m1.u44	Dear National Deputies! Dear Chairman! Indeed, we have just heard Bill 1410. But I'd like to ask the chairman. The bill is still common. And we still have to consider Bill 2146. And then make the right decision on these bills. Because all three bills, like 2254, 2146 and 1410, are common. The committee was discussed together. And they complement each other. That's why I'm asking the chairman to put Bill 2146 on the table right now. And then we'll talk about it together.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-14-m1.u45	Thank you. Ten more seconds, please. Finish it, 10 seconds, finish it.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-14-m1.u46	I ask you again, Mr. Chairman. You'll have Bill 2146 under consideration. And then along with this bill, 1410, we're going to discuss these bills. They're together.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-14-m1.u47	They are common, but according to the Rules we should discuss each other separately. What is your decision to the committee under this bill? What's your offer on that? What's your offer?
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-14-m1.u48	Let's do that. If so, Bill 1410. When we prepare Bill 2254 for the second reading, it will be considered, we have rejected the bill of Paul and the Royal, but at the same time they will be cosponsors of Bill 2254 by Irina Herashchenko, and they will be united into a single bill. And that was the agreement of everyone. That's why I'm counting on this bill to be rejected, but in the second reading of the bill, 2,254, we're going to take into account all the positions that were said in Bill 1410.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-14-m1.u49	Thank you. So there is a need to discuss the bill? If you have two pros, two against. Please sign up: two for, two against. Easy, please, Radical Party.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-14-m1.u50	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. Our faction will certainly support a bill aimed at protecting children who are victims of war. But, you know, when I see this bill being reported by the author, the representative of the block of thieves, our colleague Yuri Pavlenko, and he tells us how they hurt children. Yuri, tell your leaders who gave up Crimea, who were robbing the country that was building the Yanukovic dictatorship, who, for days at the OSCE Parliamentary Assembly, did not support the Resolution on Russia's recognition as an aggressor. They come out here and cry crocodile tears about the implementation of the Minsk Accords, and then Boyko gets on a plane and goes to Moscow every week, where he gets instructions, and it's through which children, peaceful citizens, our military personnel are killed. Don't tell us, tell your shoplifters who robbed the country, took their lives, lived a peaceful life on Ukrainian, Donetsk, and Lugansk land. God forbid anyone should be in the position of those pensioners today who are luganian and doine, who at the age of 70 are forced to leave their home, where they have lived all their lives, who are now wandering the hired corners. Do not let God, no one, be those children of forced refugees who live in former pioneer camps and today have nothing to live for. God forbid anyone should be in the scene of the Crimean Tatars who today lost their native land because of Januković’s thieving policy, which today was reborn as a thief’s block. So we will certainly support this bill, but the best protection for children is banning a party of regions and.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-14-m1.u51	Thank you. Please, Happy Natalia Vasilovna, Self Help. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-14-m1.u52	Please pass the word to Romanov.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-14-m1.u53	Dear colleagues, there's been a conflict in the East for over a year, and a lot of children have lost their parents, so of course it's nice that we're now looking at three of these bills that finally regulate public policy on children. But I want to pay attention to colleagues that we just adopted as the basis of the beautiful Law 2254, where the definition of a child sacrifice is absolutely clear, and the concept of a foster family is introduced. So Self-Help supports the efforts of the Supreme Council to bring the state policy on child victims of armed conflict, but we support the committee's proposal to bring together all three bills based on Bill 2254, which we have just adopted on a basis. And as we prepare for the second reading, we need to make the necessary adjustments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-14-m1.u54	Please, Tomenko Mikola Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-14-m1.u55	Please give the floor to the author of one of the bills, a man who, I think, alone of the three authors, has the moral right to speak with conviction, professionally and to protect children who have been affected by military actions, Irina Herashchenko. Please give me your word.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-14-m1.u56	Thank you very much. Dear colleagues, really, you know, the numbers are just striking the grief that the Russian occupation brought to Ukrainian land. We have more than 70 children killed today and more than 180 seriously injured, of the 17,000 injured in Ukraine. About 60 percent of the displaced are women and children. And that's why we really need to adopt a bill that is the only one that solves this problem at the state level. And I want to support my esteemed colleague, Mr. Laishka, who rightly pointed out that it is very important that a state that is not represented by political power, power, or opposition, but, in one voice and outside, say who is to blame for this aggression, and who is to blame for the suffering of Ukrainian children. And we're very much talking to the Opposition Block, which is really singing with the Kremlin, and Moscow, especially on the outside, when they're raising these questions: come on, colleagues, talk together about what kids are suffering, but there's a lot of blame for these sufferings and there's got to be a trial on them. But by actually demonstrating our desire to cooperate constructively on such important issues, we propose to unify all three bills in 2254, to add to our authorly team Mr. Pavlenko, who is really an expert on children. And the second reading takes into account the important suggestions that are in other alternative laws and is so common to offering a hall. And I think it's the wisest thing to do: take one position by law, but one and a public position to protect Ukrainian children both inside the country and especially outside. Thank you!
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-14-m1.u57	So it's about taking one. One law we have already passed 2254 and not to vote now these two, not to vote, but to take their positions into account in preparation for the second reading? Please, Yuri Pavlenko one minute and we're done.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-14-m1.u58	Please turn on the microphone instead of Dudenkov’s.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-14-m1.u59	Vladimir Borisovich, I'd like two minutes. Yes, thank you. As far as all three bills are concerned, they are really not alternatives; they are complementary; each bill makes the child's rights policy better. I want to address all the factions of the coalition, my dears, most of them -- almost seven months of the Supreme Council, seven months of no child rights law, no child war support. The fact that these laws are now in the order of the day, thank God that they are and that they have caused annoyance here, and in fact, they are the laws that should be united today, consolidate all society. I ask you, Volodymyr Borisovich, there are many more bills that have been tabled by the people's deputies of different factions and concern children. Regrettably, authorities today, both central and local, without laws, cannot exercise their authority over children. I'm asking you to take them out into the day-to-day and take a look at them immediately. What about the suggestions? In view of the already voted bill by Irina Heratschenko, and I understand in principle that the second reading should be a good bill, for these laws are already seven months in the Supreme Council, and are somewhat outdated. Because new challenges have arisen in Ukraine. I would suggest that we put a reduced procedure into the second reading, taking into account Bills 1410 and the next 2,146, or we can do it in full procedure, because there is no time. But once again, put Bill 2254, taking into account the provisions of Bills 1410 and 2146, on second reading. Because there are things that are unfortunately not in Bill 2254, but there are 1410 or there are 2146.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-14-m1.u60	All right, your honor, then I have an offer, which means I have to make it all legal right now. I have a proposal then, perhaps this proposal is for everyone to unite and make one draft law. He's got everybody, right? Then let's do it this way. Now we're going to vote 1410 as the basis, 2146 as the basis. And we'll have them prepare their positions by 2246. Otherwise, we now have 2,254 on the ground, and 1410 on the back and 2146 on the back. Then we don't vote them now, 1410, we don't vote 2146. And we're going to have to prepare for the second reading, taking into account Regulations 1410 and 2146. Is it accepted? I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. Is it accepted? Fellows, then look, let me put it this way: 1410 I'll put it to a vote right now, we don't support it; 2146 we don't support it, I'll put it to a vote. But we now vote that in preparing for the committee's second reading, take into account positions 1410 and 2146. It'll be okay. It's a deal, guys. Please vote 1410, but we don't support it, 1410 don't support it, we don't support it. This is an agreed position between all of us. Well, it's just legal to get out of this position correctly according to the Rules. 1410, please, for the vote, but we don't support it, we're going to take it into account at 2254. We don't. [[16:37:10]] For-63 Considered rejected. 2146 votes, not supported either. 2146 votes, please. 2146. [[16:37:33]] For-56 56. And now the protocol commission of the Supreme Council of Ukraine in the drafting of the Law, registration number 2254, to take into account positions 1410 and 2146. Is it accepted? Please, colleagues, I ask everyone to take their seats and protocol commission of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to the profile committee, with the addition of 2254 to the second reading to take into account positions 1410 and 2146, this will be a common position. Is it accepted? Please take your seats and let's all support this proposal together. Please vote, please support. And please support me, please. Colleagues. Thank you. [[16:38:24]] For 244 Thank you, decision taken, 244. Thank you. Then I ask the committee to work together on this position. Let's move on, fellows. Dear colleagues, there's an offer, there's an offer. Dear colleagues, you have a draft law, registration number 2788, 2788-1 and 2788-D. The draft Law on Amendments to Article 1 of the Ukrainian Law on the Health and Rest of Children on the Health and Rest of Children, regarding the health of children of forced displaced persons and children of families under difficult living conditions. Three draft laws. There's a proposal for all three draft laws to be considered in a simplified procedure. Please support this proposal. 3 draft laws by reduced procedure. Please be supportive. They're alternative, I'm asking you to support the consideration of the reduced procedure, colleagues. Careful. [[16:39:44]] For 165 Thank you. Please, 2788, the decision is made. 165 votes. 2788, National Deputy of Matvienkov, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-14-m1.u61	Matvienkov, 57th District, Mariupol. Dear Chairman, distinguished colleagues! To be honest, I would very much like these bills, which we are currently considering, to be truly unifying to all of us, not separate. And we wouldn't be looking now for who's to blame, I guess, for everything in the situation that is. And they searched and watched who was most affected. And most of them were affected by two categories. The most vulnerable are children and old people. And I was very reluctant to say that, as children are now doing, we would be the most negative in this situation. Today alone, more than 1.2 million people in the Donetsk region have moved from the ATO zone. This is 920 families. That's 175 to 7,000 children. Out of the ATO area, 62 family-type children's homes have moved. Units were moved to raise children deprived of parental care. About 200 foster families. More than a thousand boarding school teachers and specialists have been resettled. In this regard, this grief, which is indeed in need of rehabilitation during this summer period, needs protection. Therefore, a bill on the recovery and rest of children who have moved from the ATO area should be tabled in two paragraphs that would enable this category to be healed in that period. And the costs that we will receive today will be placed on the local authorities. Moreover, today they agree with this situation, they provide all kinds of assistance and would really like to assist in the recovery of this category of children. I would like to support this bill as a whole, since we do not have much time to implement it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-14-m1.u62	Please, National Deputy Smoking Maxim. Please, Maxim Pavlovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-14-m1.u63	Dear Volodymyr Borisovich! Honorable National Deputies of Ukraine! There are no foreign children in the nation. And that's true. It is our sacred responsibility to provide adults with opportunities for the development and rest and rehabilitation of children. So today we do have a yard on July 14, almost half the summer. And that bill that we're currently considering on this issue is also very relevant. We held a meeting at our Dnipropetrov Regional Authority, and we discovered in May that in the Dnipropetrov region, more than 5,000 children who are deprived of parental care, children who have come from the occupied, temporarily occupied territory and children from the families of the dead and participants in the ATO need immediate rehabilitation. In the Dnipropetrovsk region, I am confident in all other regions of our Ukraine, there is an opportunity to provide favourable conditions for their rest, rehabilitation and recovery. However, we need to create appropriate legal grounds for our executive authority to do so on the spot. And that's why the idea of settling this gap in legislation was born. I want to point out and thank our colleagues who are co-authors of this law. Both Andrew Pavelko and Ivan Ivanovich Kulichenko. But I also want to thank the members of the profile committee, personally Arthur Palace. We passed a balanced bill. And that's why the most legal, most professionally prescribed standards are contained in draft Law 2788-d. We are also his coauthors. Dear colleagues! I strongly ask you and ask you to support this draft of Law 2788-d as a basis and as a whole as a law right now. Because it's out of date. We've been out in the yard for almost half a summer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-14-m1.u64	Thank you. Please, from the committee, head of the Committee on Family, Youth Policy, Sport, John Sporish. Please, Ivan Dmitrovitch.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-14-m1.u65	Ladies and gentlemen, your honor, the presiding officer! As has already been said, at our meeting on June 30, we discussed the draft Law amending article 1 of the Ukrainian Law on the Recovery and Recreation of Children on the Rehabilitation of Children of Forced Migrants and Children of Families in Difficult Living Conditions. This is 2788, 2788-1. And also the bill on the recovery and rest of children on the rehabilitation of children in combat, children whose parents died in the area of anti-terrorist operations, combat or armed conflict, or mass civil protest, is a bill of 2788-d. In fact, it has been said that our committee supports both 2788 and 2788-1. But since the drafters of the bill are not invited to make appropriate changes to article 24 of the Ukrainian Act on the Recovery and Recreation of Children, which sets out how to finance the recovery of the child's pension categories, as already stated by Deputy Smoking, that is indeed the case. Therefore, in order to quickly address the issue of the recovery of children, participants in the ATO, children of the heroes of the "heavenly hundred" and refugee children, the committee has drafted a draft bill on the basis of the above-mentioned drafts, taking into account the findings of the Chief Scientific and Expert Office and the Ministry of Social Policy of Ukraine. And that's why the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, on the basis of the first reading, adopted the bill 2788-d as a basis and as a whole. Because in this case, we're going to be able to provide in July-August this year the healing and rest of the children of the ATO participants, the children of the Celestial 100 heroes and the children of the refugees. That's why I'm asking you to take the whole bill 2788.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-14-m1.u66	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I have a suggestion that we now consider 2788-d and agree to take a position on it, as it was with the chairman. We can go through all of these, but I'm going to basically consider the first 2788-d that this is going to be a common position. Is there no objection? Colleagues, this is about healing children. Please, 2788-d is a draft law amending article 1 of the Ukrainian Act on the Recovery and Recreation of Children on the Recovery of Children of Forced Displaced Persons and Children of Families in Difficult Living Conditions. The committee's decision is to make a proposal of 2788-D, based on the fact that this is an urgent question, to take on a basis and generally on the elderly recovery of children. Everyone, everyone, please concentrate. Please, 2788-D. Ready to vote? Children’s rest, friends, please be careful. Careful, please. 2788-D please vote on the basis and in general on the proposal of the Committee on Health, Health and Recreation of Children. We're voting 2788-D as a base and as a whole. Rest and well-being of the children, my friends, please vote. Friends. [[16:48:13]] For 231 Colleagues, I would like to be more careful, more careful. Colleagues. There's a proposal here. Now we have 102 on the factions, you see, yes, on. Now we have the last question of the first reading – 1714. Then we have a second reading. There's a second reading proposal to start with question 2423, this is a question of increasing the fight against corruption in terms of transparency in the second reading. But a change of order must take place only after the vote of Parliament.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-14-m1.u67	The election is now being prepared by the committee, and then there will be elections. As soon as the election is ready, my friends, they'll be in the hall right away, and they're all working on it. If there is no objection, I now introduce 1714 in the first reading the last law. And then we go to the second reading, and I'm going to put the proposal to the vote to consider the first law in the second reading that I'm talking about. Colleagues, 1714, draft Act amending the Ukrainian Housing and Utilities Act (to improve the provision of maintenance services for buildings and buildings and trailers), the Honcharenko People's Deputy Project. Colleagues, there is an offer by the author to consider this draft law in a simplified procedure. Please support the author's proposal to review the reduced procedure. Please support the consideration of the reduced procedure. Review of the simplified procedure. [[16:49:57]] For 168 Thank you, colleagues. 168, decision taken. Please report to Alexy Hotcharenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-14-m1.u68	Thank you, Volodymyr Borisovich. Dear colleagues! A bill with a very simple purpose is before you. Today we have, to become, our partner and friend of the Republic of France's national holiday, Bastille's Day. I think we all congratulate the French Republic, its President, who is very involved in resolving the situation in eastern Ukraine, with this holiday. It is indeed the day of the liberation of the French people from tyranny. Thank you, this is a round of applause for our colleagues from the French Republic. This is important to us as a group of friends with France, 84 deputies who are part of it. So, the bill that you now have before you is actually the release of millions of Ukrainians from the small but very severe and terrible tyranny perpetrated against them by the so-called Jackie. They're actually many names today, in different cities, they're called different, but the essence of it doesn't change. What's going on? When they bill people for the so-called service of SDPT (household and home territories), they do so without giving people the opportunity to see the act done. That is, the post facto person actually receives each month, regardless of whether his home services have been provided: cleaning, maintenance, maintenance or not. And this is happening all over the country, there are several cities, in particular the town of Vinnica and our respectable Vladimir Borisovich, where the issue is resolved. And today, the bill offers you very simply so that people can sign an act of work done, and only after that could JECI charge them the SPT – this is what will free millions of Ukrainians from the tyranny of JECOV as it is today. I very much ask you, distinguished colleagues, to support this law on first reading, to finalize it quickly and to put an end to it. Thank you for your attention!
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-14-m1.u69	Thank you. Please report, Alona Babak, deputy head of the profile committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-14-m1.u70	Honorable National MPs. The Committee on Construction, Urban and Housing reviewed the bill under registration number 1714, submitted by the Ukrainian National Deputies, Honcharenko and Andriyevski, at its meeting on June 3, 2015. The main scientific and expert management believes that the project can be taken into account by taking into account the comments made and the suggestions made. In particular: to specify the name of the project, the terms used, the order of accounting and the submission of service documents. The Committee on Prevention of Corruption and Opposition failed to identify corruption projects. The Committee on Budget Affairs notes that the bill has no impact on the budget. In view of the above, the Committee recommends to the Supreme Council of Ukraine: Bill No. 1714, based on the first reading, to accept it on a basis, to work on it, taking into account the comments and suggestions of the legislators, and to present it for consideration in the second reading. Please support the committee's decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-14-m1.u71	Thank you. Colleagues, is there a need to discuss this bill? We still have many laws that today. There is a proposal for national MPs to vote. Dear colleagues, the draft Law of Registration 1714, prepared by the National Deputy of Ukraine, Alexi Honcharenko, has been introduced to your vote. A report by the committee’s deputy head indicates that the committee recommends the adoption of the draft law as a basis. So, honourable colleagues, I'm putting to the vote draft Law 1714 on the basis of the first reading. Are you guys ready to vote?
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-14-m1.u72	We vote colleagues on the basis. Please vote. Please be supportive. Based on, colleagues, based on. Please be supportive. Colleagues, you need to be more careful. [[16:54:49]] For 218. Comrades, I see, the Chamberlain, the Hen is still a colleague, Danchenko. All right, colleagues. Please be prepared. Please be more careful now that we read the second reading, we will have important laws, including anticorruption. 1714 for the return of the people's deputies. Ready? For the return of 1714, please vote, colleagues, return. 1714, I beg your pardon. Return. [[16:55:34]] For 234 We're back. Now on the ground. Get ready, no one's going anywhere. Vote 1714 on the basis, colleagues, 1714 on the basis. Vote please, colleagues. 1714 on the ground, please support. Based on the base. [[16:56:04]] For 241 Decision taken. Thank you, Your Honor. Please be more careful. Dear colleagues, I need your help now. There is now a meeting of the Committee on the Preparation of Relevant Decisions on Local Elections, which is important. As soon as the committee has completed its consideration, we will consider it. There is a proposal that we now consider draft Law registration number 2423. Attention! There's a proposal for us to start looking at it right now. This is an anti-corruption law: a draft Act amending certain laws of Ukraine to increase transparency in property relations in order to prevent corruption. Second reading, my friends. I'm asking everyone to focus on putting it right now, right now, for consideration, because it's a little bit later. Replace with places. Colleagues, please, Andrew Volodymyrovich Parubius. Take your seats, we'll vote now!
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-14-m1.u73	Dear colleagues, I'm asking everyone to come into the hall now, perhaps the most important law for today, 2423. It's a system-wide anti-corruption law, we can make reforms in any area, in any system, in the prosecutor's office, in the police, in the court, but if we don't show what kind of property officials they've robbed for 20 years at the expense of the people, we won't be able to carry out a full-fledged reform in any area. Law 2423 makes it possible, as an X-ray, to show the entire corruption mafia, the whole system that is in our country. There, by entering the surname, you can show the property, the houses, the apartments, the land plots of any citizen, any official, and the question is fundamental to each of us. Voting for this is a clear division of water, whether we are on the side of the darkness of corruption, or whether we are on the side of anti-corruption and light. I'm asking everyone to support a change in the order of the day and to support this bill. The MPs are in the hall. I'm asking you to take your jobs, and I'm asking you to support this bill now in the agenda. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-14-m1.u74	So, my colleagues, I'm making a proposal, my respectable colleagues, so I'm offering 2423. It's from this draft Transparency Act to start a chapter on second reading of draft laws. Please support this proposal. The proposal to start a second reading of the bill's drafts registration number 2423, an anti-corruption law. Please support this proposal, your honor. Vote. Please be supportive. [[16:58:59]] For 225 I understand that someone has not been able to vote. Friends, once again, 2423, please support the proposal to deal with this issue. Now the first in the chapter, the second reading. Colleagues, please back up, please vote. Please be supportive. Let's focus, guys. Please support me, please vote on this issue first. Oh, that's better. [[16:59:28]] For 234 Decision taken. Thank you, Your Honor. Please, let's do some repairs. Yegor Sobolev, head of the profile committee. Please, let's go, colleagues, as amended.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-14-m1.u75	You just don't make any adjustments, and it will.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-14-m1.u76	The 4th amendment is rejected. People's deputy to Semimenach. Are you insisting? 4th Amendment, guys. Don't insist. 5th National MP Goncharenko. Don't insist. 8th, Goncharenko. Don't insist. Nine o'clock, Ivakhov. Don't insist. 10th, Semenha. Don't insist. He was a national MP, 12th Amendment. Don't insist. Goncharenko, 14th. Don't insist. Ichchenko, 15th Amendment. Don't insist. 17th Semenha National MP. Don't insist. All other colleagues are accounted for. Please, head of the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-14-m1.u77	Colleagues, it was a great pleasure to report this law to a large group of deputies. Leonid Kozachenko of the Petra Dustenka Block was the man who initiated these ideas. Very many parliamentarians of all factions were supported by public organizations, journalists. I think it's the law that will really do it. I can't help but mention Oleg Lachka and his beautiful "Radical Faction", thanking them for their participation in the work. In fact, the entire Parliament has delegated representatives to prepare a good law that makes transparency, reveals all the important information, rather than the earth, about machines. In order for society, you and I to be able to control the illegal wealth, the questionable wealth, the copying of others, all of this can be done by means of this law. I ask you very much to vote for him. It's one of those things that we'll be proud of for years and say me.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-14-m1.u78	Thank you. Dear colleagues, an important law, well worked out. We're through. Dear colleagues, another offer. I think it's a perfectly normal law when all officials publicly declare their property. For example, I've always said it, I don't have any problems with it at all, and the cars, and the real estate and everything. So I think it's perfectly normal. I ask the National Deputies to take their seats, my fellow Members of State. Prepare to vote for one of the anti-corruption laws. Registration No. 2423 of the Act amending certain laws of Ukraine to increase property transparency in order to prevent corruption. Ready? Take your seats. So that everyone can support this anti-corruption law. Ready? Please 2423 in second reading and in general. Let's vote, colleagues. 2423 in the second reading and in general. [[5:03:56]] For 240 Decision taken. Thank you. Let's move on, dear fellows. Next, the election is yet. I propose to vote on the following. So that we can complete our day - to - day routine and consider the issue of local elections. As we conclude, we will vote, and then we will finish the discussion. Do you have a deal? Do you have a deal? All right, so nobody's going anywhere. Elections, we'll make decisions today. Colleagues, 2562, Anton Gerashchenko. Draft Act amending some Ukrainian legislation on improving the regulation of road safety relations. Anton Gerashchenko. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-14-m1.u79	Deputies! This is the most well-awaited law that must revolutionize relations between citizens and internal affairs with regard to the fixation, violation of traffic rules. You know that in all European countries, contacts between citizens and police have been minimized. To this end, video-fixing systems are in place to record speed exceeding, marking distortions, red-light travel. In the future, a citizen receives a letter informing him that his car violated traffic rules. A citizen has the opportunity to watch a video on the Internet, which has been specifically violated, then either to go to court and appeal the offence or to pay a fine. The law makes proposals because there was a penalty system. In order to enable our citizens who suffer from the economic crisis and war with Russia to break the traffic rules several times and not pay the money. But this is necessary under the conditions in which our country is now. This law provides for a number of money that will enable road traffic to be regulated. In particular, issues of illegal stopovers at pedestrian crossings, in places where people are walking, who are currently effectively impunityd. To date, this law is progressive. I want to say and ask you to support all the factions of Parliament, the coalitions for it. I want to say that any law of this kind is not ideal, of course, but this is the main way to create a new system of new road regulations. The Act also provides for the possibility of private companies investing in a video-fixing system that is quite expensive. Local authorities will also be able to locate and invest such a system throughout Ukraine. I ask you to support this law and vote in favour. Please stay in the rostrum, we're on our way now, Your Honor. Please, First Amendment, National Deputy Yuri Lewchenko. You insist, don't you? I can't see. Are you insisting? Yes, she insists. Please, Lechchenka.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-14-m1.u80	Lewchenko, Freedom, 223 District, Kiev City. We consider it appropriate in part three of the article. After the words "extended from the possession of the right-holder as a result," add the words "right or right." The proposed amendment will make it impossible for those who do not own a vehicle that has been alienated on the basis of a particular right, but who have been registered, to take responsibility for administrative offences in the field of road safety. So they don't have the facts anymore, but they still have the registration. In order not to hold completely innocent people accountable, I ask the Chamber to vote in favour of this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-14-m1.u81	So, ladies and gentlemen, we have a situation where citizens, because of the corruption system that has been in the MREO and so far, but which we are going to change, have actually passed their cars on often by confidence, even though it was actually a fact of sale. This law gives people time to identify the persons to whom they have transferred machines of trust and to further transfer ownership to cars, and to inform them that they will continue to pay fines for violations of traffic regulations. Another way is to send information about a traffic violation to an address where we don't have a registered car. Therefore, please do not support this amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-14-m1.u82	Colleagues, please Amendment 25, Law 2562, First, People's Deputy Levchenko. He insists on counting. The committee against this amendment. Please determine by vote. It's an amendment to the law. [[17:09:23]] For a-117. Not accepted. 2nd Amendment, Boris Ivanovich Tarasyuk. Ivan Krulko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-14-m1.u83	Ladies and gentlemen, this amendment applies to the fact that, in the case of automatic traffic violation, any charges, including administrative arrests or public works, may be imposed. In view of the automatic regime, it should then be made objectively in accordance with the automatic regime, which may be applied, so it is suggested that if there is an automatic fixation, the clamping can only be imposed in the form of a fine, administrative arrest, and public works.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-14-m1.u84	So, distinguished deputies, respected by Ivan Krulco, take a closer look at further amendments. Everything about automatic video-fixing, we have made only a fine, no administrative work, and so on. Therefore, these amendments are taken into account by other deputies. Your amendment is taken into account by other amendments. Only fines remain for automatic video-fixing, and no other penalties are provided.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-14-m1.u85	Thank you. Are you insisting? Are you insisting? Please, 2 revisions.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-14-m1.u86	Further amendments take this into account and take this into account in the text of the law.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-14-m1.u87	Are you insisting on Ivan Ivanovich? You insist. Please 2 Amendment, Author Krulko
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-14-m1.u88	Because the law states that there will only be fines in case of automatic video fixation.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-14-m1.u89	Thank you. There's a proposal, the ruling of the People's Deputy Krulko, rejected by the committee, the author suggests that we consider it to the National Deputies, please. [[17:11:37]] For 112 Not accepted. Colleagues, 3 revisions. National deputies of Wesselov, Palamarczuk, Misiyczuk do not insist. Four. Fursin. Don't insist. 7th. It's a pantyhose. Don't insist. 7th. Lechchenko insists. Is the pantyhose insisting? Pantyhose insists, 7th.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-14-m1.u90	Lechenko, VO.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-14-m1.u91	Please, Mikola Petrovich. National MP Palamarczuk, please 7 amendments.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-14-m1.u92	If you don't insist, I'll give Yuri Lewchenk my word. Yuri Lewchenko, 7th Amendment. Please, Yuri Lewchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-14-m1.u93	Lewchenko, Freedom, 223rd District, Kiev. This amendment refers to this "limit of fines" that is being introduced today. He's trying to, you know, actually improve something in terms of road traffic, but it's just making it worse on the road. Why? Because the imposition of a penalty limit on such a indulgence that until you get that limit you won't have anything to do with it, it doesn't just help prevent road traffic offences, it will stimulate them. Because I'm going to give you two examples, so, according to these new rules that are being proposed, drivers can travel five times a year without any fear, for example, on a forbidden regulatory gesture. Or, for example, seven times the speed, and they'll be fined for it, because there's a fine limit that you haven't achieved yet, and there's no driver's punishment. Accordingly, my amendment proposes to exclude this limit from the penalty points. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-14-m1.u94	Dear Deputy Lewchenko, I ask you to be precise when you call the numbers. If the speed is exceeded, it is allowed to be taken three times for each 50-point excess. This was discussed on the committee, and there were two concepts: whether to take points or not? Once again, in the State of Ukraine, we have a large number of people driving for a frequent couple of times a month, and they do not have that much income to pay the fines. By the way, in this law we have left only minimum fines and have removed such an important conflict moment as the fork. Now the fine will be only one. So this is what our people have done to get used to the video fixation system, there's going to be a huge number of moments, the nuances when this system is going to be fully operational, it's going to take six months, then we're going to look at its situation, and maybe they are, while I'm asking you to leave this system. We have discussed this in committee and have come to the conclusion in detail that this system is now useful for the country.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-14-m1.u95	Please. Are you insisting on the seventh amendment? Please be sure, the seventh amendment. Not counted. Declined by the committee. [[17:14:59]] For-84 Not accepted. Come on, colleagues. 8th People's Deputies, Wesselov. Don't insist. 9th People's Deputies, Palamarczuk. Don't insist. 10th, Welcome. Don't insist. 11th, Wesselova. Don't insist. 12th. 11th? Lechenko, 11th, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-14-m1.u96	This amendment refers again to the issue of punitive points. I would just like to pay attention to the halls, especially to the attention of our television and radio audiences, our Ukrainian people, to what is now being suggested to introduce indulgence for road users. So you have the right now, if that's the way the law will be adopted, for a time to break -- and you won't be able to do anything about it. For exceeding speed, for ignoring police, police, and so on. Such things are unacceptable. Your explanation, Mr. Reporter, that this works on the poorest sections of the population, I think, is completely manipulative because, on the contrary, they will work on the richest sections of the population, which, in particular, violate the traffic rules. The poorest Ukrainians today do not break the traffic rules because they are afraid that someone will stop them. This provides additional opportunities for a variety of majors to ignore the traffic rules even more. Please support the amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-14-m1.u97	Honourable MPs and distinguished voters of the Levchenka MPs and members of the Freedom Party! We have just proposed that our citizens, who are now suffering from an economic crisis and who will face an automatic video fixation system that is not previously working in Ukraine, be able to adjust to this system. And in order for them to do that, we made a penalty system. Such a system operates in a number of European countries, not a Ukrainian invention. Therefore, I would like to suggest that Deputy Levchenko do not insist on his amendments on the issue of penalty points, because the Supreme Council, by its first vote on your proposal, has shown that it does not support him.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-14-m1.u98	Do you insist on voting? Please. The 11th amendment was rejected by the committee. [[17:17:37]] Z-71 71 is not supported. 12th Amendment, no insistence. 13th, don't insist. 14th, don't insist. 15th, don't insist. 16th, don't insist. 18th, don't insist. The 19th, don't insist. 20, don't insist. 21st, Lewchenka, don't insist. 22nd, Didenka, don't insist. The 23rd, Palamarchuk, insists. 23rd, Mikola Petrovich Palamarczuk, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-14-m1.u99	The 23rd amendment. The penalty points have been removed because they allow three times a year to commit offences without penalty, including on sidewalks or walking paths, to pass on the forbidden signal of a traffic light or a regulator’s gesture, to exceed the speed of traffic, to break the traffic rules, and to leave. According to the statistics for 2014, the main causes of automobile accidents were largely exceeding the safe speed of traffic. Almost 26 percent. That's why I insist on this amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-14-m1.u100	Deputies! I would like to reiterate that the new Road Traffic Change Act does not impose a challenge on three of our citizens. It sets out to train our citizens, as was done in European countries 30 years ago, to auto-, video fixation. We will continue to make decisions based on statistics. To date, however, the committee has decided to leave the system of penalty points. Therefore, I ask you not to support the amendment of Deputy Palamarchuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-14-m1.u101	The 23rd amendment is not supported by the committee. Please identify yourself. [[17:20:11]] For-72 I didn't get the necessary amount. The National MP missed the 14th amendment. Please, Yuri Lewchenko. 14th.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-14-m1.u102	Thank you. In this amendment, I propose to correct the very interesting innovation proposed in this bill. The bill proposes that part two of article 33 of KUAP should be described in the following way: When imposing the burden, it takes into account the nature of the offence committed, the offender, the degree of his guilt, the property status, the mitigating circumstances, and the burden of responsibility. And here's a new one: except for the imposition of a liability for road safety offences, including those in automatic mode. What kind of unjust division is that? In some cases, a person’s property status, guilt, property status, and so forth is taken into account, and in cases of road traffic accidents, especially those recorded in automatic mode, are not taken into account. This is a totally unjust norm that divides wrongdoers into two different classes. Everyone has to be equal before the law. That's why I'm suggesting we rule it out. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-14-m1.u103	Deputies! We imagine a situation in which traffic rules have been violated, a person's speed being exceeded by various property characteristics. The law proposes that if an impartial photo fixation is done, the fine will be the same. If an administrative protocol is drawn up by another type of violation by police officers and the court is examined, the judge may take into account during the examination that he is an ATO fighter, a disabled person and so on. If there's been a record of a violation of the rules with a camera, we don't make a difference, it's perfectly normal, it's European again. Well, if the case is brought before a court, the court may take into account the different testimony of the person concerned, his property status, health status, and so on.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-14-m1.u104	Thank you. 14 Please reject the amendment by the committee. [[17:22:44]] For-69 No support was found for the amendment. Colleagues, 24 amendments, do not insist. 25, don't insist. 26, don't insist. 27th? Don't insist. 28th? Don't insist. 29th. Don't insist. 30th. Is he insisting? Mikola Petrovich, please, Palamarczuk, 30th.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-14-m1.u105	Article 122 of the draft replaces the word “five hundred” with “two thousand five hundred”, leaving the existing minimum fine for such a type of offence. I suggest you consider this amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-14-m1.u106	I'm sorry, I didn't hear. Can I have some more?
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-14-m1.u107	Please turn on the microphone, National Deputy Palamarczuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-14-m1.u108	Article 122 of the draft replaces the word “five hundred” with “two thousand five hundred”, leaving the existing minimum fine for such a type of offence. I suggest you consider this amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-14-m1.u109	Got it. This amendment deals with the issue of fines for travelling with illegal beacons to those who do not have the right to do so. In general, the concept of the bill envisaged leaving only minimum rates of fines. That is, if there were 255 bracelets above speed - 510, the fork is removed, only 255 bracelets are made. The same has been done with regard to traffic with prohibited signs. In fact, there must be an investigation on every such case where a person illegally signs himself. If the documents were still forged by the police and the GAI. There's plenty of fines there. This is not a commonly used article. That's why we put her under one ridge at a minimum rate.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-14-m1.u110	Are you insisting? You're implying. 30th, please, for the vote, the amendment of the People's Chamber of Parliament, rejected by the Committee. 30 revisions. [[17:24:56]] For-84 84, no backup. Please, the 31st don't insist. 32rd doesn't insist. 33rd, Mikola Petrovich Palamarczuk. Don't insist. 34th doesn't insist. 35th. Don't you insist? You insist. 35th, Palamarczuk, turn on the microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-14-m1.u111	I insisted, 33 amendments. I insisted, Amendment 33. In article 123, delete the draft footnote. That's 33 revisions.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-14-m1.u112	So this amendment concerns the following. The fact that we can't know who's behind the motor vehicle when we're auto-refined. To date, technologies that would allow for 100 per cent determination of the identity of the offender by photo-revision do not exist. This footnote is therefore required by law in order for the law to work as such.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-14-m1.u113	Are you insisting? Please, colleagues, insists on the amendment. 35th. And then there's 33. 35 revisions, please identify. Declined by the committee. [[17:27:00]] For-82 I didn't get the required number of votes. 33 amendments, 33 amendments, we talked about it here, we discussed it. Please be rejected by the 33rd Amendment Committee. Identify yourself, fellow national MPs, 33rd. [[17:27:31]] For-75 I didn't get the required number of votes. Please, 36th, 37th Amendment. Please, Mikola Palamarczuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-14-m1.u114	Apply changes to article 221 and delete. Left essentially in an existing edition.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-14-m1.u115	Thus, the Committee considered in fact two concepts: the concept proposed by the team of the reformers of the Ministry of Internal Affairs and the concept proposed by the deputy of Palamarczuk. A number of the rights proposed by the MP, Palamarczuk, fit in with his concept, but thus disrupted the concept of the law proposed by the group of reformers of the Ministry of Internal Affairs. Therefore, I ask you not to support this amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-14-m1.u116	37 amendments are not considered by the committee. Please identify 37 amendments. [[17:28:41]] For-95 The decision is not taken. 38 revisions. Lechenko doesn't insist. 39 amendment - included. National MP.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-14-m1.u117	I'm sorry. Ladies and gentlemen, please return to the 37th amendment. It's just Amendment 107, so it's easy to get confused. However, please support this 37th amendment of the Pallamarchuk MP. I ask all factions of the coalition to support them, they are necessary for the law to work more precisely.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-14-m1.u118	37 amendment, People's Deputy Palamarczuk, People's Deputy Levchenko. There's an offer by the 37th Amendment Committee to support it. Colleagues, back up. Colleagues, 37 amendments to the vote. The position of the committee is supported. 37 amendment, People's Deputy Palamarczuk, Levchenko. 37th Amendment, please support. Vote. 37th, please hold. [[17:30:05]] For 218. Almost. [[B in m in s a l in]] Colleagues, I see. Take your seats, please. They took their seats, prepared for the vote. This is about supporting the 37 amendments made by the national deputy of Palamarchuk and the national deputy of Levchenk. The committee supports the 37th amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-14-m1.u119	Let's hold it. Please vote yes.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-14-m1.u120	Please be supportive. Ready to vote? 37th Amendment, please support. Well, shall we vote? Please, 37 revisions. Vote, please. Let's vote, colleagues. 37th, there's a request to support the committee and the author. [[17:30:58]] For 243 Better yet: 243 – the decision is made. Let's move on. 38th. Don't insist.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-14-m1.u121	42 Amendment rejected. 36 asked for confirmation. May I have the floor of the reporter, please? Anton Heratchenko, I would like to comment on the proposal. Can you hear me, reporter? Can you hear me, okay, comment on the proposal to put on confirmation 36 of the amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-14-m1.u122	Therefore, please submit for confirmation 36 amendments, at the time of the Committee's recent preparations, it has been decided that the amendment makes sense to support it. The factions of the coalition, please identify themselves.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-14-m1.u123	So I'm going to propose to Deputy Elena Sotnik for confirmation. Anyone who supports the proposal of Helen Stotnik to confirm the 36 amendments, please vote. [[17:32:28]] For 199 The offer of Elena Stotnik did not receive the required number of votes. Next: 37 amendments. It's a pantyhose. Yeah, 38th. Lechenko. Is he insisting? No, it doesn't. Don't insist. Welcome home. 42nd. Is it insisting? Welcome home. Look, I'm going through the amendments that are rejected, and you insist on it editorially. 41st, okay. So the 41 amendments insist that you confirm that you need to speak to Mrs. Olena? Is There a Need for a Speech? Please turn on one minute of Oleni Sotnik.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-14-m1.u124	Dear colleagues, Amendment 41 refers to the consideration of the removal of driving rights, not by the police, but by the courts. Therefore, we need to make appropriate changes – amend article 3, paragraph 3, of the Ukrainian Code on Administrative Offences and delete articles 106-2, 122-4,122-5, 124, part four of article 127, 130, 132-2, 133-1, part four of article 140, 173, 173-1, 173-2, 174, part three of article 178, 18, part two of article 182, 185 prim-1, 185 prim-7, 185 prim-9, 190, 191, 195 prim-2 and 195.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-14-m1.u125	Please, 10 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-14-m1.u126	Colleagues, I'm not just going to read it, it's for the stenographer. Because an important editorial amendment, please support.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-14-m1.u127	Thank you. Please, Anton Gerashchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-14-m1.u128	So, ladies and gentlemen, I ask you to support the amendment read out by Elena Sotnik, which needs to be edited. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-14-m1.u129	Dear colleagues, please concentrate. A representative of the committee asked for support for the amendment of Helen Sotnik. She gave it to the stenographer through the microphone. So I'm asking for the amendment that Olena Sotnik made in her speech under the transcript, to support. And I'll put it to the vote. Please, Your Honor, support and vote. Please vote. Please. [[17:35:36.]] For 251 The potential is simple. Let's move on to the next amendment, the 42nd, which was rejected. Is It Home? Is It Home? He doesn't insist. 43rd, Wesselova. Or insists. No, it doesn't. Lechenko, 44th. He insists. Please give me one minute to make a statement.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-14-m1.u130	Lewchenko, Freedom, 223 District, Kiev City. First, I'd like to address both the Presidium and the Reporter: please take more care of the amendments to the Bills, because here we see leaps that way and that way. It's better to pause for 10 seconds to allow people to explain their changes than important adjustments will fail. In particular, this amendment. The bill proposes that cases of administrative offences in the field of road safety identified automatically should not be guaranteed open administrative jurisdiction in such cases, so as not to guarantee an open process. This is totally unacceptable, especially in contravention of article 268, according to which a person who is attracted to administrative responsibility is entitled to legal aid, a congregation, and evidence. All things should be open completely, without any sort of business, what we're talking about today. Please correct this standard and take into account my correction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-14-m1.u131	Thus, respectable deputies, the procedure itself for handling an administrative case, which is recorded automatically, differs from that of the court. Therefore, we have provided in this law an opportunity when an administrative protocol is made in such a case, to send it to a person, then he can challenge himself in court if he does not agree with it. We cannot, for any reason that there may be hundreds of thousands, call upon all citizens when establishing this administrative protocol. In a court of law, you can argue if you disagree with him, but any citizen can see in a video the violation of a car that belongs to him. It's a traffic rule or something. Please don't support me.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-14-m1.u132	Please put to the vote the proposal, the amendment of 44 People’s Deputies Lewchenk. Whoever supports this amendment, please vote, please identify yourself. Please. [[17:38:11]] For 113 113 -- you don't make a decision. Let's move on. 47th, Wesselova. Is it insisting? 46th, company, 46th. I've noticed that it's partially accounted for. Not enough. Please turn on the microphone for Deputy Palamarczuk, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-14-m1.u133	Dear colleagues, this is an editorial. And it needs to be taken into account, not in part, but completely. I'll read it. Article 258, leave it as it is, complete the first part with words. Part three of article 122 and part one of the first article 123 of this codex. If an administrative offence is recorded automatically, part three, with the words: "..except for administrative infringements envisaged in the first, third, article 122 and part one. This code." When an administrative breach is detected automatically. Thank you. Please bet on confirmation.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-14-m1.u134	Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-14-m1.u135	Please. Ladies and gentlemen, this amendment has not been agreed upon by the committee because it destroys the general concept of the bill. Bills to amend other laws are always very difficult. They have a lot of details, nuances. And any unagreed right could violate the general concept, not allow the law to work properly.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-14-m1.u136	Thank you. I'm going to put 46 amendments to the vote. But I want to remind the MPs that we are ready to vote on the Elections Act. And I'm asking you a lot, only when there's a principle position, then put it to a vote, because otherwise we're just not going to get to that law. And now I'm putting to the vote the amendment of 46 people's deputies, Palamarczuk, which was rejected by the committee. Whoever supports this proposal, please vote. [[17:40:17]] For 111 The decision is not made. 47, I already called. 48, Sold. Don't insist. Sold, Levechenko. Yuri, I'm just gonna ask you not to ask me later and why we didn't consider the Elections Act. Please, one minute, Yuri Lewchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-14-m1.u137	First of all, the honourable chairman, I would ask you not to manipulate, the Electoral Law we could have considered this morning, I don't understand why we haven't considered it. And now we're adopting the draconian Road Traffic Act, which is essentially going to judge Ukrainians completely in a closed regime, cancels the presumption of innocence. And we want to get under the dress quickly. This amendment is mine, as it is now proposed to include such a rule in this bill that the protocol is not made up when administrative traffic offences are committed, including those contained in automatic traffic. But this is totally unacceptable because such standards violate the basic principles of administrative justice. The release of internal affairs officials from the obligation to draft a protocol — documenting the offence and giving them the opportunity to shut down such matters and even in the absence of those who are held accountable — will lead to the self - control of the persons concerned. You think, if you put an automated system there, these militias won't come up with anything, how do you expect bribes? This will continue to be required. In particular, demand bribes for open sessions to.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-14-m1.u138	Honourable Deputy Levchenko, distinguished deputies and distinguished people of Ukraine! The introduction of video-fixing provides for the following pattern of work. If the car went red, it would be recorded with a video camera. Let's move on. This video will be posted on the Internet, or a letter will be sent to the person to whom the vehicle is registered indicating that his car violated traffic rules. Next. The person will be determined whether he was driving or driving another person who was given the car and will be able to watch the video as it happened. If it does not agree with the letter of notification, a person will be able to challenge it in a court of law. This is how the system is built in Europe. Thank you. Please don't support me.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-14-m1.u139	Thank you. Whoever supports the amendment of the 48 national deputies Prodan and Levchenko, please vote. Please. [[17:42:50]] For-100 The decision is not taken. I reiterate my responsibility to the MPs so that we can get through the amendments faster, the Elections Act is the next one we have to vote on. 50th. Is the pancake insisting? No, it doesn't. The palamarchuk insists. Please, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-14-m1.u140	I don't insist.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-14-m1.u141	Thank you so much for understanding. Hopefully others will have the same. 56th. It's a pantyhose. Don't insist. 58th. I only count the deviations. Raise your hand, speak up. 55th, Ivan Krulko. 55th Amendment, I'll inform you that I have it in my file that it's supported.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-14-m1.u142	I have it in my file that she's included.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-14-m1.u143	Yes. Yes, I'm marked in the document I own. Check it out, then you'll come up and say it. 56th, Palamarchuk. Don't insist. 58th, Hero. Don't insist. 59th, Krulko. 58th, insists. Please, Fish, turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-14-m1.u144	Dear colleagues, you know, 58 amendments I'd like to ask you to maintain the standard today, and it doesn't work that way. Today, police officers are simply abusing these two concepts. Therefore, please support and put the amendment to the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-14-m1.u145	I would also like to support this issue, despite the fact that it was rejected on the Committee. Ladies and gentlemen, we want to leave opportunities, and what Deputy Rybak suggests is that two witnesses can still record the possibility that the driver is drunk or, so to speak, is in another condition.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-14-m1.u146	Thank you. So both the amendment author and the committee support the amendment. So I ask you very much to concentrate on the people's deputies, and we will now vote for their support. Thus, the vote is subject to amendment 58, by Heratchenko and by Rybak. Whoever supports this amendment, please vote. Please vote. Please be supportive. [[17:45:15]] For-195 The decision is not made. Let's move on to the next one. 59th, Krulko. Don't insist. 61st, Palamarchuk. Don't insist. 63rd, Palamarchuk. Don't insist. 64th, Palamarchuk. 65th, Wesselova, Palamarczuk. Don't insist. 66th, Levechenko. He insists. Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-14-m1.u147	The bill in this form proposes to deal with matters without a person’s involvement and without taking into account the circumstances set out in article 280 of the Code. This cannot be, it is absolutely unacceptable, because this is a violation of the rights guaranteed by the Constitution of Ukraine and the principles of administrative justice. So I'm asking you to support this amendment. But I now publicly declare that, after all my other amendments, I will not bet on confirmation, because I see that there is a position of the coalition to completely undermine the presumption of innocence by covering up some sort of European new one. In fact, in most countries of the European Union there is a trial, not an automatic imposition of a fine. And you propose first to impose a fine unknown to whom, and then to have that person brought to justice unknown when. That's why this law can't be supported in this way, but so that you don't cover yourself with this law in order to overthrow the Local Elections Act, I don't insist on any further amendments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-14-m1.u148	Thank you. Dear colleagues, there is an amendment to the 66 authors of the People’s Deputies, Levchenk. Whoever supports this amendment, please vote. [[17:47:10]] For 112 The decision is not taken. 67th. Sold. Don't insist. 69th. Wesley's. Don't insist. He insists. All right, 69, Wesselova. Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-14-m1.u149	Please support the 69 amendments, since it contains a more complete list of the data to be contained in the decision on administrative violations that will protect human rights. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-14-m1.u150	Please support this amendment, although it has been rejected on the Committee, but it further elaborates on the possibility of drafting an administrative protocol and will have a positive impact on the accuracy of administrative matters. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-14-m1.u151	Thus, an amendment of 69 people’s deputies of Wessels is put to the vote. Whoever supports this amendment, please vote. [[17:48:19]] For 206 Dear colleagues, I see unity in this matter. And let's go back and maybe we have the potential to solve this. Dear colleagues.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-14-m1.u152	An important amendment, I ask you to support.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-14-m1.u153	Anton Gerashchenko is asking for our support.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-14-m1.u154	Yeah.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-14-m1.u155	"self-help," colleagues, I'm betting on the return to Amendment 69, which supports the proposal to return to it, please vote, please be careful, we vote in favour. Please. [[17:48:58]] For 224 They just didn't make it. I'm asking Najem to take his place. And once again, I'm betting on a return to 69 revisions. Please vote return 69 amendments. Please take part in the vote and support. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-14-m1.u156	Vote. Vote. That's better. [[17:49:30.]] For 249 249. Decision taken. Now, please support the amendment of 69 people's deputies of Wesselov, please support the amendment. Please, we're voting on those responsible in this group. [[17:49:50]] For 249 Decision taken. Hello. Next '70s, Palamarchuk. Is he insisting? Yes. He insists. Please, Palamarczuk, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-14-m1.u157	Regulation on administrative offences in the field of road safety. In addition to the information defined in part two of this article, it must have information, other information. That's the kind of information. Article 283 should be amended to read after part two of the following new content: "The Administrative Offence Regulation in the Field of Road Safety is to contain data on the date, time and place of the administrative offence, the transport device which is recorded at the time of the commission of the offence, the stamp, the model, the registration mark, the technical device to which the photograph or video was made, and the date of the last check of the vehicle, the address of the website on which the person may be consulted with the video recording of the transport vehicle at the time of the administrative offence; print a copy of the request and the reverse order, and get an ID for access to the prescribed information; and the fine is to be given to the fine.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-14-m1.u158	Ten seconds, please finish. Anton Heratchenko, let him complete the report. Ten seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-14-m1.u159	".. the number sign made automatically when the administrative offence is committed." In this regard, I insist on confirming the presentation of this article.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-14-m1.u160	Please, Anton.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-14-m1.u161	Honourable deputies, the existing law takes into account all the points mentioned by the deputy of Palamarczuk. His proposal, as if changing the general concept. That's why we didn't take it into account, please don't support it.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-14-m1.u162	Correction number, please call Anton. 70 revisions. Thus, there are now 70 amendments to the vote of the national deputy of Palamarczuk. Please vote on who supports this amendment. Please vote. [[17:52:14]] For 115 The decision is not taken. 72nd, Palamarchuk. Don't insist. 73rd, Wesselova. Don't insist. 74th, Wesselova. Don't insist. 75th, Palamarchuk. Don't insist. 76th, Wesselova. Don't insist. 77th, Palamarchuk. Don't insist. 78th, Palamarchuk. Don't insist. 79th, Wesselova. Don't insist. 80th, Krulko. He insists. Please turn on the microphone for one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-14-m1.u163	Dear colleagues! Ivan Krulko, "The Fatherland" faction. I ask you to be very careful about this amendment. This is about the moment of taking effect of the decision to deprive a person of his or her control of the vehicle. As soon as the decision is taken, a person is deprived of his or her ability to drive a vehicle. I propose that this ruling take effect after the deadline for the indictment has passed. Why is this so important? This is important in connection with a person’s right to appeal. I'll remind you how many people in Ukraine were denied the right to drive during Maidan. And all this was done in a closed regime, without the involvement of such persons in the trial, illegal decisions were made. Moreover, in all court cases, when a decision is taken at the first instance, a decision is taken. The court’s decision, which was adopted at the first instance, takes effect only after an appeal. I want to say that acceptance of this amendment, from its acceptance or from its rejection will be.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-14-m1.u164	A suitable amendment, perhaps.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-14-m1.u165	Deputies, this amendment, Krulko, does not note the fact that it is proposed that the court decide to deprive the right of control when all of this has been recorded automatically. So that's when it's not a court case. Any citizen may challenge any decision of the law enforcement authority or.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-14-m1.u166	Thank you. The vote is amended by 82 People’s Deputy Krulka. Whoever supports this amendment, please vote. Please vote who supports this amendment. [[17:54:43]] For 148 The decision is not taken. 83rd, Palamarchuk doesn't insist. 84th, Wesselova doesn't insist. 86th, Krulko doesn't insist. 87th, Levchenko doesn't insist. 88th, Wesselova doesn't insist. 89th, Palamarchuk doesn't insist. 90th, Wesselova doesn't insist. 91st, Palamarchuk. Don't insist. 92nd, Palamarchuk. Don't insist. 93rd, Palamarchuk. Don't insist. 95th, Wesselova. Don't insist. 96th, Krulko. Don't insist. 97th, Sold. Don't insist. 98th, Sold. Don't insist. 99th, Sold. Don't insist. 100th, Welcome. Don't insist. 101st, Palamarchuk. Don't insist. 102th, Wesselova. Don't insist. 103rd, Sold. Don't insist. 105th, Wesselova. Which one are you insisting on?
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-14-m1.u167	102nd Ukrainian. Please. The 102th Amendment of Wesselov insists. Please turn on the microphone. 102 revisions.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-14-m1.u168	Please support 102 amendments, it's related to the 41st that we've already supported.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-14-m1.u169	Please, Anton Gerashchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-14-m1.u170	Ladies and gentlemen, I ask you to support the 101th amendment of the deputy of Palamarczuk. This is the case when it strengthens this law.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-14-m1.u171	I'll make it clear, 102nd, not 101th amendment. 102nd. Dear reporter, be vigilant. Dear colleagues, and the committee is asking for support, it is complementing the amendment that has already been adopted. I'm asking you to concentrate, take jobs, there's going to be an important vote now, or we're going to have a broken body of law on our own. I ask the debate to move to the workplace and vote. Dear colleagues, may I have your attention? Amendment 102, People’s Deputy Wesselov, is put to the vote. Please vote and please support. Dear colleagues, we vote in an orderly and responsible manner. Please, 102nd. Vote. [[17:56:55]] For 235 Correction accepted, welcome to the authors. 103rd, Sold. Don't insist. 105th, Wesselova. Don't insist. 107th, Palamarchuk. Don't insist. 109th, Palamarchuk. Don't insist. Dear colleagues, congratulations, we have been through all the amendments under the Rules.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-14-m1.u172	Colleagues, please calm down! Dear colleagues, this is a very crucial moment. Colleagues, please calm down! We now have to consider the second reading and the entire Law 2562, and we are about to consider the issue of local elections.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-14-m1.u173	The committee requests 80 amendments for confirmation. And this is the solidarity of all factions. And that's why I'm going to put to the vote the amendment of 80 national MP John Krulk. Don't get me excited. Go to work and vote. I'm asking you, colleagues, to concentrate, this is the common position of Heratchenka and all the factions. I'm asking you to support the amendment of 80 people's deputies Krulk. Please vote. Please support me. Vote!
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-14-m1.u174	Let's vote, colleagues. There is a request to support the amendment. Please vote. [[17:58:24]] For 270. Counted.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-14-m1.u175	170 for. Correction counted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-14-m1.u176	Dear fellow national MPs, please have your seats. Please take your seats and calm down. Please, the closing word of Zguladze. Is there a need? Please, Eka Zguldze.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-14-m1.u177	Many deputies have come up with the same question, and I understand that in this numbering it is difficult to determine what is the point. I would like to confirm, under the transcript, that all cases of removal of rights occur only through the courts.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-14-m1.u178	Thank you. Dear colleagues, we have received confirmation, please take your seats. I am voting on a second reading and on a whole draft of the Law (Registration No. 2562) amending some Ukrainian legislation on improving the regulation of road safety relations (second reading). Colleagues have prepared for second reading and in general, and we are moving immediately to electoral legislation. Friends, 2562 in second reading and in general, please vote. In the second reading and in general 2562, please vote. [[5:59:47]] For 267 The law is passed. Dear colleagues, there's an offer, I'm using my right to continue the session for 15 minutes, but I have an offer. We are now starting to consider the issue of local elections and until we have finished its consideration, we are not closing the session. Do you have a deal? Please support this proposal to close the session after considering local elections. Is it accepted? 226 I need to do this, colleagues. Sure. 226, please. I'm continuing the session for 15 minutes. The meeting cannot be closed during the consideration of the matter. Please support me. I need 226, please. And we begin our consideration of the Local Elections Act, please support. [[18:00:53]] For 244 Decision taken. Thank you, colleagues. And we're starting a review of the local election registration number. Take your seats, I have a big request if you can go half a ton below to create a peaceful working atmosphere, a calm one. 2831-3 is a draft of the Local Elections Act in the second reading. Please report to the head of the profile committee, Ruslan Petrovich Knazevitch, concentrate. Any suggestions? Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-14-m1.u179	Thank you. Dear Mr. Head, dear colleagues, I would like to ask you not to limit your time. If I have the opportunity to invest at that time, I will certainly try to get involved in these lines, but I am afraid that I will necessarily have to make a statement under the transcript, to the words, about the agreements that have been reached, and also about those rights that have been previously taken into account by the committee. Let me get started, and then we'll see.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-14-m1.u180	Please set 10 minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-14-m1.u181	Dear colleagues, dear Mr. Head, honourable deputies! At the request of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on 18 June 2015, the Committee on Legal Policy and Justice considered at its three meetings held on 1st, 2nd July and today, 14th July, all the observations and suggestions that came from the subjects of the legislative initiative to the draft Law on Local Elections for Registration No. 2831-3, submitted by the National Deputy of Ukraine Denisenko and others and adopted on the basis of the Ukrainian Parliament. As a result of the consideration of proposals and amendments made by 1 thousand and 548 of the 65 national deputies of Ukraine, i.e. the deputies made legislative proposals, the committee decided when preparing the draft law for second reading to take into account in its text such conceptual ideas and proposals made by the Ukrainian National Deputies. Now I'd like to define, under the transcript, the proposals that we're talking about. The establishment by law of the number of deputies of the local councils, depending on the number of electors of the corresponding administrative and territorial unit, in which case a certain number of deputies of the district council will be less than the number of rural, rural, urban, district, district councils in the area concerned, the composition of the district council will be equal to that number of councils. The number of territorial constituencies in a multi-mandatory district should be equal to the total composition of the respective council. The political party decides on the participation of its local organizations, local elections. These decisions are mandatory for local party organizations, such as those made by local organizations when they register candidates and in other cases. Conciliation by the central governing body of the parties, decisions by the local party organizations to raise candidates at local elections. Consolidation of candidates to MPs posted by local party organizations in a multi-mandatory district outside the territorial constituencies. Not more than 1 candidate to be elected by territorial constituencies. Mandatory inclusion from the local political party organizations of the formation of the MP factions announced at the first session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine at the current invocation, to a territorially elected commission of two candidates, and to a divisional election commission of one candidature. Determining the number of candidates to be elected on the electoral list of the local party organisation by voting in order to reduce the percentage of voter votes submitted by the relevant local organization in relation to the number of voters who voted for all party organisations in the respective territorial constituency. Forming on the parity basis of the new composition of the electoral electoral boards in the event of a re-voting in the election of the city heads by submitting candidates who will be included in the re-voting ballot. Harmonizing the terminology of the draft Law with the provisions of the Ukrainian Law on Voluntary Union of Territorial Communities. Certificates from local party organizations by sealing this local organization, or by sealing a high-level party. Alignment of the draft Law with the Ukrainian Law on the Prohibition of Communist and National Socialist, Nazi Totalitarian Regimes in Ukraine and the Prohibition of the Propagation of Their Symbolism. Stimulating the submission made to the Central Election Commission by the candidates to the TVC, also by the seal of the political party. It's different simple things. The introduction of gender-balanced representation in election positions by supplementing the draft law by amending the Law on Political Parties in Ukraine, to the quota section, which determines the minimum level of representation of women and men in the electoral list of candidates in the local elections. With a view to ensuring the implementation of the draft law to guarantee the openness of the local elections process, such as the granting of powers to the Central Electoral Commission to improve and publish information on registered candidates at local elections, the decision-making by the territorial electoral commission to cancel the registration of candidates for voter summary and election results, the procedure for the transfer of the reported information by the local electoral commission of the Central Electoral Commission through the national voter register authorities is laid down. Given the large amounts of information on registered candidates to all local self-government bodies and the inability to process properly, it is proposed to provide for the transmission to the Central Electoral Commission of information on the registration of candidates in multi-mandate districts included in the electoral lists of local candidate organisations for the positions of city heads and the summary of the vote. This involves informing the Central Electoral Commission of the results to all local self-government bodies on its website. It has been established that information transmitted to the Central Electoral Commission through information systems, electronic communications, and information that is not legal. In order to ensure the proper implementation of the CWC’s powers to form the composition of district, district, apart from the Autonomous Republic of Crimea, urban, district, Kiev and Sevastopol cities, the districts in the cities and Sevastopol, the territorial election commissions, and the respective territorial electoral committees of lower levels, there has been an increase in the deadline for the formation of the respective committees, while maintaining the start of the nomination and registration of candidates. It's just that the C.V.C.C.C. has asked for not three days, but five days so that they can form all the TVCs in Ukraine, more than a thousand TVCs. I think that such an offer must be supported. The procedure for the establishment of one-mandate territorial constituencies has been improved. In particular, there is a specific order for the Central Electoral Commission to be identified in the number of one-mandate territorial constituencies to be formed by the respective territorial electoral commissions. In view of the increase in the formation of individual territorial electoral commissions, it is harmonised with the formation of one-mandate territorial constituencies. It is suggested that when territorial constituencies are formed in district councils, it should be taken into account that in the district council, the area cannot exceed 20 percent of the total composition of the council. The procedure for the formation and formation of election committees and the suspension of their terms of office of individual members of the election committees has been improved. It is stated that the decision to dismiss candidates from the election committee is not made, taking into account strict terms. At the same time, mechanisms have been put in place to report to a member of the electoral commission who is scheduled to terminate his or her mandate in a timely manner, the local organization of the party that is included in the commission. A priority is given to the candidate's right to apply to the TVC of any election commission in exchange for a member of the electoral commission, with other grounds for suspending the terms of office of the designated member of the commission for the term. The point is that if a member of the commission does not want to work or has reason to suspend his or her mandate for the term so that the political party can automatically make a replacement application and not lose representation in this TVC. If such a submission to a high-level commission that has formed the appropriate commission comes at the same time, it is the party’s submission of the replacement of a member of the commission, not the termination of the powers. And accordingly a vacant position from the political party. The need to report to the electoral commission on the termination of the term of office of a member of the commission is excluded on the grounds that the candidate has been initiated. In connection with such a mechanism, just such a mechanism does not make sense. An improved mechanism for the exercise of voting rights by voters included in electoral lists in special constituencies from the registered place of residence. The point is that only those elected to the respective territorial constituencies, rather than any Ukrainian electorate, will be allowed to vote in the local elections, so as not to influence the results of the elections in the respective territorial constituency. A mechanism has been introduced to inform the central executive authorities, which implements state policy in the area of registration and legalization of citizens’ associations no later than 60 days before the vote of the Central Electoral Commission. report to the CEC on registered local organisations and parties identifying the leaders of such local organisations, as well as the dates and names of the relevant parties. The bill on monetary policy has been improved. In particular, it is established that the size of the pledge is determined not later than 57 days before the day of the vote on the basis of the information provided by the national voter register as the first month of the appointment of the alternate, alternate or first local elections separately for the candidate for the post of city head and for the election list of candidates in the multi-mandate district. So there's not going to be any double readings, because many people have read that it's about the fact that the party has to make a bet and according to the number of candidates it registers in the district. No, it should once as a party during the registration make a bet on the appropriate account of the territorial electoral commission. It is established that information with the application for registration and declaration shall be published by the territorial electoral commission in its manner so that voters can learn about this information. Taking into account the requirement of the Ukrainian Law on Local Self-Government of Ukraine concerning the powers of the local council, it is established that if, after the completion of the term of registration, there remains one electoral list of the local organization that contains candidates for the respective council in the number of less than two thirds of its composition, or if less than two thirds of the Board's composition is chosen by the election and the corresponding elections are recognized as not having taken place. In view of the limitations on the inability to register a representative of a local party organization and a trusted person, and a candidate of a person charged with committing a serious or particularly serious crime, a crime against electoral rights or a corrupt crime that has not been extinguished or withdrawn, the list of information provided to the territorial electoral commission for the registration of the persons concerned is supplemented by the indicated information in accordance with the applicable legislation. A representative of the local organization and the party has the right to consult the documents on the basis of which a decision has been made on the election committee, to exclude the responsibility of the respective committees to ensure that copies are made. It's set that the cost is on.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-14-m1.u182	Please don't limit it, report.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-14-m1.u183	I'll try to talk faster. It has been established that the costs for the preparation and conduct of local elections are listed to the local election boards immediately after the approval of the single revenue and expenditure for the preparation and conduct of the appropriate local elections with a view to optimizing the respective process for the approval of the respective territorial electoral commissions. An improved requirement for a voter's voter's voter's voter's voter's voter's voter's voter's voter's voter's voter's voter's voter's voter's voter's voter's voter's voter's voter's voter's voter's voter's voter's voter's voter's voter's voter's voter's caller's caller's caller's caller's caller's caller's caller's caller's caller's caller's caller's caller's caller's caller's caller's caller's caller's caller's caller's caller's caller's caller's caller's caller's caller's caller's caller's caller's caller's caller's caller's caller's caller's caller's caller's caller's caller's caller's full name is also a full name, as well as (he's caller's caller's caller's caller's caller's caller's caller's caller's caller's caller's caller's caller's caller's caller's caller's name's caller's caller's caller's caller's caller's caller's caller's caller's caller's caller's caller's caller's caller's caller's caller's caller's caller's caller's caller's caller's caller's caller's caller's caller's caller's caller's caller's caller's caller's caller's caller's caller's caller's caller's caller's caller's caller's name's caller's name's caller's name There is a request that the name of the party be distinguished by a more vivid font than the corresponding candidates. Bigger, fatter, brighter. This is a wish already made by the Central Election Commission, which, according to these standards, will be the form and text of the ballot. The list of information that appears in the electoral ballot in a single-member district is about the village and the village, which is complemented by the position of the "position". Taking into account the proposed changes to the text of the voting ballot in the territorial constituency and in order to prevent the deliberate deterioration of the ballot papers, it is proposed to exclude the second. "there's been a candidate" left behind just "there's been a political party." The need to inform the territorial electoral commission before the Central Electoral Commission starts voting on the number of voters on the electoral list at the time of the start and the end of the vote, given that the law has removed the right and the possibility of amending the voter list on the day of the vote. I mean, there won't be anything to vote on. Two days before the election, they should submit the final number for making changes to the lists to the Central Election Commission. It is stated that the list of voters for the local elections is provided in the electoral documentation for the election of the ARC Supreme Council, the Regional Council of Kiev, Sevastopol, City Councils, and in the case of other elections, for the territorial election committee from the respective elections, taking into account the use of the single voter list in the polling station. The need to add to the voting summary records and the results of the duplication of information on the total number of voters on the electoral list has been removed, given that we are not allowed to contribute. Well, there are still political things. In the last six months, it has been decided that no interim elections have been held for rural, village council, as decided by the appropriate council. The mandate of an electoral commission that examines the complaint is excluded, and the original evidence is needed on its own. At the same time, the adoption of the Local Elections Act in a new edition and with a new name requires amendments to the Ukrainian Budget Code, which refers to the specific position of the Old Man’s Law on the election of ARC deputies, rural, rural, urban heads. It is therefore proposed to amend the Code of Budgets, which will remove legislative disagreements and allow for the financing of local elections, the electoral process of which should begin early in September of this year. In addition, the committee agreed on the need to take into account technical legal rights, including in terms of improving the terminology of the draft law. In particular, as regards the names of the territorial districts, the unification of the territorial communities, the establishment of territorial constituencies within the area, the determination of the number of territorial districts in terms of the level of composition of the council concerned, the order of the first election committee meeting, the requirements of the Secretary of State’s knowledge of the electoral commission, and the preparation of invitations by the electoral authorities. In addition, I note that according to a decision taken by the coalition board, the committee took into account a number of so - called political amendments, which you remember, long - standing discussions among various political factions. In particular: As a result of the agreement, the committee supported the proposal to remove electoral units from the electoral process. Also by consensus, political parties have agreed to secure the so - called closed section of the electoral list by one leader of the electoral list. Election rights are reserved for parties that are registered – no later than 365 days before the election day and have changed the name no later than 180 days before the election day. The Transitional Statutes of the Bill provide and agree on the following revisions in the Transitional Regulations: Section XIV, paragraph 4, the Final and Transitional Provisions of the Draft Law, replace paragraph 5 with the following: "The Red Local Elections of the Supreme Council of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea, the Deputies of the Sevastopol City Council, the Regional Deputies in the Cities of Cities, Villages, Rural Councils and Villages, the Rural Heads in the Territory of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea. As well as district councillors, individual district councils, regional district councils in cities, villages, rural councils, and rural village heads, and the councils of the united communities in Donetské region, the Lugansk region appointed on October 25, 2015 are not being conducted in connection with the Russian Federation’s temporary occupation and armed aggression against Ukraine, and the failure to meet the standards of the organization’s elections for security and cooperation in Europe. The list of administrative and territorial units that do not hold the next local elections scheduled for October 25, 2015 is determined by the Supreme Council of Ukraine in the Decision on the appointment of the respective local elections. In addition, it was agreed and decided by the committee that the procedure for the use of political advertising in local elections would be established by a separate law. And finally, the committee supported the coalition council's proposal on that. to apply in this law the so-called mechanism for the recall of deputies. What is it? It's about the fact that in the Act on the Status of Deputies of Local Councils and Deputies of Local Councils, there is a mechanism for recalling members of local councils. Regrettably, it is a dead mechanism, and the failure of its proper implementation, that is, the exercise and enforcement of the rights of voters to withdraw their deputy, is made impossible by a whole range of procedural obstacles, which unfortunately are actively used by certain entities to grant permits, such as the issuance of signed letters, the holding of citizens’ assemblies, and so on. In view of this, changes are to be made. (last paragraph) to the Law on the Status of Deputies of Local Councils and to provide for the early termination of powers by decision of the higher political party governing body elected by the election list of members of the local council at the national initiative as a result of the collection by the initial group of signatures for such a number: in the multi-mandatory district, more electoral quota, in the one-mandatory, more than half of the number of voters participating in the respective local elections in the respective one-man election district. If a suitable candidate for the MP was nominated by the local organization of the party, the decision to recall the deputy for the national initiative shall be taken by the assembly of the party concerned. The TVC has been given a decision regarding such a member of parliament, and it is up to the MP to decide whether to replace a member or to hold an election. Such a mechanism is also applied to rural, rural, and urban heads. And this mechanism foresees that such signatures will be passed on to the territorial electoral commission to establish the authenticity of such signatures. To transmit the relevant validity of such signatures to a party that is entitled under the Political Parties Act, in accordance with the statute, at its assembly, to make the appropriate decision. And passing it along with a decision, passing it along with a protocol to the TVC, which is still entitled, more precisely, to recognize that the elected next member is in turn or to appoint an interim election instead.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-14-m1.u184	Thank you, Ruslan Petrovich. Dear colleagues! I have a high-level international phone call right now. I'm handing over the session to the First Deputy Head of the Supreme Council. I think I might be able to get back to voting. But I'd like us to make that decision. It's an extremely high-level phone call, and I have to do it. Please, Andrew Volodymyrovich, conduct.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-14-m1.u185	Thank you. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-14-m1.u186	Can we vote? Can we vote? The alternative is that there is a proposal made by the National Deputies of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. To vote on the committee's decision, to vote on the bill. Yuri Lucenko, one minute, by law. [[B in m in s a l in]] Please, Borislav Bereza. I'm handing over the lead to the First Deputy Chief of the Supreme Council. Colleagues scheduled in seven minutes, please. Wait a minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-14-m1.u187	Gentlemen, I'd like to ask you a question like this. You will now vote in favour of the Local Elections Act and it is possible that you will write out the future of this country for the next two years. Ukraine will be grateful if you really vote for this law because Ukraine awaits this law. And I think there's a fundamental shift going on, a change of opportunity. But there's a strange thing in this law. 365 days of parties and only such parties may participate. All parties whose names were less than 365 days old or renamed less than six months ago cannot participate. Gentlemen, this suggests that the Party of the Regions may participate, the Company may participate, and other parties may not. You don't think that's a few. I think it's hypocrisy and betrayal. I believe that this amendment must be confirmed whether you agree that parties with less than 365 will participate in the elections. Thank you. And they were renamed 185 days ago.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-14-m1.u188	Thank you. Dear colleagues, let's give the factions a minute so the factions can express their position. Dear colleagues, I speak again. We have 1548 rights. We need factions to be able to say their position. And then I'm going to propose for the faction to vote. I'm asking, "Peter Prashenko's Block," Yuri Lucenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-14-m1.u189	Dear Chairman, dear colleagues! We want to do everything we can today to enact this law. We promised the country new rules of election with open lists, we promised a new law. Peter Prashenko's Block does not insist on any restrictions on registration and party renaming. We are a strong party supported by millions of voters. And we're ready for fair competition. We think it's possible to write that all parties that were registered and renamed at the time of publication of the law are taking part in the election. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-14-m1.u190	Thank you. People's Front, Maxim Burbak.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-14-m1.u191	Dear Chairman, distinguished MPs! The People's Front faction also supports our BPP coalition colleagues, and it doesn't insist on this amendment, we are confident of our strength, and we know that we don't have to put obstacles to new parties, because European practice so that loving parties have the right to participate in the elections. That is why we do not insist on this amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-14-m1.u192	Please, this is from the Radical faction, Oleg Lazko. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-14-m1.u193	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. Dear citizens of Ukraine, there will now be a historic vote in parliament when we finally change the election system of Yanukovic, by which they falsified the elections by which they received the majority in the councils, by way of administrative resources. So this is a historical law, of course, that we and my colleagues at Self-Help2, from other factions, insisted on significantly improving this law, in many ways we heard, in many ways we didn't hear, but the new law is still better than that electoral system that is now in operation. I mean, on behalf of the faction. The restrictions on the registration of the party year were proposed to prevent the Yanukovitch gang from participating in the election, but unfortunately this restriction does not apply to the Yanukovich gang, and democratic parties fall under this restriction. So we suggest that we remove this restriction on party registration, the law, and vote on the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-14-m1.u194	Please, from Fatherland Sobolev, then Oleg. I'm sorry about the crash. Please, Sergey Sobolev.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-14-m1.u195	Dear colleagues, our faction has done everything possible to ensure that there is a new electoral law in the country, in order to make history a practice when candidates in measure are removed from the election. In order to make history, a terrible story came about when, on the call from President Yanukovich's Administration, parallel party structures were created and did not allow parties to participate in a number of areas at all. That's why our faction will support this law in a very compromising way, where the vast majority of the factions have come together. We are ready to vote with those rights that are now being heard. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-14-m1.u196	Thank you. Please, from Self-Help, Yuri Berezuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-14-m1.u197	Ladies and gentlemen of the MPs! This law is half a step, half a mile. And we all understand that. But this law is definitely better than the previous one. It starts the age of proportionality in elections, it starts the age of political responsibility for the people we lead to power as political parties. And that's very important. But that's not all, dear colleagues. As you have noted, political advertising under this law will be regulated by a separate Law on Political Advertising. And we still have to work with you so that this year our cities and villages during the war don't be filled with stupid political advertising, so that radio and television don't get caught up in stupid political advertising that washes black money and translates into white. That's why we're still working. The Self-Help faction supports this law and will vote. This is just the beginning. We'll work together.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-14-m1.u198	Thank you. From the opposition block of Dudenkov.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-14-m1.u199	Respectable citizens have indeed come to an historic moment. Regrettably, this historic moment is no different from those historic moments that preceded regular or extraordinary elections. Before the elections, in violation of the findings of the Venice Commission, they are changing electoral legislation again. When we benefit from this, we refer to these conclusions of the Venice Commission and we call out that they are a pan-European practice. When we don't benefit from it, we just keep it quiet. The Venice Commission said that the elections should be conducted according to legislation that changed before the elections, only for the following elections. With regard to the substance of the bill, I would like to point out that, unfortunately, once again, an unprecedented situation occurred when about a million citizens of our Ukrainians, internally displaced persons, unfortunately, were denied the opportunity to participate in these local elections. We've changed the situation, we've changed the situation. Many people were forced to leave their homes. That's why everyone's talking about it. It's all there is to it.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-14-m1.u200	Thank you very much. Your time is up. We hear Russian propaganda from the TV channels. There is no need to listen to her from the Supreme Council Hall! Thank you. From the non-fractional Yuri Lewchenko. Yuri Lewchenko, microphone, please turn on non-factionable.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-14-m1.u201	Lewchenko, Freedom, 223 District, Kiev City. This law is imperfect. This law has many questions. And we made a lot of amendments to this law, the All-U.S. Freedom Union. But this law is a huge step forward compared to the active corruption system of Yanukovich, which has a majority. And this is the basic issue of this law, which does not have a majority. And I'm saying it myself as a major, because I know what a major is. The vast majority of senior MPs, either in the Supreme Council or in the local elections, are the people who buy the districts. And it's very difficult for a normal seniority to go through. This law must therefore be voted on. I always insist on compliance with the rules, and so I now publicly declare that I do not insist on any of our amendments, and I urge now that the Supreme Council vote on this law as it is now and we will finally take this step forward. And I hope that the next step will be the same law as for elections to the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-14-m1.u202	Heroim Slava! Thank you very much, Yuri! From the women, I will give the word of Yuri Lucenka, who will make another amendment. Please. Yuri Lucenko, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-14-m1.u203	The Honourable Chairman, the Honorable Colleagues, there is another joy in our Hall: the women are the deputies. Which of all the factions are asking us to support the European amendment on the need for a 30% representation of women. And the girls who have been nominated to the right level. I think that's the right position. And on behalf of the Peter Dusty Block, I propose. Mr. Chairman, in order to, for a second, in order to vote effectively in favour of the law today, I propose that we put to the vote first the registration rule for the room, and I will repeat it. On the day of publication of this law and the second norm, the rule of representation of women. And who? And who? Oh, my God.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-14-m1.u204	Dear colleagues, we have just heard that European principles prevail in this session hall, but there is still some sexism that we are struggling with. And so it's very important that this is a European norm and it sounds like this, and we really thank all the representatives of the men who come together and help us beat it out, it should sound that way. At least, there may be more, but at least 30 percent of the members of the same sex. If there are 30 percent of men in the next council or local elections, that's normal, but we're going to prove who's more worthy of competition. And I think this amendment will now show the Europeanness of this room. Yuri Vitaliyovich, thank you, you're demonstrating Europeanism now the largest parliamentary faction in the world, and you're showing everyone an example. I see that Oleg Lazko backs us, "Paternal" backs us, "self-help" backs us. People's Front, are you with us? Vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-14-m1.u205	Dear colleagues, one more.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-14-m1.u206	Colleagues, men! This does not apply to the Supreme Council. We're backing it up.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-14-m1.u207	Please, Vladimir Litwin, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-14-m1.u208	Dear Chairman! Dear colleagues! The fact that the law is to be adopted is obvious. But I think that the absolute majority of people now don't know what they're going to vote for, the corresponding amendments, then you're going to vote 20 times. For the next time, for 5 political parties, you're adopting the law, not for the country, but for 5 political parties. In this way, you can divide the boards of different levels and remove all problems.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-14-m1.u209	Dear colleagues, I'm first of all. I'm asking you to calm down. I'll take one minute with your permission. For six months, I am actually doing that bill every day. And I want to tell you one important thing, all of the attempts to overthrow today's vote is to leave the old bill, the worst in the history of Ukraine, where there is a majority where there are closed lists. This bill may not be perfect, I myself was the author of another bill, two which I think is much more progressive. But this bill is a huge step forward in Ukraine's construction system. There will be no closed lists, people will determine by their vote the sequence that has passed from the party. There will be no major districts in that bill. This is a big step forward. And so I ask you to support the proposal so that we can vote on this bill without 1547 amendments. And also correct 2 amendments to Lucenka, 2 amendments to Lucenka, separately for the vote. There is such an offer. I ask you to support the proposal so that we can consider this bill on the proceduread hoc without amendment, but only with the consideration of the two amendments of Yuri Lucenka, which we shall vote on separately. Who'll back it up. Please, Princeevich one more minute. Knyazevich, please, briefly.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-14-m1.u210	Dear Chairman! Dear colleagues! With regard to the amendments, let's see what the amendments are about. I'm going to re-enact them for the transcript. We're removing from the text of the law, and there's a whole series of amendments that relate to the possibility of issuing political parties that are registered no later than a year before the day of the vote that changed the name no later than 180 days before the day of the vote 365 and 180. All amendments taken into account in the text of the law and relating to this idea are deleted. The second is about gender.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-14-m1.u211	Yuri Lucenko, is that correct? Yes.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-14-m1.u212	The committee has proposed appropriate amendments to the Political Parties Act, which already regulate the Law on Elections of National Deputies, if there is a desire to strengthen this position once again and to reproduce it in this law we do not deny. And for that we don't have to vote, we just take that amendment into account and add another amendment to the political parties. This is what we do in the Law on Elections, local and everything. What about the last one? The committee requests that, given that if we now adopt this law and consider what is now going on, we give the commission to the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-14-m1.u213	Please finish giving it to Ruslan.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-14-m1.u214	To give a commission to the committee, together with the Chief Legal Authority of the Supreme Council, in preparation for the signing of the Supreme Council Head, to carry out technical legal and editorial drafting of the text, taking into account the decisions we have just agreed.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-14-m1.u215	Thank you. I'm making a proposal. Please give permission to vote on this bill 2831-3 without considering amendments to the amendments that were made by Yuri Lucenk. Whoever supports this proposal, for the procedure, please support and vote. Please support and vote in favour of the ad hoc procedure. Please vote. May I have your support, Your Honor, please vote. [[18:38:50]] For 247 247 for. I now put to the vote the bill, the draft Law on Local Elections, which was amended by the chairman of the committee Ruslan Knazević, and with these amendments, which Yuri Lucenko (this is two amendments), and then confirmed by Ruslan Knazevitch, who demanded that the committee then bring technical and legal remedies to the bill, in the second reading and in general. Please vote, please support, Your Honor. [[18:39:38]] For 257 Decision taken. Congratulations, fellows of honor! Today was an important day where we took a number of important steps to support the police, to fight corruption, and most importantly, welcome you from 2423, with the adoption of the Electoral Act! Congratulations, fellows of honor! I declare the evening session open. Tomorrow at 10 a.m., we're meeting here to continue our work. Thank you. Good-bye. I declare the evening session closed.
