ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-10-m0.u1	Good morning! Good morning, fellow countrymen! Please come to the Supreme Council Hall of Ukraine and prepare for registration. We have another important plenary day today. As we agreed with you on Thursday, today we will consider, and yesterday we agreed to it on the Conciliation Council, a package of visa-free laws. Laws that make enough effective mechanisms to combat corruption. And I think we all realize that this is a fundamental issue for Ukrainian society, for Ukrainian citizens. And we are simply obliged to consider and take this decision under the personal responsibility of each Ukrainian national deputy. I want you to know what was going on in the committees and come up with a generally agreed proposal. And I hope that these proposals will unite the hall today. And we will live up to the expectations that are in society today. Moreover, as we agreed on Thursday, the daily issue of renting gas, moratoriums on land, its extension, elections in Mariupola, recorded corresponding changes, the release of judges. But before that, we're going to start with you about education and science. An extremely important bill, which is actually the first, the issue of scientific and scientific and technical activity prepared by the committee is also extremely important. Dear colleagues, I'd like to call everyone to quality and constructive work today. I think we should reject all the things that separate us and unite around the important decisions that Ukrainian citizens expect of us. Please prepare for registration, your honor. Please prepare for registration. Please turn on the "Council" system to register the people's deputies in the Supreme Council of Ukraine. [[10:05:41]] 333 national deputies registered in the hall. I declare the morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine open. In accordance with the Supreme Council of Ukraine regulations, we have 30 minutes to speak from factions and groups. Please prepare to record the performance and please sign up for the performance. Please give the first performance of Victor Bondar's Rebirth Party.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-10-m0.u2	Dear Volodymira Borisovich, a respected colleague, has several issues of relevance to today that must be decided this week. First, the laws on visa-free treatment. The Rebirth Party certainly supports these bills, which are designed to make it easier for people to go to Europe and travel to Europe and look for opportunities in Europe. But at the same time, once again, we urge the vast majority to carefully review the bills and not try to make it look like a bill for a visa-free regime to put in place other bills that are not linked to a visa-free regime, but which strengthen the authorization of law enforcement agencies on the terror of business, by pressure on politicians, by creating conditions to extort the last living from the people who now exist in Ukraine. The other one. We call upon most of the factions present in Parliament today to resolve once the issue that you have promised to resolve during the election campaign and the election. You broke up a mess in downtown Kiev today. They've made lots of tariff, non-tariff, and so forth, instead of putting questions to the vote in parliament once and for all, and solving the issue of lowering tariffs for the population. We demand, you ask for a vote, you've had enough to build a mess downtown under the government, and so on. Once we vote, let the whole country see who really thinks about how to lower tariffs and who thinks about how to fight it. Third. Almost a year of activity of the new government. Almost two years will soon be a new power. A year ago, a government action programme was approved, a coalition agreement was approved. Let's think about what's done this year. The coalition agreement, the government's action programme is executed by up to 20 percent. We demand, Vladimir Borisovich, to ask the government to send us the role and place of every ministry and department in charge of the program. What's done? Who is to blame for tearing down 80 percent of the useful things that this program provides? This is about a new tax policy, a reduction in taxes, a reduction in wages. It is a new fiscal policy, a new food and agrarian policy, a new policy of law enforcement, a new judicial system, and judicial reform. Unfortunately, almost all of these points are broken, we don't see reform, we don't see any transformations in the country. We require a report from every minister he's done this year, and materials in advance, so that during the government report we can give a proper staff assessment to every minister and director of the department. So we ask that we put this issue before the government as our requirement and bring the materials to Parliament. And the last. Give me 10 seconds. And the last.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-10-m0.u3	Ten seconds, please finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-10-m0.u4	And the last. We need to urgently introduce the draft budget for 2016. We're not voting again, as usual, under the tree budget. Put the materials forward, let's see what they are.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-10-m0.u5	Thank you. From the People's Front to the word, Maxim Burbak is invited. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-10-m0.u6	Dear colleagues, respectable vice-speaker! Today, the Ukrainian Parliament is being tested for its European citizenship. Whether the MPs are able to carry out the task given to them by millions of Ukrainians – to bring Ukraine into the European community, to vote in favour of a bill that will ensure that Ukrainians are free to move their countries in Europe, will allow them to feel full members of European society. I remind all the deputies again. Two years ago, the Dignity Revolution began with someone trying to get Ukraine off the European path of development. To all those who did not vote in favour of the visa-free regime last Thursday and who today will not vote in favour of these bills today, I say one thing: you are destroying the dream of millions of Ukrainians, it is a national dream, a dream of becoming members of the European Union. You're destroying the dreams of the boys standing on Maidan who are now fighting in the trenches of the East for our future, our European future. What choice today is the proportion of millions of Ukrainians who want to be a European community, or the proportion of 50 billion dollars of Yanukovic's regime to be returned to Ukraine's budget at last. The government bills of 2540a on arrest and 2541a on the confiscation of corruption are aimed only at combating corruption and corruption. No ordinary citizen, no housewife, no private entrepreneur will be harmed in any way. Anticorruption laws are directed only against corrupters and their schemes, which have obviously set Parliament apart. The allegations of the so-called imperfections of the 2540a government bill are nothing more than a desire to bring about a complete overhaul of the bill. That's why I'm calling the deputies. Do not fail today’s exam, vote for the fight against corruption, for the return of 50 billion dollars of Januković’s regime to the country’s budget. Vote for the future in order for Ukraine to become a visa-free member of the European Union. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-10-m0.u7	Thank you. From Peter Poshenko's Block, Honcharenko Aleksyyyyovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-10-m0.u8	Dear colleagues! Dear citizens of Ukraine! Today is really a beautiful day in Parliament. Today, millions of eyes are looking at our hall with anticipation and hope, with the hope that we will make decisions that will make their lives easier, that will really move Ukraine to Europe. The package of visa liberalisation laws with Europe, and this is actually a visa-free regime, which is what Ukrainian society today requires, is one of the steps towards Europe for which people stood on the Maidan for which people defended their state in Donbassa and are doing it today for which the entire Ukrainian people have united under this dream. That is why we have no right to betray them today. We have to adopt this package of laws. Clearly, the package of laws submitted to Parliament was imperfect, and it is clear that Parliament had to carry out and perform its task of improving these laws to make them the best. But today there is nowhere to go, behind us Moscow, we all have to remember that. There they await the decisions we made on Thursday when we were unable to accept anything when the Ukrainian society looked indignantly at our work. And what happened at night, you couldn't call work. And that's why we have to demonstrate today that there is a responsible parliament in Ukraine that can vote for excessive things. Imagine a person who lives, for example, in my home district of Odessa in Ishmael, who has to travel 800 miles [800 km] to Kiev to submit his visa papers, 800 km [800 km] to Kiev to obtain a visa. To go to school, to go to work, to go to their relatives or loved ones in Europe, or just to see how European society lives, to which we so desire. Are these laws necessary only to travel to Europe without a visa? No, these laws are primarily needed to live decently in Ukraine. Because who needs to fight corruption? Europeans? No, the fight against corruption is needed by Ukraine and every Ukrainian. Who needs a ban on any discrimination at the time of admission to work, Europeans? No, it's not. This is needed by Ukrainians who live in their own country and want to feel worthy of a person in a worthy country. And so, dear colleagues, I urge all of you to unite today, to demonstrate our political will to society, and then in the evening the Ukrainians will say: yes, we have a parliament. Thank you. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-10-m0.u9	Thank you. Romanova Anna Anatolyevna, of the Self - Help Association. He's giving the word to Oleg Berezuku. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-10-m0.u10	Ladies and gentlemen! Deputies! Yesterday he walked across the city and met a woman who stopped and started crying when she met me. An older woman, 60 years old, left the hospital with a man who spent 7,000 dollars. And he saith, O lie, child, I desire nothing from you, but tell you all there on the mountain, that ye have no conscience. You don't have a conscience, you talk about what, you don't know, you're fighting for what, you're humiliating each other for what. And at the front, every day, boys die, and you don't mind. You do nothing to lower tariffs or to explain whether they are correct. You don't do anything to get vaccines in hospitals." Because her husband got hurt, and there was no antidote, and it is not possible to buy it in a pharmacy in Ukraine. "You do nothing to reduce corruption. " I'd like to ask all of us, dear colleagues. Will we have a conscience before this woman, or will we continue to tell each other about high European values? European values in relation to people, not in paper. Therefore, today we must vote on what should be voted on in the fight against corruption, and tomorrow we must have ministers and officials to enforce these laws. And today, no law is being enforced, no law is being enforced, no medicine, no respectable colleagues, no third of patients are dying, because there is no medicine or treatment in hospitals for doctors. So this woman said that we have no conscience. So today I promised to give it to all of us. Let us find a conscience, vote tariffs, vote rents, vote down import duties so that people can buy powder and soap cheaper. And that's conscience, that's real action, not, in fact, terrain and talk about European values. The second question is political, as long as the country and the elections are ruled by those who failed all the previous elections, we will do nothing. So she didn't ask, and I'm asking, when is CBC going to be? It's a very serious thing. And when is the Attorney General's Office going to put all the points above the "and" over the people who have destroyed and destroyed the state? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-10-m0.u11	Thank you. From the Opposition Block, the word is given to Deputy Boyko.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-10-m0.u12	Dear national MPs, citizens of Ukraine! Last plenary week, Parliament once again demonstrated its inefficiency and unwillingness to resolve state issues that protect the interests of citizens. Within a week, there was nothing in the Ukrainian Parliament but another scandal. The Supreme Council has already exhausted the people’s trust loan. In this situation, we think there are two ways: either Parliament is starting to rebuild the economy and protect the interests of citizens, or this Parliament should be dissolved. What do we suggest we focus on this week? The Opposition Block requires the electoral rights of citizens. We demand that elections be held where they did not take place at all: in Mariupoli, in Krasnoarmian. We are ready to support the bill. In the economy, we lose jobs every day, we increase wages, we increase inflation, we lose prices and we increase tariffs. These are the derivatives of the real sector. The EBRD has already worsened forecasts for the economy, but the authorities are encouragingly reporting on the future of rapid growth and are focused solely on the IMF to continue to drive Ukraine into the debt pit of international credit for several generations. It seems that the authorities are deliberately pushing their own citizens out of the country, making the conditions of normal life worse. A clear example of this policy is the adoption of laws that open the way to a visa-free regime, the extension of positions that will result in the usurpation of power and the raiding of citizens’ property. We call on Parliament this week to return to the question of the implementation of the Minsk Accords. The peace in the East is very fragile, and to preserve it requires the daily work of Parliament. So far, the coalition has done nothing to do with it. Winston Churchill said, "War is mostly a catalogue of gross mistakes." Don't make a mistake, don't create a frozen conflict on Donbassa. We call on Parliament to proceed without delay to ensure the end of the conflict. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-10-m0.u13	From the Radical Party, the word is given to Oleg Laszko. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-10-m0.u14	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. Honorable citizens of Ukraine, distinguished colleagues of national MPs! Finally, today's Parliament, I hope, will also consider a number of laws that will allow for a substantial reduction in the cost of housing services. This is, in particular, the law on the cancellation of rent for the production of Ukrainian gas, but this is absolutely not enough to radically reduce the cost of housing services, because today millions of Ukrainian citizens simply have no opportunity to pay for these businesses. And that ends with people getting payments, they stop paying them, they're sitting in cold houses, and maybe even sending them out for the gods on the street. Our task with you is to stop this tragic plundering policy of today's power in the person of the President, the government and the parliamentary majority. That is why today’s fourth week is the government district’s tariff platform. A former representative of the Party of the Regions, who now ranks as the patron of the country, said that the time would end this mess in the government district, referring to the tariff area. So end the mess by robbing people, ending the mess when you place European tariffs on them, and in return, giving African wages and pensions. This is going to be the end of the mess, and they don't want to start people up and rob them worse than Janukovich's gang did. That is why we demand that the majority of parliaments adopt not only today the Law on the Reduction of Remuneration for Gas Production but also a number of other legislative acts that will actually reduce the cost of housing services. In particular, we require the adoption of a law to ensure that Ukrainian gas is needed for housing and utilities, without import gas. This will make it possible to significantly reduce the cost of their services. We demand the elimination of Naftogaz and we have registered an appropriate bill in Parliament. It's a corrupt firm that doesn't produce anything, it doesn't extract gas, and at the same time billions, tens of billions of dollars from the state budget go through corruption schemes in private pockets, today the media have released the assets of the undeclared Naftogazu head for a million dollars. And to pay for all these possessions and pleasures, Ukrainian citizens have their own pockets. We demand the adoption of the National Commission for the Regulation of the Community Services Market, which will be effectively independent of the President, from the government, and will set objective tariffs. Similarly today, Parliament is obliged to vote on the Law on the Moratorium for the sale of agricultural land. We're not going to be allowed to steal from the Ukrainian state, from Ukrainian citizens, the last fortune left is land. And the government is now taking the initiative to change the taxation regime for farmers. Farmers who don't ask for anything but produce and feed the country themselves, you want to take the last out of taxes so that there is no producer and no village in Ukraine. We firmly deny this and we will not let you commit this genocide!
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-10-m0.u15	Jaroslav Moskalenko from the "Will of the People" Group. From the rostrum, please. Dear colleagues, let's go into the hall.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-10-m0.u16	Dear Ukrainian people, dear colleagues, my head! The path to Europe is the only vector, the only possible vector of modern Ukraine. The Parliamentary "Will of the People" Group has priority in its work European integration. And we're going to do everything within the Constitution of Ukraine to get a visa-free regime for the Ukrainian people as soon as possible. But we believe that the European Union is primarily interested in the results of real reforms in Ukraine, not in their imitations. What is more, the European Union is looking not only at the substance of the bills that we are adopting in this room, but also at the form of political debate around them. And what does the world see? Constant quarrels, mutual insults, branding on good-for-goods, not their own, lack of dialogue between factions. And in the background, it's a farce called the European Choice Coalition. But where did you see such a Europe? We will essentially become true Europeans when our concessions, when we act in European, from ordinary citizens to politicians and top-level officials. One of the European values is the consolidated work between the higher legislature and the government in the interests of the people. What happened in the Supreme Council around visa-free laws? Artificially engineered squire. Officials have thoroughly watered all MPs and said that MPs do not want a visa-free regime, insisting that the drafting of Euro-Integration Bills, apart from government bills, cannot be adopted in this room. And we were just insisting on working out legislation that, under the framework of Euro-integration, posed a serious threat to the fundamental rights of Ukrainian citizens. We faced the irresponsibility, negligence and non-professionalism of the government, which effectively put Ukraine’s European path at risk. The government was obliged to submit to the Supreme Council detailed and thorough bills under the visa-free regime. Instead, we got them raw and conflicted. That's what that led to. Yesterday, we received a yellow card from the European Union, namely an indefinite deadline for consideration of the visa-free regime for Ukraine. But we have another chance to save the situation. We are receiving direct signals from the EU. Because the Ukrainian Parliament already had its only position to fine-tune these bills. This proves that we can work in this room in a consolidated manner. And I am convinced that the advanced European integration laws today support most parliamentarians, including members of the People's Will Group.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-10-m0.u17	Ten seconds, complete.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-10-m0.u18	But the first thing that should be voted on is rents, tariffs, customs, pension taxes, wage index and pensions, and then everything else.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-10-m0.u19	Thank you. Please, Julia Timoshenko, Fatherland.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-10-m0.u20	Good afternoon, dear fellows! I would like to draw your attention to the fact that today is the sixteenth day for the local elections. Sixteenth day! In democratic countries, it counts in a few hours. The laws of Ukraine stipulate that 10 days at most is such a gigantic term. But today it's been six days. Ten days from now, who's in charge? Forgery goes all over the country, subscriptions, rewritten protocols. And guess from three times where this forgery takes place. I think if you're parliamentarians, we understand that the summation of the 16th day of the local elections is the verdict of democracy in Ukraine. And if we're adopting good laws, but we're counting elections for 16 days, then we shouldn't talk about democracy and change. The other one. Today is a very sign day, we will be voting on bills that allow Ukrainian citizens to have a visa-free regime between Ukraine and the European Union. This means that today we all have to consolidate our efforts and vote on all these bills. The Fatherland faction clearly states that we will vote in favour of these laws. Third. Today, a daily bill on the reduction of rent on own gas has finally been put into order, resulting in a 20.4 - percent reduction in gas prices for people and tariffs on hot and hot water. Today, if we are in agreement around this bill, it will mean that every MP who has not personally voted this law has betrayed the electorate and personally dumped the state's Crushing Company in the bankruptcy system because it is today bankrupt and ready to be privatized by new frauds from the government. I am now informing the country that any MP who will not vote in favour of lower rents for the production of Ukrainian natural gas will be known to Ukraine and every citizen. If we don't do it today, they have to answer. And in general, either the Supreme Council is consolidating, meeting with the forces, and showing the country class that the Supreme Council may be changing the country through the right laws and consolidation, or this Supreme Council is worthless. I believe we can do this.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-10-m0.u21	Please. Dear colleagues, I would like to give the opportunity to speak to the National Deputy of Ukraine, Zlati Ognievich. Please, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-10-m0.u22	Good day, fellow countrymen! I'm asking your attention because it's going to be about the possibilities, and more specifically, about the total absence of them. I want to point out right away that the pressures, the threats caused by me, I'm not afraid at all, and I think it's right and appropriate to continue to publish the facts of corruption in power. On the contrary, I am afraid of something else. And instead of seeing in this last year how this Parliament instead of fruitful real legislative activity creates unpopular lobbying bills, there is a political war between one political group and another, the interests of certain owners, of those or other political groups. Of course, in such an environment, culture and legislation are not needed in this direction. Because you don't think it'll bring you the big money you're all used to here. I agree, culture is not money, it's much more. It is spiritual riches. It's exactly what a nation can't exist without, not a country itself. I went to Parliament not for a parliamentary mandate or privileges. I walked as a citizen who saw Ukraine’s new path. And now I see that when there's no culture, it's much easier to rule and manipulate people. And so in these circumstances, as a cultural actor, I don't see my benefit to this Parliament. I see only a permanent redistribution of political power. Make yourself at home before it's too late. Because when this redistribution is over, there will be no culture or talent left to young people, and even Ukraine itself. Therefore, for objective reasons today, I am a member of the MPs. Nevertheless, I want to thank you for the fruitful work of my Radical Party, our beautiful leader. I wish you a struggle, I wish you strength in this fight. And I hope that Ukraine will ever become a free and prosperous state. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-10-m0.u23	Thank you. It's an act. I think those words that we've heard from our colleague from this rostrum should once again give everyone the opportunity to think that we've chosen here to get a mandate and to make changes. And I am deeply convinced that the road will be strengthened by the one who walks. And I would very much like you and I to go to a real European Ukraine with appropriate standards of human life and values. Dear colleagues, please take your seats. Please, a minute from Andrew Teteruk.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-10-m0.u24	Dear Head! Dear National Deputies! Dear people of Ukraine! Last Thursday was a covert incident, and I want to apologize to Mrs. People's Deputy of Ukraine, Kugel. Secondly, I reiterate that I never raised my hand against a woman. The separatists were beaten, the Russian aggressor was beaten, and the woman was never beaten in her life. It's different. I am fully open to investigation, and I am helping to ensure that the investigation sets all conditions, and I am not hiding behind parliamentary intrusiveness. Today, after voting for European laws, I will be testifying in the Attorney General’s Office. I ask everyone to vote today because this is our European future. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-10-m0.u25	Thank you. Dear fellow members of the national parliament, we continue to work with you, as defined by our daily draft law (registration number 2244a, 2244a-1, 2244a-2 and 2244a-3). These are laws on science and science and technology. Yesterday at the Conciliation Council, we agreed that we would consider this draft law on a reduced procedure, since we are faced with issues of daytime order related to the visa-free regime. So I ask everyone to take their seats. Colleagues, take your seats, please. And the general proposal that we discussed at the Conciliation Council yesterday, I'm putting it to a vote to address this issue in a simplified manner. The committee supported this, and yesterday the Conciliation Council and factions leaders supported it. I ask you, please vote and support this proposal that was agreed yesterday, for consideration of these issues under reduced procedure, so that we can continue to consider the visa-free regime. Please, colleagues, support the proposal: consideration of the reduced procedure. Please vote. Please support, yesterday it was agreed on the Conciliation Council. [[10:37:34]] For 168 Next. Dear colleagues, there will be another proposal that we announced yesterday and agreed with the faction leaders. From 12 to 12.30 on account of the overwhelming questions, do not take a break. I'm asking you to prepare yourself, too, and we'll vote on it, but a little later. And I'm asking you to support this, my dear colleagues, yesterday we discussed this on the Conciliation Council, and this proposal found support. So please support it in an appropriate manner while we vote. And now I invite you to the words of Minister of Education and Science Sergio Mironovich Kwit, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-10-m0.u26	Congratulations, distinguished national MPs! I'm introducing the 2244a Bill on Science and Technology, which actually regulates our scientific field. This is an extremely important issue for the development of our state, and there are many legends around it that we don't need the scientific sphere or it. Or we spend a lot of money on it and, unfortunately, we often hear very radical suggestions about reforming our scientific sphere. So I want to say two words about the real state of affairs. Science spending now amounts to 4.2 billion dollars, which is less than $200,000 in the United States, and that is 0.25 percent of GDP. Of that amount, 60 percent is part of the National Academy of Sciences system and 10 percent are taken together by Ukrainian universities. Dear colleagues, to compare the cost of one of the smallest universities in Europe spent on science, is greater than the cost of our entire country. Poland spends $5 billion, Russia spends $20, China spends $80, and the United States spends $350. I mean, where am I going? In fact, we don't finance scientific research in the modern sense of the word. These costs that we spend support the vitality of the system. And that's why we hear very often on the one hand that let's stop funding at all and save the few billion. On the other hand, we're told, you don't have to touch anything at all, because what works is very good.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-10-m0.u27	How long does it take, Mr. Sergei? How long does it take? Yes, very little time. How much longer? One more minute, please give the minister one more minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-10-m0.u28	Therefore, our bill proposes to change our scientific sphere in substance. What do we propose? We propose to finance all scientific research in all institutions: both universities and academic institutions from one fund called the National Research Fund. We propose to create the National Council of Ukraine for the Development of Science and Technology to shape state policy in scientific research. This state policy, it's going to relate to the integration of science and education, so we're going to create new, quality new infrastructure units. It's going to be, we mean, science-innovation ecosystems with better examples, we're going to integrate academic institutions and universities, we're going to open joint master's and doctoral programs. So the idea of the integration of academic science and university lies here in.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-10-m0.u29	Mr. Sergei, we have such an important and limited time. Give me 30 seconds. 30 seconds, finish, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-10-m0.u30	Dear colleagues, I urge you to support this bill. And I'd be happy to answer all of your questions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-10-m0.u31	Thank you, Mr. Sergei. I now invite you to the report of Ukrainian National Deputy Kirilenko Ivan Grigorovich. I have a huge request -- this law is not conflict, it's maximum regulation and it's not too much. Thank you very much. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-10-m0.u32	Dear Head, dear colleagues! I would like to highlight the key phrase in the consideration of this bill. Not thanks to the visa-free regime or other drafts that are now considered top priority in this room, and I do not deny it in any way, but it is because of science and scientific and technological progress that unique economic and then social breakthroughs have been made: post-war Japan, defied by South Korea's war and destroyed by World War II Germany. Thus, the issue of effective legislative provision for scientific development is extremely relevant today. And that's why this law is crucial today. The main directions and positions of this were determined by the Supreme Council’s decree of February 11, 2015. In this context, Bill 2244a-1 was drafted, which is an alternative. Compared to the Cabinet of Ministers bill, his specifics are the following. Taking into account the disastrous situation of scientific personnel, including the outflow of talented young people, the bill provides a number of innovations aimed at improving the social status of a scientist, their retirement. In particular, the amount of pensions is proposed to be renewed only for this category at 80 percent of the scientist's salary, which is 36 million from the Pension Fund. It is estimated that the wage level of a younger scientific worker should not be below the double average wage of the industry. There are provisions regarding the receipt of housing by scientists of targeted budget funding and other sources, as well as the construction of housing on the basis of the receipt of long-term credits. It is envisaged that young scientists will be given priority housing, as well as that they will be able to build it at the expense of the State’s high-priority youth credit. Mainly, the bill states that by 2025 the funding of the scientific sphere from all sources should be 3 percent of GDP, now 10 times less. Every year, that's a figure.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-10-m0.u33	30 seconds, please let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-10-m0.u34	Every year, this figure should increase with 10 years from now to this corresponding indicator, this is the same indicator that we are already in the European Union today, where we are said to be going. I underline, and it's already approved by the Supreme Council. I'm not saying that we've ratified all the agreements with the European Union, where scientific and technical cooperation comes first. It will be based on the review of all the laws of Lilia Mikhailovna Grinevich. Given that these positions are part of the body in the first reading of Bill 2244, I ask the room to support the first bill, which takes these positions into account, and to vote it out in full with us preparing it for the second reading in a short time, and on the 26th, on the day of science, we voted in general. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-10-m0.u35	Thank you, Mr. Ivan. I invite you to the words of the Scripnik Alexiyovich. And I repeat, as long as it goes to the rostrum, a big request to enter the regulations, not to go beyond the discussion, I think it'll give us a better chance of adopting the law. Thank you, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-10-m0.u36	My fellow Members, we are about to have a very important precedent in Parliament, which, I don't know, may have been before, but this case, when the four bills, the people who put them out, did everything they could to unite all four bills into one. So it's not competition between people who present bills, it's important cooperation. There was a working group that used the best ideas of all four bills in its work and included them in the table of amendments to the first, most fundamental bill that was passed by the Ministry of Education. I don't know if you understand, but this law that we're considering with you right now, it's much more fundamental and much more important than loving visa-free laws, and all the other things are the law that will determine our development for the next 50 years. Hence, the great request to support Law 2244a. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-10-m0.u37	Thank you very much. Another co-rapporteur, Taruta Sergey Alexiyovich, is invited to attend. Then he's the head of the Greenwich Committee. And let's move on to the discussion. Mr. Sergei, please, the people of Ukraine are waiting for your word. And I'm reminding you of the rules.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-10-m0.u38	Dear colleagues! I, in addition to what Alexei said, was indeed a very important precedent when we found consensus, four drafters of the bill. And once the government had finalized it, everyone agreed and balanced a very important law. And I suggest that the Hall also show consolidation around this very important draft law, and we have been able to give new opportunities to our academics, our students, who can see in this draft law the possibility of commercializing all scientific developments. It is envisaged that, in all scientific inventions, a public-private partnership and finally, our scientists will be able to make a decent living and stay here. Please therefore ask everyone to support a very important draft law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-10-m0.u39	Thank you. A co-reporter, head of the Committee on Science and Education, Greenevich Lilia Mikhailovna, is invited to attend. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-10-m0.u40	Good afternoon, fellow countrymen. Now, on behalf of the Supreme Council, I would like to welcome all the scientists and all the people who are in pain for the development of national science, with the World Science Day that is happening today. And I think the best thing we can do this day is work on the Law on Science and Technology. I'm not going to define all of the, unfortunately, extremely negative trends that we now have in the scientific space of Ukraine. It's a decrease in the number of researchers, it's an extremely small amount of money that we're spending on research and so on. But today we have a chance to reconcile the positions of all the bills, to present a new platform for the development of Ukrainian science. So the scientific and expert office has given us four drafts of both the Cabinet and the alternatives to what they need to do. We set up a working group with the participation of all the authors of drafts, public environments, experts, and worked on a comparative table on the basis of the Cabinet bill, agreeing on all the positions that needed to be worked out. This is the result of this work. And we are now proposing in the ruling, in the draft Supreme Council decree, which we will vote on, to caution against the main agreed positions that should be taken into account in the bill on the basis of the Kabmin bill 22.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-10-m0.u41	How long has it been, Mrs. Lilia? One minute. Please give Mrs. Lilia one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-10-m0.u42	So on the basis of Cabinet of Ministers Bill 2244a, we have to consider these positions of alternative bills. Provisions of paragraphs 2.1, 2.2, 3.1, 3.2. of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the approval of Parliamentary hearing recommendations on the status and legislative provision for the development of science and scientific and technical activities, specific provisions of articles 7, 17, 25, 30th, 35th, 36th, 37th, 44th and 45th of Bill No. 2244a-1. Separate entries of articles 1st, 7th, 9th, 17th, 20th, 21st, 22nd, 32nd, 44th, 45th, 46th, 47th, 48th, 49th, 50th, 51st, 52nd Bill of Registration 2244a-2. Separate clauses of articles 7, 9, 24, 27, 35, 36, 57, 63 of Bill 2244a-3.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-10-m0.u43	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-10-m0.u44	And to complement it with new articles on the mandate of the Supreme Council of Ukraine in the field of scientific and scientific and technical activities, the President of Ukraine on regional scientific centres, as edited by the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Science and Education. Please support this decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-10-m0.u45	Thank you very much, Mrs. Lilia. Tell the MPs, is there a need for discussion? Is there not? Is that right? Then I'm asking you to sign two for, two for against, please. Sergey Sobolev passes it on to John Kirilenko. From the rostrum, right? Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-10-m0.u46	Dear Head, dear colleagues! A few words to my speech and to the speeches of my colleagues, a few words of argument, that is, in which we are in heaven in this very important country of the sphere. So the demands of the world economy, the processes of globalization have changed the place and attitude of the world society towards science and science and technology. It's the trend of today. Science, having established an industrial industry, is now almost fundamentally changing the structure of the world economy. At an accelerated rate, it develops the IT branch, the field of nano and biotechnology, the new quality acquires the sphere of services, education, medicine, information, we are witnesses. There's an increase in the scientific and technical level of GDP, an increase in the number of jobs in science and technology, and a growing share of the funding for financial and resource support for scientific and technological activities. Today, GDP is 3.45 per cent in Finland, and in Sweden it is 3.3 per cent in Denmark. Even in Estonia and Hungary, this is 1.7 and 1.4 respectively. In Ukraine, unfortunately, there is a reverse process: degradation, science and education are the most affected. According to statistics in the last 10 years, the number of scientific institutions in Ukraine has dropped by half, and the scientific knowledge of GDP has also doubled to 0.66. The cost of science from the state budget is reduced from 0.42 to 0.26. This is the lowest in Europe. In the last year alone, the number of scientific institutions has decreased by 12. The number of people employed in the science and technology field by 11, the number of researchers by 10 percent. This process continues. In March 2015, changes to pension legislation were adopted. And in July, the State Budget Sequester was held. Out of 5 billion cuts, 2 billion were removed from the richest sphere of science and education. And the last argument. In 2014, 7.7 billion dollars were spent on innovation, and 25.7 billion dollars were spent on innovation. This is lower than in 2014 on.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-10-m0.u47	Ten seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-10-m0.u48	But notice, every bracelet that's been invested in innovation gets 3 bracelets from the product. This is a confirmation of where the funds need to be channelled to get economic growth. We'll support this bill, my friends. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-10-m0.u49	Thank you. The Lubenec will pass on the word to Spiowakovsky, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-10-m0.u50	Dear Head, honourable national deputies, it is very interesting to observe the reaction to the basic law that we are adopting today. Because if we're talking about gas, we're all very interested. When we talk about the innovative development of Ukraine and where science and science and technology are at the heart of the country's innovative development, you'll see how the national MPs react. Dear colleagues, indeed, the law that we are now enacting 2244, I ask you to vote first, the version that is prepared by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. This is a reasonable compromise between what we want and what we now have. This is a path that does not ensure the destruction of individual elements of the scientific infrastructure that took place in Soviet times. It's a smart compromise that needs to be set up by the National Academy of Sciences of Ukraine, and the branch of the Academy of Sciences of Ukraine is to work. There are fuses that form a really powerful fund, from which science should be financed on very different grounds, on the basis of grant access. It's a symbolic path. This is a path that still provides for the use of the Soviet model, when and directly to finance scientific and scientific and technological activities. But in two, three years, we will be able to reform the system that is now in place. So I ask everyone to vote in favour of 2244, which will ensure the steady development of science and science and technology in Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-10-m0.u51	Thank you. Shapovalov Yuri Anatoliyovich gives the word of Lithuania. From the rostrum, right? Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-10-m0.u52	Dear Chairman, dear colleagues, history is a war story. The former wars were to increase the territory. Then the wars took place in order to obtain energy. War now lasts for the brain. And I have to tell you that Ukraine has been successful in these wars in the last decade. Because science, including the National Academy of Sciences, is gradually dying for various reasons, including poor funding. The committee was working on four bills. I have to say that today we are proposing that you vote, not for the government bill, but for the actually agreed position of the committee, which includes the best proposals contained in the four bills. In fact, the committee prepared for the second reading of the bill. But at the same time, I suggest that we take into account such circumstances in particular. The first is who will approve the statute of the Academy of Sciences. It is now suggested that the Cabinet of Ministers should do so. This is absolutely unacceptable, since the Cabinet of Ministers will destroy the self - control principles of the functioning of scientific institutions. It is necessary to leave as before: The Ministry of Justice checks the statutes and approves them. The Cabinet of Ministers is something to do. Next. We need to bring the economic activity of the academy into law in accordance with the Code of Masters. Because what is proposed by the Cabinet of Ministers in the bill of government is contrary to this code. Next. You have to think about taking down too many kinds of bureaucratic institutions, how they're going to run and organize the scientific process, like they're self-reliant structures that are going to need the apparatus and which ones.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-10-m0.u53	Please, 30 seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-10-m0.u54	Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-10-m0.u55	Thank you. Dear colleagues, the discussion is over. I ask the people's deputies to come into the hall and prepare for the vote, an extremely important bill. The great work has also been done by the minister, we thank Sergey Flower, and the people's deputies who have been able to come up with the only harmonized document that we can adopt as a basis is a fundamental important law. I ask you to come into the hall and prepare for the vote. There is a proposal agreed upon by all groups of authors to vote on the basis of bill 2244a with those amendments, Mrs. Lilia, which were sounded from the rostrum by the head of the committee. And this is a committee proposal, and I'm actually going to put it to the vote. Dear colleagues, once again I ask you to take up your jobs, come into the hall. And I'm voting on draft Science and Technology Act No. 2244a, as amended, which was announced for the transcript by the head of the committee, Lilia Greenevich, of the Supreme Council. So on the basis of 2244a, please vote. Dear colleagues, we vote. Please be supportive. [[11:02:49]] For 290 Decision taken. Congratulations, Mr. Sergio, Minister, and welcome to the law. We'd like to say another word, wouldn't we? Please. Congratulations on the law. And according to the order of the day, we're moving on to the next, very important, but also non-conflict drafts. Mrs. Lilia!
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-10-m0.u56	[[Unheard]]
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-10-m0.u57	Dear colleagues, there is a request, a reduced procedure for second reading. Is there no objection? So I'm making a proposal, a joint committee, and a minister. Please prepare for the vote, consider this law in a simplified procedure for the second reading. Whoever supports this proposal, please vote. Please vote. Short procedure for second reading. [[11:03:57]] For 229 229 for. Decision taken. Thank you. So, dear colleagues, we now have a day-to-day 3225 and 3387. Important laws, as they regulate and enforce the current legislation of our National Police Act, which are designed to correct names in various laws to the National Police in accordance with the law. Therefore, requests are made to review these laws quickly, to vote quickly, so that we can move more quickly into visa-free regimes. So I have a request to the hall, this request is also from the committee's chairman, Bill 3225, to consider the simplified procedure. Dear colleagues, we vote in favour of a reduced procedure. Please. Please be supportive. [[11:05:11]] For 186 186 is "for", the decision is made. And I invite you to speak first of all, Minister of Internal Affairs of Habakkuk Arsen Borisovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-10-m0.u58	Dear National Deputies! On July 2, 2015, the Supreme Council of Ukraine passed the Ukrainian National Police Act, which took effect on November 7, 2015. The bill amending some Ukrainian legislation in connection with the adoption of the Ukrainian National Police Act has been prepared for the purpose of introducing terminology used in Ukrainian legislation in accordance with the Ukrainian National Police Act. The bill amends 90 legislative acts in Ukraine, including: the Code on Administrative Violations, the Criminal Procedure Code of Ukraine, the laws of Ukraine on Road Traffic, the Code on Operational Investigation, the Code on Organizational and Legal Basis for Combating Organized Crime, and so on. The adoption of this bill will allow legislation to be implemented in accordance with the Ukrainian National Police Act, which in turn will ensure the practical implementation of the actions and powers of the police established by the law and the avoidance of conflicts in the application of the rules. Dear Chairman, we now have two uniform laws, so I suggest you immediately hear from me 20 seconds of information.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-10-m0.u59	Please report by two laws.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-10-m0.u60	Yes, the next Law 3387. The 54 legislative acts of Ukraine are amended: the Civil Protection Code of Ukraine, the Telecommunications Act of Ukraine, the Opposition to Trafficking in Persons, the Legal Status of Foreigners and Persons Without Citizenship, and so on. Thank you for your support. Taking this opportunity, I would like to introduce you to the newly appointed head of the National Police of Ukraine, Hatiya Decanodze. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-10-m0.u61	Thank you. A coreporter, head of the Committee on Law Enforcement, Kožemiakin Andrija Anatoliyovich, is invited to attend. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-10-m0.u62	President-in-Office, Honorary Fellows, Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Law Enforcement at its meeting on 4 November, reviewed the draft Ukrainian Act amending certain Ukrainian legislative acts in connection with the adoption of the Ukrainian Act (number 3225, from 30.10.2015) "The National Police." The main task of the project is to introduce a series of legislative acts in accordance with the adopted National Police Act, which took effect on 7 November of this year. First of all, I would like to point out that this bill amends 90 legislative acts in Ukraine. The essence of the proposed changes is to change the terms "internal affairs," "internal affairs bodies", "internal affairs workers" and a series of other similar terms to the corresponding new terms: "National police", "authorized national police department", "national police employee" and so on. The selected changes are provided for in section 1 of the First Bill. Having examined the project, the National Deputies consider it to be right and worthy of support, since its adoption removes the collegiates in the current legislation and creates an effective legal mechanism for the activities of a central executive body such as the National Police. At the same time, in connection with the simultaneous loss of the Ukrainian Police Act on 7 November of this year, which is based on the separate rules of the Ukrainian Anti-Corruption Office Act, members of the committee at the meeting supported the proposal of the National MP, Mr. Anton Juryovich, to complete section I of Bill No. 3225, paragraph 91 of the following content. I'd like to give you more.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-10-m0.u63	Please give me one minute to finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-10-m0.u64	In the Ukrainian Anti-Corruption Bureau Act: First, in paragraph 15 of the first article 17, replace the word "militia" with the words "national police"; second, in the first part of article 18, the word "militia" should be replaced by the words "national police". In view of the appointed committee, he decided to recommend that the Supreme Council of Ukraine accept it as a basis and generally as a law. Please be supportive. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-10-m0.u65	Dear colleagues, an important but technical law. Oh, they're not done yet? 30 more seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-10-m0.u66	Guys, can I have another minute, please? This morning, literally, I was approached by the head of the fiscal service. In view of the fact that there has indeed been an amendment and an opportunity for the tax police to use the means of coercion and arms, please support: to supplement section IX, paragraph 6, of the Act on National Police "The Act on National Police" by sub-paragraph 10 of the following content: "The taxpayers of the tax police are granted rights under articles 42-46 of this Act to perform their duties." Support the responsibility of committee members. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-10-m0.u67	Dear colleagues, there is an offer. We need to talk, right? Dear colleagues, is there a need to discuss? There's a need. So I'm asking, dear colleagues, there are desirable people in the hall, I can't stop this impulse. And so I'd like you to sign in: two pros is two opposites. Please. Antonisztak Andri Fedorovich, Petra Poshenko's Block. Turn on the microphone. Antonistak, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-10-m0.u68	A respected society, indeed, the bill is very important, yes indeed, technical remedies are being introduced. But I'd like to support all my colleagues and take this vote seriously. And I support Mr. Cosemyakin's statement that from 7 counts, the tax police are actually blocked because they can't use these technical amendments, where the police are called police. So actually, I would like to invite all my colleagues to vote in favour.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-10-m0.u69	Thank you. From the Radical Party, Oleg Lazko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-10-m0.u70	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. Our faction will support these bills regarding the change of the name " militia" to "police." But I'd like to say something else. Dear Ukrainian citizens, I think two years after the Dignity Revolution today, the whole country has seen that not only the real reform in Ukraine is the reform of the road police. That today the level of trust in the new police is over 80 percent, is equal to the level of trust in the church and the army. So it's finally something that we see, not just in words, it's reform, it's real reform, and we have a road police that trusts Ukrainian citizens today. Just like our Ukrainian army, our protectors of the Motherland and our church. But I would very much like this road police to have exactly the same confidence rating in a year or two or three. Then it means the irreversibility of reform and not the imitation of it. And I think we're doing exactly the same for the reform of the road police. I take the opportunity that the Prime Minister Arsenius Yatzenuk will be present in the Hall, and I address the Prime Minister. Following the example of the reform of the road police, we also have to carry out a radical reform of the judicial system and the prosecutorial system with you. All prosecutors and judges must be released. This is the only real reform. Old thieves can't stop stealing what laws we don't give them. So Attorney General Shockin has to be retired, all 15,000 prosecutors in Ukraine have to be released, all 10,000 judges have to be released. And then in a transparent competition for participation, following the example of the road police, to recruit new people. Just don't drive from abroad. The unemployed Ukrainians need to be given a job. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-10-m0.u71	Thank you, Your Honor. The Prime Minister of Ukraine, Arseny Petrovich Yacenuk, arrived at the meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Hello. Mr. Arsen. Thank you. The word is given to Seminchen Igorevich from Self-Help. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-10-m0.u72	Please hand over Paul Costenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-10-m0.u73	Semenschenko, Semenschenko. Oh, you passed it on, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-10-m0.u74	Dear colleagues, the laws are technical and very important for our nation. We should take them now. Regrettably, the bill was prepared very quickly and came to the committee only last Wednesday. There's a lot of different colosses. And now they're starting to emerge when people are analyzing this bill. A big request, Self-Help supports the bill in the first reading, but not on the basis. A great request. Not in general. It's a big request for an expedited procedure to send to the committee. We'll take those colossals and take them as a base in a week. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-10-m0.u75	Unfortunately, I'm afraid that's actually impossible. We are very limited in time. And I invite you from the People's Front to Oleg's Meduntary. Please, Mr. Oleg Medunica.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-10-m0.u76	Please pass the word to Anton Heraszczenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-10-m0.u77	Mr. Gerashchenko, say the word.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-10-m0.u78	Honourable deputies, distinguished presiding officer! Respectable Ukrainian people! We have begun a reform of internal affairs in Ukraine. On 7 November, the National Police became operational. A new head of the National Police, Hatiya Decanoidze, has been appointed. Under the programme approved by the Minister of the Interior, Arsen Avakov, only those officers who will meet the high rank of Ukrainian police will be able to enter the new National Police. All 150,000 National Police officers will be tested. Public interviews, representatives of the Supreme Council, journalists, human rights defenders with all leaders from the district police departments will be conducted. This is indeed the first structural reform. The two bills proposed to your attention — 3225 and 3197 — are bills that are technical but necessary for the full implementation of the legislation on the National Police into Ukrainian legislation. These bills provide for the replacement of the word “ militia” with the word “national police” in more than 150 bills. Without their adoption, the National Police will not be able to function properly. I ask all factions, coalitions, opposition and non-fractional to support these laws in a single momentum. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-10-m0.u79	Thank you, Your Honor. We finished the discussion. There is a request to support the National Police. Oh, there's still, please, Vladimir Litwin, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-10-m0.u80	Dear Head, dear colleagues! Obviously, this decision must be made without putting it in a long box. At the same time, I propose, I address the minister, I address the committee head, when working on the text, not to forget the Department of State Security, because it is governed by the Police Act when using weapons. If we release this standard, they will not be able to exercise their authority since the adoption of the law. Add to the fiscal service and State Security. I'm asking you to support me. If the minister agrees, let's put it on the table.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-10-m0.u81	Thank you. So, does the minister support the proposal?
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-10-m0.u82	I'm asking you to support me, that's a very good idea.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-10-m0.u83	And I'm just going to put it under the stenogram of your suggestions. Dear colleagues, I ask you to come into the hall and prepare for the vote. One of our most extensive reforms, joint reforms, because the National Police Act was voted here in the Supreme Council. Thank both the minister and the government for their work together. Please support this reform, prepare for the vote, enter the hall. And I'm voting on the draft Act amending some of the Ukrainian legislative acts in connection with the adoption of the Ukrainian National Police Act, as amended by the chairman of the committee, Andrew Cosemyakin, and Vladimir Litwin, as well as the transcript. And there's a proposal for the committee to vote on this bill as a whole. So 3225 as a base and as a whole. Please, we vote, Your Honor, we vote. [[11:20:13]] For 289 289, yes. Decision taken. Hello. But there is another bill that we have already discussed. But Andrew Kožemjakin asks for a word, a minute, to be clarified. Yes, please, Habakkuk reported two, and Kozemyakin reported one by one. Please refer to Andrew Cosemykin’s report. Attention! Dear colleagues, let us also vote in favour of this law in favour of a reduced procedure. I ask you to support the consideration of Bill 3387 by a reduced procedure. Please vote. [[11:20:57]] For 197 Decision taken. I invite you to report to the head of the Legislative Security Committee, Kozemjakin Andrija Anatoliyovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-10-m0.u84	Thank you. Dear Chairman, dear colleagues! The Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Law Enforcement at its meeting on 4 November considered draft Ukrainian Law No. 3387 amending certain Ukrainian legislation on the activities of the National Police, submitted by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. The main task of the project is to introduce a series of legislative acts in accordance with the Ukrainian National Police Act, which took effect on 7 November 2015. The bill is essentially the extension of Bill 3225 and is of a technical nature. It proposes to amend Ukraine’s Civil Protection Code and 53 other laws. The substance of the proposed changes is the same as in Project 32. Replacing "internal affairs" and "internal affairs" to "police" and "National Police." In view of the defined committee, the Committee decided to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine the adoption of draft Law 3387 of 30.10.2015 as a whole. Dear colleagues, I would like to support you in connection with what you know, the National Police Act of 7 November, which awaits a society that we have all worked on together, including working very fruitfully with the government of the Supreme Council Committee, so that no one can say anything about it. That's why we also welcome the head of the National Police from Mrs. Hatiya's committee. And we wish her the best in this post. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-10-m0.u85	Dear colleagues, we have already discussed these bills. And that's why I'm voting. I'm asking you to come into the hall. I ask my respectable colleagues to take up jobs. This bill is in fact a continuation of the previous 3225 bill. Similarly, it introduces legislative amendments and adapts them to the National Police Act. Therefore, we need to support the position of the committee and vote. Dear colleagues, ready to vote? I am voting on the draft Act amending some Ukrainian legislation on the activities of the National Police (number 3387) on the basis and overall of the Committee's proposal. Please vote. Dear colleagues, please vote. Please support 3387 as a whole. [[11:23:58]] For 294 294 for. Decision taken. Welcome to the Minister. Welcome to the head of the National Police. We welcome and thank the committee for its active and productive work. And we welcome our hall with the adoption of these important bills.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-10-m0.u86	Dear fellow members of the national parliament, we turn to the issue of the introduction of a visa-free regime. According to the agenda of the day, the first issue is the examination of registration number 3154 on the basis of the draft Act amending the Code of Administrative Judiciality of Ukraine. But before that, dear friends, I'm asking according to the terms of the Conciliation Council to take the initiative now and not take the break between 12 and 12.30. Dear colleagues, I'm asking you to support everyone in the factions so we don't have to take a break, we're more out of the hall and then we're going back in time, because you know that the morning session is going to be in the next hour. I ask you all to support this offer, Your Honor. Please don't take a break from 12 to 12.30. We have rent and moratorium and election issues, and we have a lot of questions. Keep it up, folks. The offer to work without interruption, and from 12 to 12.30, don't take a break. Vote. Please support without interruption. [[11:25:27]] For 277 Thank you, my friends, for your support. Please, please, there is a proposal to consider this bill in a reduced procedure, please vote. As for the draft law in the first reading, the procedure is shortened. Vote, please. Review of the reduced procedure of this visa-free issue. Please be supportive. First reading. [[11:25:53]] For 177 Decision taken. Please report. First Deputy Head of the State Migration Service, Sokoluk Maksim Yuriovich Maxim Yuriovich, report.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-10-m0.u87	Honourable Volodymira Borisovich, distinguished national deputies, is proposed for your consideration by the draft Act amending the Code of Administrative Justice of Ukraine (for immediate consideration by the courts of compulsory expulsion or detention for the purpose of the identification and enforcement of aliens and stateless persons or ensuring the transfer of aliens and stateless persons in accordance with international readmission agreements). The draft law is designed to improve the legal and regulatory framework for effective migration management and non-legal migration against the implementation of the national plan of action for the implementation of the second phase of the European Union's visa liberalisation plan for Ukraine. Today, in the work of the territorial authorities and the branches of the DMS, the law enforcement authorities of the state border have problems in connection with the long-term review of administrative cases involving the forced expulsion of aliens, ensuring that they are kept in custody of the court’s decision on their forced discharge. The court’s appeal and court’s decisions on the forced expulsion of foreigners are also pending. Even in the case of the detention of foreigners, according to the law in force, it is not sufficient to obtain a court order on its forced discharge for three years. With a view to reducing administrative conduct in enforcement or detention cases for the purpose of identifying foreigners who are subject to forced removal or return to countries of origin in the course of the implementation of international readmission agreements, it is proposed to amend the Ukrainian Code of Administrative Justice, which provides for improvements in the legal regulation of the terms of reference. In line with the proposed changes to the local general courts as administrative courts, administrative cases of forced discharge or detention are brought before the courts. Such cases shall be brought before the courts immediately. Thank you for your attention. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-10-m0.u88	Thank you. Please report to the committee head, Ruslan Petrovich Knazevitch.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-10-m0.u89	Thank you. Dear Mr. Head, dear colleagues, this bill is in fact purely technical. The point is that the Code of Administrative Justice deals with the issues that we are now facing in this bill. But given that Ukraine has signed a readmission agreement, including with the European Union. Here local courts, which act as administrative courts in these categories of cases, are provided for the appropriate decision to be made on detention cases for the purpose of identifying and disposing of nationals of other countries and stateless persons within the framework of a readmission agreement. To this end, a readmission agreement is once again intended to establish sufficient time frames to deal with this issue by local courts as administrative courts. This is the case for an immediate court decision, that is, immediately after a person has been detained for identification, he must be brought to court, and the court must take a decision immediately. And the third novel in this bill. What such a decision must be made immediately. This is another novelty of Ukrainian legislation, because the general order that is foreseen in the current codex indicates that it took five days, five days. But in fact, we know that unfortunately, we haven't always followed these lines, and we have sad cases where for months people are detained for the purpose of identifying them are in special isolation places, but there are no court decisions to decide their fate. Therefore, in order to encourage the courts to take immediate decisions and consider the matter immediately, it is within the bounds of the visa-free package that such amendments to the Code of Administrative Justice, which I consider to be absolutely timely, are being proposed and, most importantly, are being made by the Ukrainian side to ensure the implementation of the readmission agreement with the European Union. Please support and.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-10-m0.u90	Please finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-10-m0.u91	If the will of the Hall is to do so, the committee would like to support this bill not only on the ground but in general, because we believe that there is in principle nothing to work on in the second reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-10-m0.u92	Thank you. Please sign up: two for, two against. Please, People's Deputy Skrum.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-10-m0.u93	Alona's splinter, Fatherland faction. My colleagues will certainly vote in favour of this bill. It would really be important if we provided some real mechanisms to implement it. I mean, as a lawyer, what's "immediate," what kind of legal term is "immediately"? Well, we can have the courts do the judging right away. We can immediately cooperate and ensure that our decisions are implemented. But unfortunately, as in our legislation, and now, without real judicial reform, this concept remains appraised. If you look at the conclusion of scientific expertise, even science and expertise says once again: turn this legislative initiative of the subject back into work, because it actually doesn't change anything in our legislation. Well, unfortunately, in order for us to say that decisions on forced discharge should be made immediately, we need to understand that it will only be taken by our legislation after the authorities have considered all the relevant information, that there is no real threat to a foreign citizen or a stateless person to be executed or tortured in a country where he will be handed over to whether he will be killed or subjected to inhuman or degrading conduct. So there's a whole list of factors that organs need to consider, and the court needs to study. It's not going to happen fast anyway, it's not going to happen right away. So we certainly support you. But unfortunately for me, as a lawyer, it's an imitation of reforms again, a simulation of the approximation of European standards, not a real reform. That's it.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-10-m0.u94	People's MP Shapowalov, "The will of the people."
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-10-m0.u95	The People's will MPs support the adoption of the bill on the basis of the second reading of the bill. Indeed, the adoption of the amendments proposed in the bill will shorten administrative conduct in cases of forced discharge or detention for the purpose of identifying foreigners and stateless persons. However, it should be kept in mind that the Ukrainian Law on the Forced Status of Foreigners and Persons Without Citizenship does not require judicial sanctions for the detention of foreigners and stateless persons. Moreover, such sanctions cannot be granted within the administrative jurisdiction. This could be either administrative detention under the Ukrainian Code of Administrative Offences or detention under the Ukrainian Criminal Code. Therefore, the proposal to bring an immediate trial by the courts of detention and forced expulsion of aliens and stateless persons could lead to violations of the rights and freedoms of the latter. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-10-m0.u96	Thank you. Please, Dmitri Spanov, Opposition Block.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-10-m0.u97	Dear colleagues, our faction favours a visa-free regime. We are ready to support initiatives in this regard, but legislative initiatives must be prepared and not risk-taking for human rights. For example, the rule concerning the immediate review of cases of forced expulsion or detention of aliens or stateless persons before a court is an assessment concept. It is necessary to set a specific time limit for consideration. In addition, when dealing with cases of expulsion, it is necessary to fully and fully assess the situation, to ensure that the person who is expelled is not at risk of being executed or subjected to torture or at risk as a result of an international or internal armed conflict or a systematic violation of human rights, natural or technological disaster. The Chief Research and Expert Office has also made many critical comments on the bill, and proposes that it be sent for finalization. We must adopt quality laws, not quick-signed laws. Our faction against this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-10-m0.u98	Please, Mikola Tomenko, Peter Dusty Block. And let's move on to. Mikola Palamarczuk, Peter Dusty Block.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-10-m0.u99	Please give the floor to the parliamentary ideologist of European integration of Ukraine, Irina Heratchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-10-m0.u100	Oh, Irina Heratschenko, please. Irina Heratchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-10-m0.u101	Thank you. Dear colleagues, we've also considered this bill on the Committee on Euro-Integration, and so has it on our faction. Indeed, this bill is part of Ukraine’s commitment to implementing the Plan of Action on Visa Liberalization in Migration Policy. And as Mr. Knazevitch, the head of the profiling committee, rightly pointed out, has a completely technical character. Colleagues here spoke of being a violation of the right to defend the rule of urgency in a court of law. But in fact, a much larger violation is what the European side of Ukraine has been pointing to all these years, it's to keep cases in court for years with respect to non-citizens. And that's exactly what the 5th report of the European Commission says and we have to agree with you right now by voting for this bill. We should specify these legal grounds for keeping under guard persons seeking international protection and guarantee the priority of their cases and lay down rules on the status, rights and duties of those foreigners who cannot be returned but who do not have the right to international protection, and these decisions must be taken by the court. So it seems logical for us to now adopt this bill, to try to adopt it as a basis and as a whole, as the head of the profiling committee suggested. Because the word "immediately," obviously, is only supposed to encourage Ukrainian courts to deal with such cases as quickly as possible so that people who do not have citizenship are given an adequate opportunity to protect their rights and have not spent years in wards and isolations. Thank you. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-10-m0.u102	Thank you. Dear colleagues, the discussion is over. Please take your seats, dear fellow national MPs. We're taking our seats. Dear fellow national MPs. Dear colleagues, the draft Law (registration number 3154) has been introduced to vote on the basis of the draft Act amending the Code of Administrative Justice of Ukraine. It's a law from a package of visa-free regimes. There is a proposal to vote on it as a basis. Based on the base. Please vote, colleagues, on a base, please. Vote. [[11:38:43]] For 310 Thank you for your support, colleagues. The law's been passed. Dear colleagues, let's move on to second reading. And we're going to report this package of laws on standby. We begin with Law 2541a, introduced by the government of Ukraine. Reports the head of the committee, Andriy Anatoliyovich Kožemjakin.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-10-m0.u103	Dear colleagues, your consideration is on the proposal for a draft Ukrainian Law amending the Criminal and Civil Codes of Ukraine to improve the institution of special confiscation with the aim of eliminating corruption risks when applied, number 2541a, prepared by the committee for second reading. I recall that the bill that the government passed proposed to extend the institution of special confiscation to all deliberate crimes that are provided for a particular part of the Criminal Code. This, as we are told, is a requirement of the European Union contained in the Directive. At the same time, after careful elaboration of the Regulations on the freezing and confiscation of funds and revenues obtained by criminal means in the European Union, it became clear that there was no requirement to extend the special confiscation of all crimes. On the contrary, the meanings of the Directive mean that it should be applied to certain criminal offences, article 3 of the Directive. In particular, it deals with corruption, money - laundering offences, terrorism, drug crime, and others. The government also suggested extending the scope of the application of special confiscation to third parties on the grounds that the person who accepted the property knew or should have known that such property had been obtained as a result of the commission of the crime. At the same time, Article 6 of the European Union Directive makes it clear that a person should at least have known that the purpose, purpose, transfer or acquisition was aimed at avoiding confiscation on the basis of specific facts and circumstances, including that transfer or acquisitions were made free of charge, or in exchange for sum, significantly lower market value. Line by line from the European Union directive. During the preparation of the draft law, 96 proposals and rights from members of the national committee came to the committee. They were discussed by the committee, and 20 suggestions were taken into account as a result of the discussion. And plus those proposals that were taken into account yesterday, these are two proposals from the Ministry of Justice that have already been confirmed by representatives and analysts from the European Union this morning. 76 suggestions rejected. The proposals included corrected the main flaws of the bill, which were emphasized by the national deputies during the discussion. At the same time, at the direction of the Head of the Supreme Council, on 9 November, we held meetings of the committee and with the participation of the Attorney General's Office and the Ministry of Justice. As a result of this meeting, the committee has prepared an additional comparative table, and you have it, for the bill. It's got two revisions. One of them is technical about changing the name of the project. A comparative table contains the basis for the rejected proposals, an additional comparative table contains agreed proposals that eliminate existing arguments regarding the application of a special confiscation. The Chief Legal Authority believes that the bill can be adopted in a second reading, subject to the comments of the Chief Legal Authority. That's what we did. Taking into account the need for Ukraine to fulfil its obligations to liberalise the EU visa regime, the Committee has decided to adopt the bill in second reading and in general as a law. So I would like to support the committee's decision, along with the necessary editorial and technical legal rights that will be dealt with by us and the judiciary. Mr. Chairman, I ask you to put a bill to the vote in the second reading is the law with the latest rights that took place yesterday at the committee's approval and in the committee's editorial. Thank you. And assign technical legal remedies to the judiciary along with the committee to execute. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-10-m0.u104	Thank you, Your Honor. There have been many discussions about this bill. The chairman of the committee made a very thorough statement on all the amendments and on the table, and on the basis of the discussion, including the factions, and the ministry, and the National Deputies on the Committee. I don't think it's necessary to have the same discussion now. Dear colleagues, I then put to the vote a proposal from the committee with a proposal from the head of the committee announced under the transcript, in the second reading, and in general. Taking into account the proposal made by the head of the committee just announced under the transcript. Vote? In the second reading and in general, taking into account the suggestions made by the head of the committee expressed under the transcript according to the committee’s decision. Please vote. Vote. In the second reading and in general. This is a consistent position, as I understand it, completely. Please support the second reading and a total of 2541a. Vote! Please vote. Please be supportive. [[11:44:50]] For 272 The first law is visa-free in the second reading. Dear colleagues, thank you for supporting these laws. 2542a. Reports the head of the committee, Andrew Kožemiakin. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-10-m0.u105	Dear colleagues, the Committee on Law Enforcement, prepared in the second reading together with all interested State bodies, including the Ministry of Justice, and the Attorney-General's Office, for consideration, a bill amending the Criminal Procedure Code of Ukraine to implement the recommendations of the European Union to implement Ukraine's action plan on visa liberalisation by the European Union for Ukraine on clarifying the traceability of judicial investigation bodies I'll remind you that the bill is prepared for. The bill proposes to amend article 216 of the Criminal Code, the "Transitional Provisions" of the Criminal Procedure Code of Ukraine, by redistributing the jurisdiction of these bodies of inquiry. You could say it's a technical document, a law. In the first reading, he was voted without discussion. In particular, it is suggested that the Ukrainian Security Service should be restricted from carrying out pretrial investigations into crimes, leaving only crimes of national security and terrorism. Also, to specify the criminal nature of the crime to the authorities of the State Bureau of Investigation. They're given the right to investigate crimes that were formerly M.E.S.O.'s, today's National Police, and the S.A.U.S. In support of the idea of the bill as a whole, we find it not entirely justified when the DBR tries to transfer the right of investigation to the vast majority of crimes, i.e. expand its law enforcement functions and create another such powerful state authority. In our view, the FBI should focus on investigating crimes committed by special subjects, senior officials, judges, prosecutors, and law enforcement officials. By the way, this approach is also supported by Council of Europe experts in comments to the State Bureau of Investigation project. My colleagues, I want to tell you that all the changes that have been made are included. Moreover, it was confirmed once again on the committee that took place yesterday. And so for the stenogram, I'm pointing out that on the first and second pages of the table in paragraph 1 of the first paragraph, which defines the BSO, after the numbers 333 is omitted. Appropriate refinements must be made. In the light of what has been said, it is suggested that the bill be adopted in the second reading and generally as a law. Please, Vladimir Borisovich, ask the question for a vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-10-m0.u106	Dear colleagues, the 2542nd report of the chairman of the committee we heard. Does anyone insist on repairs? Don't insist. Please take your seats, dear fellow national MPs. I'm introducing a bill (registered number 2542a) to the vote. Accordingly, the Committee concludes: accept in the second reading and in general. That's exactly the proposal I'm going to put to the vote right now. Please concentrate on the vote, your peers. Ready? In second reading and in total, 2542a. Please vote. Please support in the second reading and in general. Please vote. Vote. Please support 2542a. [[11:49:03]] For 325 The law's been passed. Dear fellow members of the national parliament, we are introducing a draft Law (registration number 2540a) for your consideration. Yuri Lucenko will report, please. 2540a. Please, Yuri Vitaliyovich, 2540a. Attention, colleague, attention!
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-10-m0.u107	Dear Mr. Head, Your Honor, you have before you a draft Ukrainian Law amending the Ukrainian Criminal Procedure Code on Certain Matters of Incarceration for Property in order to remove corruption risks in its application. The law was repeatedly worked on by a professional committee, and representatives of coalition factions also met, aligning the text with representatives, with consultants of the European Union. Committee Decision: To support this bill with duly approved rights as a whole. I'm ready to go to the amendments with the comments and the voting. But I would like to point out that the text, which was finalized by the committee, balanced the bill between the severe punishments of corruptionists and related third parties with sound European rules, as defined in the relevant directive on the need for evidence on each individual subject, which could be acquired by a corrupt way, including by a third party. So this is a balance of rigidity with regard to corruption and the protection of property rights of people who are not involved in crimes.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-10-m0.u108	Dear colleagues, are we going to the repairs?
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-10-m0.u109	Yes.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-10-m0.u110	Please, 1st Amendment. Don't insist. 2nd National Deputy Vanat. 3rd National Deputy Levchenko. Overruled. Are you insisting? Please, Yuri Lewchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-10-m0.u111	Lewchenko, Freedom, 223 District, Kiev City. As for all my amendments, I'd like to say two words right now. The thing is, as you know perfectly well, the bill that was passed in the original version was totally unacceptable. In fact, all my amendments related to the revision of the first version of this bill. But in the end, when the committee was working on it, it really changed this bill, and although, I think, I see that my amendments in principle would be better, but I don't want to break this better option right now, because all of my amendments, all of my amendments, I'm taking all my amendments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-10-m0.u112	No, no, we have to go. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-10-m0.u113	Please. Please continue the 5th amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-10-m0.u114	Dear colleagues, regarding the 5 amendments. I ask that you pay attention to the chart, article 170, paragraph one. Yesterday's committee decision was stolen, literally, by a fingerprint, but it's very important to the legal part. There instead of inserting the word, I ask you to listen as the committee voted: "The arrest of property is temporary until the Code of Deprivation of the order of the order of the investigating judge or the court for the expulsion of the order and/or for the use of property, which there is sufficient reason to believe that it is an object, a means, an instrument of committing the crime, evidence of the crime, obtained by criminal means, proceeds of the crime committed, obtained on the basis of the proceeds of the crime committed, or may be confiscated from the suspect, the accused, the convicted person or. (the word "or" has gone missing, and it is very important) or a legal person who may be subject to criminal proceedings or may be subject to a special confiscation for third parties of a legal person or to a civil suit. The arrest of property shall be cancelled in accordance with the order laid down in this Code." The word "or" is small, but it carries a substantial legal burden. And I would like to take into account in the general vote that the position of the committee was with that word and purely in print. The word came out of the polygraph.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-10-m0.u115	That's five, isn't it?
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-10-m0.u116	Yeah, it's in Amendment 5.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-10-m0.u117	Let's move on, 6-a, don't insist, Vlasenko. 8th, 7th Amendment? There is an offer, Anointed One. 7th Amendment, Anointed One.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-10-m0.u118	Andrew Pomazanov, People's Front. Dear colleagues, yesterday, there was literally a meeting of the committee, which, for the second time, considered all of these standards, and a new amendment was introduced, number 7, Yuri Lucenka, who in general tried to adjust in some way to the fact that there were objections to those regulations. But I have to say that the deformed law that came to second reading is not being corrected by this amendment, and more than that, the structure of the concept of the arrested property extends to such a limit that it will not be possible in the future, taking into account further rights, including, to find out how property can be arrested in further confiscation and so on. So I'm asking you to put this amendment on confirmation and not support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-10-m0.u119	I'm sorry, but it's Yuri Lucenka's amendment, and he's the only one who can require it to be amended.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-10-m0.u120	Dear colleagues, Yuri Vitaliyovich, comment on the substance of the amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-10-m0.u121	Basically, it's a fix. The committee repeatedly, including the minister of justice, accepted the full idea of arrest. As soon as I read the complete, comprehensive list of the reasons why arrests can be applied. Next. Further reasons, order, and evaluation criteria are set out in the following sections. If you're going to bet on confirmation right now, the law will just be lost in this room.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-10-m0.u122	Colleagues, I'm asking you not to vote on this 7 amendment right now. Let's move on, and then we'll talk about this in the end. Okay? Let's talk about this one more time. Let's move on. The seventh amendment, I get it. Let's keep going, keep going, keep going. Next, 8th. Don't insist. 9th. Don't insist. 10 – Captain, don't insist. 11th. Don't insist. The 12th is Bondar, not insisting. 13 – Popov, do not insist. 14 – Sažko, do not insist. Jacenko. Don't insist. The sage is rejected, 19th, does not insist. 21st. Don't insist. 25th, 25th, Anointed 25th. Bondar. 22 Amendment, Yuri Lucenko, is included. Please, Anointed.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-10-m0.u123	Dear colleagues, dear colleagues, paragraph 3 of this article.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-10-m0.u124	Andrew Pomazanov, People's Front. Dear colleagues, I just want to say that the 22 and 23 amendments in general, they, in fact, provide for a distortion of the purpose of the bill itself, which foresees that the purpose of the arrest is a special confiscation or court decision of the fate of the evidence, confiscation of property as a form of punishment and reparation. In that way and in that definition, which has actually been reworked with even an additional second reading, the purpose of confiscation in general is meaningless, it's completely confusing. So now we're actually not going to be able to fully secure the purpose of this property arrest bill with possible further confiscation. So I ask for amendments 22 and 23 to be taken into account and placed on confirmation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-10-m0.u125	Comment.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-10-m0.u126	Dear colleagues, this is actually the moment of the truth of this law. According to paragraph 2, the purpose of the arrest is to ensure criminal conduct, to secure a civil suit. Property owned, used, or managed by a suspect, accused, convicted, third parties, a legal person, and so on may be arrested. It describes who the third person is. There is a debate here between the idea of "take everything away" and the committee's ideology, which said that the articles that envision criminal responsibility with complete confiscation arrests all property, and the specific confiscation arrests only property that makes it think it's obtained illegally. And that's exactly right: the investigators have to do their job as an investigator, they have to give reasons for the court to arrest. It's very simple: there's a corruption suspect, he gave his driver a Mercedes, which should be arrested: a Mercedes or all of the driver's property.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-10-m0.u127	Finish up, Yuri Vitaliyovich, finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-10-m0.u128	So this is the ideologie of the law that prohibits the arrest of recklessly everything, and then after a few years, we'll figure it out. I think the committee did it right. Moreover, this is in line with the EU directives, the word in the article.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-10-m0.u129	Thank you. Colleagues, let's do this. In order to understand all the principles of the question, i.e. it's fixed: 7th, 22nd, 23rd, the offer of the Anointed One for confirmation. Let's move on, and we'll go back to this to understand the whole set of problems. Let's move on. 25th, Bondar. Don't insist. 27th, Vanat. Don't insist. 28th. 27th? 28th, Lucenka repair. Please, Anointed.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-10-m0.u130	Unfortunately, dear colleagues, a similar situation occurs with 28, 29 amendments, where the concept of the basis for the arrest is, in fact, distorted, where we oblige the investigating authorities to prove that the property on which the arrest is to be made is essentially the case. No court, no investigator has the right at the stage of consenting to arrest any property for further securing the purpose of this law to prove in concrete terms that, as well as when. Even the Supreme Court’s position is that in the initial stages of providing evidence, the provision of other nuances of criminal conduct does not presuppose a court or investigator to determine the case in fact. So this article, too, this amendment, two 28th and 29th revisions, is also in conflict with the purpose of this bill. Thank you. Please bet on confirmation.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-10-m0.u131	Thank you, colleague. 28th, 29th, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-10-m0.u132	Honourable deputies, and specifically the deputy who just spoke, please take a dictionary and look at the difference between "bases" and "proofs." Because no one's demanding an arrest from the evidence investigator. The text reads, "The basis is the existence of a judge's approval or a court for the existence of a population of grounds," no evidence is the basis. What does that mean in practice? Operators have an audio or video fixation of what the judge took bribes. And that's not evidence yet, but that's the reason for the bribe to be arrested. I would suggest that we introduce a more European norm, and we have just been asked by European colleagues to do so. A set of grounds or reasonable suspicions. This is a European practice of such a merger. But no evidence at the arrest stage is required of anyone, so please do not mislead the hall. So please support the committee's option to add up the sum of the reasons and.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-10-m0.u133	Finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-10-m0.u134	Next.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-10-m0.u135	Fellows, once again, I'd like to see that we don't now balance the law prepared by the committee. Let's move on. So there's another 28th and 29th amendment. They will all be, by him they will all be determined. Let's move on, dear fellows. 29th, 30th, don't insist. 32nd. Captain doesn't insist. 33rd. It's not Agafone's. 34th is Bondar. 35th is the national deputy of Sažko. Don't insist. 38th is Bondar. Don't insist. 41st, Captain. Don't insist. Anointed, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-10-m0.u136	Dear colleagues, let's just not waste time, because we are still slightly violating the rules of the Rules when we are not voting for the specific rights that I demand for confirmation to impose. Let me stress those changes that are fundamental, and then we'll vote. I think that the amendments should also be submitted for confirmation: 39th, 40th and 42nd, which again are Mr. Vlasenko's revisions, which actually remove from the text an expanded interpretation, in fact, of the purpose of this bill for which it was created. Then, I'll remind you: 39, 40, 42 and 66, 105, 106, which, in general, in the complex, all of these changes make it absolutely impossible to implement this law, even worsen the state that is now in the Criminal Procedure Code. And they make it possible that former officials of Januković, in view of the improved conditions of the process in this direction, could regain what might be arrested. So, colleagues, these are the papers that I've highlighted.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-10-m0.u137	Finish it, please. You're done, aren't you?
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-10-m0.u138	I'm done. These are: 39, 40, 42, 66, 105, 106 and not supported. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-10-m0.u139	Thank you. So 7, 22, 23, 28, 29, 39, 40, 42, 66, 105, 106. Locked down, colleagues, we're not violating anything. We're looking at the law. Please, Yuri Lucenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-10-m0.u140	First of all, dear colleagues, I can read Article 6 of the EU Directive on Confiscation for Third Persons. But it does not really need to be read: it is written into a word in a given law. Please, if the investigators want to work, they can be arrested. And after the evidence, according to the court's decision, and confiscate. But simply to cover up the desire of everything in the world here to arrest and confiscate without any grounds at the primary stage of arrest is illogical. Listen to what the directive says: "Member States must take the necessary measures to make possible confiscation of income or other property." Next: "On the basis of specific facts and circumstances, including that transfers or acquisitions were made free of charge or in exchange for sum, much lower market value." That's what our law says. It's okay. The Law enables us to deal with both Yanukovic and others. If the investigators have some brains and a desire to work. But, Vladimir Borisovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-10-m0.u141	Yes, please, Yuri Vitaliovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-10-m0.u142	See paragraphs 4 and 4 of this chapter. Cost of property to be arrested. A technical repair that was bugged yesterday, but somehow it didn't get into the tablet. In addition to the arrest of property for confiscation. And it's still in the text. That is, when the article goes confiscated, bribes are described as all property, regardless of the value of the suspect. When it comes to specific confiscation, we need to prove, in accordance with the EU directive, that specific property was obtained free of charge or waste, or that the person knew whether he should have known that he was dealing with a criminal, with criminal property. Then a composite property, which is co-ordinated by the value of the property, is described. This article is fully in line with the EU Directive.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-10-m0.u143	Thank you. Let's move on to the repairs. 41st, don't insist. 43rd, don't insist. 44th, not necessarily. 47th, not necessarily. 50th, Vanat doesn't insist. 51st, Vlasenko doesn't insist. 53rd National MP, Captain doesn't insist. Agaphon, 54th. Don't insist. Bondar, 55th. Don't insist. 56th, Sažko doesn't insist. 57th, Yatzenko doesn't insist. 58th, Vanat doesn't insist. 61st Bird. Don't insist. 62nd. Don't insist. 63rd. Don't insist. 64th. Don't insist. 67th. 66th. Don't insist. By 66th, please, Yuri Lucenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-10-m0.u144	Dear Volodymyr Borisovich, in agreement with the author of the amendment and the 66th amendment committee, as well as 105th and 106th can be returned to the original government text. 66th, 105th and 106th. It's more accurate in government. The committee agrees.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-10-m0.u145	65th?
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-10-m0.u146	Sixty. In short, there remains the left column of government paragraph 1, article 171.2, paragraph 1. I'll read it. "In the matter of the custody of property, and of the investigating prosecutor, it should be noted that the grounds and purpose are in accordance with the provisions of article 170 of this Code and the appropriate justification for the need for the arrest of property." This is the government text that he agrees to, and Vlasenko takes off his amendments along with the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-10-m0.u147	So, once again, 66-a, 105-a and 106-a in the government?
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-10-m0.u148	That's right.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-10-m0.u149	Roger that. Then, Anointed One, be ready to comment. You see, I was right about getting to the end, and then we'll understand the whole painting. Okay. The Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. Please. Now, colleagues, are you insisting on the rest of the amendments? I can see it's not. Please, Minister of Justice. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-10-m0.u150	Dear Head, honourable national deputies, allow me to comment on this bill. The bill is adopted in accordance with the requirements of the directive and because of the requirements set out directly in the monitoring reports of assessment missions that came to Ukraine during August and September. The basic requirement of European colleagues is to ensure an effective mechanism of arrest, confiscation and confiscation of property. Therefore, the assessment of our legislation will take place in several directions. Existing legislation, which is criminal and criminal law, and the improvements that the Supreme Council should make in order to implement not only 6 articles of directives, but also 10th. The tenth article. 9 Article 9 of the Directive states that Member States should take the necessary measures to ensure that all assets are tracked down and confiscated even after criminal persecution has ended for the individual. European legislation is, therefore, much more severe than Ukrainian legislation. European legislation provides for a prism to prove that the person is entitled to the acquisition of property. That is, if a person has a set of assets and is suspected of having obtained this property illegally, it is for a person to prove under European law that the property has been lawfully obtained. So I would like it not to be speculated that we have met all the requirements of the European Union. The other one. The essence and structure of the law was that our Criminal and Criminal Procedure Code had clearly structured arrests. Because we have a classic arrest if an article in the Criminal Code provides for confiscation. We have one that provides for the interests of the victim and the victim in a civil suit. And we have an arrest that provides for the possibility of further confiscation of property that is hidden, for example by corrupters, when it's made up of third parties. Those amendments that have been made by the committee and those amendments that we now want to read from the text prepared for the second reading have actually distorted the idea and concept of the bill itself. First. The other one. The amendments announced by Anointed One, if accepted by the committee, will allow those who have already been arrested, such as former high-ranking criminals, to appeal to the court for the removal of the arrest. Because our legislation will be better for them in this situation. So imagine that, in fact, if the committee were to be drafted, the lawyers of Yanukovic would be able to file a request for review of the arrest in connection with what the investigator would have to prove, how much damage Yanukovic caused directly to the State of Ukraine at the stage of the investigation, which is essentially impossible. The other one. Those formulations that are now being proposed. The question is not whether it's a requirement or a proposal from the Ministry of Justice. These formulations, if they're not reviewed, will actually make it worse for the investigation of corruption crimes and for the imposition of arrests, and for the special. Confiscating corrupt people's property. And they will not be recognized by our European partners. And we're going to have to re-vote this law if it's adopted in an editorial committee. So I ask you, honourable national deputies, to consider the proposals and remove the controversial amendments that have just been announced to Andrey the Amazanite. And to enact a law that is as close as possible to the first reading, which has been approved by the experts of the European Commission. And believe me, all those phobias and myths that the MPs have will be removed. We've done the most -- we've adopted 2541a, which clearly defines the mechanism of confiscation from third parties and guarantees protection for conscientious purchasers against unlawful disposal of property. Let's not block the arrest and, in general, the institution of arrest in criminal matters. Because it's nonsense when investigators at the arrest stage, after a corruption crime, at the bribe, have to collect evidence of the size of the damages caused by the bribe. This is already a subject of investigation, which is going on for a while, and it's impossible for an investigator and a court to pass a sentence at the time of the arrest. So I ask that, my fellow Members, that we adopt a balanced law, remove the controversial amendments that have been sounded, and only then will this be the fulfilment of our obligations to the European Union. And the main thing is that this is going to be a mechanism for our law enforcement agencies to investigate corruption crimes. Because that's our homework. Please, Your Honor, remove the controversial amendments and then we can vote on the technical legal drafting of this bill. I can count them-- 7, 22, 23, 28, 29, 40, 39, 42, 66, 105, 106. Thank you to the reporter that 66, 105 and 106 are the position of the committee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-10-m0.u151	66, 105, 106 in the committee's version. We have left: 7, 22, 23, 28, 29, 39, 40, 42. Yuri Vitaliovich Lucenko Let's listen very carefully, colleagues, so that we can make all the right decisions. Take your seats. Please, Yuri Lucenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-10-m0.u152	Dear Mr. Head and Mr. Minister, you just told us that there are three kinds, as you say, of arrest classes. All three are written in the text you are offered. There's also a classic arrest when everything's under arrest, and there's a seizure, and there's a description of both, and there's a civil forfeiture. So it's nothing different than the approach you've just stated. Let's move on. You proposed, indeed, from the government's claim that in the course of confiscation, I literally quote, "in this case, property owned, used or managed by any natural or legal person may be arrested." The road to hell has been paved for all entrepreneurs and individuals in the country with good intentions for fighting Yanukovich. Think about it. On suspicion of a third person who is not even represented by a judge, someone says that maybe corruptioner Yanukovic gave her an unfair benefit, and she's arrested for everything, that's all. We do not require any investigative evidence, hear us, Paul Dmitrovitch, and all other colleagues. We demand reasonable reasons. What does that mean? The driver never had a Mercedes, and his family's salary would not allow him to buy, so he showed up after serving a high - crewman. There's a reason for this Mercedes, and specifically an operative's report, an elementary and previous forensic investigation, to show that this Mercedes was given to him by a corrupter, and he's under arrest, but his son's gig does not. It's just that we need to learn how to do things without arresting them. As far as Igoria is concerned, let's take this speculation off. Because on the grounds of property that is subject to arrest and then confiscation, it is clearly written, "the value of property that is to be arrested must be summed up in a measure of size" and then in the text of "irregular convenience." As I understand it, Mr. Janukovic and Mr. Clovis were given an improper advantage in the form of a complete property complex called “Megirrhea. ” What's the problem? All of this is in the law. The only problem is that investigators are used to the old NKVD methods: to hand over suspicion, to arrest a factory, to an agricultural enterprise, or to any human being, all the property. And then three years later, maybe he'll get something back. I agree that this law is imperfect. But I was just late for this rostrum, talking to Europeans. They believe that formulation is close to European practice, both by value and by classification of arrests and by other things. This law will certainly be corrected, there is no doubt about it, even though the third person would have to be represented in court by his own lawyer when he is arrested. But today.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-10-m0.u153	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-10-m0.u154	Today, this document is both legal and political compromise, which then needs to be worked on professionally, not to impose these laws in the last week and to press national MPs. Thank you. I propose, on behalf of the committee, to put the bill in the form that it is put into the room and in the second reading, taking into account the technical voting rights I have set out for me.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-10-m0.u155	Thank you. Please, Arsenius Yatzenuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-10-m0.u156	It's in the committee's editorial form, taking into account the rights and compromises I've made with the government.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-10-m0.u157	Dear Mr. Head! Honorable National Deputies of Ukraine! There is no doubt that everyone wants Ukrainian citizens to receive visa-free treatment. And to that end, Parliament, together with the government, is actively working to enact the relevant laws. I'm proposing that we don't switch legal writings or set up political riots right now. From a formal legal point of view, a series of articles that the minister of justice of Ukraine has just mentioned do not correspond to European practice, criteria, and European legislation. In view of this, I would like to inform you that if this bill does not comply with European legislation, and legal expertise points to it, this would be a prerequisite for Ukraine not to be granted visa-free treatment. Therefore, seeing that there is now no complete unity in the walls of the Ukrainian Parliament regarding the removal of amendments that have made substantial changes to anti-corruption legislation and deprive the law-enforcement authorities of the real role of fighting corruption, I think that after voting this bill, we will receive the legal conclusion of the European Union. If this legal conclusion is that the law that has just been passed is not adopted by the European Commission as one that is in line with European legislation, either the President of Ukraine makes appropriate proposals to Parliament, or we are voting this bill to obtain visa-free treatment.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-10-m0.u158	Then, then, colleagues, come on. Let's do it this way, but let's move now to a second-reading vote and in general, taking into account the position of the committee and the announced rights in relation to 66, 105, 106 articles and adopting this bill as a whole. After that, yes, after that, we will conduct an analysis of the conformity of this law to the directive, to the signing of the President. And if, but it's got to be a very principled thing, and if there are certain things that don't fit the directive, we're going to review it to fit the European directives. Do you have a deal? And if there's a positive conclusion, we'll discuss it. I also believe that there will be a positive conclusion, but let us wait. That's it, that's it. Colleagues, in second reading and as a whole, with the amendments of Yuri Lucenka announced from the rostrum, including 66, 105, 106 articles in the Cabinet of Ministers and, as a whole, in the drafting of the committee on technical law. This is a compromise decision, my friends, let's vote and take a second reading as a whole. Vote. I'm asking you to back me up, everyone. Please vote. It's the right, it's the right, it's the right, it's the right, it's the right, it's the right, it's the Vote, vote yes. Please be supportive. [[12:22:57]] For 291 Colleagues, welcome to your decision. We're doing it now. In fact, this law is needed by Ukraine to fight corruption effectively, but it must be fully in line with European directives. Then we reached our goal. Let's move on, dear fellows. Draft Law No. 3040: Draft Act on the National Agency of Ukraine for the Detection, Search and Management of Assets from Corruption and Other Crimes. There has also been much discussion under this law. There is, let him report it, we are now. Please 3040, Yegor Sobolev. [[B in m in s a l in]] All right, colleagues. Then let's, before we go to 3040, we have the law. [[B in m in s a l in]] Please, 3440, report, report, report. He'll report, we'll listen to the point of the law. Please. [[B in m in s a l in]] Please, Yegor Sobolev. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-10-m0.u159	My colleagues, congratulations. Let me remind you that this law in the second reading did not get enough votes and was sent back to us for a second reading. We had a big discussion on the committee yesterday and a quick vote today. Most of the issues have been compromised, and tomorrow we will be amended. There are 8 additional amendments that the Committee recommends approval by the Supreme Council on the second readout. If you have every tablet, we can start working.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-10-m0.u160	Dear colleagues, now the law is multiplying, now it must be placed in the hall. But I want to emphasize that we're all 299 amendments we've been through before, only 8 amendments are debateable. Now the law is multiplying, now the law is entering the hall. I ask Mr. Yegor to make the eight amendments. Mr. Yegor! Mr. Yegor! Mr. Yegor, I ask those eight amendments to read now and explain their point. As long as the reporter speaks, the law will be passed in the hall. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-10-m0.u161	Mr. Speaker and Mr. First Vice-Speaker, we cannot vote in favour of a law that recommends approval by the European Union when parliamentarians do not see what they vote for. Let's announce a brief recess so that everyone gets the text of the law, and we voted for it as Europeans.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-10-m0.u162	Colleagues, let's do it this way, we're going to announce a 30-minute break right now, before 1:00, and at 1:00, please all be in the hall. They're all going to give out tables and stuff. Do you have a deal? Do you have a deal? 30 minutes off, waiting for the law. And look at your electronic tools, there's going to be an electronic table up to 3040. Thank you. We're meeting in the hall at 1:00. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-10-m0.u163	Dear colleagues, please come into the hall. Tables are given out. I just want to point out that the tables are made up of two parts because the document is large enough. Now they're continuing to distribute tables on the hall. I ask those interested in professional discussions to take the tables. And I'd like you to come into the hall and take jobs to continue our difficult and necessary work for the country. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-10-m0.u164	Dear colleagues, we continue our work. This will have to be read at the end of the session. Dear colleagues, you are given a draft of the Law (registration number 3040). 3040 is the last or last law on the introduction of visa-free treatment and effective fight against corruption. There have also been many discussions, many discussions on the subject of this law, including compliance with its directives of the European Union. I created a working group to which all interested parties were involved, including representatives of the European Union, on the basis of the committee. This working group was headed by Andry Volodymyrovich Parubius. In fact, we are now in a position of agreement with the committee, the Ministry of Justice. I give the word for information to Andrew Volodymyrovich Parubia. But before that, I'd like all the deputies to come into the hall and take their seats and continue their effective work, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-10-m0.u165	Dear colleagues, a very difficult and troublesome work was carried out under Law 3040. It's by creating an agency for detecting, searching and managing assets derived from corruption and other crimes. And the working group, with the participation of European experts, had discussions with government representatives and deputies. And I want to give it right, and the committee had a very professional, high-quality discussion of all the members of the committee. Last time we went through, I remind you, all 291 amendments that are before this law. There were only warnings about some of the amendments that we had begun to discuss, and it was precisely for them that it was decided to pass the document on to the second readout. What's the point of the eight amendments and what the final compromise was on the committee. The point is that it is proposed that the agency deal with the assets that have been arrested only with conservation. So just by saving those assets. And conservation should be done by those subjects identified in the competition. Regarding the realisation of the property under arrest. Only in cases foreseen by the hundredth article of the CPC, that is, only in accordance with those provisions of the 100 article of the CPC can property be realized. When it is one that quickly deteriorates, and that is why implementation can take place only at the discretion of the court or at the request and consent of the owner. It also deletes an article that controls the effectiveness of asset management, and this article clears up. And that's how we come up with compromise formulations that are concentrated in eight articles. One of them is actually longer, it takes up a few pages. But together there are eight articles. And for the efficiency of our work, I'm calling on the committee head to make sure that those eight amendments we agreed on are able to talk here in the hall. And if there's no warning on them that we can already, with those amendments to the committee, enact the law in the second reading and in general. I stress that this is an extremely revolutionary and huge step forward in the fight against corruption. And I'm sure this will unite the hall, all the anti-corruption initiatives in this convening of our hall have been adopted, and we've voted on them in a coordinated and effective manner. And I'm asking the deputies to come into the hall again. The vote will take place shortly. And I ask that the chairman of the committee of the eight amendments that have led to the discussion and for which the committee has reached an agreed decision to announce from the rostrum. Please, Yegor Sobolev.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-10-m0.u166	Thank you, First Vice Speaker. Thank you, speaker. My colleagues, I recall, we had discussions during our second reading. The committee then met twice, thanks to the authors of the amendments that insisted on them. I think most of the amendments are taken into account, and all possible compromises are achieved. I ask you to open Amendment 131 on page 40. This is the first amendment the committee proposes to take into account during the second reading, the amendment of the group of national deputies led by Victor Pinzenic. The point is that this amendment makes it mandatory for an external audit by an audit firm of recognized international companies. Let me remind you that you and I have foreseen a mandatory external inspection through a special independent commission, which will be formed by Parliament as well. This amendment adds yet another mandatory audit to be carried out annually by this agency. If there's no objection.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-10-m0.u167	Please correct the following changes.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-10-m0.u168	Next amendment next to page 41 – 137. Similarly, the authorship of a group of deputies led by Victor Pinzeik. It suggests that the composition of the Public Council, which I remind you of our decision with you, be shaped by the results of the open online voting of citizens. So this amendment suggests that after this competition, after this online vote, the composition of the Public Council approved, not the head of this agency, but the Cabinet of Ministers. The authors of this amendment believe that this will make it impossible to falsify and abuse any result of this competition. The committee's offering to say yes. Let the government be the highest institution to approve the composition of the public council at this important agency. If there is no objection, we can go to the next amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-10-m0.u169	Is there no objection? None. Please, next amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-10-m0.u170	So this is an amendment we're also proposing to take into account. 209, the amendment, it's very big. It was prepared by a working group. The amendment is made by the national deputy, Alexeyev. I ask everyone to pay attention to this amendment. It's big. It begins on page 64. Everyone please meet her. You remember that during the discussion there were concerns that there was no procedure as an agency would deal with the property that was handed down to the court for the custody of the agency. In fact, this amendment makes this procedure complete. So it's big, on page 5. Please take a closer look. The idea is to save the Agency's main task. The agency has nothing to do with the property transferred to it by decision of the court. It keeps it. And the amendment describes the procedures for this preservation. Everything, as we agreed, is here in the hall. And as we agreed on the committee, I would like you to get to know each other carefully. If there's any comment, objection, please let me know.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-10-m0.u171	There's no notes, we're moving on. The next is Pisarenko, yes, yes. Please give the correct number.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-10-m0.u172	209, we're looking at amendment 209.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-10-m0.u173	209 amendment. First Pisarenko raised his first hand, then you. Turn on the Pisarenko microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-10-m0.u174	Dear colleagues, I would like to remind you that last time we discussed the agency's functions, we talked about what it would be and what it wasn't. So any property activity should not be owned by this agency. And we said that the management function should only go to a control function if you and I are talking about that this institution is not going to become a corruption body itself. That's why we had suggestions to clean up the term "property management." And we've had suggestions to move away from any government even in the form of storage, because this is going to build all of corruption, just forms of control. And there's another one I wanted to add. Nor have there been any adjustments that would enable the owner to recover this property, to obtain compensation from the State if the property returns at a lower cost or if the person’s business is destroyed.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-10-m0.u175	Thank you. Got it, got it. Please, Deputy Dove, one minute. And then Mr. Yegor will comment.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-10-m0.u176	Thank you. Dear colleagues, in fact, we agreed here that the exclusive conservation function would be beyond the national agency. But this amendment is made by a number of other functions. If I have no questions about article 19 to which this amendment is made, in particular, in article 20, paragraph 2, we provide that preservation is passed on to other legal persons. But no question, let the national agency make civil law agreements and pass them on to others. But it must be responsible for preservation, that is, preservation remains a matter of Naziry. Then, starting with paragraph 4, the "administers' institute" is introduced, which will administer this property and then implement it. It's nonsense at all. And this has to be taken off. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-10-m0.u177	Thank you. Victor Pinzenic. And then there's the committee head. Please, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-10-m0.u178	Dear colleagues. This is very consistent with the 19th law that a group of national MPs have proposed. And if we agreed and agreed on this 19th right, because unfortunately, the law provides for an expanded interpretation of the sale of the property under arrest, unlike the fact that we agreed according to the requirements of the Criminal Procedure Code. In addition, it provides for the possibility of depriving ourselves of responsibility for the preservation of property for which only a national agency should be responsible. It can store property anywhere, making suitable arrangements. But the agency has to be responsible. Otherwise, the property of the former authorities will be taken away from the office, and then the office will disappear. And what about the property? So I'd like to go back to number 19 and vote it out in an editorial that, unfortunately, has distorted the committee secretariat. We agreed with the Minister of Justice on this, he'll sound it. In this edition, the authors agree to make 19 amendments, but it will be necessary to clarify them on an editorial basis, technique.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-10-m0.u179	Please, Olena Sotnik, then I'll give the minister my word.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-10-m0.u180	Dear colleagues, to be precise about this amendment. First, to rule out administrators, because these are the third people that no one controls, this could be a corruptogenic factor. We need to exclude part two, part four, part five, and part six from this amendment all references to administrators. Also, when it comes to Article 21, it is about the realisation of property. And the possibility of the realisation of property is given to this article again, on competitive grounds, to third parties. So enterprises that have nothing to do with the agency or, for example, the executive service or something like that, they get that right. Thus, once again, part two of article 21 needs to be excluded and left in the order established by the legislation in force. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-10-m0.u181	Please, Paul Petrenko, one minute. Please turn on Petrenko's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-10-m0.u182	Dear colleagues, I want to sound the 19th format that Victor Pinzenic has agreed on, and we support this format. Paragraph 4 of part 1 of the first article should be inserted in the next line. "The management of assets, the activity, the preservation of assets on which the arrest was made in criminal proceedings, their economic value for the implementation of assets in accordance with the Criminal Procedure Code of Ukraine." Period. I mean, in this format, please clarify in the text the final law. And throughout the text of the law, to make technical and legal amendments, by making reference to the Criminal Procedure Code on this order, article 100. As for Mrs. Sotnik's sonic offer. The working group agreed that it was appropriate to remove part four from article 20 concerning the powers of administrators to control the property, that is, control would be exercised solely by the national authorities. In all other parts, we suggest that we leave this opportunity to the agency. Please support this format, this is the agreed position of the working group. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-10-m0.u183	Thank you. Please, another bird, one minute. Yegor, let the deputies finish, and then you'll sum it up with your permission. Okay? Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-10-m0.u184	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that if we raise a transcript of our plenary meeting that took place on Thursday, we will see that from the Minister of Justice there was a proposal just under the control of assets and under the functions of this national agency to observe the preservation of assets and their search. So actually, the 19th amendment that laid out the term of asset management was just meant to reflect our arrangements. And we were just talking in this amendment, not about administration, but about asset conservation. In addition, I would like to point out that Amendment 209, which the committee's head has now pointed out, is the same in spite of the fact that it sounded at a previous plenary meeting, adds an article 21 called "Implementation of assets under arrest in criminal proceedings." Moreover, according to the amendment, it is suggested that the assets will be realised.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-10-m0.u185	30 seconds, please finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-10-m0.u186	On competitive grounds, businesses and organizations. Moreover, in some cases even a national agency will be set up by some interdisciplinary commission on asset implementation. It's a completely incomprehensible organ. So I would like to draw the attention of the MPs to the amendment of the 204 MPs group, where article 19 is presented. It's in the editors we're proposing.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-10-m0.u187	Ten more seconds, please. Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-10-m0.u188	We define the functions of the national agency, which are just to preserve and locate assets, as communicated by the Minister of Justice at the previous plenary session. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-10-m0.u189	Please, head of the committee. Turn on the microphone, please, Yegor Sobolev. On, speak.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-10-m0.u190	Fellows, first of all, there's full agreement, and as head of the committee, I won't sign any other text: storage is always the responsibility of the agency. The trouble is that we, like the other bills, take it in a hurry without having to follow all the procedures. And you know that the committee was just discussing yesterday, and today it approved these amendments. And it is clear that such a large table of amendments could not be properly prepared. We talked about this with the amendment authors, we voted for it on the committee, we agree with the Ministry of Justice: Preservation is always the responsibility of the agency in all operations. On the other hand, we cannot accept the complete rejection of the 209 amendment because it clearly describes how this storage will take place. I think so.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-10-m0.u191	Please let me finish. Talk to me.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-10-m0.u192	I think it makes sense for everyone to imagine that if this agency works, it's going to get a lot of property. We can't turn the State Agency into a huge logistics warehouse that will have its own car parks, its own stores, its own safes, it'll be irrational. So the agency will hand over this property to companies that have warehouses, furnished premises, and are responsible for preserving this entire transferred property. The order of transmission, in fact, and described in this 209 article, that it should be in competition, that it should be transparent, that no one can pass on to certain companies that have a conflict of interest. As far as sales are concerned. We talked to you about the whole law, and it's also going to be controlled when signing, and it's understood the Criminal Procedure Code, which defines exactly what property can be sold. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-10-m0.u193	Please, Vinnik, one more minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-10-m0.u194	Your Honor, the head of the committee, you have indeed rightly pointed out that a lot of property will come to this agency. I'm the one who definitely agrees with that. What I can't understand when you're saying that you agree with the position on the Criminal Procedure Code that will regulate the implementation of the arrested property, so why did you reject the number 19 bill that was proposed by the people's deputies? And when you've been looking at order, this is regulation 209, why then, if you agree with the Criminal Procedure Code, which has to deal with the issue of the realisation of property, why is there an administrator institution, why is there a competitive commission that will sell property, why is there a transfer of the right to preserve to third parties? Tell me, how does this relate to part six of article 100 of the Criminal Procedure Code, which we referred to in line 19? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-10-m0.u195	Please, Your Honor, I'll just ask you one thing. We get to the agreed positions, so if the amendment was accepted on the committee, agreed maybe it wasn't reflected in all the other amendments. That's why there's some kind of technical law. But in principle, we heard the same position and heads of the committee, and the Ministry of Justice, and the deputies. But let's get this question done in the discussion, right for the transcript, for the vote. Now I'm going to ask them to be able to spell it out correctly. Minister! I give the word to Alexei. One minute, please. One minute, Alekseyev. Alekseev, please turn on the microphone. Please tell me, Ukraine is waiting.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-10-m0.u196	Respectful colleagues, on the subject of warnings raised by the Institute of Administrators, have this position, and have been the head of the committee, this proposal can be compromised and ensured that only the relevant national agency will provide solely, these entities will ensure control over the preservation of the property transferred for preservation. There were also warnings about the creation of an interdisciplinary commission for the sale of property. The interlocutor commission will not sell, the interlocutor commission will grant sales permission and the defined framework for the amount of property, either by the interlocutor commission, or directly by decision of the Cabinet of Ministers. There's absolutely no risk here that property can somehow be implemented in a non-transparent way.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-10-m0.u197	Thank you. So a compromise proposal was made to take the administrators down. Is the minister okay with that? Paul Petrenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-10-m0.u198	Dear colleagues, it's really essential that we get a balanced text of the law that will work. I just sounded the amendment of 19, which was developed by a group of deputies led by Victor Pinzenic, and I ask you to consider it. I mean, what is the definition of the management of the assets that have been arrested. Second offer. According to the law, in the framework of the technical legal rights reference for the procedure, to make a reference under the arrested property to Article 100 of the Criminal Procedure Code. A third proposal that is agreed upon, which, of course, is responsible for the preservation of property, even if it conveys to others by civil contracts the physical preservation and protection of the property. Four. We remove part four from article 20, which refers to the right of administrators to control this property, that is, control is exercised exclusively by the National Authority as a state authority. And I think we need to stop at that so that we don't get into any misunderstandings so that the text of the law is balanced. I ask then in such a format, with the suggestions of the committee, with what was sounded by me and the committee head, and Mr. Paruby, to support the text of the law.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-10-m0.u199	Please, Lechchenka.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-10-m0.u200	Lewchenko, Freedom, 223 District, Kiev City. First of all, I would like, please, Egor and the chairman, to point out that, when we considered this bill last week, two of my amendments were adopted on the basis of the agency's appointment of head and discharge. That if a person has serious or particularly serious crimes, he could not be appointed, he could be released. It's just that in this table where we're now, which is given out, it's not written as counted. So, please, we voted for them, the Hall backed up, and according to the Supreme Council Rules, they have to be accepted, these amendments. At that time, even the minister said that he was in favor of these amendments. That's why I'm asking you to take that into account. But aside from these points, I would like to point out. Look, what you're doing right now is sorry, please, well, your conscience needs a little bit. So you're now speaking frankly to the whole country, essentially on television, on radio, that the law, the impeccable law, is going to be written by the Supreme Council of Ukraine's apparatus. Because you're just so verbally saying some things, and then it's specifically into the law to write the text is going to be the Supreme Council's apparatus. You can't do that. Finish this practice, you're destroying the state's legal field at all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-10-m0.u201	Please, Ostrikova, please, one minute, and we'll go to the next amendment. Wait, let him comment. Mr. Yegor will comment, and then Ostrikova. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-10-m0.u202	First. As we voted, it cannot be the head of an agency, either appointed or placed in a position of a person who has committed an intentional crime or an unintentionally heavy and especially heavy one. It's definitely going to be in the final edition. The other one. We're talking a lot here so no one can rewrite anything. All the principles, all the links that we're discussing with you, will be included in the final version of the law. And thirdly, I agree with you that this haste that let's do the second reading again in three days is essentially a imitation of parliamentary work. We do not have to live with this haste.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-10-m0.u203	Thank you. Please, Ostrikak.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-10-m0.u204	Dear colleagues, we fully support the 19 amendments made by Pinzenic regarding the concept of governance. The other one. Administrators, please tell me, who are they? Is this how the government cares about creating new jobs? We believe that from the entire text of articles 20 and 21 these unknown private administrators should be taken away. If we're creating a government authority with such a direct function, so should he. And the third position is very important. Paragraph 2 of the 21 articles should be deleted, where it is said that the realisation of assets is carried out by enterprises or organizations. What kind of businesses and organizations? Who are they? We suggest that the second article 21 be deleted. This is a direct function, the responsibility of the agency that we create by this law.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-10-m0.u205	Thank you. Dear colleagues, they have expressed all their thoughts on this amendment. Let us move on to the following amendments. Mr. Yegor, please announce them.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-10-m0.u206	Colleagues, 280th and 281th amendment, they're the same. They are offered to be accounted for. Because they actually exclude articles of the law that are unnecessary. After we have clearly described what the agency can and cannot do, there is no need to have as many articles of the law. So this is an editorial. There's another 314, which I'd like to draw your attention to.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-10-m0.u207	Please give us a chance to finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-10-m0.u208	Edit the People's Deputies of Pinzenika. It's very important. We talked to you about this agency running a register. Unlike judges and investigators who are now handling this property in any way, the agency will be obliged to keep a record of the property transferred to it for safekeeping. This amendment by Victor Pinzenik and his team of colleagues suggests that the register should be public, open to the public. Then everyone will be able to vote and say that nothing has disappeared. Therefore, the committee requests that this amendment be supported. If there's no objection.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-10-m0.u209	Thank you. Thus, there is no objection to these amendments. Please, dove, one more minute. And let's move on to the closing words. Yes.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-10-m0.u210	Dear colleagues, I would like us to return to Amendment 224, which states that article 20 should be deleted. But here's the text we gave to the committee. And accordingly, well, it's probably a matter for the committee secretariat. Where we propose article 20, lay out the responsibility of the state to the owner of the assets of the admission to storage by the national agency. It's a question. What happens to those assets if something goes wrong with them? Who will be responsible for this? So this one, I suggest that in the editorial that we gave the committee our amendment to article 20, we take into account. And then there's 319. Andry Volodymyrovich, the 319, which defines the users of this register. If we make the register open, it should be accessible to everyone, not just the employees of this national agency. And number 341, I'm asking for confirmation. Explain why. It refers to the material evidence that they have in criminal proceedings. I've got it.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-10-m0.u211	30 seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-10-m0.u212	I have a question, and what are we going to do with the evidence that we created the national agency the next day? They found this evidence, but there's no way the agency is keeping it. What will we do with them? So I suggest you put 341 on confirmation. 319, please also count.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-10-m0.u213	Please, Olena Sotnik and then Yegor Sobolev.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-10-m0.u214	Dear colleagues, number 108. It refers to the exclusion of the point that the agency has the right to make prescriptions. Sorry, we fought the prosecution for 15 years, and now we're granting the right to an agency that doesn't have any legal protection function at all, it's not in its essence a law enforcement agency, we're granting the right to make the prescriptions. It's illegal, first. It's different. This is the basis for the pressure, in principle, on any object of farming. This agency has the right to issue administrative protocols. One. And if they are more than an administrative offence, they have the right under this law to send materials to organs, law enforcement agencies. I therefore insist that this amendment be voted on. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-10-m0.u215	Please, Mr. Yegor.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-10-m0.u216	Colleagues, look, I want to explain to everyone that everyone understands about prescriptions. There's one function left in the agency: it's storing property, because it's going to put it in storage, in safes, on competitive grounds to selected organizations and institutions, it's going to have the right to control only if it's stored, it can't impose any more prescriptions on any other organization. in this sense, we leave the right to prescribe. Now one more thing that I wanted to say to the National Deputy Tetjana Ostrikova and all the colleagues who are experiencing about sales with the help of administrators. We're filming this right. The agency will sell the property itself if it's decided, according to the Criminal Procedural Code, that the assets are to be sold in depth. The Agency will itself be responsible for the preservation and sale of this property. But of course we leave the agency with the right, for example, to use the system transparently to make this sale.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-10-m0.u217	Please finish, Mr. Yegor? 30 seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-10-m0.u218	Once again, there were no administrators in charge, control, or sale of property in the law. Saving assets for the agency with all its responsibility, selling property also for the agency with all its responsibility.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-10-m0.u219	Thank you. Mr. Winnick, I'm sorry, well, we've given the amendments to them, and we've given them all a chance to discuss it. Each one performed one and two performances. Let me suggest that the head of the Yegor Soboljev committee now formulate a stenogram. We've been through eight amendments. There were proposals to throw out the fourth point. But let us in this order, for the closing word to take into account those suggestions that the MPs spoke, first Paul Petrenko and then Yegor Sobolev as a summary for the transcripts. Now, say it, so it's for the stenographer. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-10-m0.u220	Ladies and gentlemen, I'd like to re-interpret the stenographer's position, namely the number 19 proposed by a group of MPs led by Pinzenic. Paragraph 4 of part 1 of the first article reads as follows: “Controlling assets, activities, preserving assets subject to arrest in criminal proceedings, their economic value, the realisation of assets in order provided for in the Criminal Procedural Code.” Period. Similarly, the legal regulations on the text are a reference to the Criminal Procedural Code relating to the procedure for the implementation of the assets arrested. All other suggestions were made by the chairman of the committee. We fully support them. As far as I know, there are two other amendments that need to be sounded that have a technical but important character. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-10-m0.u221	Thank you. Before Jegor Sobolev, please have another replica for the Pigeon, 30 seconds. Please state your position for the transcript correctly.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-10-m0.u222	Colleagues! Thank you. Once again, I want us to take into account our rights brought by a number of deputies on the responsibility of the state to the owner of the assets taken into custody by the national agency. In particular, we predict. By paragraph 1, the first State is responsible for the loss, shortage or damage of assets accepted by the national agency, irrespective of the latter’s guilt. Second: damage to the owner of an asset by loss, lack, or damage to property is compensated. First, in case of loss, lack of assets in size. And secondly, in case of asset damage, the amount of money that has been reduced. And the third point. If, as a result of damage to the property, its quality has changed so much that it cannot be used for its original purpose, the asset owner has the right to give up the item and demand that the State reimburse its value. And once again, under the transcript, I want to ask you to make 341 amendments for confirmation.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-10-m0.u223	Please, Mr. Yegor, come in. I'm just one line. Mr. Dove, there were eight amendments to the previous law to confirm and the authors did not insist that it should be edited by the committee. Let us now hear the offer, and we will believe that it will unite the hall. Mr. Yegor, please make a final statement to the stenographer from the committee, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-10-m0.u224	Thank you, Mr. Andrey. I propose to formulate the law, as Vladislav Doube has just said, it was the committee's decision. And I don't understand why he's not in the right column. Once again, it's a hasty vote, it's a problem that let's take it all tomorrow because otherwise the end of the world will come. This was agreed upon, so voted by the committee, which should enter into the final text of the law. The responsibility of the agency should be clearly prescribed if something happened to the property during the time it was stored. That's what we agreed on, and let's keep it that way. I have a request, colleagues, to pay attention to two other amendments that are important. First order of business. We're taking back from the law a reference to the international organization Carin. In fact, the agency should be a member of it, but if we put it in the law right now, we're going to have a problem with the Anti-Corruption Bureau that can't be represented in this structure, which is very important for the Anti-Corruption Bureau. I propose to remove from the law the mention of "Karin" so that there is no competition between two important authorities. This will then be resolved by them together. And the second line is number 351 of the People's Deputies of Pinzenik. In fact, this right retains Ukraine’s responsibility, which is in today’s legislation, to agree with foreign courts’ decisions on money laundering. It's a very important acquisition of the previous parliament, it's important not to spray it with water as a child. So under the transcript, I'm saying that this article is being ruled out, paragraph 8,351. Everything else agreed, discussed more than once, we can vote in the ad hoc procedure.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-10-m0.u225	Dear colleagues, therefore, all the positions that the chairman of the committee has heard are agreed upon. That is, we were able to unite the entire hall after a long and thorough discussion. I ask the National Deputies to enter the hall, take up jobs and prepare for the vote, stress, for the amendments and also for the offer of Jegor Sobolev, which is from the stand under the transcript.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-10-m0.u226	With technical law, taking into account the 19th amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-10-m0.u227	With technical law, taking into account the 19th amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-10-m0.u228	Honorable fellow members of the national MPs, take your seats, let's go to the vote. Please take your seats, let's go to the vote with technical and legal rights, declared and technical legal rights, according to 19 amendments to these rights, including. Dear colleagues, we are voting on the second reading of 3040 and, as a whole, according to the amendments that have been made from this rostrum by the head of the committee, Yegor Sobolev, with technical and legal rights. Ready to vote? Vote in second reading and in general, please all support. Attention, we vote in second reading and in total 3040, we vote. Please support everyone. [[13:50:15.]] For 260 The law is passed, your honors. I welcome you all. Let's move on. Look at the factions, please. Next. Of the visa-free package, 3041 registration number, draft Act amending the Ukrainian Budget Code on the implementation of the recommendation made in the framework of the EU visa liberalisation action plan for Ukraine, on ensuring the functioning of the Ukrainian National Agency for the detection, search and management of assets derived from corruption and other crimes. Rereading the first reading. Please, 3041, Andrey Parubius.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-10-m0.u229	Dear colleagues, the reporter will explain everything right now, but I'm asking you to support a reduced procedure. Please vote, I beg you for a reduced procedure. We're voting on our colleagues. For a reduced procedure, we'll support it. [[13:51:31]] For 180. Decision taken. The First Deputy Head of the Committee on Budget Amelchenko Vasil Vasilovic is invited to report.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-10-m0.u230	Dear colleagues, given that this bill was the main task of establishing on a permanent basis the respective revenues of the designated National Agency in the special State Budget Fund, were taken into account our amendments, our colleagues and this rule was excluded. The committee therefore proposes that bill 3041 be removed from consideration.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-10-m0.u231	Again, so the offer is off-limits?
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-10-m0.u232	The committee's proposal is off-limits.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-10-m0.u233	Dear colleagues, I would like to explain, because we have removed a special fund from the body of all laws, including 3040, the Law 3041 itself loses its meaning and loses its relevance to consideration. According to the request of the head of the Committee on Budgets, we take off the bill as one that has lost its relevance in connection with the consideration of previous bills. Wait a second. Dear colleagues, under the Rules, we must vote in favour of the withdrawal. I'm asking everyone to concentrate, Your Honor, to come into the hall. This should be a joint decision of Parliament. Thus, according to the committee head's proposal, it is proposed that the draft Law amending the Ukrainian Budget Code on the implementation of the recommendation made in the framework of the EU visa liberalisation action plan for Ukraine (No. 3041). So, honourable colleagues, I ask you to vote in favour of the 3041 bill. Please vote. Please be supportive. Please. [[13:54:09]] For 282 Decision taken. The bill has been removed. Dear colleagues, in this way we have been able to review the most important laws – both anti-corruption and those that envision Ukraine's implementation of a plan of action to implement the recommendations of the European Union to implement Ukraine's Action Plan on visa-free liberalisation. It was a difficult, concerted work, but I am glad that Parliament was able to unite and be able to vote positively on those laws. Welcome to Parliament. Welcome to the committee. Welcome to the government. Now, according to the Rules, I'm calling it a four-hour break. At four o'clock we'll continue our work. Thank you.
