ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-09-m0.u1	Good morning, fellow countrymen! Everyone, please prepare to register, we're starting our morning session. A few words while national deputies take their seats. Undoubtedly, our main task is to ensure full European integration. And as a result, Ukraine is to take place by a modern democratic European state. And that's what you heard yesterday during the United States Vice President's speech. The whole world, all of our partners expect quality solutions, quality transformations. I'd like that. Not only are they waiting, but they are willing to help us along this difficult path. I'd like to inform you that we received a fairly positive signal from the IMF yesterday. You know what about the relationship: 3 billion credit resources that could have been a hindrance to us, which back in Janukovic's time in the Russian Federation, the IMF made a decision yesterday that, despite this situation, they continued to interact with us. This is an absolutely positive signal, probably unprecedented for the International Monetary Fund. I'd like to inform you that yesterday, as you and I agreed, we had an agrarian day with you, and we were able to pass 11 laws in the agrarian sector, 11 systems laws that simplify the procedure, eliminate various permits. More than 22 permits have been revoked from yesterday’s decisions in the agrarian sector, which have been the basis of some corruption. And I think it's a very good pace, and we have to move on. Yesterday, I would like to inform you that there was a meeting of the National Council for Reforms on Tax Reform. There was such a fine discussion for about three hours. And I think there's every reason to talk today about what a balanced solution will be found that will allow us to create a modern tax system and ensure timely adoption, including the budget. I would like to emphasize that our task with you, colleagues, is to provide a legislative co-existence of strong economic growth in 2016. So the tax system, transparent, stimulating, is extremely important to us. And I urge all of us to unite around making a decision that will find the support of most colleagues. Tomorrow, dear fellows, we have a matter of public service to consider. I would ask everyone as much responsibility as possible to address this issue. We have to adopt tomorrow a new revolutionary Law on State Service in Ukraine. And I'd like that to happen tomorrow. So please, if there are any additional questions, there's a profiling committee, you can ask a question, but tomorrow we have to effectively vote on this bill. Colleagues, please prepare for registration. Please activate the "Council" system to register the national deputies in the Supreme Council of Ukraine. [[10:05:06]] 322 National Deputies in the Supreme Council of Ukraine Dear fellow national deputies, distinguished factions leaders, are no less important today in our work. We have a number of questions to consider today. These are a number of laws that will ensure that we implement the Council of Europe’s separate standards of prior imprisonment, as agreed on by the Conciliation Council. And that's why I would ask everyone to concentrate as much on work as possible today. There is a question of improving consumer protection in the area of financial services. And it is also very important that we improve the transparency of the work of the Committees of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. These are also very important changes to the Supreme Council Committees Act, which will ensure that the work of the committees is absolutely public. So I'd like to ask my respectable colleagues to concentrate on the job today. And so, 324 national deputies, I'm announcing a meeting of the Supreme Council in the morning. I'd like to say hello to our colleagues on their birthdays, and Helen Kolganova is celebrating her birthday today, so let's say hello to her. Welcome! And Taras Jurik, Ukrainian national deputy, we welcome your colleagues and wish you the best. Dear colleagues! Honorary colleagues, according to the Ukrainian Supreme Council Rules, spoke for 30 minutes on Wednesday. Please focus everyone on writing. Colleagues, please prepare for the recording, 30 minutes, of the national deputies of Ukraine. Ready? Please log in. Please, People's Deputy Shenzev, Opposition Block. People's MP Dunaev, Opposition Block.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-09-m0.u2	Respectable people of Ukraine, respected colleagues! Today, each of us, every member of the Supreme Council, knows the real situation in the country. We must tell people the truth, let us leave our ambitions to the fate of the country in which we all live. If we have differences of opinion, this should not impede the development of the State and inter-State relations. There is an internal war in Ukraine, there is an energy blockade, there is a simple industry, there is a decline in jobs. Wages and pensions remain low and communal tariffs do not rise according to the income of our citizens. The reason for this situation is the unskilled staff, both in the State Department and in the management of important industries in our country. Their experience has not been sufficient, so we have suffered losses in the economy, which have led the country to loss and the people to poverty. It is now necessary to restore our economy. There has been a long-standing need for an independent national economic council to act in each area in a new economic policy that will allow more entrepreneurs to develop and create conditions for industrial modernization as well as investment sites in the economy. Corruption, which has become fashionable, will never disappear in a poor state. It eats the country from within, we need to become strong and build a state with civil society on the basis of law. For example, as President Roosevelt did in his development programme during a period of major depression, bringing the country together. We remain an exporter of cheap labour, an importer of credits from international organizations for which the economy of our country and its resources will have to be paid. Our scientific capacity goes to other countries and works for the economies of other States, where they have support for scientific and creative activities. They're talented, professional people. The President, the Government and Parliament must not abandon their people, but must think first of the well-being of others and then of their own. We must look for points of contact and understanding. People who suffer the most from unskilled decisions of the current State system should not be forgotten. These are displaced persons and affected citizens in the ATO area who cannot exercise their legal rights for more than a year and a half. They are citizens, and this is our society, which is Ukraine. We must start a dialogue, understand what it should be like in Donbass and in general in the country to reconcile the parties to the conflict and start building a State with civil society, where all institutions of authority must participate. The opposition bloc further maintains that the Minsk Agreements must be implemented. As a result, 3,000 of our countrymen returned from captivity to their families. We must seek reconciliation and seek dialogue for the peace and development of our country. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-09-m0.u3	Please, Andrew Illenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-09-m0.u4	Andrew Illenko, the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union. Today I would like to address Parliament as a body directly representing the Ukrainian people. During this week, the Supreme Council should hear a report from the government, which a year ago was appointed, which was granted immunity for a year, which was approved by the Government's Action Programme. And now it's time to sum it up. And what do we see today? A colossal, record-breaking decline in GDP, corruption that is accompanied by all the government's activities that do not come out of corruption scandals. We see a completely prooligaric policy when all the problems are being solved solely by people who are underprivileged, by the fact that a small business is being destroyed, while the oligarchs keep all their influences and preferences. We see that this government is actually illegal today, because the level of support in society is within one percent. We can talk about the fact that at such a difficult time for Ukraine -- in a time of economic crisis, in a time of war -- a government that doesn't at all rely on the support of any major part of society is nonsense. And the Supreme Council of Ukraine, if it's a body that, if it's a little bit representing the interests of the Ukrainian people, even though it listens to it in part, has to make a clear decision -- send this government to resign and form a new government that we've been promised: without party quotas, professional government, without culinary arrangements, a government that doesn't depend on oligarchs to carry out a program of government action that is not executed, which is based on. [[B in m in s a l in]] Don't yell at me, please. Why don't you go out there and talk to people about what they're saying? And that's why, society, you can yell whatever you want in this room, and then you can go out there and talk to people about what they think about the policies you're running, and about your government, and about this two-year-old failure, which you've got a loan of trust, and now it's zero. Therefore, this cry will not help, but the responsibility of the political one must be borne for his actions. And the Supreme Council should stop covering all of this if the Supreme Council wants to have any political future. That's why we call on the people's deputies to be responsible for taking the right political steps in this situation, and we're finally starting to take the course that we declared in Midan, not the course of the political arrangements of the subterraneans and the contractors. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-09-m0.u5	Igor Shurma, Opposition Block.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-09-m0.u6	Igor Shurma, Opposition Block. The Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Health Care has received a response from the Ministry of Health to the Cabinet of the Ministers of Ukraine regarding the redistribution of subsidies from the State Health Budget for the Donetsk and Luhansk regions, which is intended for medical facilities located in an unsupervised area. According to the information received in the Donetsk and Lugansk areas, the decision has been taken accordingly. The decisions that should be financed and located in a controlled area are not given money today, and the money will instead be passed on to other medical institutions in the Lugansk and Donetsk regions. There is no doubt that additional funding is appropriate, especially in view of the catastrophic situation, for the provision of medical facilities in these regions with medical supplies and waste materials. But it is important to consider the acute problem for the population living in uncontrollable areas of Ukraine, where Ukrainians live. What is more, we are witnessing an irreversible humanitarian disaster in these regions and cannot be passive observers to avoid becoming accomplices. I am confident and convinced, eventually, like everyone in this room, that the war in eastern Ukraine will end, Donbas was and will be an integral territory of Ukraine. But after the conflict has ended, we must answer that we have been made with a view to avoiding or at least mitigating the possible consequences of the humanitarian disaster. I therefore suggest that we consider the possibility, within the scope of the medical subsidy for the treatment facilities of Donetské and Lugansk regions located in an area beyond the control of the Ukrainian authorities, to purchase medicines and expensive materials and to transfer them to these facilities to provide adequate medical care. Having understood the complexity of the possibilities for implementing this proposal and the political composition, I am confident that, by giving the military-civil administrations of the regions, ministries and departments concerned, they will be able to purchase, by agreeing to the government level of participation of the International Red Cross, the National Committee of the Red Cross, and to transmit medicines and expensive materials to the medical facilities of the unsupervised areas with monitoring. What are some of the wines of the citizens of Ukraine who now live in an uncontrollable territory? They too are sick, and they want to live. How will we look them in the eye when we take away funding for drugs? Paradoxical situation: 11 trucks of the International Red Cross have passed through Novotroitsky, carrying a humanitarian cargo. It turns out that strangers give and they don't give. If we are talking about the integrity of Ukraine, the government should make decisions on the matter. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-09-m0.u7	Mikola. Reraft Chubarov, Peter Dusty Block, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-09-m0.u8	Dear colleagues, distinguished voters! Today is the 82nd day of the "Crime Civil Blockage" campaign. The essence of this action is to make it as far as possible for the occupying people of Crimea, to make them adhere to fundamental human rights, and to bring the Crimean theme back to the order of Ukraine’s daily domestic political life and international politics. So from September 20th, de facto, there was an end to the movement of goods from the mainland of Ukraine to the occupied Crimea. At today’s meeting of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, it is expected that a decision will be taken to establish a state of cessation of the movement of goods from the mainland to the occupied Crimea. As you know, from November 22 to yesterday, power supply to Crimea was also shut down. Based on many factors, including the failure of the Kahovka-Titan branch to provide electricity to several areas of the Hersonian region; on other issues, including humanitarian ones, the Crimea blockaders decide to provide only one branch. And which is now given to Crimea by 220 megawatts instead of 850, which were available by November 22. But, dear friends, it's only two weeks before both the government and the local authorities can work to strengthen the energy supply of the Herson region. I would like to say that our colleague, Mrs. Oksana Siroid, and a group of other colleagues yesterday, registered the Ukrainian Law on the Interimly Occupied Territory of Ukraine, whose energy supply, including electricity, is prohibited in the occupied territories. And if we don't get to adopt this law, and I'm asking very much for the committees to work, and we've been able to accept it by the end of this month, there's a second precaution, I want to announce it. I think this very hall, my colleagues, will now not allow any minister, no government to make an agreement on the supply of electricity, if that's what it will have to do until it says "Autonomous Republic of Crimea, Ukraine." So we're all working to solve all these issues by January 1st and to maximize Russia's travel, the occupations, the detention of Crimea. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-09-m0.u9	Please, Paul Kishkar, non-fractional. Ostap Ednak, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-09-m0.u10	Dear people of Ukraine! Dear National Deputies! Yesterday, Joe Biden, Vice President of the United States of America, spoke from this rostrum. He appealed to the dignity of the people of Ukraine, to their unity by which we defeated the tyrant and by which we fought Russian aggression. But the vice president also appealed to corruption, which is still present in government, in parliament, in government. And actually, to fight this corruption, after Joe Byden's speech, I went straight to the Ministry of Agrarian Politics for a drink. Activists from all over Ukraine came to express their indignation at the corruption that now exists in the walls of the Ukrainian State Forest Agency. Two years after burning fires and burning tires on Maidan, the police, in their old form yesterday, banned the burning of the head of the forest of Kowalczuk. Two years have passed, and corruption has not been overcome, and it thrives in this structure. Two years have passed, and the police are still banning the will of the people. Two years have passed — and no criminal case has been made, and no suspicion has been expressed to Victor the Soviets, the former head of forestry, Cherniakhov, the former head of forestry. And the prosecution is sabotaging the investigation into my appeals and the facts of corruption to the present head of forestry. It's a totally unacceptable practice. And I call for the dignity of forest workers. And I urge you not to accept the corruption that now prevails. I call on the heads of the country not to carry out criminal orders, because, in the face of transparent competitions, corrupters are still appointed to lead the country and the country. It's absolute cynicism. It was a warning action. And in 10 days, there must be a campaign of all-U.S. disobedience. Once again, I call upon the workers of the forest sector, you have dignity, do not accept corruption. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-09-m0.u11	Please, Oleg Stepanovich Musei.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-09-m0.u12	Good afternoon, distinguished national MPs! Dear people of Ukraine! Oleg Musei, Public Movement People's Control. I would like to contact the guarantor of our Ukrainian Constitution, Peter Alexiyovich Prashenko, finally to fulfil my constitutional obligation to guarantee compliance with the Constitution. What do I mean? We are all witnessing another delay in the budget process in Ukraine. To date, the government, manipulating the Constitution, manipulating the laws of Ukraine, has put forward a 10 - second draft of the State Budget. And we are now, national MPs, witnessing how the government manipulates our consciousness and tries to manipulate the hall, accusing every national MP of being an agent of Moscow, accusing every national MP of being a seller, of being the one who's breaking up a so-called coalition that doesn't exist long ago. And so far, to this day, no national MP has seen the draft budget -- the main document that Ukraine is going to live with next year. Arsenius Petrovich is a worthy follower of his teacher, Mr. Azirov. It was he who initiated this manipulation of the state budget and the violation of the constitutional rights of the people's deputies and called back to the last minute all the budgets he had made. As to the substance of the budget itself and its fulfillment. The Ministry of Finance continues to manipulate us without amending the Tax Code and says that the budget will be built on a new tax base. And the new tax base, you can only see it on the Ministry of Finance website, predicts not only the deterioration in the lives of ordinary Ukrainians over two years, but an increase in tax pressure. See what is being done today under the Supreme Council. Small entrepreneurs have come out, they demand to leave in the state budget and leave in the Tax Code at least this little legal work for thousands and thousands of people working in Ukraine. Instead, we see in the proposals of the Ministry of Finance -- total elimination, essentially, of a simplified tax system. And I think that this Conciliation Council that's been through, and we're being told, we've made a deal again. We're not going to raise VAT on drugs, we're not going to raise tax base. And this is actually another manipulation. That is why I call upon the guarantor of the Constitution of the President of Ukraine to finally fulfil his constitutional duty and to submit to the Supreme Council, not on behalf of the national MPs, but on his own behalf, and to take political responsibility, to resign the government of 11 numbers. And I urge the people of Ukraine to come to the Supreme Council and support this initiative of the President, and all deputies to vote in favour of resignation.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-09-m0.u13	Please, Dobrenkov, National Deputy, Opposition Block.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-09-m0.u14	Hello, respectable colleagues! Hello, I welcome you, the media, the people of Ukraine! We would also like to continue the topic that the distinguished, distinguished representative of the coalition has begun on the fiscal process of tax reform. But I would not be so critical of the statements, even though I am a representative of the opposition forces, but of the decision on the resignation of the Government. What's the government even offering now? What budget, what macroeconomic indicators did they establish next year? What tax system do they propose to generate macroeconomic indicators? You're talking about everything in the plenary room right now, everything your soul wants, but not what the people need, what the economy needs next year. We can only work with documents that are informally published on the official website. Why not? Because the State Budget Bill, which can be introduced by the Cabinet of Ministers under the Constitution of the Law on the Rules of Ukraine, has not been registered, no tax reform has been introduced. Yesterday there was a national reform platform for the Council, but no specific assumptions were made. Here, a coalition representative spoke of Mr. Yacinuk as a continued Azarov. I want to tell you, he's gone a lot further, he's invented sophisticated methods by which tax reform is adopted without looking at the people's deputies. You take these things in one new night, and then in the course of the year, you start to correct them, blocking the people about how you love them, racing them. Each faction chases another faction in love with the people. The relevant State Budget Act has also been adopted. I would like to report to the Ukrainian people on some of the points that the Ministry of Finance is now proposing, perhaps they will be changed, but I am now characterizing what has been made public on the website. What does the Government offer us next year? We are offered incomes of about 600 billion grevens, spending 680 billion grevens, budget deficits of more than 80 billion grivens, with deficits of 60 to 70 billion grivens last year. What is the amount of public debt and guaranteed public debt proposed next year, the limit? A limit of 2 trillion bracelets is a government and guaranteed government debt. This is 95 per cent of GDP, per minute, when last year this debt was less than 1.3 trillion bracelets. Also, the hidden debt that is formed by the Cabinet of Ministers in the form of an EDP, in the form of an energy fund, is about 30 billion grivens. The minimum wage does not increase until May, with inflation reaching 30 per cent. At the same time, a restructuring of the State's actual debt of 7.5 billion is proposed. Please, for 10 seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-09-m0.u15	Ten seconds, complete.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-09-m0.u16	It is suggested that no debt should be paid on the basis of the court's decisions. But the more cynical actions of the Government are aimed at halting the rules under which the debt owed to the citizens present is closed.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-09-m0.u17	Please, 10 more seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-09-m0.u18	They are located in Donetsk, Lugansk region, which was due to be paid social benefits by the end of this year. The Government has refused to do so.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-09-m0.u19	People's Deputy Gus, People's Front. Please, Igor Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-09-m0.u20	Good afternoon, dear friends! I'd like to address Mr. Attorney General Shokin and the head of Mr. Nasirov's State Fiscal Service. So what's the situation? We have one of the largest lochina plantations in Europe in the Shack district of Volina, currently 176 hectares. PP Flora, the company that's been doing this business, unfortunately, hasn't paid the land for a few years, once. He's not hiring any employees, two. And there's all kinds of "scratching" around this business. And especially in this year and the aunt there are burning cars and shootings and so on. I'm asking the Attorney General of Ukraine, I'm asking the head of the fiscal service to deal with this situation. The thing is, the Shack district of Volin County is one of the most subsidized. Yes, of course, from the tourist activity around the world, there is some coming, but there are no large businesses. So unfortunately, these business woes don't pay much into the budget. For example, this business is quite profitable, since from one hectare of land, where some 3,000 thousand,600 berries are planted, lochin berries are collected annually and shipped annually for about six and a half pounds [6.5 kg] of it and shipped abroad. The price of selling berries for one kilogram in 2015 was between 50 and 100 dollars. So it's only estimated that the profits that this company has are several million dollars, and the government budget of the Shaka region is completely minimal. Regrettably, the law enforcement agencies on the Vale do not do what they need to do. So I was approached by representatives of the local government of the Shaka district, plus the management of the Shaka Rajadirada to draw attention to this problem from this rostrum. Once again, I don't personally get involved in any economic disputes around this company, but the fact that taxes are to be paid is clear. Therefore, I ask on the basis of what has been said under the Ukrainian Law on the Status of the People's Deputy of Ukraine and Mr. Prosecutor, and Mr. Head of the DFS to verify the failure of SP Flora's taxes and in the event of the detection of breaches of the legislation to ensure that this enterprise pays taxes on the income of individuals and other taxes to the local budget. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-09-m0.u21	Please, Yuri Vitaliovich Lucenko, Peter Dustenka's Block. Ivan Dmitrovich Sporish. Dove.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-09-m0.u22	Dear Mr. Head, honourable national deputies, there was a discussion at yesterday's National Reform Council meeting under the presidency of the President about the achievement of a compromise around the Tax Code. We all realize that this most important document was to be developed in September, submitted to the Supreme Council in September. So in a situation where the government failed to do its key task, the President had to take steps not to destabilize the adoption of the budget for the following year. I want to say that yesterday, as a whole, smart compromises have been achieved, and the proposed decision determines the strategic outcome: to introduce 3 taxes (20, 20, and 2 times 10) to pay already in 2018. Of course, we'd all like to see this option next year, but the status of a warring country, the status of a country where 20 percent of the industry is under occupation, unfortunately they won't allow it. And yet, we expect that, with the results of last night's round table, the government and the President will be able to introduce the Tax Code to the Supreme Council of Ukraine with new, reduced taxes, and in the course of the first quarter of next year, and to introduce a bill to radically simplify the administration of all taxes. I urge the entire Supreme Council to separate two political processes: the debates around the future government and the debates over the tax and budgetary documents. No Prime Minister: no active or theoretically new – can manage the country's governance without updating the Tax Code and adopting the budget by the end of this month, December. So we are professionally, as far away from party interests as possible, to approve the Tax Code in the interests of middle class and domestic production, to approve the budget by minimizing unpleasant things for the entire Ukrainian population, and after that, and only then to start discussing the future Ukrainian government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-09-m0.u23	Please, the Dove People's Deputy.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-09-m0.u24	As you know, since 30 May there has been a gang of Georgian reformers working in Odessa, headed by Tbilisi's chief reformer and all Georgia's Miraculous Miho. And on 12 November, the Georgian hacker group Hinkali published a number of very interesting documents. Of these, the Saakashvili crew was robbed and transferred daily money from the charity fund established to rehabilitate ATO soldiers to their personal needs. For this money, they arrange banquets, buy expensive cars, call singers from Rome, call singers from Tbilisi for entertainment and many more. They're spending money on personal pierres. And that's exactly how 111,000 bracelets were spent on the blowtorch in Bristol. In three days, 3 million bracelets were spent on Saakashvili's personal pierar on Inter. 4 million bracelets from the ATO fighter fund were spent buying 6 cars for the reformer's hull. 300,000 bracelets were spent on petrol. Then it became known that the funds of the fund were also used to carry out overflights. The money from the fund goes to Saakashvili security flights: Georgia Rubashvili, Georgia Cincadze. Georgia's ex-procurator is also flying for the money of this fund. Moreover, on 31 October, a singer from Sofia Nijaradze flew through Istanbul, Odessa, for the money of this fund from Rome. On 3 November, she returned for the money of the fund. And that's what happens every day. But most of all. In the money of the fund, the Chief of U.D. Odessa District, General of the Lortkipanidze Police, arrived, which is the most real corruption offence. And I demand that the new anti-corruption prosecutor immediately deal with this fact and remove this official from office because it is a direct fact of a corruption offence. This guy's gonna be cleaning up the militia? What cleaners? What kind of reforms? The rackets are damn! Pickers! Thieves in the law! We must put an end to it, and it is time for all of us to realize that this Georgian gang that came to the gastrolas today, like a circus troupe, travels around our country, collects money for the autumn elections in Georgia, and leaves behind corruption scandals, wastes and disgrace. The disgrace they're doing on our team, first of all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-09-m0.u25	People's MP Kulinich, Rebirth Party. Last performance, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-09-m0.u26	Oleg Kulinich, Rebirth, 147 Poltavščina constituency. Dear Mr. Head, distinguished colleagues, distinguished voters! Last week we were all working with you in districts where there are a lot of problems right now, and people are worried about subsidies, housing-communal tariffs, gas quality issues, and especially a lot of health problems. In the district line, I faced the same problem as the result of the so - called medical reform. It is the transfer of prominent hospitals to the balance of local authorities. A specific example in the district. It's the "Leinian Hospital of the Romodan Station" of the Mirgorod district of the Southern Railway, which they want to turn into an infirmary of family medicine. By 2015, the facility had served nearly 5,000 people, except for the railways of the four neighbourhoods, almost 3,000 more were residents of the village. To date, all employees of this facility have been warned about the possibility of a reduction. Moreover, no one has explained the prospects for people, and there are no prospects for 2016. The worst part is that the village is without its own emergency services. Now the "quick" is going from Mirgorod to Romodan from 30 kilometers away, and I don't know what time it takes to get that "quick" there. And given the quality of the roads, given the winter, I have no idea how fast this road is going to get to Romodan. People work there, and they need constant help, even when it comes to human life. I have a question: who needs this reform, for whom it is done, for people or for officials. What justified the conversion of the hospital, where 50 people worked to an ambulance, where 8 people would work? Moreover, there is no other medical facility in the village of Romodan in Mjorgrade. In this situation, the position of the district government, the position of the village head, was not understood. And people have been led to despair, and people are protesting. So I want to say that the situation in Romodan is not just the situation in this village. A similar situation took place in Grebinz, in the Poltava region. It is also a large railway station that serves many people. And the problem of closing a large hospital is also a huge problem for the population of this population. It seems to me that reforming sectors such as medicine should not be made under copiers. We need to communicate with people, and we need to study the situation perfectly. And it is imperative that people be informed of the consequences. Therefore, I ask you to consider my speech today as a question to the Minister of Security, Mr. Kvetashvili. Please give an answer to whom are these reforms being implemented, specifically in the Poltav region? I think that health reforms should be done for people. And people need to first sense the quality of services. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-09-m0.u27	Thank you. Please make your last speech. Oleg Beresuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-09-m0.u28	Grand Deputies, Ladies and Gentlemen! Three key messages. Yesterday's appeal by the Vice President of the United States was an example of a friend's appeal to friends. Those moral messages that were yesterday are messages as they see us from the outside. But it is unfortunate that these moral references may not be heard because of the constitutional personality of many key persons in our nation. Because it turns out we're always right, and the ordinary person is wrong. And I would very much like it not to be like in that fairy tale of Glebova: "He's a wolf, he's a master, he shouldn't be a gentleman, which may be crying his mother's mother, and confused like a fish on ice." We would like our officials, the leaders of the state, to hear that in their hearts they have to answer the questions of anticorruption in our country. Second thing. We support Yuri Lucenk's argument that the smoke screen of the change of government today should not ruin the work on the Tax Code and the budget of Ukraine. First, the budget of Ukraine, the Tax Code, and then the change of government. This is a public exam for this institution, and that depends on its future, including. And the third and the last today. Honorable colleagues living in the Horn of the Curve believe in the justice of the state in which they live. This justice today is the Parliament, the President and we are all taken together. Let us show the people of the Horn of Cretaceousness and Ukraine that the state cares about the justice of the will in its territory. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-09-m0.u29	Thank you. Dear colleagues, there's a statement by the two factions of the "Radical Party" and "self-help" about the announcement of the break. But there is a request to replace it according to the Rules with a speech. Please, Oleg Lazko, three minutes. And let's move on to the day-to-day issues. Everyone, please take your seats.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-09-m0.u30	Oleg Lazko, "Radical Party." Respectable citizens! Dear colleagues! Yesterday, we all got a memorable impression from the statement by Vice President Joe Biden of the United States in the Ukrainian Parliament. It was a real spectacle and a master speaking class for all of us. And the powerful paphost speech, with emphasis on the personal responsibility of each of today’s national deputies for the success of the establishment of a free democratic European Ukrainian nation, was entirely in line with the significance of a historic moment. Yes, the fate of the nation and its future are in our hands. Thank you, Mr. Biden, for this reminder. I think for a lot of people in this room it wasn't too expensive. At the same time, the meaningful part of the talk was far from clear. The real shock was the proposed ideas for the federalization of Ukraine and autonomy for Donbas, particularly in the context of the strange parallels between the history and the structure of the United States and Ukraine. For us it is clear that the autonomous states offered by Byden for Donbas are the path to the destruction of Ukraine. Similarly, calls for changes in the Constitution, amnesty for fighters, and the choice of occupied Donbasi, which together will lead to the legalization of cancer - separatism within Ukraine. We were clearly reminded of the fulfillment of our obligations under very questionable Minsk arrangements. Yet we have not heard a word from the Vice President of the United States about the implementation of the unequivocal Budapest memorandum that we signed in 94 in exchange for nuclear potential. The only country in the world that gave up nuclear power was Ukraine. So part of Mr. Byden's speech was painfully reminded by another distinguished American guest nearly 25 years ago, George Bush, president of the United States. The performance that came into history under the eloquent title "Kyivska's cock." Then, on August 1, 1991, Mr. Bush, who came to Kiev to help Moscow, warned Ukrainian MPs of suicidal nationalism and called for the preservation of the Soviet Union. And three weeks later, the Supreme Council of Ukraine declared the act of independence of the Ukrainian State. I'm wondering if there's going to be a "Kiyevsky 2" speech in the books of history when the will and spirit of the Ukrainians are being corrected again by the pessimistic predictions of our foreign partners? I have no doubt that will be the case this time. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-09-m0.u31	Ladies and gentlemen, I ask you to take your seats. Draft Law (Registration No. 0060). Ministry of Economics.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-09-m0.u32	Good afternoon, Mr. Head! Dear National Deputies! In view of several issues raised by committees and factions, we ask that the bill be submitted to the next meeting to be agreed upon.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-09-m0.u33	Thank you. Okay, we'll move it. Please, second reading, fellow believers. The Ministry of Economics asked him to be transferred to the next day of consideration in connection with the factions to be processed, clarified, and further worked. You cooperate and we vote. Thank you. 1228, honorary colleagues. Second reading, Paul Pinzenik. An important law, listen carefully.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-09-m0.u34	Honourable Chairman, Honorable National Deputies of Ukraine. On May 13, the Supreme Council adopted the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on Committees of the Supreme Council of Ukraine (on access to media to committee meetings). And it was entrusted to our Committee on Rules of Procedure to finalize the bill, and taking into account the comments and suggestions made by the legislators of the right to submit a second reading to the Supreme Council. The committee received and considered proposals from the national deputies of Guljeva, Wozniak, Kishkar, Kupryenka, Lensky, Pinzenik, Sumar, Tomenka, Šinkovich. A total of 16 proposals have been made: 2 has been rejected, 4 has been counted, 5 has been counted in part, 4, 1 has been taken into account in essence. Taking into account the proposals supported by the committee of the legal entities of the legislative initiative part one of article 9 and part two of article 44 of the Ukrainian Law on Committees is proposed in a new edition. In particular: " Committee meetings have the right to visit: journalists, media professionals, representatives of public organizations. Which they also have the right to do: sound recordings, movies, photos, videos, radio and television broadcasts, online broadcasts on the Internet, and (or) other data transmission networks in a way that doesn't interfere with committee meetings. In addition, committees inform the public of their activities. In particular, through the publication of the work plan, the schedule of meetings adopted by the committees of acts, protocols, transcripts of committee meetings and committee hearings. The Committee decided to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine, in accordance with article 123, paragraph 3, of the Rules, as a result of its second reading, the adoption of a bill as a whole. Please identify yourself and ask the chairman to put the question to the vote and then to be accepted.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-09-m0.u35	Dear fellow national deputies, we've passed, we've presented now, the head of the committee, given the Law 1228. The law makes the work of the committees of the Supreme Council of Ukraine more public, an extremely important issue. We have with you an article, a 3rd amendment, a national deputy of Wozniak. Is the National MP insisting? Don't insist. Then we have a national MP, 13th, Wozniak. He doesn't insist either. Everything else is taken into account, dear colleagues. At seven, please, Mikola Tomenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-09-m0.u36	Dear colleagues, I support as the first step of the idea made by the Committee on Online Transcasts. But I think we should, my principle, which I put in the bill, work on it and think about how to implement it. Because, look, what's going on? There's a blogger named Tomenko coming, yes. He's got the equipment down, he's running a webcast of the committee meeting. He took this material away, and he owns the online transmission of any committee. Can't we use the committees' websites, make a couple of copies, and get every committee to have an online broadcast? It would be committee property, and at any moment we would look at it, and not play printed transcripts. So as a first step, I support the committee and I will vote. But we need to think about technological modernization, so that in the future each committee has the right to conduct its own online transmission with the preservation on the site.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-09-m0.u37	Thank you. I want to inform you that this is a work in progress. Including saving all data and streaming committees. Each committee will have an electronic protocol, just like the Supreme Council. I think we, a few more months, and we'll be completely rearmed, all of this will be done. Thank you. Dear colleagues, there is a proposal to support this bill of Law 1228. We're going to try the signal vote for starters. But I ask all deputies to take their seats. Colleagues, an important issue, is the Law on the Publicity of Committee Work. Please all support this law. Please, 1228, a signal vote, please all support this bill. The signal in the second reading and in general, let's vote. Vote. [[10:56:41]] For 216 Colleagues, there is. Please take your seats and vote: 1228, draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on the Committees of the Supreme Council of Ukraine (on access to the media to meetings of the Committees of the Supreme Council of Ukraine), second reading and in general. Ready? Please support, please vote, colleagues, this is another step to publicize the work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Please vote, please support, vote, second reading and in general. Please be supportive. [[10:57:25]] For 232 The law's been passed. Dear fellow members of the national parliament, we are moving on to the next issue of the agenda. Draft Law (Registration No. 1165) to review the President's proposals, Ukraine's Act on Amendments to Certain Legislative Acts of Ukraine on Strengthening the Role of Civil Society in Combating Corruption Crimes, with proposals by the President of Ukraine since 19.06. In 2015. Stepan Ivanovich of Cuba reports. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-09-m0.u38	Dear Mr. Golovo, honourable colleagues, on 22 May 2015 Parliament passed the Ukrainian Act on Amendments to certain Ukrainian legislative acts on strengthening the role of civil society in the fight against corruption (art. 1165). The President of Ukraine understands the public, human, social response to the law. But there is also a legal position along with this understanding. Of course, at the current stage of improving the anti-corruption system, its comprehensive reform in line with international standards and the successful practices of foreign nations remains one of the most important tasks of shaping and implementing the rule of law policies of the State of Ukraine. The prescribed law cannot be signed by the President of Ukraine for the following reasons. First, the approach proposed by law gives the public prosecutor a wide range of powers to collect and evaluate evidence of the use of any technical means. It establishes non-application of the rules on the inadmissibility of evidence provided for in the Ukrainian Criminal Procedure Code, and the public prosecutor's meeting of evidence will be determined to be admissible even if it is obtained with a substantial violation of human rights and freedoms guaranteed by the Ukrainian Constitution, Ukrainian laws and international treaties. Secondly, the Public Prosecutor is in fact empowered by the Prosecutor to file charges against the Prosecutor, which contradicts the Constitution of Ukraine and the current legislation on the Prosecutor's Office, in accordance with the provisions in which the functions of supporting the prosecution are placed on the Prosecutor and the delegation of the functions of the Prosecutor or the admission of these functions by other authorities or officials is not permitted. Authorizing citizens to uphold the charges in court will in most cases result in poor quality criminal conduct. But the lack of legal training and practical skills that are not required will have a significant impact on the outcome in the field involved, resulting in justifiable conclusions. Thirdly, the introduction of the proposed form of civil charges is in breach of the criminal prosecutions set out in the Criminal Procedure Code of Ukraine for the protection of a person, society and the State from criminal offences, the protection of the rights, freedoms and legitimate interests of those involved in criminal conduct, and the provision of prompt, full and impartial investigation, which is carried out by the authorities of the State under the procedure provided for in the current legislation. In view of the failure of the Ukrainian Constitution, the basic legislative acts, Ukraine’s international obligation to combat corruption, the interests of national security, the President of Ukraine proposes to reject the law. Instead, the Head of State considers it necessary to focus the efforts of public authorities and civil society institutions to ensure the effective and effective implementation of existing legislation on combating and combating corruption and public participation in the process. Dear colleagues, please support the proposals made by the President of Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-09-m0.u39	Dear colleagues, according to procedure three minutes per question, if so. Please sign in. Three minutes to question the reporter. Then the committee head's report. Victor Krivenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-09-m0.u40	I'll give it to Oleg Lazka. Oleg the Lightman's word!
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-09-m0.u41	Oleg Lazko.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-09-m0.u42	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. Dear fellow national MPs, an extremely important law! An extremely important law that allows Ukrainian citizens to overcome corruption, because today, when a person is called upon to bribe, when he has documented the crimes of officials, he can't use these collected facts anywhere to bring an official to justice because there is a corrupt prosecutor, a corrupt judge. So I urge the Ukrainian Parliament to overcome the veto of the President of Ukraine, to adopt this law and to allow civil society, volunteer activists to really fight corruption. Remember last night's performance by Byden. He traveled around the world and nowhere has he seen a more corrupt country than Ukraine. So the issue of combating corruption is that it is for the entire Ukrainian people to be, not just the specialized law enforcement agencies that are not aware of what they are doing. Political persecution. So I'm going to go over the veto and adopt this law and give it to people.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-09-m0.u43	Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-09-m0.u44	I think the President of Ukraine, and what I said in my speech, understands today's human and social position and does not deny it. But when we talk about procedural action, and we're talking about the Criminal Code, and when we talk about the functions and the security of citizens' freedoms, according to the Constitution, the President of Ukraine can't violate the Constitution of Ukraine and the Basic Law.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-09-m0.u45	Thank you. Please, Alexandra Volodymyrna Kugel.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-09-m0.u46	Thank you. Indeed, the President cannot violate the Constitution, where the most important are equal rights and equal protection. I mean, if you're sending a business to try and protect yourself from the biggest corruption in the world that we have today, it's impossible. For example, yesterday, entrepreneurs called in a new business where the Police Security Service stole goods from customs and for $10,000, they started talking about returning goods. I've already put these materials and these people in the Anti-Corruption Bureau. But you can imagine how much they need to go through to prove, to show evidence of the issue of extortion. If this law were supported, they would record it on the phone and be able to protect themselves. Please tell us, does Ukraine’s business have the right to defend itself against the corruption that exists in the country? And if so, then this law must be supported and overcome by the veto.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-09-m0.u47	You know, the Honorable Alexander Volodymyrna, when we talk about you or other actions and corruptions, especially the demand for bribes from business and other, remains right behind that businessman, for that person who addressed you, to write a formal application to the Security Service or to the Ministry of Internal Affairs, and according to the operation of this procedural code to do some kind of act.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-09-m0.u48	Colleagues, we're running out of time for questions. Please continue to report to the committee head. Please, Andrew Anatoliyovich Cosemyakin.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-09-m0.u49	Dear colleagues, it has happened that today the world celebrates the International Day to Fight Corruption, which I welcome. Today we are looking at this bill. If anyone doesn't understand, I want to remind you once again that this is the bill that number 1165 gives the Ukrainian citizen, the Ukrainian society on its own, to fight corruption or to start fighting corruption, and all the materials that he can gather against those corrupt people who continue to abuse ordinary Ukrainians today, he would just use them in accordance with the law. Regrettably, the President's advisors seem so much more concerned with legal matters, they forced the President or told him to make a commitment. Although 32 authors from the MP's corps of this bill, and among them are quite important legal professionals, they really didn't understand, they don't understand why it happened. And what I'm going to read to you right now, those facts or that argument is going to be a little bit contradictory. That is why the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine considered, at its meeting, the President-returned Bill 1165 on amending certain legislative acts to strengthen the role of civil society in the fight against corruption. What did this law allow? He allowed: first, to initiate a special order of criminal conduct for the commission of crimes provided for in the two articles, only two articles. 368th is the acceptance of an offer of promise or an improper benefit to a service person. And secondly, this article 370 is a provocation of bribery. So what Mr. Biden said yesterday was a highly respected guest from the United States about corruption, this is exactly what this bill would be about, and it would be about dealing with corruption directly. Second, use technical means to detect crime. Third, to take care of the use of criminal security measures. And fourthly, to charge the inaction of every prosecutor and investigator and law enforcement officer, if he doesn't want to investigate these, Discuss these materials. The President’s main remarks relate to the form and content of the rights granted to the public prosecutor. First. The President does not support the form prescribed by the law, the involvement of the public in the fight against corruption. Wonderful. The other one. According to the President, the rights granted by law may lead to risks of violations of the Constitution and laws of Ukraine, aggravating the situation of respect for human rights and freedoms in the state. Ladies and gentlemen, when we're talking about a special confiscation, any confiscation, in general, where is the impenetrable, excuse me, partial, we're not saying that this is a violation of the rights of the Constitution? And in 1165 on the fight against corruption, that's a violation. Third. There, too, it is believed that in collecting evidence of corruption by public prosecutors, human rights and freedoms guaranteed by the Constitution may be violated. Again, it's the third. Four. There is no agreement to give the public prosecutor the right to use technical means. They're afraid, I'm afraid. Six. There it is believed that the law is in fact in conflict with the Constitution. Although this law provides for legal ways to gather data on the illegal activity of corrupt persons. Seven. There it is believed that the opportunities offered to the public prosecutor to fight corrupt officials can be used (pay attention!) Foreign intelligence. And the last. There it is considered to be an unreasonable possibility, an unreasonable possibility at all, for the public prosecutor to have control of the investigator and the prosecutor in the investigation of corruption cases. Wonderful. In summary, the president concluded that the law should be rejected. After examining the proposals, the committee considered and, looking at the hall, knowing who would vote, of course, understanding the prospects for overcoming the veto, the committee decided to support the President's proposal. Even so, taking into account the principled position.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-09-m0.u50	Please, just a minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-09-m0.u51	My colleagues, taking into account the principle of the position of the Ukrainian Parliament and of society, I think that these are not just words, in matters relating to the fight against corruption, but I propose, in accordance with part eight of article 135 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Rules, colleagues, to return, to send the draft law to the Committee on Legislative Security, legal protection. And I think, in that way, it would be logical and correct. Please be supportive. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-09-m0.u52	Question-answer, please. Three minutes, sign up. Sergey’s Eutusek.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-09-m0.u53	Sergey Eutuszek, Equinox, Fatherland. Dear colleagues, you know, I'm not going to talk about Bayden, who was here telling and saying that they're oriented towards the level of corruption in Ukraine. But I want to remember the Dignity Revolution. Why, though, did people protest against Maidan? Because they've gone against injustice because there's no justice in the courts, because there's no justice anywhere in the government, including. Therefore, the President's veto on this bill speaks only of one thing: nobody here is going to fight injustice and corruption, including corruption. That's why I urge the entire Parliament today to vote the veto and to allow the public activists that we have now created watchtowers who can't record the crime, because in the police, sorry, they refuse to register it because there are some indicators. There is a proposal by Parliament to support the decision to overcome the veto.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-09-m0.u54	Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-09-m0.u55	Colleagues! I just want to remind you before we vote and make decisions that are three possibilities per procedure. The first option is to vote against the bill as a whole, part of the first article 135. We're gonna have to do it 226 times. The other one. It's the veto. There's a vote on the proposal for the adoption of the law as a whole, the passing of the veto. Well, judging by the hall, he won't. And the third proposal I'm proposing is to support it. This is 226th part of article 135, part eight, to send a bill to the committee. And give the opportunity and show society that, well, we care about giving society the opportunity to fight corruption. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-09-m0.u56	Please, People's Deputies.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-09-m0.u57	Thank you. Unfortunately, this bill is the result of the low level of legal culture currently prevailing in the plenary room. This bill actually violates the constitutional order, namely the existence of the Public Prosecutor's Institute. The representative of the Committee said that the President's advisers had forced him to veto because they were guided by the Constitution and the rules of law. Unfortunately, this room has long not been guided by sound logic, the Constitution and the rule of law. The question is as follows. And you consider it normal to vote and enact laws that violate the Constitution to violate legislation. Unfortunately, we have very many precedents when we are not guided by the rule of law because we do not know it, but are guided by political expediency, talking about some aggression and the Dignity Revolution. Are these concepts going to be replaced by legislation and legal frameworks, which, in particular, have been managed by the United States for 300 years, and we are now quoting Joe Biden. So they don't change the Constitution for 300 or 400 years.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-09-m0.u58	Colleagues, I, you know, sometimes you want to keep quiet, and sometimes you tell some of our colleagues who do. I'm sorry, you still know. Look, the honourable gentleman who asks a question and appreciates any deputy, especially perhaps his legal skills and, without knowing the positions of some committee deputies, look at the video of January 16, 2014 and you'll see yourself there. And then tell me about the Constitution.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-09-m0.u59	Thank you. Take your place, Andriy Anatolyevich. Question time's up. And that's how we proceed, by procedure, to the vote. Attention! That's right. Dear colleagues, let's move on to. [[B in m in s a l in]] Calm down. Dear colleagues, there is a procedure envisaged in 134th. What article? Give it to me, give it to me. Where? Andrew Anatolyevich, advise on the procedure. One minute, Julia Timoshenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-09-m0.u60	Dear colleagues, when Ukrainian society hears statements from a line and a line of chatter about the fight against corruption, about the creation of other anti-corruption bureaus, it's already repugnant against the massive corruption that has swept the country. Joe Biden is mentioned only because it is a disgrace and humiliation when the second person in the largest country in the world says that Ukraine is the most corrupt. The veto law is the only law that really gave society the right to join in the fight against corruption. He really gave people the right to go to court in a private indictment system and get results if there was evidence of corruption of tax collectors, taxpayers, prosecutors, investigators, anyone. Almost all members of the Anticorruption Committee signed this law and voted in the Hall for almost everyone who was in the Hall. Today the President vetoed it because he doesn't want any individual citizens.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-09-m0.u61	30 seconds, complete.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-09-m0.u62	Civil organizations have joined the fight against corruption in the form of a private accusation and a visit to court, data collection, and evidence. Because everything is corrupt, money is raised from customs, taxes, sanitation, vets to the highest level, and that the very high officials of the state are leading corruption. I urge you to take over the veto. And if you let people go to Midan to shed blood for it.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-09-m0.u63	Julia Volodymyr, please complete for another 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-09-m0.u64	For change of power and for freedom, grant them the right to be equal today in the fight against corruption and order in the state. I urge you to join the veto.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-09-m0.u65	I want to remind my fellow national deputies that there is a very special procedure for dealing with this issue. The President of Ukraine's proposals are 134 articles of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Rules. The consideration of President Ivanovich Kubi's proposals begins with a report on these proposals by an official, in which case this was the President-designate. Next. The report is followed by a report from the Main Committee, Andriy Anatoliyovich Kožemjakin. Next questions to the reporter and the coconspirator. And the third part of this article provides that, after the conclusion of the report and the co-report, the chairman of the scheduled session will put forward the proposals proposed by the President of Ukraine and determine the order that I should do. That is, the letter in the letter to the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Dear colleagues, let's go to the vote. But I will allow the author of the law to express himself. Please. Dear colleagues! Please, according to section 134 of Part Four, we have a series of votes. First, it's an offer to reject the law. So it's going to take 226 votes when it's over. Not overpowered, but more specifically, approved. 226 votes, the law will be passed. Second position. If we don't get 226, we have to get 300, if there's a desire, to overcome the veto. And if 300, the veto is unrestrained, it's considered to be overturned, and we have only one option: this is 135, part eight, to send to the committee. This also takes 226. Therefore, please be sure that in this order, as provided for in the Rules, I am putting to the vote. 226 for deviation. I'd like to make up my mind. [[11:21:49]] For 128 The law is not rejected. So we didn't get the right number of votes. The second position is to defeat the President's veto, 300 votes, please. [[11:22:21]] For-157. No votes. And 135 article part eight, that's 226 for referring it to the committee this law. That is to say, the 30 - day committee is working on it, and it has to be reviewed. I'd like to make a statement. [[11:22:55]] For 238. It's a decision to send him to the committee for processing. I think it's the wisest decision we can make today. Thank you, dear fellows. Let's move on. Please, colleagues, first reading, first reading, 2379a is the draft Act amending paragraph 11 of Chapter VI of the Code of Budgets of Ukraine. The reporter is Victor Krivenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-09-m0.u66	Dear colleagues, this law is supported by the profile committees, presented by Krivenk, the Mantis, Sisoienko, Saucenko, and others. Its purpose is briefly to leave the only medical research facility in the Kiev Academy of Sciences in order to keep it under the auspices of the Academy of Sciences and not to pass it on. It does not lead to increased funding, nor does it lead to decisions as long as they are made in the Academy of Sciences, not to undermine its structure, and to respect the requests of all scientists who are there. Considering that we have a small discussion with a part of one faction, there is a big request to move it to tomorrow, so we can get 300 votes for this bill. Because he's not talkative, he's not a problem, he's just a misunderstanding. Request to be moved to tomorrow morning.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-09-m0.u67	Thank you. Colleagues, there's the author's offer to move. But what would I like to ask you? Take your seats, please. My colleagues, I have one request for you. Attention, everyone! You and I have considered the proposal for inclusion in the agenda of the two issues. Attention! 3389 is about amending the State Budget Act on Gas Guarantees $1 billion. And the second sentence is "The Final and Transitional Positions" to this law. This will enable the government to obtain guarantees for the gas supply of our country. I want to ask everyone - colleagues, be careful! - to allow us to vote now, to put it into the agenda, because the delegation is already in the World Bank, yesterday, the state of yesterday. To get it into the agenda, we didn't have enough literally 10 votes. So that we can unlock this process. I'm going to give Victor Mikhailovich Pinzenik a few words. Please inform Victor Mikhailovich. And my colleague would like to support this proposal: 3388 and 3389. It's a matter of state. Please, Victor Mikhailovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-09-m0.u68	Ladies and gentlemen, this law has problems. That is, in the way he is prepared, he must be governed. But there is a very important standard that I want us to maintain. What are we talking about? You are well aware that Ukraine is very limited in its external markets, and its borrowing rates on foreign markets are extremely high. It's about an agreement whereby the World Bank is willing to provide guarantees of a revolving nature that Naftogaz Ukraine uses to create seasonal gas reserves. You know very well that the loans given by either the World Bank or under World Bank guarantees are extremely cheap. I'll give you some information for comparison. The credits provided by the U.S. government are less than 2 percent, which saves the country a large amount of money. I call on all colleagues to support the inclusion of this project in the agenda, and the part that I've been talking about to approve. We want to make sure that the loan is even low in percent. Therefore, I would like to support the inclusion of these laws in the order of the day.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-09-m0.u69	Colleagues, you have heard the essence of this law. It's a government decision. So I'd like to ask you all to support the inclusion in the agenda now, and tomorrow we'll look at it. Today the committee will consider it for the first time, and we will consider it with you and endorse it in accordance with the recommendations that Victor Mikhailovich Pinzenik said. Colleagues, please take your seats. Ready to vote in the agenda? Integrating in the daytime. Period. We're still here today. I want you to have it. Just working on it. Please prepare, colleagues. 3389 and 3388 laws of inclusion only in the agenda, and continue to work so that we can secure the vote, that's important. Ready? 3388 and 3389 are inclusion in the agenda. I'm asking all factions to support it. And groups of parliament. It's a government issue about guarantees for gas purchases. Please vote, colleagues. 3388 and 3389 are inclusion in the agenda of the day session. Please support everyone. Vote, colleagues. Please support, this is just an inclusion in the agenda. [[11:28:34]] For 234 Thank you. 234, decision taken. Now it's the task of a profile committee. Please invite the faction leaders, work on it so that we can review and approve it tomorrow by ad hoc procedure. I'd very much like to ask you to do that, colleagues. Thank you. Let's move on. 2455. Draft Law on Consumer Credit. Rumors from Ruslan Demczak. There is a proposal for a reduced procedure to consider. Please be supportive. Please. Short-term review procedure. Consumer credit. [[11:29:16]] For-162 Please, Ruslan Demczak, please. Four minutes is a rule. Committee and author.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-09-m0.u70	Dear colleagues, your opinion is proposed by a bill on consumer credit that protects not only the rights of consumers but also of non-bank financial institutions. We know that there has been a widespread situation in Ukraine where consumers of financial services have been deceived, financial pyramids have been created, non-refundable outside financial institutions have been worked, and we, by implementing the EU directive, have created this bill, together with foreign professionals, to ensure that our consumers are safe from such potential risks in the future. Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Financial Policy and Banking at its meeting on 11 June 2009. In 15 years, the bill on consumer credit introduced by the people's deputies of Zenzerski, Polaków, Demčak, Fursin, Doubbenk, Romanyuk, Žolobecki, Rizanenko, Fishing The main objective of this project is to create a consumer credit mechanism that will ensure the protection of the rights and legitimate interests of both consumers and creditors in this area, create an appropriate competitive environment in the financial market, increase the population's confidence in it, and provide favourable conditions for the development of Ukraine's economy. The bill aimed at achieving a balance of regulation and foresees, at the level of law, the obligation of a bank or other financial institution to assess the creditworthiness of the borrower; the second, to establish advertising requirements in accordance with EU Directive 2008/48 on consumer credit contracts, in particular in the form of information on an effective interest rate; to regulate the activities of credit intermediaries; the fourth, to change the orderlyness of the payment of consumer credit requirements under EU Directive 2008/48; the first, to pay the amount of the loan, the second, the current payment of the loan body and interest, the third, the amount of the fines, the effective revision of the Civil Code of Ukraine, the principal amount of the loan, i.e. the body of the loan, is paid in third, and the second, and the fifth, to settle the issue of additional and related services to consumer credit agreements. The main scientific and expert office of the Supreme Council of Ukraine concludes that the bill can be adopted as a basis. The Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine supports the bill if the comments are taken into account. The committee had a broad discussion of the bill's rules with representatives of financial services markets and regulators, which had discussed the comments made by the Cabinet of Ministers and agreed that all comments made could be taken into account in the drafting of the draft for second reading. Taking into account what has been said, the Committee decided to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine a draft Ukrainian Consumer Credit Act, registration number 2455, as a basis.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-09-m0.u71	Please sign two for, two against. Andrew Shinkovic, please. People's Deputy Day, People's Front.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-09-m0.u72	Dear colleagues, please support this bill. In fact, we worked on it for a long time. And European institutions also support this bill. But it is very important that this will, first of all, enable increased financial literacy, financial responsibility. And it's very important that this is an investment climate in general for financial institutions, and the responsibility of financial institutions to people. At this difficult time, it is very important that it be. Therefore, the request, colleagues, to support the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-09-m0.u73	Please, Yuri Solovay, Peter Dusty Block. One minute, and we'll go to the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-09-m0.u74	Yuri Solovay, 89th constituency. Dear colleagues, of course, this bill is needed. It is primarily needed in part of what banks and other credit institutions are now, and it would be possible for different credit institutions to raise the interest rate without having to prescribe a mechanism to raise the interest rate in these contracts. But next to it. And, of course, this bill needs to be supported. But at the same time, I want to talk to my fellow national MPs about what this one and the next bills don't solve, essentially, the problem that happened today in the banking sector. Because if we're talking about economic development, we absolutely can't keep quiet about what the banking system is today. There's no credit today, there's a massive introduction of temporary administrations into banks today, there's no solution to the currency loan problem. Therefore, I am asking the Head of the Supreme Council repeatedly to invite the head of the National Bank of Ukraine, with a report on the above - mentioned issues, on the day we report to the government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-09-m0.u75	Colleagues ready to vote? Please 2455: draft Consumer Credit Act. In line with the Committee’s conclusion, it is suggested that it be considered as a basis. Ready? On the basis of 2455, the Ukrainian Consumer Credit Act. The proposal to accept it as a basis. Ready? We're voting on the basis. Please vote. 2455. [[11:36:37]] For 209 Colleagues, I'm asking. I'm inviting you to the hall. I'm asking if I'm ready to vote. Please be careful. The invitation of the people’s deputy Rosenblatt to return to the matter. Ready? 2455, for returning to the vote, the draft Consumer Credit Act. Everyone please be more attentive, distinguished fellow members of the national MPs. Please, 2455. A proposal for a return to consideration. Back to the debate. Vote. [[11:37:51]] For 222 Colleagues, I would like to stress once again, the return proposal 2455, the draft Consumer Credit Act. Please vote. Returning to the subject. Four votes is not enough. Please. To return. [[11:38:47]] For 233 233, we're back. Now, based on 2455, please vote. On the basis of the draft Consumer Credit Act. Please. [[11:39:10]] For 236 The law was passed on as a basis. Colleagues, be careful, please. 2456: Draft Act amending some Ukrainian legislation on improving the protection of consumers' rights to financial services. Ruslan Demchak. There is an offer by the author to consider the reduced procedure. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. [[11:39:45]] For 169 The decision has been made. It's four minutes. The author and also from the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-09-m0.u76	Colleagues, while everyone else is in the room, I won't be presenting for very long, because these two bills are connected. And if the previous bill refers to the consumer lending procedure itself, this Act amending certain Ukrainian legislative acts to improve the protection of consumers' rights to financial services, it amends various laws to implement EU directives into our legislation. So I ask you very much for your support and not for your divorce, and I now vote on the next Law 2456. I want to say that the Chief Expert Office has supported, the Cabinet of Ministers has supported, and unanimously, both the authors and the members of our committee who are the authors (almost all members of our committee) of this bill have also supported and asked to vote on the basis.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-09-m0.u77	Thank you. Dear colleagues, is there a need for two "for", two "against"? Two for, two for against, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-09-m0.u78	Please, Michael Bondar.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-09-m0.u79	Please give it to Maxim Polyakov.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-09-m0.u80	Maxim Polyakov, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-09-m0.u81	Dear colleagues, ask for your support. We worked, the People's Front faction supports this bill, it really increases opportunities and financial responsibility. A request for us to adopt the first draft, and we've worked on this. A request for support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-09-m0.u82	Please, Ostapa Semiraq, People's Front, and let's go to the vote, colleagues.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-09-m0.u83	Dear colleagues, this bill is actually one of the spheres covered by the Association Agreement. But this is a typical example when the Ukrainian Parliament considers changes and changes to Ukrainian legislation by referring to European Union directives and by replacing the standards that exist in directives. I would very much ask all the authors and Parliament's leadership when we refer to the authority of European law, to be honest and fair, and, finally, to the decision of the Cabinet of Ministers. In the Cabinet of Ministers there are deputy ministers, ministers who should certainly give Parliament the position of government. As far as I know, the Ukrainian government is proposing this bill, to the maximum, to adopt it in the first reading and to work seriously. According to the findings of the European regulations and directives, this bill is regulated by as many as three directives and is unfortunately contrary to these directives. So, my fellow authors, I would like to ask Parliament to amend this bill and to put to the vote an editorial that will not conflict with our commitments to the European Union. And once again, I turn to Parliament's leadership to consider Bill 2046a, which is prepared by the Committee on European Integration, which would make it impossible to distance our legislation from the European Union's standards, all the more so under the cover of these norms. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-09-m0.u84	Thank you. Semerak. Semerak, will you be performing? Give me your word? Please, National Deputy Semerac, turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-09-m0.u85	Mr. Andrey, I've just been speaking for two minutes, and I urge the Presidency to be more careful about speaking to the national MPs. But with the opportunity, I hope that you will support my position to send a draft bill to the authors to take them into account the European Union directives. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-09-m0.u86	Thank you. Excuse me. We had a mutual exchange, so I didn’t pay attention to who was speaking. Colleagues, we're ready to go. vote? Then I'd like you to prepare for the vote, go into the hall, take your jobs. Please, fellow MPs. And I am voting on a bill amending some Ukrainian legislation on improving the protection of consumers' rights to financial services. The bill is put to the vote on the basis of a proposal by the committee. Please take your seats, come into the hall. Can we vote? Please, based on 2456, please vote. [[11:45:52]] For-183 The decision is not taken. Let's go work on the committee, shall we? Then, my honourable colleagues, I make the following proposal under the Rules: a bill to return to the committee for further work. Is such a proposal supported? We vote in favour of the return of the draft Law on Amendments to some Ukrainian legislation on improving the protection of consumers' rights to financial services, 2456, to the Committee, for further development. Whoever supports this proposal, please vote. [[11:46:52]] For 224 I understand we didn't make it. Please pay more attention and take up jobs. Once again, I propose to return the draft of Law 2456 to the committee for further elaboration. Please take your seats and vote for the 2456 Committee. Please vote. Let's vote, colleagues. [[11:47:32]] For the 220. We didn't make it. Colleagues, I'd like to ask you to be more careful about your work. I'm going to put it to the vote again. I ask you to take up your jobs and take part in the vote. Dear colleagues, Stepan of Cuba, please let's vote. Sergey Pashinsky, please take part in the vote. Ready to vote? Once again, I would like to refer the draft of Law 2456 back to the committee for further elaboration. I ask you to take part in the vote. Return to the Committee for further processing, 2456. Vote, please. [[11:48:47]] For 224 Well, colleagues, don't turn the Supreme Council into a circus. Please, if you're in the hall, I'm asking you to take your jobs, come to your workplace. Let me put it last, if I don't, the bill will just be rejected. Last but not least, if this vote is not passed, the bill will simply be rejected. So once again, I'm putting a motion to vote: to return the draft Law 2456 to the committee for further elaboration. Please vote: return to the committee for further work. Vote. [[11:49:41]] For 231 Decision taken. Let's move on to the next question of order of the day. This is the draft of Law 2251a: amending the Criminal Enforcement Code of Ukraine. There is an offer from the committee to consider it by a reduced procedure. Please vote in favour of the summary procedure. Please vote in favour of the summary procedure. [[11:50:19.]] For 171 Decision taken. And I invite you to the report of Ukrainian National Deputy Miroshnick Yuri Romanović. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-09-m0.u87	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen, over 10 years of age, a European committee has been arriving in Ukraine to monitor the state of affairs and the protection of human rights in the penitentiary system. Unfortunately, the Committee on the Prevention of Torture has shown that the level of protection of human rights in our penitentiary system is extremely low. And given the problem. The profile committee has assembled a team to which not only members of the committee have joined, but the following six laws are in the co-authorship of the committee members who are represented by all factions. And the Ukrainian experts, the international ones, have prepared a package of laws that conform to European standards and to our capabilities in this context a situation in the penitentiary system. This is the first law of that package that we're currently considering, and it's about improving the order of application to the condemned measures of encouragement and seduction. Regrettably, today there are many subjective negative factors that affect the application of the system of seduction and encouragement, and this law is the one that improves this system. The committee supported this bill, and it is supported not only by the committee, but also by institutions that are called upon to protect human rights, including the state institutions that care about it. Therefore, to my conviction, this and subsequent laws should be an indication that Ukraine is going to the European family of civilized legal states, and the deputies feel responsible.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-09-m0.u88	Please, 30 seconds, finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-09-m0.u89	And MPs feel responsible for this very important and sensitive indicator of our civilization and Europeanism when we talk about human rights. Thank you for your attention and please support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-09-m0.u90	Thank you, Mr. Yuri. The co - report invites the head of the Committee on the Law Enforcement of Law Enforcement Activities, Kožemjakin Andrija Anatoliyovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-09-m0.u91	Dear Chairman! Dear National Deputies! The proposed draft Ukrainian Law on Amendments to the Criminal Enforcement Code (No. 2251a) provides for amendments to the articles of the Ukrainian Criminal Enforcement Code, which are designed to extend the list of incentives that may apply to convicted persons, to introduce transparency in the application of the condemned incentives and to organise the procedure, to clearly determine the reasons for imposing the charges and to the procedure for verifying violations of the established order. In addition, the project proposes to supplement the Code with two new articles that provide a normative definition of disciplinary misconduct and provide grounds for the release of convicted persons from disciplinary responsibility. I want to confirm that the position of the project has been analysed by experts from the Council of Europe and is fully supported. In general, the position of the project limits the arbitraryity of the administrations of the enforcement agencies, the definition of "discipline violation" and the shortening of the list of grounds for imposing disciplinary charges on convicts to be deprived of their liberty. Because, you know, when a person is getting ready to go out, then they start out, someone doesn't like it in terms of punishment, and they disciplined her, and then she's still going through a period of reprisal. That's why it's all cleaned up, it's all sorted out. And so the committee adopted a decision on the recommendations made by the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the outcome of the first reading of the draft to be taken as a basis for further development in preparation for consideration in the second reading. Please be supportive. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-09-m0.u92	Thank you. Dear colleagues, are there willing to speak? Can we vote? Yes, yes. Please two for, two for against. Please sign up. Aresonkov gives the word to Yuri Vitaliovich Lucenk, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-09-m0.u93	Dear Lord Chairman, dear colleagues! I'd like to go to the entire room without division of coalition and opposition, and draw attention to the next seven bills that carry out the outdated task of humanization and the order of punishment. The previous Supreme Council and this Supreme Council have taken several important steps in this direction. This set of bills introduced by deputies and opposition and coalitions is taking further steps to humanize punishment. With all the hard fighting against crime and corruption, we must remember that the person who is in places of deprivation is not the aim of keeping it there, is to bring it back to normal life, to socialize it. I can tell by the examples of many people I know in this room and outside this hall that today's prisons don't perform this function. They remain medieval prisons of terror. That's why we need to move on to the European model of punishment, where punishment happens, and re-education -- socialisation of people. So please make a big request to the entire room: to move our system of punishments to the path of European standards by supporting all seven of the following bills tabled by MPs and oppositions and coalitions supported by an expert committee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-09-m0.u94	Thank you. Please, Hennady Kryvoshia, the People's Front. Turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-09-m0.u95	Good afternoon. Please pass on the word of Ostap Semerak.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-09-m0.u96	Please, Ostap Semerak. Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-09-m0.u97	Please give me your word.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-09-m0.u98	Turn on the microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-09-m0.u99	Thank you, thank you for your word. Dear colleagues, in fact this bill is subject to legal regulation within the scope of EU law and Ukraine's obligations under the Council of Europe, other international legal obligations. It's wonderful that the Ukrainian Parliament wants to bring our legislation closer to European law, and it's wonderful that experts are involved in drafting bills. But it would be very useful for Parliament to hear the names and see the conclusions of these experts, because we have doubts about the quality of the draft text of this bill. Yes, the model set out in this bill violates, as a minimum, the basic principles of punishment of the captives contained in the recommendation of the Council of Europe’s Committee of Ministers, number 2006.2 on European prison rules. Yes, rule 57.2a requires that the content of the action that constitutes disciplinary misconduct be clearly defined at the level of national legislation. In this case, the same basic principle applies to the determination of the content of a violation and punishment that operates in a material, criminal law. Obviously, the model outlined in the project at the level of Article 131-1 does not correspond to the above approach. And the recommendation is obviously to send this bill for further elaboration so that we don't hide ourselves from some incomprehensible experts in the decision-making process by the honourable parliament of Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-09-m0.u100	Please, Oleg Easy, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-09-m0.u101	Oleg Lazko, "Radical Party." Our faction supports a package of bills aimed at humanizing the execution of punishment by Ukrainian citizens. The previous speaker, fortunately, had never been in prison, so he does not know how people have been kept there for years under inhuman conditions. But in many of those who are present in this room, there will still be an opportunity to be there, given the revitalization of the fight against corruption, which I hope will go from words to action. So when you humanize the punishment, think of yourself as well, some of those in this room. Dear colleagues, we vote in favour of these laws, these laws are what people need. Ukrainian citizens who are imprisoned have the right to a human attitude, to respect their human dignity. It is necessary to destroy that land and land, the hedgehog that is now ruling in the penitentiary service. So our faction will vote for these laws. And I ask the hall to support them.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-09-m0.u102	Thank you. Dear fellow MPs, please come into the hall, there will be a vote now. As long as the MPs enter the room, 30 seconds for the drafter to reply. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-09-m0.u103	Dear colleagues, this is the information I have here, and I have great respect for my colleague Ostap Semierak, but I don't think he has the full information. If we're talking about incomprehensible experts, if we call the Council of Europe an expert, I don't know who the bigger experts are for us. If you want the names of these experts, I'll call them John McGaquin and Eric Swanidze. These are the Council of Europe's leading experts on these issues. With regard to criminal misconduct, which requires appropriate European recommendation, it is clearly defined by national law. So this law just gives us the definition of criminal misconduct, this is our national legislation. We're meeting these standards and standards, and we're not denying it, so this law needs to be voted on. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-09-m0.u104	Dear colleagues, we have had discussions, we have heard different thoughts. I think we can vote. Another line for Yuri Lucenka, and we vote. Please come into the hall, take up jobs. Jury Vitaliovich Lucenka's replica, and we vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-09-m0.u105	Ladies and gentlemen, I have made an official statement. If you want, I'll tell you what this law means. When the head of the colony waits for pay on parole, and in order for it not to take place, for example, he may declare reprisals for the convicted person’s wearing, not the company pants, but the jeans or 200 bucks a barrel. So if we're going against this law, we're just going to continue the factory of bribes to the heads of the colony and the SSO, which today all of the legislative regulations have set up a fee. We have to take this position. This law is aimed at ending the struggles of the family for everything, the products brought have to be paid, the blanket passed on -- pay, the watch used -- pay, the legal right to parole -- pay, stay on the parcel -- pay. He says I can't fire him because you don't work. And there's no job, no pay. After all, are we gonna close our eyes on this? No, it's not. We need to understand the 150,000 people that are there.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-09-m0.u106	Please, 30 seconds. Finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-09-m0.u107	150,000 people who are behind bars, yes, they are. Most of them have committed their trespass. But this does not mean that they are to be in prison, and their relatives have to pay for it. We need to stop this and move on to the European model proposed by the authors of the following seven laws. I'd like to vote in favour.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-09-m0.u108	Dear colleagues, may I vote? First, there's a signal vote. The committee's proposal is based. So the signal vote, the bill amending the Ukrainian Criminal Enforcement Code (2251a) as a basis. Signal vote. Colleagues, please, we vote, we work. Please include the voting system. [[12:04:26]] For 240 And now, I'm putting it, not as a signal, but as a base vote. Draft Act on Amendments to the Criminal Enforcement Code of Ukraine (for the improvement of the order of application to condemned measures of encouragement and attraction) (number 2251a) as a basis. In general, there is no such proposal from the committee. There's only a basis. On the basis of this, please vote. [[12:05:06]] For 251 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, I'd like to consult you. Break, huh? Then, dear fellows, I declare a recess under the Rules for 30 minutes. At 12:40 a.m., we're going here to continue our work. I'm just asking everyone to be in the hall so that we can vote effectively. Thank you. At 12:40, we'll continue our work.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-09-m0.u109	Dear colleagues, break time is over. I'm asking you to come into the hall and take up jobs. The Secretary of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, I ask you to inform the deputies of the continuation of our work, please. Dear colleagues, I have a proposal for such a plan. I beg you, Yuri Miroshnichenko. We've got it now. Three bills, and I would suggest that we speak them, and then we have voted in favour of those bills when people come forward during the discussion. We're waiting. Dear colleagues, I'm asking you to come into the hall. I'm asking you to come into the hall from the towers, take your jobs. Heads of factions, please mobilize factions to participate in the work of the Supreme Council. Please, we're not enough to vote, please come into the hall. Dear colleagues! Once again, I ask you to enter the Chamber of Deputies, take up jobs. Dear colleagues! From the towers, please come into the hall. I'm going to have a next proposal, and now we have three bills that are actually packaged bills that apply to the same subject. And I'll have a proposal to look at them, reports on all three bills, and then put them to a vote, each one. Is there no objection? Andrew Kozemyakin. Andrew Kožemyakin is not present in the hall. But we need to get votes for a reduced procedure. Please, Andrew Cosemiakin, come to me. So respectable colleagues, there's a proposal from the authors, because it's a package of laws that we can speak at the same time, but of course we voted for each individual. But there is a request that we be able to consider these bills in a simplified way, bill 2252a, 2253a, 2254a, 2255a and 2291a. Dear colleagues, I very much ask all factions -- coalitions, not coalitions, to now support the proposal to review these bills in a simplified manner. Is there an understanding in the room? Then I ask you, colleagues, to take up jobs. Mr. Yuri Miroshnichenko, Mr. Yuri, mobilize the faction for a reduced procedure. Please, colleagues, I am putting to the vote an offer from the authors and from the committee to consider the five bills under reduced procedure. Please vote for everyone, and I ask you to support everyone. So please take your jobs. Please take your jobs, your cards, your jobs, you don't vote for two -- it's forbidden. So I propose a review of the five bills: a review of the reduced procedure and a package with one author's report and a report from the committee. Anyone who supports this proposal after a reduced procedure, please vote. Please vote on the simplified procedure. Please support, colleagues, all factions please support. [[12:48:23]] For 131 Not all were able to vote. Once again, I ask that you pay more attention to your direct duties, to enter the hall. Now I'm going to put the vote again. I'm asking you, colleagues, to come into the hall and prepare for the vote. Please come in. Yeah, ready to vote? Once again, I ask everyone to support the consideration of the five bills: 2252a, 2253a, 2254a, 2255a and 2291a, for a reduced procedure. Dear colleagues, please support me, please vote. We're voting for a reduced procedure. [[12:49:35.]] For-144 Not everyone understood the importance of asking the question. I ask you to reconsider your approach to voting, to take the seats of those who enter the hall. Fellow MPs, take part in the vote, then fuck off! So, are you ready to vote? My colleagues, once again, I ask you to take up your seats and take part in the vote. Now, if we don't have enough votes, let's start with a full procedure. And I ask now, honourable colleagues, to support the proposal to consider five bills on a reduced procedure. Dear colleagues, please take part in the vote. Please be supportive. Please vote. For short. Please support everyone. [[12:50:48]] For a hundred and Decision taken. I invite you to the report of the Ukrainian National Deputy, author of the bill Yuri Romanović Miroshnicka. I'll give you as much time as you need to make a report immediately after five bills, and then just as much as it takes for Andrey Cosemykin, I'll give you time to report from the committee. We'll vote separately. Please, Yuri Romanovich, report.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-09-m0.u110	Mr. Andrey, I will not abuse the time of our fellow MPs, especially since I've already given you the general orientation of these bills. They are really going to meet the standards of the Council of Europe. They're really worked by experts from the Council of Europe, and in the break with my colleague Ostap Semierak. I have an appropriate expert opinion, and I can present it to make sure that this is not about replacing any notion, but about strict compliance with Ukraine’s obligations to ensure humaneization in the area of the Ukrainian penitentiary system. We've already considered a bill. And in this bill, we have clearly defined what is a criminal offense. And that this imposition of disciplines cannot be done alone, which must be collegiately decided. And we continue to consider these bills in systemic unity, and in particular, Bill 2252a is called "the humanization of the order and conditions of execution." This bill provides an extremely important institution that has not even been discussed in the Ukrainian realities, namely, public control of the penitentiary system. Earlier, I even went to a penitentiary facility, even for a lawyer, not to mention an ordinary person, and even witnessed when the people's deputy was not allowed into the prison. Thus, this bill provides for the introduction of public control, provides for reinforcements and a clear definition of those rights that must be protected in relation to those who have been convicted. It clearly defines how these rights are implemented. So, honourable colleagues, in short, this bill is going to develop this topic and this reform in the penitentiary sphere. As far as the next bill is concerned, I will briefly report very much so that I do not take up time. Bill 2253a. In fact, he declares his point in the very name. This is about amending the Criminal Enforcement Code to improve the guarantees of the right of convicted persons to be punished for their place of residence or the place of permanent residence of relatives. Dear colleagues, today, in the face of economic hardship, there are many cases where relatives cannot visit the condemned and in fact limit not only the rights of the convicted but also the rights of other citizens, but also of the relatives in particular. And given that there are a lot of transfers going on today, and the assistance of relatives convicted of economic hardship in the country, such a European norm and such a European standard, it is critical for the introduction of Ukraine. The next bill, 2254a, amending the Criminal Code on the humanization of the criminal responsibility of women. In our discussions, even in the committee, this bill was discussed in a very serious way, and the committee supported it. But I'll be honest with you about this bill when you make this decision. Because I'm trying to tell you honestly what the content of these laws is about. If no one has even been warned about this law, which provides for the abolition of the permanent imprisonment of women in Ukraine. Today it's 24 women. Over a long period of time, the number of women imprisoned for life has not increased. And European experts, Ukrainian defenders, recommended that a professional committee be released with the initiative to abolish life imprisonment for women. This is related to sex’s characteristics, which are related to the characteristics of a woman’s psychology. And this is actually related to the criminal situation of women and those crimes that presuppose life imprisonment, that women are not the category that has to be imprisoned forever. I remind you, the number of bill 2254. If one of the colleagues on this subject has a separate opinion and has a separate position, we can discuss it. I personally support this bill and I ask you to support it as well. With regard to Bill 2255a, amendments to certain laws to improve access to justice for persons held in institutions of prior imprisonment and execution of sentences. This is a separate bill that refers to people whose guilt has not yet been proved, which cannot yet be considered criminals, but human rights have already been violated. Thus, it is clear that this bill separates and prescribes the way a person should act and the procedural persons who are investigating human rights guarantees in previous prisons. And, in principle, this applies to the execution of sentences when it comes to rights. A number of procedures have been written down, and a number of coins have been written down. Although the bill provides for amendments to 537 articles and 539 articles of the Code of Criminal Procedure. It refers to accusations of administrative actions or omissions, and so on. Next, Bill 2291a. This bill is systematic, this bill covers a lot of spheres. It was designed separately and applied essentially as a standard for keeping people in prison. That is, starting with the number of areas that each person should have in the cell, ending with those procedural rights that relate to and already directly to life and being in the penitentiary system of the individual. It refers, for example, to such obvious rights as for Europe, such as the right to a telephone call, the right to a letter, we had it, but it was limited. It's about the right to use the Internet, and there's a lot about rights, meetings with relatives, and so on. In fact, what is the norm in European countries is proposed here for introduction in Ukraine. Once again, all these bills have been prepared with respect to and compliance with Ukraine’s international obligations. To implement those warnings and comments that the European Committee has made to prevent torture. And actually today is the day that can add to each of us as national deputies a sense of pride for being national MPs. In the context of yesterday's vice president of the United States, who said that it depends on each and every one of us. At this difficult historical moment, people expect not good intentions from us, but concrete, absolutely clear changes in the lives of every Ukrainian citizen. These bills, I stress again, are those for which none of you will be ashamed that you voted for them. You can write them down as a treasure of your success. I'm asking all the national deputies of all factions, first of all, to come into the hall, because unfortunately, very few people are present. And secondly, to vote in favour by testifying to the European choice of Ukraine. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-09-m0.u111	Thank you, Yuri Romanovich. It's a good thing you warned us that you wouldn't be wasting your time. And now it is invited to the report, to a co - report, the head of the Legislative Security Committee, the law enforcement activities of Kožemyakin Andriy Anatoliyovich. I remind you, too, of the report on the five bills. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-09-m0.u112	Dear Chairman! Dear colleagues! I'm going to continue to introduce you to the list of bills that will be passed today after they're passed and become laws, they're going to be reforming the entire penitentiary service, the criminal enforcement system. I would like to remind you that the drafters of this bill are all members of the Committee on Law Enforcement. And now to your mind, Bill No. 2252, which provides for amendments to the articles of the Penal Code, I will not count them. I will say that these articles introduce the definition of a single terminology for the reasons for the transfer of sentenced persons to areas of increased control. The bill also deals with the question of the execution of sentences in one correctional or correctional colony. And the third is the establishment of additional guarantees for the use of compulsory treatment for convicted prisoners to be deprived of their will. Additional safeguards for the protection of the rights of convicted women and women with children and minors. Simplification of the pension scheme of those sentenced to imprisonment. This bill, according to Yuri Romanovich, has indeed been analysed by the experts of the Council of Europe and supported by them in its entirety as a project that meets all international standards. The committee recommends that the bill be adopted as a basis. Next bill, number 2253a. This bill clarifies the position contained in the first article 93 of the Ukrainian Criminal Enforcement Code and has taken effect since May 2014 in order for the convicted person to choose where the punishment will take place in the institution of the appropriate level of security that is closest to his or her place of residence or to the place of permanent residence of his or her relatives. So it's so humanizing, and it's really a European standard. Today, the condemned person does not have the right to choose where he is going to be. Today, the above provision does not determine whether such an alternative refers to the choice of a convicted or state pensioner. I don't understand. This is usually referred to as the State’s representative. is determined by the heads of the State Penitentiary Service. This bill is also fully supported by experts from the Council of Europe. And what I'm saying is that it's clearly defined that those condemned to be deprived of their will should be held back, once again, in the nearest institution of the execution of penalties for the appropriate level of security to their place of residence or, at the request of the condemned, to the place of permanent residence of their relatives. The committee invites the Supreme Council of Ukraine to accept it as a basis for consideration in the first reading. The next bill is number 2254a. Draft law amending certain laws of Ukraine (on humanizing the criminal responsibility of women). The bill provides for an amendment to part two of article 64 of the Ukrainian Criminal Code, which proposes to establish that, in addition to persons who have committed crimes under the age of 18 and over 65 years of age, there is no such punishment as permanent deprivation of liberty and with regard to women who have committed criminal offences. In addition, the draft provides for amendments to the articles of the Criminal Code and the Criminal Procedure Code. Moreover, the current text of article 64 of the Ukrainian Criminal Code prohibits the application of this type of punishment, criminal punishment, only to women who were pregnant during the commission of the crime or at the time of the verdict. So the state allows for an element of gender inequality in statutory cases, taking into account the natural anatomical differences between a man and a woman and the psychophysical properties of a woman and their vulnerability to interacting with the surrounding world. This bill, it also has European standards and is fully supported by experts from the Council of Europe. I would like to ask him during the first reading by the Supreme Council to accept him as a basis. The next bill is number 2255a. This is a bill that amends some Ukrainian legislation (to improve access to justice for persons held in institutions of prior imprisonment and execution of sentences). He envisages amending the articles of the Criminal Procedure Code of 537th and 539th and article 5 of the Ukrainian Law on the Judicial Assembly. Yes, with a view to simplifying the actions or omissions of the administration of the institutions of execution and pre-trial detention, the amendments to the above-mentioned legislative acts of Ukraine are envisaged to be dealt with by the District Courts in an administrative court within the area of jurisdiction in which the convicted person is sentenced or held in custody. The amendments to article 539 of the Ukrainian Criminal Procedure Code also provide that the question of any kind of doubt and contradiction arising from the execution of a sentence that is not listed in that article shall be decided by the court at the place where the punishment takes place, not by a court that has passed the sentence, as it is today. The position of the project is also supported by the European Council of Experts and the Committee proposes to the Supreme Council during its first reading to adopt Bill 2255a as a basis. The last bill is number 2291a. This is a bill amending the Ukrainian Law on Pre-Prison (for the implementation of the Council of Europe's separate standards). He envisions the addition of the Ukrainian Law on Pre-Prisonment by a new article 13 with the badge 1 "Access to Global Networks of the Internet by Persons Under Guard". The amendments to articles 7, 9, 11, 12 and 13 of the law have also been made with a view to bringing Ukraine’s legislation closer, regulating the order and conditions of keeping persons in custody to the standards of human rights restrictions set out in European acts. This bill is consistent with the rule of law and does not conflict with international standards. I, too, am fully recommending to the Supreme Council that it be accepted as a basis for consideration in the first reading. And the last bill, which continues to reform the criminal enforcement system, is a draft Ukrainian law amending the Ukrainian Criminal Enforcement Code (number 2685). It provides for amendments to the 17 articles of the KPC of Ukraine. The aim of the project is to bring Ukraine’s legislation closer to European standards. So this bill today does not complete the reform of the penitentiary system, but the committee has adopted a decision and this bill is based on the first reading. And, as Yuri Romanovich said, this is really the bill that defines the situation of the medical care of the convicts, the order of correspondence and telephone conversations. A very important bill from our colleague, Mr. Usov. Please be supportive. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-09-m0.u113	Dear colleagues, thank you. They used it all the time for the report. Now, I understand, there is a need for discussion. Is that right? And that's why I'm asking you to sign in: two for, two against. Please, Your Honor, we're writing two in favour, two in front. Yuri Volodymyrovich Timoshenko, People's Front. Please. Turn the microphone on in the stands. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-09-m0.u114	Friends, well, first of all, what kind of example are you showing to all of Ukraine? I'd like to invite those who aren't in the hall right now, even though I should be sitting here working, not hanging around, God knows where, and then say I owe it all to Yatsenuk. Each of us, if not everyone, is the vast majority, the vast majority of us would have to sit in prison repeatedly in this life -- who for corruption, who for political beliefs. If I hadn't won Maidan, I'd probably be sitting there forever. Remember, please, that this is your seat here right now, you're sitting here because you're lucky. You're not in jail because you're lucky. And at this time, there are thousands of people in prison who are not as lucky as you are. They suffer – innocent, completely innocent, many ordinary people sit for the crimes of high-ranking people who have been framed by other people instead of themselves. Come on, people! Siti, warm, dressed, remember those hungry and suffering innocents – and just vote to alleviate the suffering of these innocent people! And whoever of you does not vote has no God. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-09-m0.u115	Thank you. Dear colleagues, if you'd like to come into the hall, please take your seats. Yuri Timoshenko noted that this is an investment in the future of everyone, these bills. And so I am very much asking you to come into the hall and prepare for the vote, please. Please come into the hall, my dear fellows, not to go out, but to come in. George Timoshenko noted that this is a direct investment in the future of everyone. Ready? Colleagues, first I'm going to put up a vote to see what potential there is in the room. So, please come into the hall, take your seats. I ask the Secretary of the Supreme Council to report that a vote is about to take place. So a signal vote on the draft Act amending the Criminal Enforcement Code of Ukraine (2252a) as a basis. Signal vote. Colleagues, we vote. [[13:15:32]] For 218. Colleagues, please come into the hall. These laws have united the hall, and this is a positive one. All factions vote, and they vote disciplinaryly. All I'm asking is more discipline, more jobs, and I'm going to put bills to the vote one by one. Colleagues, every voice has a definition. Your voice has weight. [[B in m in s a l in]] Paul Unguryan! So I'm going to put in one bill. First, I put to the vote the draft Act amending the Criminal Enforcement Code of Ukraine (for humanizing the order and conditions of execution) (number 2252a) as a basis. Please vote. I'd like your support, colleagues. Vote. Please. [[13:16:50]] For 244 Decision taken. I now put to the vote the draft Act amending article 93 of the Ukrainian Criminal Enforcement Code (to improve the guarantees of the right of convicted persons to be punished for their place of residence or the place of permanent residence of relatives) (number 2253a) as a basis. Please vote. Please be supportive. 2253a based. We're voting on our colleagues. [[13:17:35]] For 238. Decision taken. I'm voting on the draft Act amending certain legislative acts (for the humanization of women's criminal responsibility) (number 2254a) as a basis. We can make amends, Mr. Ostap. Until the second reading, we will be able to make adjustments. Let's support 2254a as a base. Vote, Your Honor, as a basis. [[13:18:17]] For 225 We didn't make it. I'm asking you to be more careful. I noticed that you were not voting, but talking. We work in the hall, colleagues, we work in the hall. So I'm betting on the return to Bill 2254a, on the return, please support, please vote. Let's vote, colleagues. [[13:18:55]] For 227 So we're back, and I'm voting again on the bill amending some of Ukraine's legislative acts (for the humanisation of women's criminal responsibility) (number 2254a) as a basis. Please vote on the basis that the discussion is concluded, and we vote on the basis. [[13:19:25]] For 228 Decision taken. Thank you. I am voting on the draft Act amending some Ukrainian legislation (to improve access to justice for persons held in institutions of prior imprisonment and execution of sentences) (number 2255a) as a basis. Please vote, please support, 2255a as a base, please. [[13:20:08]] For 251 The decision is made, the potential is growing. And now the last of the bill packages is the bill amending the Ukrainian Law on Pre-Prison (for implementation of the Council of Europe's separate standards) (number 2291a) as a basis. Please vote, this is a systemically important law. Please support, 2291a as a base. Vote. [[13:20:50]] For 248 Decision taken. Thank you and welcome the author of the bill, also the committee with the adoption of important laws that have really been able to unite the hall and all of us. Congratulations. And we're moving on to the next question of order of the day. This is Bill 2685. Draft Act amending the Criminal Enforcement Code of Ukraine (to improve the conditions of detention of convicts). And there's an offer to consider it in a simplified way. Please support the reduced procedure. Please, colleagues, short-term procedure. Vote. [[13:21:41]] For-191 Decision taken. And I invite you to report to the head of the Legislative Security Committee, Kozemyakin Andrija Anatoliyovich. He's both from the authors and the committee, right? Please report. [[B in m in s a l in]] The first one would be the author, Usov Konstantin Glibovich, and then Kožemjakin. Please report to Usov Constantine and then to Kožemyakin. Please report. Please don't leave the Chamber of Deputies.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-09-m0.u116	Dear colleagues, this is draft Ukrainian Law 2685, which logically completes the work that we have already done today, improving our criminal execution system. Very short on the basic ones. We are introducing the possibility of transferring the sentenced person to an institution that is closest to the place of residence of the convicted person or to the place of residence of his or her relatives. From now on, we forbid prisoners to be taken away from the convicts, who are placed in a carcase, bed linen, and outer garments. We are introducing a new procedural order for the imposition of charges and the application of sanctions against the convicted, and most importantly, it introduces the possibility of accusing such orders. But something else is very important. In doing so, the bill takes into account the intensification of criminals whose offences are directed against the foundations of our national security and defenses, against our constitutional system. And for such a category of convicted dating, telephone conversations, correspondence, Internet traffic, and any other relationship with the outside world, it will now take place exclusively under the control of prison administration officials. I mean, on the one hand, we are taking a huge step with you, we are taking an active decision to raise human rights standards in Ukraine, on the other hand, we are introducing additional unprecedented but completely fair measures of control, limitation and supervision for those found guilty of crimes against the foundations of security and defence, constitutional order, our statehood and our sovereignty. It's a harmonious bill that we're going to adopt, which we're going to make a breakthrough both in terms of respect for human rights and in terms of the challenges that the state is facing in the East. Thank you. Please support all factions.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-09-m0.u117	Dear colleagues, the committee has already reported on this bill. We have already discussed it, but there was a need for the author to express his position. I very much ask my colleagues to come into the hall and take up jobs. I strongly appeal to the deputies to get as close to voting cards as possible. And I'm going to put the alarm on first. So I'm putting the bill amending the Ukrainian Criminal Enforcement Code (number 2685) on the basis of a signal vote. Signal vote, please, we're voting on our colleagues. [[13:25:29]] For 222 Colleagues, I ask you to approach your seats carefully. Please prepare yourself, and I'm putting a draft Act amending the Ukrainian Criminal Enforcement Code to improve the conditions of detention of convicted persons (number 2685) on the ground. Please vote, colleagues. Vote. [[13:26:14]] For 241 Decision taken. The next draft of Law 2118 is the Amnesty Act. An extremely important, responsible law. But there is a request from the committee to consider it as a reduced procedure. And I ask my fellow MPs to support the review of the reduced procedure. Please support. Vote. [[13:26:51]] For-170. Decision taken. And I invite the head of the committee, Andriy Anatoliyovich, to report. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-09-m0.u118	Dear colleagues, the Committee on Law Enforcement prepared a draft Amnesty Law for consideration in the first reading in 2015. A long-awaited bill. I want to remind you of those years of criminal power, so that you can understand that Yanukovic didn't sign any amnesty laws at 11th, 12th, 13th. So there was no amnesty at the time of criminal power. Why? Because, you know, when they all came in, there were a lot of them, and they wanted to take some government positions, they kept planting, planting, planting, getting people out of jobs. And this bulkhead, it was constantly filling and creating this government's corruption model. So they did not need amnesty. During democratic power and government, I think this is a humane step in power, the President's step, first of all, and the Parliament that passed this bill. Therefore, the basic criteria for applying amnesty are, in this bill, a slight social danger of action, objective factors, that is, severe illness, old age. Next: a significant period of punishment. The project is intended to extend amnesty to convicts who have committed a crime of minor gravity or are the most vulnerable in social terms. These are: minors, persons with underage children with disabilities, pregnant women, war veterans and with disabilities of the first, second and third groups (also the same person today), those with tuberculosis or cancer. At the meeting of the Committee, the Ministry of Justice and the Attorney-General fully supported this legislative initiative, and they also propose to the Supreme Council that the bill be adopted. And the committee, after reviewing the lists, examined all the convicts, that's more.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-09-m0.u119	Please, 30 seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-09-m0.u120	It was over 4,000 people who received their terms who were still condemned under that authority. And indeed, those who or those who have committed minor crimes and who have been in the area of an antiterrorist operation have bought their guilt with blood. Therefore, I believe that the committee, after considering this bill at its meeting, is proposing to the Supreme Council that it be accepted as a basis.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-09-m0.u121	Please finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-09-m0.u122	And if there are no objections to national MPs, accept it as a law as a whole. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-09-m0.u123	Dear colleagues, there is a need for discussion, so I ask you to sign up: two for, two against. Please, two for, two for against. Nemirovsky Andri Valentine's Day, Self Help Union. Turn on the microphone, please. Oh, Nemirowski, "The will of the people," I'm sorry. "The will of the people," Nemirowski, I'm sorry. Turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-09-m0.u124	Good afternoon! "The will of the people" supports the adoption of the bill. However, we want to note that it should apply to persons who do not pose a significant social danger. Amnesty cannot be applied to persons convicted of crimes against the foundations of Ukraine’s national security, terrorist acts, banditry, and deliberate murder under burdensome circumstances. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-09-m0.u125	Thank you. From Peter Prashenko's Block, please give Lucenka Yuri Vitaliovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-09-m0.u126	Mr. Chairman, honourable colleagues, first of all, there's no formulation that you said there, they don't fall under amnesty. But I came out with another request. I also ask the room to support an amendment for which amnesty is subject to suspected, accused and convicted participants in an anti-terrorist operation in addition to articles on desertion and particularly serious crimes against a person. I think that everyone else should also fall under an amnesty, which is a consolidation of both society and their families. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-09-m0.u127	Thank you. But we vote on the basis, obviously, we can make the amendments between the first and the second readings. Let me put it as a base first, then if there's support for the hall, then in general. I'm asking you to come into the hall and take up jobs, colleagues. Please prepare for the vote. I'm putting the signal vote first to see the potential. Draft Amnesty Law in 2015 2118. Signal vote, please take part in the vote, colleagues. Vote 2118. [[13:32:36]] For 219 I'd like you to come into the hall more carefully and take your jobs. Colleagues, I'm asking you to take up jobs and go into the hall. Don't go out there, just go in the hall. Ready to vote? I'm voting on an amnesty bill in 2015, bill 2118, on the basis. Please vote, please support, 2118, on the basis. Vote. [[13:33:31]] For 240 There is a request from the committee to accept as a whole the correction of Lucenka. But there is a denial in the hall. If the hall supports me, the ad hoc procedure, then we can set it up. Then I bet, there's a denial in the hall, then I'm making a proposal to consider the second reading by a reduced procedure. Is this position supported? Please be prepared. I'm voting on the motion with the amendment of Yuri Lucenka, which he made from the rostrum under the transcript: a reduced procedure for second reading. Please vote, please support. Please vote. [[13:34:33]] For 218. Shall we try it again, Andriy Anatolyovich? All right, let's do it again. I will once again make a proposal, a review of Bill 2118, the Amnesty Act 2015, a review of the reduced procedure for second reading. Dear colleagues, let's support the committee's proposal, take up jobs, and this proposal is about voting. Yuri Vitaliovich, do you have time to vote? I can see it, but he's got a card. So let's put the simplified procedure to the second reading, we vote. [[13:35:25]] For 234 Decision taken. Our next one in a day, by the way, is a final bill today, and it's a draft decree to change and establish the boundaries of the city of the Mountain Pásnian district of Luhansk. And there's also a suggestion from the author that we take a brief look at it. Please support the reduced procedure. Please vote in favour of the summary procedure, please. [[13:36:05]] For-188. Decision taken. I invite you to the author's report, the head of the Subcommittee on Regional Policy and Local Self-Government of Fedoruk Mikol Trochymovic. And I'd like to make as brief a report as possible. And the deputies please remain in their seats. This will be the last vote we have for today. Please report, Mikola Trochymovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-09-m0.u128	Honourable National Deputies, the Lugansk District Council addressed the Supreme Council with information on the change and establishment of the borders of the city of the Mountain Pásnán district of Luhansk. The Committee on State Building, Regional Policy, and Local Self - Government supports the submission of the Luhansk District Council on the change and establishment of the borders of the city of Gyrska Pásnjan district of Lugansk. Let us ask the people’s deputies to support the appropriate draft decree as a whole.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-09-m0.u129	Colleagues — Is There a Need to Discuss? It doesn't, does it? Please take your seats, prepare for the vote. Again, I'll try the alarm. Let's go in, take up jobs. Mrs. Oksana, we're not leaving. We're coming in. It's hopeless. So, colleagues. I'm voting on a bill amending and establishing the borders of the city of Gyrska Pásnjan district of Lugansk. Alert vote, vote 3492. [[13:37:50]] For 231 There's potential. And I'm putting to the vote the draft decree on the amendment and establishment of the borders of the city of Mountain Pásnian district of Lugansk Region (No. 3492) as a basis and as a whole. Please vote. [[13:38:23]] For 236 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, on this we have exhausted our agenda. We've had a very productive day, and we've been able to demonstrate that the Supreme Council is able to work productively and efficiently and on Wednesdays that have not always been. Once again, I would like to thank the head of the Committee of Cosmiakin, the drafters of the Bills of Yuri Miroshnichenko, and others for the quality of the laws prepared, for the fruitful work of the deputies. I would like to remind you, my fellow Members, that today at 3 p.m. in the session hall of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, there will be parliamentary hearings on the subject of "Legal Education Reform in Ukraine". Please invite all interested parties to participate in the parliamentary hearings. At 4: 00 p.m., the committee starts its work. I also wish for fruitful committee work. And at this morning's meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, I declare closed. Tomorrow we'll continue our work at 10 a.m. Everyone is disciplined tomorrow at 10 a.m. to be in the workplace. Thank you. And good work on the committees. Good-bye.
