ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-07-m0.u1	Good morning, dear colleagues! We can start our session, actually a plenary week that has to be effective. I'd like the national deputies to take their seats for registration and to begin our work with you. Please turn on the "Council" system to register the national MPs. [[10:02:04]] At the moment, 254 national deputies have been registered. I declare this morning's plenary session of the Supreme Council open. Dear colleagues! Today, our colleague, the Ukrainian national deputy, Vadim Denisenko, celebrates his birthday. Let's welcome him on his birthday, Vadim Igorovich Denisenko, our colleague. Dear fellow national MPs! Tuesday we begin with 30 minutes of performances by factions and groups leaders. I'm asking you to sign up the factions and groups for the performance. Dear colleagues, we have a record of the performances by the National Deputies. Since we have a working meeting of certain national deputies on the rostrum, I think we will be taking the floor. Is there no objection? From the rostrum. Okay. As you wish, please. "Peter Prashenko's Block", National Deputy Rybak. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-07-m0.u2	Dear colleagues, the fact is that today in Ukraine, the real, complex situation has become with the rights of consumers. Consumer appeals have not been properly considered for almost 8 months all consumers have become hostages of the situation. A common citizen and no one can hear him at all. For this reason, consumers of the Montenegrin region were addressed to Prime Minister Yacenyuk Arseny Petrovic of Ukraine as early as February 2015. As practice has shown, 95 percent of citizens are morally unprepared, have no ability, no special knowledge, and no skills to appeal to their own courts, to defend their rights. The appeal to the court remains only a reference to the prompt examination of citizens of the State Consumer Protection Inspectorate. Producers and sellers are well aware that their activities are not controlled, and consumers do not have the ability to protect themselves. Under these circumstances, manufacturers are grossly violating established rules on production, sale, and implementation of relevant products and, in particular, on deadlines. As the situation in the consumer market deteriorates dramatically, the safety and quality of goods, jobs, and services decrease sharply, with prices rising almost every week or several times a week. During the period of the Government's introduction of a moratorium on checks, as evidenced by monitoring, the quality of goods, jobs and services carried out at the beginning of March 2015, their quality is declining very rapidly: 25 per cent for dairy products; 30 per cent for butchers, fishermen, vegetables; 60 per cent for late production; and 50 per cent for consumer fraud in the purchase of goods, jobs and services. Thus, when purchasing goods, shop owners impose goods and additional services on consumers, including additional goods that they do not need. Control of the situation in the country is lost. Therefore, it is vital that we turn from the Supreme Council to the Cabinet of Ministers, requiring that the Cabinet of Ministers order No. 442 of September 10, 2014, which created the State Service on Food Safety, Consumer Rights Protection. Because water and land can be mixed together, but it will be a swamp, and so today all the inspections that exist in Ukraine must be a separate structure that protects the rights of consumers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-07-m0.u3	Thank you. Dear colleagues, there's a lot of noise in the hall. Dear colleagues! It is extremely sad in the hall, please, if possible, to have your attention requested by the national deputies. Please, Radical Party. A radical party. Oleg Kuprienko? Oleg Lazko. Radical Party, Oleg Lazko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-07-m0.u4	Excuse me. Oleg Lazko. Turn the microphone on in the stands. It is, isn't it? Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. Respectable citizens of Ukraine, respected colleagues! Let me speak, please. Dear colleagues and national MPs! This week is an extremely important week in the work of the Ukrainian Parliament, in the life of Ukrainian society. The main problem facing millions of Ukrainian citizens today is a sharp decline in the standard of living of our Ukrainians. Since April 1, tariffs on residential services have risen radically. Since April 1, millions of Ukrainian citizens have been deprived of the opportunity to pay for these services. Because when pensioners get thousands of dollars, one and a half thousand dollars of pensions and utility services are 700 or 800 dollars, I'm already on the street prices in pharmacies, prices in stores, which means that pensioners are waiting for that payment as an ampule with cyanist potassium. And that's why I think that this week the Ukrainian Parliament is going to devote its work to making it possible for people to pay for utilities. That's why yesterday, with colleagues, Berezuk, Timoshenko, we registered a draft decree for the establishment of a temporary commission of inquiry for the Supreme Council on tariff formation. We're saying that the tariffs that Ukrainian citizens pay today, they're unfounded, they're robbery, at least twice as much as people have to pay, because they're full of monopolies: oblenergo, frauds, housing and utility markets. That's why we're calling here to the Parliament of government representatives, representatives of the national tariff commission, to give a clear answer to the question of how tariffs are formed, so that the Ministry of Social Policy will clearly answer how people get compensation. Because when I'm told that there are 25 billion dollars in the budget for tariff compensation, I have a question: Heat plants, to create jobs for people? So Parliament's main task, the government's main task, is to answer the economic, social issues facing millions of Ukrainian citizens today. And of course, we can give these answers on condition that we fight corruption. So the Radical Party faction supports anti-corruption investigations. Anyone who steals has to answer. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-07-m0.u5	People's front, National Deputy Pashinsky Sergey Volodymyrovich, please. [[B in m in s a l in]] Dear colleagues, please give the opportunity to speak to the National MP Pashinski. [[B in m in s a l in]] Look, the people's honourable deputies, believe me, there's no problem at all. There'll be an investigation and there'll be tariffs, there'll be investigation and there'll be corruption, and that'll be all of that. But I'd like you to respect me. Please respect the right of national deputies to speak. Please, Sergey Pashinsky, the People's Front. And don't disturb me, please. Please!
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-07-m0.u6	Dear friends! Without a doubt, our nation has two enemies: the Russian invader and the aggressor and the corruption that destroyed our entire nation. And without defeating corruption, we will definitely not defeat the Russian aggressor. What's the aggressor doing now? Yesterday, one of the leaders of the DNR said that in two months they would make the juntas, as they call us, they would call us all juntas, they would not be in Kiev, their allies would be wiped out. The Pro-Russian channels, the Inter Channel, the 112 Channel has the same speakers. You know, there's a very interesting tactic in pocket thieves: when they get into someone's pocket, they start yelling, "Hold the thief!".. We're going to fight corruption, and that's why the People's Front faction demands that today, and in general, a law be passed that prevents judges from releasing corrupts under a copy of the book. That's why the People's Front faction requires the Attorney-General to come here on Friday and clearly report to the corruption workers, where the APC's minister has submitted documents for 9 billion years that have happened with other corruptioners, where specific facts and specific arrests? We are absolutely convinced that what has been happening in the state in recent months, namely, the loud arrests, namely, the cleansing of our power from corruption -- is not like the corruption itself, and very much likes the Russians, as they are playing at it right now. The "Inter" channel is a lot of them. My colleagues are now there very often, yesterday already agreed that terrorist attacks in Ukraine will provoke Ukrainian authorities to strengthen their powers. And we have Nakrad signing a peace treaty with the Inter Channel. Dear friends, there's a war coming against us. And I assure every patriot right now under the Supreme Council that all corrupters: ministers from whatever political power they're from -- they'll be arrested and their cases brought to trial, and we as the People's Front will get it. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-07-m0.u7	Thank you. Please, National Deputy Andrew Shipko, Rebirth.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-07-m0.u8	Rebirth Group, Shipko Andrey, Dnipropetrovština, Nikopol, Ordjonikidze, Nicopolsky district. Dear national MPs, dear voters! First of all, welcome to the great Festival of Blessings to the Holy Virgin! Each family looks forward to the good news: peace, the health of their loved ones, the success of their children. And each Ukrainian family expects to hear from us, just from you. For it is we who must put a stop to the abuses of government upon our people. I worked in the county yesterday. In recent times, questions and problems have increased hundreds of times. I want at least one answer from our Prime Minister. A young doctor in the rural infirmary receives a salary of 1 thousand 700 dollars. He has a family — two young children and a woman on maternity leave. Please tell me, Mr. Prime Minister, how much will be left in the young family for children's food, clothing and life? Maybe if they get a grant, if apples cost 20 bucks, milk -- 20 bucks, bread almost 10 bucks, how do they live, how do they live, how do millions of young families live? I am no longer referring to the elderly who have been sentenced by this government to extinction. As a professional doctor, I can honestly say that these government reforms are destroying the nation, for once they pay the utility bill, people simply don't have any funds left for treatment. And miners and metallurgists who have lost their health in manufacturing have to pay 15 percent of their pension in spite of the Constitution. Why? Who? What act does the International Monetary Fund require? Show me this document and the people! Our MP team has prepared a number of drafts: the cost of medicines, food, support for the village, real decentralization. And today, the Rebirth Group registers a decision to postpone the increase in the tariffs of the HKG. And we demand that it be voted on immediately! Because it is possible to set European tariffs only if there is European wages and European social protection in Ukraine. And today’s government deals only with populism. Their reforms have led to poverty and a loss of hope. So today, in this great Orthodox festival, the only good news that will give birth to faith in the hearts of Ukrainians will be the message of the resignation of this government, and this will be the first step toward a real rebirth of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-07-m0.u9	Victoria Vojticka, Self-help. Oleg Berezuk, Self-Help faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-07-m0.u10	Your Honour, Mr. Head! The Honourable Deputies! Dear people! I'd like to see the "Rady" TV camera show up right now. Supervakhanalia, which is built in Parliament. We didn't come here to stop working. If we talk about corruption and if we fight corruption by just blocking the rostrum, we can block the rostrum 24 hours a day for 365 days. Dear colleagues! There is only one thing that can help us -- absolute transparency and a lack of fear to acknowledge our own infirmity. If you have to create a TSC to prove that it's true or false, you have to create it. What's the problem? And this custody is now only because Parliament, including the coalition, cannot be able to pass a law on temporary commissions of inquiry in the Supreme Council. And do you know how the temporary commission of inquiry differs from the TSC, a special commission that can be created by any deputy, finding the signatures of the deputies? The level of responsibility. Because when you are a member of a temporary commission of inquiry, you are legally responsible for your words, not just a political pianist who is also useful. So, Mr. President of the Supreme Council, I propose that this issue be resolved simply by creating all the committees that need to be created. And the second question is, today or Thursday at most, put to the vote and adopt the Law on Temporary Investigations Commissions and finally transform a parliament that has the function of controlling the real one, or the House of Auditors is a toy, never anyone. During the year, the Court of Auditors submitted only one application to the Public Prosecutor’s Office, which was considered in court. For 14 billion or 7 billion dollars outside Ukraine’s budget, there are at least 500 billion dollars. So, ladies and gentlemen of parliament, I propose, regardless of what you've done correctly, what you've been focusing on, what you've been doing, what you've been doing, what you've been doing, what you've been doing, what you've been doing, what you've been doing, what you've been doing, what you've been doing, what you've been doing, what you've been doing, what you've been doing, what you've been doing, what you've been doing, what you've been doing, what you've been doing, what you've been doing, and what you've been doing, what you've been doing, what It's very important. People don't expect us to drink, they get tired of them in 24 years, they don't want us to fight corruption, they want us to create conditions where this corruption is practically impossible! And you and I have done a little bit of this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-07-m0.u11	People's Deputy Boyko, Opposition Block.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-07-m0.u12	Thank you. Dear Mr. Head, distinguished national MPs. The crisis in the country's economy has reached its peak. The total poverty of citizens is on the rise, the social robberies of pensioners are on the rise, lawlessness is on the rise, unemployment is on the rise. GDP dropped 15 percent in the first quarter, inflation 38 percent, prices increased 2 times, tariffs increased 3-7 times. In doing so, it will seem strange when the government begins to baptize itself from raising tariffs and tries to remove its responsibility. But people clearly remembered who did it. The government has become an integral asset of the International Monetary Fund and is leading the country to the destruction of the real economy. The destruction of small and medium-sized businesses. All economic failures have been plunged into a war that has become a means of enriching many of the leaders through military contracts. We believe that Parliament should focus on resolving the following issues this week. First, this is the legislative support of the Minsk Treaties, which are ignored by the ruling coalition. Second, the adoption of a package of economic laws that enable the country to be brought out of crisis. We've developed an anti-crisis economic programme, and we suggest that we immediately consider and accept it. Five first-line points. First, financing the recovery of the economy by channelling the budgeted funds into war, restoring housing infrastructure, there's industrial potential. Second, to provide effective social protection for the population, to provide immediate wage indexation, to increase the cost of supporting displaced persons, and to index pensions. Stimulate investment flows and start domestic production, reduce tax pressure on business, stop fiscal abuse, and increase investor rights. To start a fight against corruption is not to stage a show of pear shows and talk about political opponents, but to really fight corruption. To restore economic stability, to a more predictable monetary policy. Ensure strict control over the refinancing of banks and the gradual lifting of monetary restrictions. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-07-m0.u13	Please, Fatherland, Ivan. Yuri Lewchenko, please, "The Fatherland" has passed on the word. Then Vladimir Litwin, "The will of the people." Please, Yuri Lewchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-07-m0.u14	Lewchenko, Freedom, 223rd District. Honorable Society, Honourable Ukrainian People! For several weeks now, accusations have been heard in Ukraine. Accusations based on facts based on documents on corruption abuses by the government and on corruption abuses by Prime Minister Arsenius Yatsenuk, who covers these abuses by the government. Instead of conducting an objective investigation, an unbiased investigation into these accusations, we see that there is simply an exchange of compliments. Someone's got a divorce, someone's got so many cars, someone's got so many properties, the bad stuff, the bad song, and so on. This is unacceptable! There are accusations of theft of more than 7 and a half billion dollars! There's a charge that you can get the Crusher back into state property, and that's not happening. There's a robbery charge in Naftogaza for over 4 and a half billion. There's a charge of stealing from Energoatom and so on and so forth. There's also evidence of Skrnaft and Skrtransnaft. Which is exactly what the Prime Minister's permission has resulted in the extraction of technical oil from Ukrainian pipelines and passed on to private structures. But there is no investigation in this regard! It has taken a few weeks for society to have an independent commission of inquiry in the Supreme Council of Ukraine to investigate all these charges. So there's not too much talk on the talk show to tell who's got cars, wives and so on. Because it doesn't matter who Gordienka is. It doesn't matter! The important things he was talking about! And when the only commission that was created so far is in Kabmin, which was created by the people that he checked and who allegedly admitted that he was a corrupter himself, it's absurd. I mean, the people he checked, they tested it themselves. There must be an independent investigation in the walls of the Supreme Council. All those who do not want to do so are simply traitors to the Ukrainian people! Because you're all here today as a result of Maidan, all of you! You came here just because people gave their lives on Maidan! Therefore, you are obliged to vote today in favour of creating a temporary commission of inquiry to verify these facts. If you're honest with people, if you really want to change something in the country. And that's why we're going to block the Supreme Council rostrum, and we're not going to let anyone in this rostrum until today we've voted to create a temporary commission of inquiry into the facts of the abuse. And let this committee decide whether it's true or not, and let society.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-07-m0.u15	Vladimir Mikhailovich Litwin, please. Dear colleagues, don't stop the deputies from speaking out of the rostrum, it's not your rostrum, it's the Ukrainian Parliament. Right, and every MP has a right to it. So please do not exaggerate your authority. Please miss Vladimir Mikhailovich. Dear colleagues, please don't conflict. Please, Vladimir Mikhailovich, out of place.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-07-m0.u16	Dear Head, distinguished national MPs! As long as high-level offices measure who stole more and demonstrated their fight against corruption, and more specifically, they eliminate competitors in corruption, Ukrainian society, our people are shocked. They are confused and disheartened because they do not know how to pay unsettled tariffs. True, in recent times, including in the MP environment, we have been exposed and offered to listen to NCRE. The question is, Are they solos to listen to? Who needs these "beneficial idiots" talks? But, dear colleagues, you have also supported them, you have given them trips to these positions. And today we have to answer one question: how can people survive a thousand dollars, 1300 dollars, in 1200. Therefore, the proposal: not to listen to the representatives of this department, but to take the decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to impose a moratorium on tariff increases until these tariffs are determined, is the first and the opportunity for people to pay these tariffs. The same problem is that of closing schools, especially in rural areas and primarily in rural areas. People, communities repair schools, provide them with everything they need, and schools close. And that's what I'm showing you. Those deputies who initiated appropriate decisions yesterday and today support such government actions. We're in favour of a decision this week by the Supreme Council to ban school closings. The same is true of hospitals. The problem of the Chernobyls. Soon, April 26, everyone will talk solemnly about how they respect the Chernobylites. But those tiny social benefits, the social standards are completely ruined. So we also suggest that we make a decision on this matter. In general, our group will support the creation of a TSC to investigate the facts of corruption in the higher echelons of power. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-07-m0.u17	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I'd like your attention. Focus, please, on a few things that I would like to inform you about yesterday's meeting of the Conciliation Council. Ladies and gentlemen, may I have your attention? Yesterday. Take your seats, please. Rosenblatt, a distinguished colleague of the national MP Rosenblatt, a respected colleague of the national MP, National MP Pinzenik, please take your seats, Paul Pinzenik. Please. Dear colleagues, yesterday we held meetings of the Conciliation Board, where we discussed a number of issues, including initiatives to combat corruption and statements by the chief of Financepection plus the conclusion of a working group that worked in the government to identify certain corruption activities and worked on a number of materials. It was also said that conditions needed to be created to investigate the economic justification of tariffs in order to ensure that the issue was completely public and open. There were options for creating the TSC, but at the end of the post-Conciliation Board we agreed on the next approach. Because today it's possible to talk about creating different committees that can't in any way lead to a result, and we can do the following. First. We want the tariffs to be open, public, to be fair, and if they are insurmountable for a person, the state has to do everything to protect this person through compensators. Second position. If we're talking about corruption, we need to make sure that corruption is investigated quickly so that decisions are made on it. If someone created corruption, they have to go to jail. Because if the person who created corruption does not go to prison, it will mean that corruption will increase in our country. So yesterday we decided to set up and hold public committee meetings on Wednesday afternoon. For example, with regard to corruption issues, the anti-corruption committee led by Jegor Sobolev, the Committee of Law Enforcement, Andrija Anatoliyovich Kozemyakin. Consider all the materials and make a perfectly reasonable proposal to the people's deputies to create a TSC, to invite those or others to listen to the walls of Parliament. Systematizing this work, not turning it into a smile that doesn't lead to the desired result. Second position. Questions of tariffs, tariffs. Of course, you have to get official information from NCRE, from Naftogazu, from Minpalevenergo, from the social minister: what tariffs, how people pay, what social compensators. Systematize this work within the profile committee, make agreed proposals to the Parliament Hall. This committee is represented by the representative of the Radical Party of Oleg Láska of the People's Deputy Skuratovski. Keep it live, no shadows, no underground games, and eventually put order into it. What is wrong with this system? Nothing! Proportional representation on committees is ensured by all political forces. Then it'll be professional, it'll be quality and it'll be open. So the proposal for now is that you have two committees, an anti-corruption committee, and, Andriy Anatoliyovich, your committee to deal with corruption in public tomorrow. Second position: The commission of the Skuratowski-leading committee to conduct appropriate hearings tomorrow and to make proposals to Parliament: (a) on the establishment of committees, on Friday, to invite those or other officials who are needed and the results of this report to take further decisions by the Ukrainian Parliament. It's going to be real control, it's going to be a professional approach, and eventually, it's going to be the responsibility of both the political forces and the committee heads to make sure that the issue is resolved in principle. Therefore, fellow believers, you and I today have a number of serious issues related to the consideration of matters of the order of the day. In this regard, I would like to ask fellow believers to accept the following approach. [[B in m in s a l in]] Next! [[B in m in s a l in]] Next! [[B in m in s a l in]] The agenda is that we're going to vote on the agenda for the day session. That means you and I have six pages, honourable MPs, different bills. There's a proposal for us to vote all six pages in a package and to include the issues in the agenda of the session so that we can start their consideration on the committees. The committees will then be determined on this issue. So I would ask the honourable national deputies to take their seats, the factions' leaders to take their seats so that we can determine how to form the agenda for the day session. There are defence issues, there are anti-corruption issues. There's a question. [[B in m in s a l in]] There are issues that concern other important decisions to be adopted this week by the Ukrainian Parliament. Such a position is taken in order for the day to include the sessions. In order of the day session to include questions. I'll take that, thank you. Dear colleagues, for your consideration. I'm asking you to invite the people's deputies to the hall.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-07-m0.u18	Please take your place as distinguished national deputies, and your consideration is for inclusion in the agenda of the daily session of drafts, registration number, attention: 2471, 2472, 2541. Invite the people’s deputies. 2551, 2564, 2568, 2489, 2490, 1567, 2561, 2562, 2567, 2531, 2563, 2532, 2538, 2539, 2540, 2558, 2515, 2497, 2485, 2486, 2070, 2071, 2442, 2528, 2276, 2143, 2073, 2105, 1835, 2026, 2069, 2069-1, 2069-2, 2332 – these are the bills that the Conciliation Board has decided to include in the agenda of the day session to start their work. Please prepare the national deputies for the vote. Dear colleagues, please prepare for the vote. And please support the inclusion of the agenda for the day session. We've actually included all the bills of all the colleagues who've been passing their bills. Is it accepted? Please vote for inclusion in the agenda of the session. I ask everyone to support this decision. Please be supportive. Please support everyone. Please be supportive. Please support the inclusion in the agenda of the day session. Please vote, dear friends, and I beg your pardon. Please vote. [[B in m in s a l in]] [[10:41:04]] For 221 You didn't make it? Oleg Lazko didn't make it. Dear colleagues, your consideration is put to the vote, I ask your support. This is the inclusion in the agenda of the day-to-day agenda session, just the session, there are the laws of all factions. Please support and please vote, Your Honor. Please support and please vote. Vote please, Your Honor! For inclusion in the agenda of the day session, please support. Please be supportive. Keep it up, fellas! Thank you. My colleagues, in fact, we're just doing our job. [[10:41:42]] For 245 Decision taken. Thank you all for your support. Next, dear fellows, I propose. If they're asking for a meeting, please, everyone interested in one person in my office. I'm handing over the lead to the First Deputy Head of the Supreme Council. Please begin your consideration of the issues of the agenda. And please come in. Keep going.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-07-m0.u19	Dear colleagues, let us now consider the draft Law amending the Ukrainian Family Code to take into account information about the social assistance of the family (persons) in the protection of family rights and interests. The rapporteur on this question is Minister of Social Policy Rosenko Pavlov Valeriyovich. But before that, there's a suggestion that we take a brief look at the bill. I'd like the National Deputies to support the short-term review. Please be supportive. [[B in m in s a l in]] [[10:43:19]] For 133 [[B in m in s a l in]] I want to emphasize again. We can either look at the whole question, or we can think about it in a shortcut mode. I ask the MPs once again to support the proposal to review this bill in short terms. Once again, national MPs, come to the workplace and vote. Who, for the sake of a brief consideration of this issue, please vote. Please vote. May I have your support, national deputies? [[10:44:02]] For-182 Thank you. So we start to consider the issue and are invited first to the words of the co-reporter, head of the Committee on Family, Youth Policy, Sport and Tourism, Sporish Ivan Dmitrovic. Please report to me. Please, out of the way. Please turn on the microphone so that Ivan Dmitrovitch can report the bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-07-m0.u20	Deputies! I'm going to ask for your attention because, really, everyone is now going to Vladimir Borisovich to continue our order of the day. That's why I'd love to. [[B in m in s a l in]] To avoid interrupting, but at the same time, it is important to consider today. The Committee on Family, Youth Policy, Sport, and Tourism reviewed the draft Ukrainian Law on Amendments to the Ukrainian Family Code to take into account information on the social assistance of the family in the protection of family rights and interests, as presented by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. We have considered this issue on our committee. The committee supports legislative proposals aimed at improving the way in which one parent’s involvement in child rearing, the place of residence, the removal and restoration of parental rights, and other such disputes are dealt with in court. These changes are intended to be taken into account when considering the relevant disputes of parental rejection. The main scientific and expert office supports the adoption of the bill as a basis for the first reading, taking into account the comments and proposals made. According to the Anti-Corruption Committee, the anti-corruption bill meets the requirements of anti-corruption legislation. The committee therefore proposes to the Supreme Council of Ukraine to adopt the draft Law as a basis. I'm going to say that our committee had a minister of social policy, different experts, and this is really a question for all of us, we all have to accept it. So I am very much asking you to support this question.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-07-m0.u21	Thank you. Please, people's deputies, two for, two against. Please enable registration. Please. So the word is given to Gerasim's Arthur Volodymyrovich, the Party of Peter Dustenka. Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-07-m0.u22	Arthur Gerasimov is the Block of Petra Dustenka. The Peter Prashenko faction supports the adoption of this bill as a basis, because it is really very important when protecting and accompanying families, especially single-parent families, when it comes to the involvement of one parent in raising children. So I urge all MPs to support this bill and accept it as a basis. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-07-m0.u23	Thank you. The word is given to Hungarian Paul Yakimovich, the political party of the People's Front. Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-07-m0.u24	Dear colleagues, the People's Front faction will support this bill in the first reading. It is important that information about social assistance be known in court. I would also like to remind you that on Friday we have a daily draft of a decision that is consistent with the family, youth policy, sports, and tourism committee on the conduct of parliamentary hearings on the situation of the family in Ukraine. And I think that these parliamentary hearings, including today's bill, are going to be able to analyze from the point of view of implementation. I would like to remind you that, sadly, today the Ukrainian family in the vast majority is part of the family. And the issue of settlement, including court disputes, including participation in social media, is very important. Today, we need to rebuild all mechanisms for supporting the Ukrainian family, supporting birth, including by applying all legal and economic mechanisms. Let us therefore vote in favour of the family in Ukraine. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-07-m0.u25	Thank you very much. So the honourable colleagues of the people's deputies, the committee's conclusion, are to adopt the bill as a basis. And the conclusion of the Chief Scientific and Scientific Administration is that the bill can be adopted as a basis. So there is a proposal to vote in favour of adopting the bill as a basis. Dear colleagues, I ask you to take your seats and prepare for the vote. Please enter the hall so that we can vote effectively. Thus, I am voting on the draft Law amending the Ukrainian Family Code to take into account information about the social assistance of the family (persons) in the protection of family rights and interests in the judicial order. Number 2190. The bill is being adopted as a basis. Please determine how to vote. Please vote. [[10:50:35]] For 226 This bill is accepted as a basis. And we're going to consider the next bill. And, dear colleagues, I wanted to remind you. Two weeks ago, when we had a conversation and talks on Friday, many deputies stressed, let us stop the endless interruptions. If there is a need for Parliament's leadership to talk about political aspects, let the council go through, and let one of the deputies conduct the session for hours, is that it? So we don't have to sit around for hours without a job. When all of Ukraine is waiting for us to make decisions, when we announce a break for two weeks. Today, the Head of the Supreme Council, I ask you not to interrupt when I say, today, when the Head of the Supreme Council is holding a meeting, according to your suggestions and your requests, he would ask that we continue to hold a session. Are we doing the right thing? So let us make the decisions and laws that Ukraine needs today without noise. So the next bill. Draft Act amending the Ukrainian Act on Military Duty and Military Service on the Liberation of Persons with Disabilities Children I or II Group. There is a proposal for this bill to be considered under a reduced procedure. If there is support, please vote. Dear colleagues, I ask you to vote in favour of the summary procedure. [[10:52:23]] For-188. Thank you so much for your support. So the reporter, the Ukrainian national deputy Jeremeyev Igor Miranovic, is invited to the floor. Please turn on the microphone. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-07-m0.u26	Ukrainian people! Dear Head, distinguished national MPs! Your attention is given to the draft Ukrainian Act amending the Ukrainian Act on Military Duty and Military Service on the Liberation of Persons with Disabilities Children I or II Group. Special attention should be paid to the children of those parents who have been mobilized into the ATO zone in accordance with the Ukrainian Act on Mobilization Training and Mobilization, the Ukrainian Act on Military Duty and Military Service. At present, the next colossal event took place. According to the part of article 23 of the Ukrainian Act on Mobilization Preparation and Mobilization, with changes and additions, men and women who have an adult child who is a member of the first and second groups are not eligible for military service until it reaches 23 years of age during mobilization. At the same time, today there are men in the ATO zone who were called, mobilized to accept changes to the relevant law, and therefore did not refer to military obligations that are not subject to an appeal. The bill, presented to you, removes the colossal system. previously mobilized military personnel are able to return to their children and families. The Parliament's Professional Committee and the Chief Scientific and Experimental Administration support the bill. Please support him, if possible, today as a basis, perhaps in general, because many children and parents today await these changes to the law. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-07-m0.u27	Thank you. We'll advise you on how to accept it, but let's hear from the committee the national MP Winnick. Please turn on the microphone. People's MP Winnick. Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-07-m0.u28	Good afternoon, dear colleagues. We looked at this bill on the committee. He really has a very technical character. Because taking into account the changes to the Ukrainian Act on Mobilization Training and Mobilization, which were introduced as early as 25.07.2014, this category of persons is released from military service. Instead, there are certain individuals who have been mobilized and in the military by that time. So what we need to do is we need to give these people an opportunity to go back to their children, in this case, to the disabled of the first or second group. And in this way they will be released from the service. Instead, on the committee, we would add an additional thesis that such persons would be released from military service if they had the right desire. Because there may be a situation where our soldiers will serve to the end, pay their debts to Ukraine, and then return to their homes. The committee would therefore recommend that the bill be adopted as a whole, but that it should be added that, if it is appropriate for such persons to be released from military service. Please be supportive. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-07-m0.u29	Thank you. Now we're going to write two for, two for the opposite. But I'm very much asking you to express your opinion, and also to express your position or vote on the basis, or on the whole. Dear colleagues, I'd like you to sign in for two, two against. Please enable the registration system. Please turn on the microphone of Ungurian Paul Yakimovitch, People's Front, please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-07-m0.u30	Dear colleagues, the People's Front faction will support this bill. I would like to point out that this will be a powerful example when factions of coalitions support bills that are not made by members of the coalition, but aimed at improving perfectly normal, right things. You and I have already become a normal practice when we consider even in such difficult times, when we are actually at war, we are considering possible exclusion from the list of persons who are subject to mobilization or military service of those or other categories of citizens. Of course, we understand the hard work that parents or caregivers of children who have an I or a II disability group are doing. It's a big, big deal that these people are doing. And that's why, given this approach, to the approach of partial, selective exemption from military recruitment, we're going to be first-reading to support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-07-m0.u31	Thank you. Please, Kishkar Pavlov Mikolaiovich, political union of Self-Help. Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-07-m0.u32	Self-help, self-help will support this bill as a basis, given that there are really technical adjustments that we would like to make between the first and the second. And I'm going to repeat to Mr. John Winnick that there can't be such a situation that it's going to be a forced release. It is only the right of a person to leave the military service if he or she has such circumstances or circumstances exist after his or her recruitment to military service. So this is essentially a technical solution that solves the problems of people who are already in line. Self-help has consistently insisted that we conceptually address such issues, not by separately identifying a category of parents of disabled people or teachers at universities or PhDs, so that we can approach the system in a comprehensive manner, both mobilization and demobilization, military service and liberation. Such systemic things as we do not yet see and will continue to insist on the development of separate laws, as if they included all the categories that we see from a state's standpoint, it would be right to release or allow them to be able to be released from military service under such a law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-07-m0.u33	Thank you. Please, Mosiyczuk Igor Volodymyrovich, the Radical Party of Oleg Laska, please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-07-m0.u34	Igor Mosiyczuk, Radical Party. We will support this bill in the first reading. It is important to note, as colleagues have said, that it should be exclusively about the human right to use the benefits that this bill will provide. At the same time, we need to protect parents who really care about children with disabilities, which is very important. In fact, literally a few days ago, when I returned from the front, I would like to take this opportunity to focus my colleagues' attention that the adoption of all military laws is now very necessary, because the country is in a state of war. And blocking Parliament's work, while the war is going on, is unacceptable, especially since colleagues from Freedom WO were about to vote in favour of the day-to-day decommunization bill. A bill that includes the recognition of UN-OPA as a warring party in World War II. So before you do anything and make money from abroad. Still others need to be thought for those who are in the trenches for those who are at war with the protection of the country’s territorial integrity. According to the bill, I'd like all my colleagues to support you in the first reading.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-07-m0.u35	Thank you. Please include Papiev Mikhailo Mikolaiovich, political party of the Opposition Block. I get it, out of the way.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-07-m0.u36	Honorable National Deputies of Ukraine! The faction of the opposition party will support this bill in the first reading, but we don't support it in general, and I'll explain why. We need to make it very clear how we can now act with regard to persons who are already in military service and who have children with disabilities. We're also going to need to technically write categories in this law: there are children with disabilities, there are disabled children from childhood. And we're also going to have to look at this category of people who have disabled parents. I mean, I would very much ask that we approach this law technically correctly, write it out, and first of all act to protect people's interests, social justice. We will vote in favour of this law on the basis and ask it to prepare for the second reading, and we are ready to make our proposals. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-07-m0.u37	Thank you so much for your thoughts. I ask the deputies to enter the voting room. And I would like to advise you, judging from the political factions, it seems that the proposal to vote in general for today does not receive the required number of votes. And so obviously, I'm going to put, as suggested in the agenda, the bill as the basis for the first reading. I'm asking you to take your seats in the hall. Honorable national MPs, every vote we vote determines the fate of the people, the fate of those on the front. And this is not the time or place to replace important decisions with a political show. I very much ask that we take our seats and vote, for each of these laws awaits thousands and thousands of people. I ask you to prepare for the vote, to take your seats, to get close to your cards, and to vote on the draft Act on Change in Military Duty and Military Service on the release from military service of persons with disabilities I or II groups (registration number 1488) on the first reading. For the most part, please determine how to vote. Please. [[11:04:18]] For 244 Thank you for your support. I think we can prepare quickly, between the first and the second readings, to make all the necessary amendments, and this law is already, in the second reading, qualitatively prepared to vote in two weeks. Next draft of the Law on Amendments to Article 26 of the Law on Military Duty and Military Service on the Liberation of Citizens from Military Service, which are students or postgraduates of the daily form of education. And there's also a proposal for the bill to be considered in a simplified procedure. Is it supported? If you support me, please vote in favour of the shorter procedure. Please, people's deputies, let's focus and vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-07-m0.u38	[[11:05:20]] For 169 Thank you, Your Honor. Thus, the National Deputy of Ukraine, Litwin Vladimir Mikhajlovich, is invited to report. He will be followed by Greenwich Lilia Mikhailovna. Please turn on the microphone from Vladimir Mikhailovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-07-m0.u39	In its time, the Supreme Council of Ukraine adopted a law whereby students of the daily form of education and postgraduates are not subject to mobility during a special period. At the same time, the legal gap remained, namely, that some of the students and postgraduates had been mobilized before the law was adopted. There are some 60 of them. Therefore, it is suggested that a decision be made that if they voluntarily want to continue their studies, that is, leave the service so that there is such a right in the Ministry of Defence and the General Staff. Dear Chairman, there is also an alternative bill by Lilia Mikhailovna Greenevich, which is more clearly written there. So I propose to adopt the Bill of Lilia Greenevich, but add to this Bill and Doctors. These are also units, but, at the same time, we should not lose them for science, they will benefit Ukraine more by their direct professional activities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-07-m0.u40	Thank you for your constructive position. And please give the floor to Greenwich Lilia Mikhailovni. Also, please turn on the microphone. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-07-m0.u41	Lilia Greenevich, People's Front. Dear colleagues, we propose, and so do the Committee on National Security and Defence, on the basis of a total of 1,175, complementing it with paragraphs 2196. So there's a proposed editor. I want to read it for a transcript where we have to put out this paragraph, which will allow those postgraduates and students of the daily form of education who were mobilized before the adoption of the July 3 law to be released at their request. For the transcript, I read, "And military service also frees military personnel who are students or postgraduates of the day form of education and were called into military service for a special period of recruitment. Such persons may continue military service if they have expressed such a desire." This is the editorial that we're asking for as a whole. The next law, which is in the order of the day, will apply to the PhD students of the day form of education. And the committees propose to unify these laws. But we still have to vote this one first, and then we're going to fill in the next one. Thank you. Please vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-07-m0.u42	Thank you very much. From the National Security and Defence Committee, I would like to give the floor to Deputy Winniku. Out of the way. Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-07-m0.u43	Dear colleagues, it is indeed a derivative of the law that we have just considered. The point is that the changes to the Law on Mobilization and Mobilization, these categories of people, namely: students, postgraduates and, in fact, Ph.D., have already been released from military service. Instead, some individuals are already in the Ukrainian army, and we are obliged to allow them to return to their homes if they so wish. And that's why the committee will propose 1175-1 as a whole. And we should also point out that, in fact, the next law of the day is Bill 2196, which applies to Ph.D. In fact, we decided to put these two bills together and make appropriate changes under the transcript in the name of the law, which should be called: "On military duty and military service" on the exemption from the military service of citizens who are students or postgraduate students or PhDs of the day form of education. So by combining these two laws and by introducing these amendments - the ones said by Lilia Greenevich, the author of the bill, under the transcript, we ask for Bill 1175-1 and Bill 2196 to adopt them as a basis and as a whole, and to release these categories of persons from military service if they so desire. Thank you. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-07-m0.u44	Thank you. Please record two in favour, two in the opposite. Please enable the registration system. Barna Oleg Stepanovich, faction of the Party of Peter Prashenko. Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-07-m0.u45	Dear colleagues, the country's laws are necessary in order to preserve the flower of our nation and the intellectual direction of our nation's development. But I think we've forgotten another important moment, about the teaching composition of universities that are preparing our intellectual flower nation. There are, unfortunately, such terrible cases where, instead of mobilising the Armed Forces of Ukraine and ATO pensioners of internal forces who, at the age of 45, have retired IMF pensioners, pensioners of the tax militia who have the proper training. Regrettably, military commissioners go into the audience, while reading lectures, and deliver messages to teachers, candidates, professors, doctors of science, and professors. Questions. And who will prepare those students? That's why I'm asking this law to propose not to mobilize university professors, academic candidates, professors, professors, and those who have already been mobilized by the negligence of the commissioners and their lack of transparency, to allow them to be released because they are at risk of learning our students' intelligence. But there are a number of applied sciences or teachers that can't be replaced in higher education institutions to teach their students. Please support the offer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-07-m0.u46	Thank you. You come to the head of the committee, talk to the committee head so that we can reconcile it before the vote. Now, Paul Yakimovich Unguryan, the political party of the People's Front, is invited to the floor. Please turn on the microphone. And, Paul Yakimovich, a little louder if you could speak. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-07-m0.u47	In general, with the support of Bill 1175-1 and colleague Lilia Grinevich, please pass the word to Colleague Krivoshea.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-07-m0.u48	Didn't I hear who?
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-07-m0.u49	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, there is a proposal and a request from the People's Front faction to support the proposal and the corresponding changes to the bill read under Mrs. Lilia Greenevich's transcript. Let's think about our students who are now learning. This is our future, this is our country's perspective. Therefore, it is a great request to support the bill in its first reading and in general. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-07-m0.u50	Thank you. Please give the word Kishkar Pavlov Mikolaiovich, political party "The Self-Help Union". Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-07-m0.u51	I'm happy, in fact, that these two laws go by, that we voted alone. And now another category, another bill. This is unnecessary evidence of our unsuspecting work with regard to recruitment and mobilization. As to what Mr. Barna said, I suggest, Mr. Olege, that you write the Act on Compulsory Mobilization of Pensioners of the Ministry of Defence, and all. And let's solve this, there will be no problems. It's very simple, we're introducing the law, and they're necessarily mobilizing. It's like the answer to the question you mentioned. The Self-Help faction will of course support this bill, based on its further development between the first and the second. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-07-m0.u52	Thank you. Please welcome Monsieur Igor Volodymyrovich, the Radical Party. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-07-m0.u53	Igor Mosiyczuk, Radical Party. We support this bill in the first reading. It stands in one row with the previous, no less important. It should be noted that in the defense of the country, there are now all kinds of people, including scientists, doctors of science, Ph.D.s, very many students. Therefore, we must foresaw their right to complete their training by ceasing service in the Armed Forces or other military formations. At the same time, I fully support my colleague on the need for a separate bill on the recruitment of IMF pensioners, internal military pensioners and the like. Because these ladies, who were supposed to protect the state, were sitting around their pants in their time, tearing down the Ministry of Internal Affairs, the internal forces, robbing the Armed Forces of Ukraine, and now they're getting pensions bigger than ordinary citizens. It's on the front, in the trench to protect the country. Not to use pensions as military and police personnel. I urge my colleagues to support this bill as a basis. And vote for him.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-07-m0.u54	Thank you very much. So, colleagues, we have two bills: 1175 and 1175-1. There's a joint proposal by the rapporteurs and there's a conclusion by the committee of profile to vote 1175-1, but taking into account the committee's proposals. And the committee's offering it as a foundation as a whole. But I'm not sure if there are any votes in the room as a whole. Because the Self-Help faction said only as a basis. Yeah? Are you in or out? Agreed. Radical, agreeable in general? Let's try it. Then there's an offer for us to wait for a break for consultations. For the time being, national deputies, I ask you to enter all those who are in the towers into the voting room. I ask that we take up jobs so that we can vote responsibly and effectively. And I ask the heads of factions and the Secretariat to invite the deputies to the Hall. An important vote, an important law. And there's a proposition, I repeat, that the amendment committee's proposal, which was made by Lillia Greenevich for a stenographer from the place, voted for the basis as a whole. Does the head of the stenographer’s committee need to read the amendments again? None. That's why I'm proposing a bill, a draft law amending article 26 of the Ukrainian Law on Military Duty and Military Service on the release from military service of citizens who are students or postgraduate students of the daily form of education (No.1175-1), taking into account the committee's proposals to vote on the basis as a whole. Please vote. Please support this proposal. Please. [[11:19:26]] For 245 Thank you. And I welcome the chairman of the committee with the adoption of this law. The next bill is very similar to the previous one. According to the Rules, each of them should be considered separately. But there's a suggestion that maybe we don't have a long discussion, just a report for Lily Greenevich and then a vote. But first of all, we have to vote to consider the bill in short notice. Whoever supports this proposal, please vote. It's a short-term procedure. Please vote. [[11:20:13]] For 175 Thank you for your support. I ask you to give the report to the Greenwich of Lilia Mikhailovni. Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-07-m0.u55	Dear colleagues, so we talked to you in the previous bill about students and postgraduate students of the day form. But we have another category -- PhDs in the day form of education. Among them are 867 men today. In fact, they are people in whom the state has already invested enough of its resources so that they can continue to acquire scientific degrees and engage in scientific activities. It's our fund, because they're also learning people, we have to release them. This brings together 1175-1 and this bill, which we are now listening to 2196. For the transcript, I'm going to read the amended title of the bill, which is supplemented by the word "doctors." So the title is, "The Act on Amendments to Article 26 of the Ukrainian Law on Military Duty and Military Service" (for military personnel who are students or postgraduates or PhD students of the day form of education)." Next. In article 23, we add the word "doctors who learn in the day-to-day form" to the words "no students and postgraduates." And finally, the final wording of paragraph 2 of chapter I, which reads as follows: "According to military service, soldiers are released, who are students, postgraduates or PhDs, and have been called into military service for a special period of recruitment. Such persons may continue military service if they have expressed such a desire." Thank you. Please vote in favour.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-07-m0.u56	Ms. Lilia, I'm asking you to clarify that we've already made this amendment in 1175 or not, should we vote on it?
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-07-m0.u57	We have it together, we must now vote for it as a whole. That's when we fix graduate students and Ph.D.s.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-07-m0.u58	Okay. Thank you. I give the floor to Deputy Winniku's co-report from the committee, and I ask you to clarify, in fact, what we are about to vote on right now. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-07-m0.u59	Dear colleagues, both Bills 1175-1, which we have not yet voted on, and 2196, which we now hope to vote on, is on the Committee of Safety and Defence. We'll write the final text. And really the question was that in the previous bill, we liberated ourselves from military duty and military service by voting on students and graduate students, which is, but this is the same point in article 26 of the Ukrainian Law on Military Duty and Military Service. Therefore, considering that we need to make changes to the amended article in the previous law now in this bill, we are merging these two bills and therefore actually supporting the committee, the Supreme Council of Ukraine recommends that the draft registration number 2196 be adopted in the first reading on the basis and overall, taking into account the position of the 1175-1 registration projects. Finally, when the committee prepares the text, it will present article 26 of the Ukrainian Act "On Military Duty and Military Service" in a revised version, taking into account that they are exempt from military service if they have the right desire, students and postgraduates of the daily form of education, as well as Ph.D. of the day form of education. So I'm asking you to support this bill on the basis, and in general, it's not complicated, it's derived from the previous one, and we're going to write the final paper under the transcript along with the drafters of the bill, and we're going to sign for the President if the support in the room is right. Thank you. Please vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-07-m0.u60	Thank you. I didn't hear it all. Is there a need to discuss? Is that right? Then let's just include 2 in favour, 2 in the opposite. And please sign up for the performance, please. Dobrenkov Alexander Valerijovich is invited to attend. "The Opposition Block," please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-07-m0.u61	Thank you. Thank you, Your Honor Chairman! Ladies and gentlemen, the faction of the Opposition Block is in favour of a peaceful settlement of the conflict, but if it happens that coalition representatives don't listen to us, they can't hear these calls, we will of course support any legislative initiatives that won't allow them to go to the front, to the conflict zone, to the people who have higher education, who are learning in the day form of education, are postgraduate and Ph.D. And, of course, they should be given the opportunity to learn, not the appropriate responsibilities that professionally trained people should perform. In general, we stand for a peaceful settlement. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-07-m0.u62	Thank you. Kuprienko Oleg Vasilovich, the Radical Party of Oleg Ljashka, is invited to attend. Out of the way.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-07-m0.u63	Oleg Kuprienko, Oleg Laska Radical Party. We fully support these bills. Notice that when preparing such bills, the committee needs to be prepared more carefully so that there are not two bills about the same thing, and in order to put one word into the previous bill, namely, the word "doctors", it needs to be discussed for another half hour. I continue to address the people of Ukraine, who are now watching our meeting. On Sundays, everyone was horrifying the willow, such little slices as they were beating at, saying, "I'm not beating, I'm beating the willow." It doesn't work." So I suggest that the electorate be cut out on such a good camel, go to the church, dedicate himself again, and look carefully at the hall, who works, and when the people's deputies appear in the district, pound this willow until the national deputy gives the word to come to the sessional hall to work, not to run, to discuss what, including blocking the rostrum. Work! Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-07-m0.u64	Thank you! Please, Matvienko Anatoly Sergiyovich, Party of Peter Dustenk's Block. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-07-m0.u65	Dear colleagues, I will certainly be aspiring to support this bill. But I would like to draw your attention and our attention to rhetoric. The war fought today by Russia against Ukraine can end and will certainly end with Ukraine’s victory on one condition: when it will be a national mobilization, there will be no one standing outside today’s very sharp, unfair, aggressive opposition against Ukraine. And when we speak of liberation today, we must first thank all those today who are protecting Ukraine with weapons, thank all those who are helping with their volunteer efforts. But we have to talk about what we're releasing, and this liberation is not imperative. To emphasize once again that all those who want to go and protect Ukraine have the opportunity to do so. Because if we do not say so, we are inherently dividing all Ukrainian citizens into two groups: some have privileges and others have a duty to protect Ukraine. I believe that protecting Ukraine is the responsibility of every citizen, regardless of how and how he is employed today. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-07-m0.u66	Thank you. Please, Kishkar Pavlov Mikolaiovich, Self Help Unit.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-07-m0.u67	Indeed, this bill is linked to the law that we have just passed. And I have great respect for Mrs. Lilia and I think that the faction will support the interrelationship of these laws and we will vote for the basis and the whole. But I would like to remind Mr. Dudenkov not only of the constitutional obligation, not only of legal requirements, but also of the moral and civil obligation to protect the state. Because that's where you can see the real people, the real defenders. And then when we talk about a possibility of avoiding a suit in times of military aggression on the part of the Russian Federation, it's just a permit for people to use it or not. The real men are on the front. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-07-m0.u68	Thank you. Dear colleagues, what is the offer? Since Bills 1175-1 and 2196 are related, I am. There is a proposal from both the Committee on Education and the Committee on Security and Defence to make these positions that have been sounded.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-07-m0.u69	Guys! We're talking about the front, the important things. Take a little break on your political show, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-07-m0.u70	So there's a proposal, these proposals that Lilia Greenevich made, that we include Bill 1175-1 into the signature that we've already accepted in general, and we've commissioned the committee to make these amendments before the final signing. Is such an offer accepted? It will be most correct: not a separate bill, but those positions that were read by Lília Grinevich, include the entire Law 1175-1. Is such an offer accepted? This is a joint proposal of both committees. So, dear colleagues, I ask you to come into the hall and take your jobs so that we can vote on the proposal. So I put it to a vote: to include the provisions of Bill 2196, which were sounded by the head of the committee, Lilia Grinevich, in Law 1175-1 in preparation for signature as a whole. For the proposal, I ask you to vote on it and to support it by voting. Please vote. [[11:32:15.]] For 254 Thank you very much, dear colleagues. These were very important documents. When they weren't trying to take them down, we were able to take them in and carry them out. And I propose to go to the next bill on the agenda: the draft Act amending Appendix No. 3 to the Ukrainian Act on the State Budget for Ukraine 2015 on State support for the coal sector. Bills: 2376 and, alternative, 2376-1. And there's an offer to consider it in a simplified way. If there is support for such a proposal, please vote in favour of the reduced procedure. Please support. [[11:33:09]] For-173 Thank you for your support. And the report invites Ukrainian national deputy Martinenko Mikola Volodymyrovich. Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-07-m0.u71	Dear colleagues, Bill 2376 provides for a redistribution of funds between the budget programmes, namely: a reduction of 400 million funding under the coal and peat industry restructuring programme 1101070, and an increase in costs under the State support for carbon-carbon enterprises to partially cover costs from the cost of finished coal production." The implementation of this bill will provide an opportunity to cover the debt owed to miners today. The cost of the transfer is 400 million dollars. This bill does not provide for additional spending from the State budget and helps us make payments to coal miners in full. Mine coal supports the bill in its entirety. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-07-m0.u72	Thank you. The National Deputy of Ukraine, Musei Oleg Stepanovich, is invited to report. Please turn on the microphone. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-07-m0.u73	Dear National Deputies! You know what a terrible situation there is right now with the wages of coal miners all over Ukraine. In fact, the bill we're proposing is not 400 that we've just heard, it's 650 million. And that's a reasonable figure. Because the current state of debt owed to miners amounts to 650 million, and so by voting 400, we will have to go back to considering a similar bill again in one month. And the total number "650" is going to cover the debt that came out of January-month. In addition, when we consider this bill on the budget committee, we have concluded that I will now make an amendment to our alternative bill, that all 650 million are, in the same way as in 2376, submitted by Mr. Martinenko, we are taking it out of the budget programme "Restructuring Coal and Torfodial Industry." So I'd like you to write this down under the transcript. That "to redistribute expenditure under budget programme 1101110 "State support for state coal enterprises" to partially cover the cost of production by 650 million at a cost reduction of 650 million under budget programme 1101070 "Restructuring the coal and peat industry." I think coal miners and miners will tell us "thank you very much" for completely covering our payroll debt. I'm asking you to support the bill as a whole. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-07-m0.u74	Thank you. The co-report invites the head of the Committee on Budget Affairs, Pavelko Andry Vasilovich. Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-07-m0.u75	Dear National Deputies, the Budget Committee at its meeting on March 18th, reviewed Bill 2376 and, at its meeting on March 20, heard information about Bill 2376-1. It has been noted that Bill No. 2376 does not provide for the inclusion of additional budgetary resources and does not affect the overall expenditure of the State budget. It proposes to redistribute the expenditure of the Ministry of Energy and Coal Industry under its budget programmes of 400 million dollars to state support for industrial enterprises to pay salaries to employees of such enterprises, by reducing the cost of restructuring such enterprises. Such changes on the committee were supported by the Ministry of Energy and Coal Industry. As a result of the discussion, the Committee on Budget Questions adopted a decision to recommend to the Supreme Council a bill of 2376 to be adopted on a basis and in general as a law, taking into account the proposals made by the committee in the letter of conclusions related to the removal of the inaccuracies and the need to introduce legal clarifications into the bill. Then the Committee on Budget Affairs, together with the Chief Legal Authority of the Supreme Council, should make the necessary clarifications to the bill. With regard to Bill 2376-1, which proposes to set public support expenditure for coal-producing enterprises in the amount of 650 million dollars, and in addition to a reduction of 200 million dollars from the State Regional Development Fund, the committee has considered such a legislative initiative. However, a decision will already be made to support Bill No. 2376. Then, an additional issue could be discussed regarding the provision of state support to coal companies in general for 650 million dollars at the expense of exclusion. A reduction in the cost of restructuring such enterprises. The drafters of Bill 2376-1 have just expressed their position on this issue.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-07-m0.u76	Please give the committee's head the opportunity to finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-07-m0.u77	The Committee on Budgetary Questions adopted the decision to adopt a bill on the basis and generally as a law, taking into account the committee's proposals, number 2376. My colleagues would like to decide on the adoption of the Supreme Council's decision on Bills 2376 and 2376-1, taking into account the information I have received. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-07-m0.u78	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, please sign in: two for, two against. Please enable the registration system. Please sign up. Please, Barna Oleg Stepanovich, Peter Dusty Block. Turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-07-m0.u79	Dear colleagues, I ask you to support Oleg Musia's bill. And it's time for us to support the really coal sector, the Ukrainian miners, the Ukrainian patriots who work for our people, for the benefit of our country, and not the separatists who traffic coal, earn money and plunder our country. Therefore, with all due respect to my colleague and the Ukrainian people, I ask you to support our native miners. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-07-m0.u80	Thank you. Please welcome Gus Igor Volodymyrovich, National Front political party, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-07-m0.u81	Good afternoon, dear friends! Igor Goose, 19th mining district of Novovolinska Dear colleagues, there are people in the hall, especially those who block the rostrum, and I'm still asking everyone to support this bill. Because it allows coal miners to pay off their debt on wages. For several weeks in Novovolinsk, in Czervonograd, roads were blocked because in December, January, February, here is March, unfortunately, the state has not been able to pay wages to miners not only in western Ukraine, in eastern Ukraine, but also in eastern Ukraine. That's why I support my colleague Martinenko, Musia, the money, the bill needs to be voted on, and the miners have to be paid. That's the first one. The other one. I would like to stress by taking this opportunity that the issue is not solved today. Now, here is Mr. Demchisin, present here, 240 million dollars that have been earmarked for salary repayment, today they're in the Bank of Kiev Russia, whose accounts are blocked. Who will be responsible for such a waste? Why did the Ministry of Coal and Fuel Energy not think with their brains, transfer money owed on wages, to a bank that is in fact bankrupt today?Oh, my God! We have state banks. There are banks that work effectively. Who Will Answer? I sent a letter today to the Prime Minister to consider the possibility of resigning Mr. Demchinish. And the prosecutor, ours, means that Shockin Victor must open criminal conduct and find the guilty. Why are 240 million dollars blocked today? Thank you. Please support this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-07-m0.u82	Thank you. Martovitch's Arthur Volodymyrovich, "The Opposition Block."
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-07-m0.u83	Good afternoon, distinguished colleagues! Good afternoon, respectable miners! I would like to believe that the Bureau of Trade Unions, which was last week, its decisions, have been heard and, finally, today, with the support of the entire hall, we will be able to take the first step towards paying off the payroll that today has a complex, courageous profession. Today, wages have been paid by some government coal mining enterprises since October. My colleague Musi said that 650 million would be sufficient to pay off that debt. No, Oleg Stepanović, today the debt is a billion, and the debt of electricity between mines first, second, third and active is more than 2 billion. This is therefore the first step that we will support, the fulfilment of the constitutional rights of working miners who are now ready to ensure the country's energy security. And let this step be taken, our parliamentary votes in support of the bill will be an example for the Ministry of Fuel and Energy, for the Minister of Fuel and Energy at the beginning and understanding that the coal sector requires close attention, not once such steps to eliminate debt, but a clear understanding of what the coal sector will be tomorrow. The restructuring project, the fuel balance, people have to understand how they work and what they work for. We support the coal miners, we protect our safety. I ask everyone to support the bill for 650 million. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-07-m0.u84	Thank you. Markevich Jaroslav Volodymyrovic, political party of the Self-Help Union, is invited to the floor.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-07-m0.u85	Dear colleagues, we support the 400 million changes in the wage fund. However, it is important to note to the Ministry that the coal sector is completely closed and conditions are not respected, including the Coalition Agreement, which stipulated the need to privatize these enterprises. We also note that we are transferring money from the schedule where it was intended to restructure and close the loss-making enterprises. Now we're making a really closed circle with you and we're continuing it every three months, when we're taking money from the part where we have to close down the lost businesses and hand over the losses to the lost enterprises. Let the Ministry of Field Affairs finally reorganize the industry, and we will break this vicious circle. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-07-m0.u86	Thank you. Now I want to make it clear in the head of the committee. Here you are, head of the committee, Andry Vasilovich, you're not far from Oleg Stepanovich, I ask that we agree on the proposal correctly. The committee has given us an offer to accept as a basis and in general, taking into account the committee's proposals. Are there any proposals from Musia Oleg Stepanovich, I would like to clarify? Please, Martinenko for the lineup. Turn on Mikoli Martinenko's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-07-m0.u87	Dear colleagues, the scale of "restructuring" should leave money. So over 400 brothers can't, you have to listen to the self-help colleagues who said that. Therefore, a request to accept my bill as a basis and as a whole. If there are additional sources in other articles, let us flip. But it's no longer an article on restructuring. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-07-m0.u88	Thank you. And, please, for Oleg Stepanovich Musei's reverberation. Turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-07-m0.u89	Ladies and gentlemen, we're here in this article "Restructuring" even if we take 650 million more than 900 million to restructure and these figures are enough to restructure. That's why I'm asking you to take this as a base, and in general, I'm asking you to take this as a base. Mr. Chairman, I'd like to ask you to put it this way, first of all, 650 million, if 650 million doesn't get the votes of the hall, then we'll give our votes for 400 definitely million, so that we don't vote 400 and 650.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-07-m0.u90	Thank you. But unfortunately, I can put the laws' names according to the Rules according to their sequence. Let's do it because the vote is responsible I'm proposing a date for the replication of both Minfin Umansky and Demchino from the Ministry to give their expert evaluations. Probably Demchikin first, yeah, and then Minfin. Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-07-m0.u91	Ladies and gentlemen, good afternoon! Thank you so much for this opportunity. Thank you very much for introducing such a law that is important to miners and the coal industry for today’s consideration. Regarding the debt owed to miners to be executed. In November and December 2014, about 650 million dollars of debt were accumulated only on wages. Of these, 200 were disbursed from the 2015 budget, 450 had to be paid off from the proceeds that the mines received in January, February, and so on. What's more, during January-February, throughout the month, the mines stood idle. Why? Because there was no sale. The main consumer of Ukrainian coal is the coal station, as well as the D-Tech station. The coal station, after the fires of the war, couldn't get coal from the disrupted logistics. With D-Tech, there was no commercially advantageous arrangement for them to buy this coal in government mines. So this debt has to be repaid from the new months, from the proceeds that we get in February, March, April. To date, we had a full January budget and a 30 - percent February budget. So these costs that we're going to get will allow us to pay a full month's salary and, in principle, get into the current mining regime. But I fully agree with my colleagues, Mr. Musi, that we should also now be interested in development strategies. We have to invest in the preparation of the new lava, we have to build the Novovolinsk Western, Novovolinsk 10. So we need more money for the coal industry. We're trying to get them from foreign investors' credit resources, and we're also preparing privatization. This job is done, it's for Self-Help. In the near future, we are planning to begin the process of privatization. In principle, a lot of things have been done, but unfortunately, because of the debt of the previous year and also the simple support required this year. These 400 million, they're going to be able to close down. solve the situation with the calculations. In principle, of course, you need 600. We'll find the use.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-07-m0.u92	Thank you. Thank you! Please. But in their proposals, it is clear what proposal should be put to the vote. Please, the representative of Minfin, Mr. Umanski. Turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-07-m0.u93	Good afternoon, distinguished national MPs! I'd like to focus on very simple things. First, it's about restoring the program, which, as of January 1, the Government of the Supreme Council had cancelled – a program of state support. Everyone remembers well that it was the program and the activities around it. Now, under the guise of supporting the very respectable work of miners, we are in the order of the day's restoration of this program. The Ministry of Finance strongly denies this. What Did the Miners Require? They demanded, give us the price of 1,600 dollars, and they'll close the question, including, on salary. So far, it's about 65 dollars a day. Coal, that's right. Today, as we resume the program, we will once again encourage the practice of artificially overestimating self - worth and artificially lowering the price of selling coal from government mines. There's a problem with pay. I agree, the Supreme Council made a decision and included 200 million in the new programme and the repayment of the debt, which was on January 1. If there's a problem today, it's not solved, including due to the lack of tariff review and inclusion, respectively, of the level of carbon tariffs on tariffs, I propose to review this program, to clarify the amount, to make this redistribution in the first quarter, to solve the problem of paying off wages, but a government-supported program for coal companies, and in fact, to make up for the cost not to recover. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-07-m0.u94	I mean, once again, your proposal not to vote. Mr. Umansky! [[B in m in s a l in]] I'll ask you! Mr. Pinzenik! Sir. [[B in m in s a l in]] Mr. Umansky! I have an offer for you. You're suggesting we don't support any of the bills?
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-07-m0.u95	Our proposal is to support in the first reading on the budget committee, when preparing for the second reading, to change the budget programme, by the programme that we had foreseen after paying the salary, to add this amount to pay the salary, in this way to resolve the issue. For the future, my strong belief, NCRE must provide a level playing field for both coal and other coals of another origin, including import.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-07-m0.u96	Thank you. Let's finish all the discussions. Let's do the last of Musai's lines. Yeah? Let's move on to the vote. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-07-m0.u97	Ladies and gentlemen, let me be clear about the position of the Ministry of Finance, which, in violation of the Coalition Agreement, we have in our Coalition Agreement a reduction of government support by only 20 percent every year, and the government, together with the Ministry of Finance this year, broke the Coalition Agreement, reduced it by 100 percent. And now, instead of reading the Coalition Agreement, the government representative is violating it again. This is absolutely unacceptable, so we are obliged today to vote on any of the bills as a whole and on the basis of it. Come on, who's gonna pay? The Ministry of Finance, will you personally pay miners salary for these three months? People are good, get caught up in the government there!
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-07-m0.u98	And, please, the closing statement, the head of the committee, Mikola Martinenko. Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-07-m0.u99	Honorary colleagues, the Committee on Fuel and Energy, as well as the Committee on Budgets, have decided to recommend voting on Bill 2376 as a basis and as a whole. Dear colleagues, we understand that there are problems, there are tariff problems, there are others, but we need to pay the wages to keep the miners working. We've had the last two months of mines standing, I'm sorry, in a larger number. Not much, now that carbon has worked, is a government coal market, we have to support it so that we can continue to take less money from the budget. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-07-m0.u100	Thank you. So we listened to all the positions. I ask the people's deputies who are outside the hall to enter the hall, find their ballot cards, prepare for the vote. An important bill, it also depends on the fate of tens of thousands of miners who need the support of the state and the understanding of the state. And I'm going to put the bill in order first. Any more votes will be cast. The draft Act amending Appendix No. 3 to the Ukrainian Act on the State Budget for Ukraine 2015 on State Support for the Coal Sector (No. 2376) is therefore put to the vote. There is a proposal to accept it as a basis and in general, taking into account the committee’s proposals. Yeah? Dear colleagues, please support me, please vote. Please vote. [[11:57:25]] For 269 Thank you, colleagues, for the successful vote, and for the constructive work system. But now, according to the Rules, I announce a 30-minute break: until 12:30. At 12:30 a.m., we all gather in the hall to continue our challenge. I'm sorry, the concept has changed.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-07-m0.u101	Ladies and gentlemen, once again, may I have your attention, my friends? May I have your attention, please? I just got off the phone with the faction leaders, the people's deputies. In view of the fact that the issue actually needs a very thorough study and decision-making -- I mean, corruption statements, corruption and tariff policies -- we need to take this matter seriously, not just create something there, we don't know what it is. Therefore, a decision has been made, since there are many decisions on the TSC, a decision has been taken in accordance with my previous commission: tomorrow at 15 o'clock, in the House of Parliament, there will be a meeting of several committees of profile that will deal fully with these issues. The invited figures are already, before that, I'd say that's what they can explain. As a result of this meeting, proposals will be made to the Ukrainian Parliament to determine the creation of the TSC, other possible actions, the definition of a technical task for the TSC, the terms of consideration, research issues and everything else. Then it'll be professional, it'll be honest with people. And the main thing is the result, not just the process for the process. So I'm asking you, your esteemed colleagues, who are at the rostrum today, your understanding of the matter. Please engage in this work and ensure the publicity and publicity of these committees. I emphasize that two committees under the leadership of Jegor Soboljev ("Samomowic") and Andrija Anatoliyovich Cosemyakina ("Fatherskin") will be held from anti-corruption. With regard to tariff policy, the committee led by the representative of the Radical Party, Oleg Laska Sergey Skuratovski. Please invite the factions and other committees there, if necessary, and we will have a good discussion. What's more, I'm entrusting the apparatus with direct broadcasting for the publicity and publicity of this issue. And then we'll work absolutely well and we will. Well, it's not just like I said in my office, "Dude, tell me, do you need some checkers or do we need to go with you?" We all need to go. We have to get to the bottom of this. So thank you for understanding. And on Thursday, we're going to listen to the TSC's decision, and we're going to figure out how to make decisions according to the committees. In fact, on Wednesday, the committees will be heard on Thursday, and we will make the appropriate decisions on Friday. [[B in m in s a l in]] On Friday we are invited if necessary. [[B in m in s a l in]] On Friday we listen to someone we need. Is it accepted? Friends, there was a second offer. There was a second suggestion, it was to work without interruptions, to look at the order of the day. We finally have a lot of questions. I'm asking you to come to terms with this, I support this. Now we're working, we're voting, we're defining. We have the World Bank, defense laws, and so forth. Let me put it to the vote. Get ready, please. Who has scheduled meetings and everything else, we can do it in the working order. Do you have a deal? Continue our work uninterrupted. I ask everyone to prepare for the vote. It was the faction leaders' offer I had at my working meeting. Prepared to vote? Continue working until the order of the day is exhausted. Please, colleagues, prepare, please. It was an offer of all the factions: "Peter Prashenko's Block", "The People's Front", "The Lighting Faction" and "self-help". And I take it there were no objections to Fatherland. Are we working? Please vote non-stop work. Please, colleagues, we're voting. All in favor. [[12:01:40]] For 181 Didn't everyone vote? Guys, not all of us have been able to vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-07-m0.u102	Guys, please focus again. Please, shall we vote? No breaks, lots of laws. Let's do it again, let's do it again. If not, I'm calling a 30-minute break. Please vote again. We work without interruptions, and we will effectively build a day-to-day agenda. Please, please, please. Please vote, let's stand by, without interruption. No votes. [[12:02:38]] For 177 None. Guys, okay. We will then be in the evening session until the daytime order is exhausted. A break of 30 minutes is announced. At 12:30, we continue our work in the hall. Thank you, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-07-m0.u103	Dear colleagues! The time given by the Law of Ukraine and the Constitution for recess is over. So I'm asking you to leave the towers, the buffet, go into the hall, take your jobs to continue our hard work, but necessary for Ukraine. Please come into the hall, we're waiting for all the deputies in the workplace. The Secretariat has requested to inform the deputies to enter the conference room to continue our work. Please. For example: Olena Kolganova. I'm asking you to come into the hall and take your seats. Heads of factions, please organize your factions for work. Please come into the hall from the coulaires, from the buffet, leave the coffee, go to the hall.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-07-m0.u104	12:30, we continue our work. Please invite the people's deputies to the House of Parliament. Please take your seats. Please, Andrew Illenko, one minute until the MPs come in.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-07-m0.u105	Turn on the microphone. Andrew Illenko, the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union. Dear colleagues and distinguished journalists, I'd like you to listen, because there was this kind of sublime situation here, maybe not everyone understood. Today, there has been a blockade on the rostrum by non-fractional deputies, such as representatives of the All-U.S. Freedom Union, other deputies, which dealt with the issue of the immediate establishment of a temporary commission of inquiry into government abuses. And we have received the assurance today that tomorrow I will be addressing this issue on the profiling committees. And we know that we're going to go to these profiling committees, and we're going to demand real consideration of these issues. And we've been assured that on Thursday, after the decision of the committees, this issue of creating the TSC on corruption will be brought to the hall. We very much hope that this will be so, at least it has been publicly promised. And of course, if we don't move this question into the hall on Thursday, we're going to have to take decisive action again. We'll be back at nine o'clock in the morning, under the Supreme Council, on Thursday night, drinking, demanding that we finally deal with these issues and give a proper assessment, not keep quiet and keep quiet about all these problems. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-07-m0.u106	Dear colleagues! We keep working. Let's have a signal vote. Get ready to vote for the signal. Let's see how many national deputies there are. We need to continue to consider a simplified procedure for the next issue: 1327, an important bill on state utility property. On the characteristics of renting relationships between preschool institutions. Lilia Mikhailna Greenevich prepared the bill. Obviously, it is important because it applies to preschool. Colleagues, prepare for the vote, please. Please, emergency. Let's just take a look. 150 to begin the discussion. [[12:39:41]] For-146 Yes. Dear fellow national MPs! There is an offer by the author of the bill (registration number 1327) to review the reduced procedure. I want to remind you that in order to consider it as a reduced procedure, we need to get 150 votes. Therefore, I would like to support the National Deputies with the author's proposal to review the reduced procedure. Please vote on the summary procedure. [[12:40:20]] For-138 There have been fewer votes than before. The Secretariat, please invite the members of the People's House. 1327 on summary procedure. Colleagues, come on, once again, the proposal is made for the consideration of Bill 1327, prepared by Lilia Mikhailna Grinevich, to consider the reduced procedure. I see MPs coming in. Please support this decision, Your Honor. Please, 1327 under reduced procedure. We need 150 votes and we're gonna work. [[12:41:15.]] For 139 Well, not everyone votes deputies, I see. Comrades, come to the hall. [[B in m in s a l in]] Ladies and gentlemen, your consideration is under the motion to review Bill 1327 for a reduced procedure. We need 15 votes from the national deputies to continue our consideration of the matter. Come on in, people's deputies. Please, at the request of the author, 150 votes in favour of a brief consideration of the matter, a summary procedure. Please vote. Please be supportive. [[12:42:49]] For-153 Decision taken. 153. Please invite Lilia Mikhailna Greenevich to report on this bill. Please, Lilia Mikhailovna, for the report.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-07-m0.u107	Excuse me, please. Dear Mr. Head, honourable colleagues, we propose to consider a bill on the characteristics of the leases of preschool institutions. Today, there has been a significant shortage of preschool gardens in Ukraine, and this is a childless problem. The whole world understands and confirms the fact that the possibility of preschooling actually designs the child’s educational prospects in the future. Today, we have 120 children in an average of 100 places in kindergartens in Ukraine, and thousands of thousands in large cities. For example, the city of Kiev has 13,000 children in line, half of whom are children of five years of age who need urgent care. It's an all-Ukrainian situation. The state does not have the funds to build new gardens today. The whole progressive world solves this problem by developing a private initiative. And increasing access to these services in private preschools on the basis of lower prices, the price can be reduced through the rent and the rental rights of state and municipal preschools, as proposed by the bill. Similarly, he proposes renting utility property for use by preschool schools for these important social functions outside the competition. Because it is clear that a preschool institution cannot withstand competition with other commercial enterprises.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-07-m0.u108	Please finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-07-m0.u109	Please consider this bill and understand that it solves a very serious social problem: we need to increase the access of Ukrainian children to preschool education. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-07-m0.u110	Thank you. Thank you, Lilia Mikhailina. Please, the co-rapporteur is the head of the profile committee, Andri Ivanchuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-07-m0.u111	Dear Mr. Head, distinguished national MPs! On March 19th, the Committee on Economic Policy considered the bill 1327 at its meeting and decided to recommend to the Supreme Council the adoption of the bill in the first reading on the basis. I would like to point out that the purpose of the bill is to settle the rent relationship of preschool institutions. Private preschool institutions take over the function of the State by organizing preschool schools. And we need to support this bill so that when the relationship between these enterprises is built in the organization of kindergartens, they are not in equal conditions with commercial structures. The bill is very important. You know how difficult the situation is today with preschool sites and I very much ask all the representatives of all factions to support the Bill of Lilia Greenevich. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-07-m0.u112	Thank you. Dear colleagues, is there a need for further discussion of this bill, or will we vote? Vote? Let's vote, okay. Let's prepare, this is an important bill on preschool development, 1327. We just have a lot of daytime issues and where we're consolidated, I don't think we need to talk. 1327 is a bill prepared by the National MP, Lilia Grinevich. We've heard the conclusion of the committee: to adopt the bill as a basis, and the conclusion of the Chief Scientific and Scientific Administration is the same: it offers us to consider it as a basis. National deputies of Ukraine, I ask you to take your seats. Please don't stand in your seats! Please take your seats! Please. Let's get ready, on the ground. A bill amending the Ukrainian law on renting state and municipal property (as regards the particulars of leases of preschool institutions), registration number 1327, is being submitted to your consideration. The bill is based on the proposal of the rapporteur and the committee of profile. Acceptance as a foundation. If you'll excuse me, I'd like to vote. As far as voting is concerned. Based on the base. [[12:49:30.]] For 230 Decision taken. Dear fellow national MPs! I'm going to the faction leaders: invite everyone. All of you, please invite the national deputies to the hall so that we can continue our work fully. Decision taken. Registration number 2102, draft Amendment Act. There is a proposal for a reduced procedure, preparing a reduced procedure of 1327 for second reading. Is it accepted? Come on, I'll make this proposal now. Take a look, please. Prepare 1327 for the second-reading preschool procedure. Dear colleagues, please support the author's proposal. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. Please be supportive. Please support the preparation of the reduced procedure. Vote please, Your Honor! [[12:50:32]] For 214 No votes. Okay, thank you! It's going to be a general procedure. Registration No. 2102 is a draft law amending certain Ukrainian legislative acts to ensure transparency in the activities of the Ukrainian Antimonopoly Committee. Registration number 2102, prepared by Ukraine’s national deputy, Ptachnik Victoria Yuriyovna. There is a proposal by the author to consider the bill in a simplified way. Please vote, please support the consideration of this bill by a reduced procedure. Please support the consideration of the reduced procedure. [[12:51:21]] For a hundred and Decision taken. Please, Victoria Birds National Deputy of Ukraine, Self-Help.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-07-m0.u113	Dear colleagues, your opinion is suggested by a bill that imposes an obligation on the Antimonopoly Committee to publish all its decisions. This applies both to decisions in the area of competition laws and to decisions concerning the granting of permits for the concentration of enterprises in individual markets. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that, unlike court decisions, unfortunately, the decisions of the Antimonopoly Committee are not published today. That one sentence, which is currently published on the Antimonopoly Committee website, cannot be called its decision. Moreover, the Antimonopoly Committee is very selective in this procedure. So we need to support this initiative. Moreover, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that Ukraine has taken on the responsibility of publishing the decisions of the Antimonopoly Committee by signing an Association Agreement with the EU, which clearly provides for this. In addition, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that, by signing the Coalition Agreement with you, we have foreseen that we are negotiating as signatories to the Coalition Agreement, to publish the decision of the Antimonopoly Committee. I would like to point out that, unfortunately, it is not unique when the Antimonopoly Committee imposes fines on violators the size of millions of dollars, but then after individual consultations with owners, somehow these fines are reduced to as much as 10,000 or 30,000 dollars. Why is this happening? We can only guess with you. But in our opinion, this bill will provide for society. First, it will ensure transparency in the activities of the Antimonopoly Committee. Secondly, this will ensure the predictability of the Antimonopoly Committee's activities, as it will enable public control of Antimonopoly's activities.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-07-m0.u114	Finish up, please. Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-07-m0.u115	And third of all, of course, it's a warning function, because operators need to understand what the Antimonopoly Committee is like in order to ensure that no infringements of competition law are committed. I want to draw your attention to the fact that honest business and Ukrainian society are supporting this bill. In particular, we received support from the American Chamber of Commerce, the Association of Lawyers of Ukraine. And once again, I stress that this is our commitment to the Association Agreement and the Coalition Agreement, so please make a commitment. We have to support this bill and vote for it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-07-m0.u116	Thank you. Please, Your Honor, head of the profile committee, Andrew Ivanchuk. Please, Andrew Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-07-m0.u117	Dear Mr. Head, distinguished national MPs! On March 19, the Committee on Economic Policy reviewed Victoria’s Bill Jurijovna Ptašnik 2102 and recommended that Parliament adopt it on the first reading as a basis. The bill is designed to ensure transparency in the activities of the Antimonopoly Committee. The bill proposes to introduce a public control procedure through the publication of decisions by the Antimonopoly Committee on the site. I would very much like to support this bill in the first reading on the basis. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-07-m0.u118	Thank you, Your Honor. Is there a need for him further. I see what's going on. Two for, two for, please. Take two for, two for, two for, two for, one for. Cooper Oleg, Radical Party. Noisyuk? Victor Halasyuk, Radical Party.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-07-m0.u119	Dear Volodymyr Borisovich! Dear fellow national MPs! What are the biggest obstacles to developing business in Ukraine today? It's corruption, it's monopolization. So in order to overcome corruption, we have to ensure absolute social transparency. And this is largely about the decision of the Antimonopoly Committee. Only by making these decisions absolutely transparent will we understand that the best controller that exists is the public. He will stand and defend the interests of honest, decent business. Therefore, honourable colleagues, the Radical Party insists on the adoption of this bill not only because it corresponds to the Coalition Agreement, but not only because it meets our obligations to European partners, but primarily because we have to implement all possible and impossible instruments for today's day, to intervene hard administratively if it is necessary to prevent corruption, to clear its own principles and not to fight its consequences. And these laws, they're going to make it much easier to fight corruption, including for the anti-corruption agency that needs to be created. And in this anti-corruption fight, there are tens of billions of dollars of extra revenue in the Ukrainian budget. And that's the cost of budgeting, that's pensions, that's a normal decent standard of living so you don't have to stretch your belts. We need to fasten our belts to corrupters and monopolists. Tomu Radical Party urges you to support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-07-m0.u120	Thank you. Please, Vladislav Dove, Peter Dusty Block.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-07-m0.u121	Vladislav Golub, 197 constituency, Petra Prashenko Faction, Cherkaščina. Dear colleagues, I would also like to ask you to support the bill. In addition to what my colleagues have already said, namely, Victoria the Bird that this is really the first implementation of our Coalition Agreement, which provides for the implementation of the openness and activities of the Antimonopoly Committee. They're also the ones. There have already been isolated cases when the Antimonopoly Committee, writing out millions of fines, for some reason then became just thousands of fines. This Is Appropriate Filling and the budget of Ukraine, as well as this itself. Fighting corruption, which is one of the main objectives of our coalition. So again, I am addressing all of our colleagues. Please support me to note the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-07-m0.u122	Thank you. Please, National Deputy Voropeyev, Opposition Block.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-07-m0.u123	Dear colleagues, I have repeatedly urged you, before speaking by law, by law, to read what it is about. What the author or a completely different one says is said to him. Right now, the Radical Party has said that this is a law to combat corruption, and this law specifically introduces a rule that allows a corrupter to earn money in the Antimonopoly Committee. What exactly is the law? Under this Act, the Antimonopoly Committee now states, yes, when an Antimonopoly Committee is requested to purchase an enterprise, the claimant, by providing a package of documents, indicates that you have the right to disclose such information and that you have no right to disclose it. For example, contracts, yes, for what amount, with what companies, how much, and how long. Thus, this law is now, and, by the way, in all of Europe, that is exactly what it is. Thus, under this law, the complainant will not now determine which information is closed and which is not closed, and the member of the Antimonopoly Committee itself will receive all this information, decide what information he will give to the press, give to the neighbours, give to the competitors, give to the enemies, there and so on, and what information he will not give. It's pure corruption. I am surprised that we have an ad hoc committee that is considering legislation to conform to corruption or not, but is silent. And the second thing I want to say. It will be recalled that there is no such norm throughout Europe, and information on, well, definitions of information, whether closed or not, remains behind the viewers. Last thing I want to say to you in court. You're not telling the truth right now. First, the Antimonopoly Committee provides information publicly on each transaction that the claimant purchases, the extent to which it purchases. One. That information is open. If there's a lawsuit in the courts.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-07-m0.u124	Yes, please finish. Yes, please finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-07-m0.u125	So this information is also open. And by going to the site or the registrar, or the Supreme Economic Court, you can find information on each case, or the Supreme Administrative Court. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-07-m0.u126	Thank you. Please, Tetjana Ostrkova, Self-help. Please, no, no, you can get out of here. From the rostrum, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-07-m0.u127	Good afternoon, dear colleagues. I want you all to know that demonopolization is what's not happening right now. We won't be able to do any delligarchisation or do any privatization processes without reforming the Antimonopoly Committee. We're all forgetting what an important organ this is. It's an organ with authority, dear friends. Compared with the authority of the Antimonopoly Committee, this includes a law enforcement body. You all know what kind of information they own. In order to hold a small concentration today, they need to reveal the information to the tenth knee. And we all leave it out of our minds. I would also like to draw our attention to the fact that today the Antimonopoly Committee is working without a head. And what's going on in there is unknown to anyone. The department actually doesn't have a manager. The Prime Minister has told us that he has candidates for leadership. But at our request, they will somehow be made public.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-07-m0.u128	Please, let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-07-m0.u129	I'll finish very briefly. This bill is just a small step, a small part to make the work of the Antimonopoly Committee transparent so that each of us can get to know its decisions. I also ask you to pay more attention to the need to appoint the head of the Antimonopoly Committee at a public transparent competition. Solve this issue on your factions, raise it, do not silence it. And the last. If the Opposition Block says it's a bad law, we vote on the basis as a whole.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-07-m0.u130	Dear colleagues, the People's Front, Victoria Sumar. And we'll vote, colleagues.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-07-m0.u131	Colleagues, I'm fully supportive of a self-help colleague, because the Opposition Block doesn't know how much better anyone knows what monopolies are in this country. And what is an Antimonopoly committee that has never worked in Ukraine. Because there are just more oligarchs that are actually based on these state monopolies. This has to be done at last. Moreover, we need to ensure full transparency of authority. You and I have approved quite a lot of good bills and transparency of public funds and transparency of public finances. Every structure that is kept at the expense of taxpayers should be as open as possible. Modern technology allows that. And it's obvious that this bill has to be adopted first and combat monopolies. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-07-m0.u132	Dear colleagues, I don't think there's any doubt that we should move on to the question of voting. People's deputies are asked to take their seats in favour of the bill (registration No. 2102), a bill amending some Ukrainian legislation to ensure transparency in the activities of the Antimonopoly Committee of Ukraine. The author of the bill - Victoria Ptašnik is an expert lawyer, understood by the subject. So I think the bill will only improve the situation, not make it worse with regard to publicity. So I think it's appropriate to support it as a basis and work on the second reading. Dear colleagues, please prepare for the vote. Dear colleagues, prepare for the vote, please 2102 – the transparency of the Antimonopoly Labour Committee. Ready to vote? 2102 is based on the results of the first reading. Please, we're voting for 2102. Is there an obstacle to the vote, Yuri Vitaliovich? We're voting on the basis. [[13:05:35]] For 265 Decision taken. That's very good, dear colleagues. And we're working on it. Please have a brief proposal and prepare for the second reading. I think it can be done very qualitatively. Please suggest preparation for second reading. Short-term preparation procedure for second reading, please support. To the second reading by the reduced procedure. Please be supportive. [[13:06:07]] For 241 Decision taken. Thank you. We're working on it. The bill (register number 1917) on the establishment of processing periods for certain goods outside the customs territory of Ukraine. Reportedly, a bill was prepared by national MP Dombrovski. There are suggestions from the author to consider the bill in a simplified manner. Is there no objection? Please be determined with regard to consideration of the reduced procedure, colleagues. As far as consideration is concerned, the reduced procedure is concerned. [[13:06:38]] For 208 Decision taken. Thank you. Please report.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-07-m0.u133	Dear Mr. Head, dear colleagues of the Ukrainian National Deputies! You are considering a bill setting the deadlines for the processing of certain goods outside the customs territory of Ukraine to ensure the functioning of the nuclear sector and to create the right conditions for its activities. I would like to point out that this is all about two commodity positions, but very important in terms of nuclear security and the energy security of our state. The first is the export in accordance with international agreements of technological endurance and the subsequent processing of processed (radiated) thermal elements of nuclear reactors. And second position. Uranium oxide concentrate is for processing outside the customs territory of Ukraine and returning finished products. What is the problem, and what causes the need for this bill? Because we have adopted the new Customs Code and the peremptory norm of Article 166 is the maximum number of days that we can export is 365 days. The problem had been addressed earlier by the Cabinet of Ministers: for working tweeds – 30 years and for uranium oxide concentrate – 2 years and 9 months. In order to avoid innuendo, it is proposed that the relevant codes of the Ukrainian product classification should be clearly provided for the export of goods. And in addition, it is proposed that this bill be voted on as a whole. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-07-m0.u134	Thank you. Please report to the head of the profile committee, Roman Nasirov. Please, Roman Mikhailovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-07-m0.u135	Dear Mr. Head, honourable colleagues, the Committee of the Supreme Council on Tax and Customs Policy at its meeting on 4 March, discussed the draft Law on the establishment of processing deadlines for certain goods outside the customs territory of Ukraine (registration number 1917) submitted by the Ukrainian National Deputies Dombrovsky and Bandurov. The Committee decided to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine a draft Act on the establishment of processing periods for certain goods (registration number 1917) to be adopted as a basis and generally as a law. After changing the text of the bill, the word "fuels" is "heat-visible." Such a change is necessary in order for the description of the goods under code 2844500000 to be consistent with the description of the goods described in the Ukrainian Customs Tariff. Please support and thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-07-m0.u136	Thank you, Your Honor. Is there a need for "yes", "against" or do we vote? Is there a need? Please sign in, two for, two against. Please. Igor Nasalik, The Peter Dust Block.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-07-m0.u137	Good afternoon. We have considered this bill at a meeting of the Fuel Safety and Energy Committee. Virtually everyone has unanimously supported the bill, since it is linked to the relevant technological cycle. So when I go to our room, I ask you to support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-07-m0.u138	Thank you. Please, People's Deputy Halasyuk, the Radical Party of Oleg Lachka.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-07-m0.u139	Thank you. Dear Vladimir Borisovich, distinguished colleagues of the National Deputies, Victor Halasyuk, Radical Party. We certainly have to support this bill to ensure a normal customs regime for nuclear energy. But the main thing is what we have to do with you. This is to ensure the development of our own economy. Jobs, competitiveness, we have to look 10 years ahead, not just today. And to do that, you have to develop alternative energy. Because if you and I count the cost of nuclear energy compared to wind energy and other kinds of energy given to us by nature, then you and I will see that it is much more expensive if we share those colossal costs spent on Chernobyl that are spent annually on foreign loans to buy either in Russia or in the United States raw materials for those nuclear reactors. So today, to support nuclear energy through customs, and by tomorrow, to support alternative energy, to ensure that foreign investment is involved, so that they create the devices that generate that energy to make it happen in Ukraine, these are jobs. That's the first priority. And the second priority is to reduce energy consumption. Because it's not every year we have to decide where to buy energy, whether it's stuff or something, for nuclear reactors, or where to buy gas, or not to think about increasing the production of gas and oil in the country, because this, to increase it, is advantageous for raw oil oligarchs, and for the people of Ukraine, it's good to reduce energy consumption. So I urge you to pay particular attention and Thursday to support laws on large-scale energy engineering that will give us energy independence from Russia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-07-m0.u140	Thank you, Your Honor. Clearly, technologically important law. There is a proposal for a committee of profile to vote on it as a basis and in general with an amendment that has just been issued by the committee’s head. As far as I can tell, there's no objection to the importance of this bill. So please, Your Honor, please prepare for the vote. The bill (registration number 1917) of the draft Act on the establishment of processing periods for certain goods outside the customs territory of Ukraine. This is about the technological process of nuclear energy, so it needs to be adopted and settled. The interviewer and the head of the profile committee cooperated and made an offer. Attention, prepare, please! A proposal is made to adopt the bill as a basis and as a whole, taking into account the decision of the profiling committee, which was made by the head of the Nasirov profiling committee. Is there no objection? None. Please, colleagues, prepare for the vote. Dear colleagues, I would like you to support this as a basis and as a whole with the proposal of a committee of profile. Vote, colleagues, 1917. Vote 1917. [[13:13:50]] For 273 On the basis and overall, the decision has been taken. Thank you, Your Honor. Next, the bill (registration number 2226) is a draft law amending the Ukrainian Code of Taxation (for exemption from taxation of property of religious organizations). The National Deputy of Ukraine, Pavlov Jakimović, prepared the country. There is an offer by the author to consider the bill in the first reading by a reduced procedure. Please identify yourself with regard to consideration of this proposal, as regards consideration of the reduced procedure, a colleague. [[13:14:29]] For 205 Decision adopted, 205 votes for members of the people. Please, Paul Yakimovich, report. And the report is Roman Nasirov, head of the profile committee. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-07-m0.u141	Honorary colleagues, Patriarch of the Ukrainian Orthodox Church of the Kyiv Patriarchate Philaret, Metropolitan Onufret, Head of the Ukrainian Orthodox Church of the Moscow Patriarchate, Head of the Ukrainian Greek Catholic Church Svetoslav Shevchuk, Head of the Protestant Churches, Head of the Jewish Muslim communities of Ukraine, addressed the Supreme Council of Ukraine, all parliamentary factions in the Hall to support this bill, which was developed by me and Nino Petrovna Južanina, a colleague of the "Block of Peter Prashenko" faction. What's the point? In the Tax Code, by accident, I emphasize! – there remains the taxation of property that is owned by churches, monasteries and religious buildings in Ukraine, what is built at the expense of the community, at the expense of the people, is subject to taxation. By the way, the land does not belong, and the land today is not that owned by churches, religious communities, is not an object for taxation, and the property has unfortunately remained. This gap we propose to eliminate by voting for this bill and in the first, on the basis and in general. By the way, that's the kind of proposal that the committee supports, and it's also a professional one, to vote both on the basis and on the whole. Because we have a paradoxical situation where local self - government agencies don't give benefits to someone, depending on who goes to the church, which church is in what area is in the majority or the minority. We do not need to allow religious conflicts in Ukraine. Therefore, today's great request is to vote on the basis of this bill as a whole, which will enable us to avoid such a terrible conflict.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-07-m0.u142	Finish up, please. Thank you. Roman Nasirov, please. Please, Roman Nasirov.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-07-m0.u143	Honorary Vladimir Borisovich, honourable colleagues, the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Tax and Customs Policy at the March 4th meeting, discussed a bill amending the Code of Taxation of Ukraine on Exemption from Property Taxation of Religious Organizations (Registration No. 2226), submitted by the national deputies Ungurian and Južanina. During the discussion, members of the committee generally supported the purpose of the bill, but they also made a number of observations, particularly regarding tax exemptions on immovable property of residential property owned by religious organizations. For the purpose of preventing abuse of property tax, the committee decided to amend the bill, according to which the tax would be exempt only to objects of religious real estate that are used exclusively for worship, religious rites, ceremonies, and processes. As a result of the bill's discussion, the committee decided to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine a bill (registration number 2226) to be adopted as a basis and, as a whole, as a law, incorporating appropriate amendments to the committee's application. Please support the committee's decision. I also request that the Chief Legal Authority and the Committee be instructed to prepare the text of the adopted law for signature by the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, taking into account technical legal rights. Thank you. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-07-m0.u144	Thank you. Two for, two for against, please. National MP Levus, People's Front, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-07-m0.u145	Please give the word Medunica to Oleg Vjačeslavovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-07-m0.u146	Oleg Medunica.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-07-m0.u147	Dear friends, the People's Front faction supports this law. But at the same time, we would like the following editorial changes to be made: paragraph 2, 6.2.2., where it is defined that it is not an object of taxation, we want to add: "except for objects -- at the end of the phrase -- used for manufacturing and commercial activities." So that's how we provide benefits to church communities and, at the same time, we don't pay benefits under that property, and under that land, and under those premises that are used for commercial activities by church communities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-07-m0.u148	Thank you. Please, Yegor Sobolev, Self-help.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-07-m0.u149	Please pass the word to Irina Podowak.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-07-m0.u150	Irina Podowak, Self-Help, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-07-m0.u151	Dear fellow MPs, the Self-Help faction will support this bill as a basis and in general, taking into account the amendment of our colleague, which is not an object of taxation of objects used for manufacturing and commercial activities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-07-m0.u152	Thank you. Please, the People's Deputy of Doubenkov, the Opposition Block.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-07-m0.u153	Thank you, Your Honor Chairman. Dear colleagues, the faction of the Opposition Block will certainly support Bill 2226 on amending the Ukrainian Tax Code (for exemption from the taxation of immovable property other than land belonging to religious organizations). It was in the amendment that I personally insisted on if this immovable property was directly used for religious purposes. That is, in religious organizations, indeed, there may be a very large number of immovable property objects in ownership and, in particular, for the employees of the designated religious organizations. In this case, we think there should still be equality, the principle of equality of taxpayers. As for, indeed, religious buildings, it is a universal, universal practice that specified buildings, designated organizations as nonprofits, should have appropriate benefits. In particular, we support it’s provision of real estate tax benefits other than land. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-07-m0.u154	Thank you. Please, Igor Mosiyczuk, Radical Party.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-07-m0.u155	Igor Mosiyczuk, Radical Party. Of course, it's actually the right of territorial communities to determine which religious communities and which religious facility to rent. But if there's a bill. We can only support it on the basis of the readjustment proposed by the People's Front. And we're going to add that we can't define the equality of rights between the cult structures of Ukrainian churches and churches that have foreign centers that are being influenced from abroad. And now we want to compare everyone and show that the Moscow Patriarchate, who now supports the invaders, and the Kiev level before the state in the lease. Just on the ground.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-07-m0.u156	Igor Nasalik, The Peter Dust Block.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-07-m0.u157	Dear friends, literally 20 minutes passed in this room, we voted twice in favour of laws that in one way or another affect local self - government, taking over the functions of local self - government. Well, by signing the Coalition Agreement, we talked about not narrowing down the functions of local self-government. In the previous law we dictated – and how there should be rents in kindergartens, we are talking today – and what should be the rent on cult buildings. Excuse me, can we replace the city councils and the city heads? This is the authorization of city councils. I want to support the MP who says -- not all the city councils will say, and the Moscow Patriarchate, that's their authority, you don't have to impose your opinion. I urge you not to uphold this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-07-m0.u158	Thank you. National Deputy Levchenko Yuri.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-07-m0.u159	Leuchenko, Freedom, 223 County. There were a lot of completely mutually exclusive rights that conflicted with each other during the consideration of this bill. So I would still like to hear, before you put to the vote, honourable Chief, what kind of amendment do you take into account? Because that's the right thing to do. The committee, it's exactly what I think is right. The fact that the benefits may relate solely to the buildings in which worship takes place. Because it turns out that, in particular, the Moscow Patriarchate in Ukraine is such a magnet of real estate, it has thousands and tens of thousands of square meters of real estate. It is not clear why, for example, this property should be exempt from taxation. Let them pay the right tax, not pay the benefits. So I insist, please, before putting the vote to the vote, nevertheless, that you specify what it is that is proposed to be tax-free.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-07-m0.u160	Thank you. People's MP Chicken, Peter Dusty Block.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-07-m0.u161	Dear Volodymyr Borisovich, distinguished national deputies. Spirituality is not enough, and it is this very bill of the Law that is now being voted on that provides the right basis for our country’s credibility. We cannot break our nation today, our nation. Be it by any religion, whether Muslim, Christian, Orthodox, or Catholic. And this is the question that all churches have before the law and does not allow local councils to abuse their view of one religion or another. This is the first time. Secondly, the committee had a very intense discussion on this issue. And we decided definitively that this draft law frees all of us, of course, from all the religious buildings in which worship is carried out. And double treatment can't be about that. I propose to support this bill as a basis and as a whole. It is essential and essential for our religious communities. This will bring unity to the Ukrainian nation. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-07-m0.u162	Thank you, Your Honor. There's only one question about that. This is a question of shelters created by religious organizations to be excluded from the subject of taxation. I think there may be a completely balanced decision to do a fine thing for all religious buildings. It's actually possible to accept it in the first reading, by the reduced procedure of preparing for the second reading, to consider all the suggestions and to make a quality bill so that there is no contradiction. And everyone to count. If we don't have the authors of these comments, I think we're going to quickly draft them, we're going to vote. Add orphanages, shelters for the elderly and so on, religious. Let's put the dot down, let's all vote together. And no one will have any objection. Do you have a deal? Now for some comment on the rights of local self - government. I would like to support my colleague, Nasalik, in that there is no need to attack the rights of local self - government. At the same time, the legislator may determine which objects the national parliament considers may not be subject to taxation. Although we need to make this agreement binding on the Committee of Local Self - Government and Profile Associations. These decisions should be sufficiently inclusive, not taken for them, but taken along with them. Because these decisions will have to be implemented on the spot. And it's very good that these decisions are made without conflict. So, colleagues, with your permission, with your permission, I'm going to put it to the vote on the first reading. Next will be a proposal to prepare a second reading using a reduced procedure. And I ask these announced ideas, which were, to include for preparation for the second reading. Is it accepted? This will be wise and right. Prepare to vote. Please, according to the bill (registration number 2226), an agreed proposal is made between all the national MPs to adopt the bill as a basis. After he's now on the ground, I'm going to put a motion for a vote to prepare for the reduced procedure for the second reading. So that we do not offend any religious organization and any religious structure. Please support the draft decision. Based on the base. Vote please, my friends. The results in the first reading are based on what we read. [[13:29:11]] For 261 Thank you. Decision taken. Next, my fellow Members, is an offer to prepare this bill for the second reading under a reduced procedure. I'm asking you to back me up, too. In the case of 22,26, the preparation of the second reading is by a reduced procedure. Please be supportive. Colleagues, please support the preparation for a reduced procedure of 2226. Friends. [[13:29:37]] For 224 We didn't make it? Colleagues, national deputies, please prepare. As far as preparation is concerned, my friends. Please be supportive. Ladies and gentlemen, please. With regard to the drafting of this important bill under reduced procedure. Please be supportive. Vote. [[13:30:04]] For 240 Thank you, 240. The decision is made in preparation for a reduced procedure. And please invite the Association of Local Self-Government Authorities to sit down. Maybe they'll give better advice on how to work things out, okay? Thank you. Let's move on, ladies and gentlemen. Bill (registration 1447) Draft Act amending certain laws of Ukraine (on the establishment of religious institutions of educational institutions). National Deputy Unguryan Pavlov Jakivović. There is an offer by the author to report this bill, to be considered in the first reading by a reduced procedure. Please make up your mind. Please support the consideration of the bill by a reduced procedure. [[13:30:53]] For 215 Decision taken. Please, Paul Yakimovich. The head of the profile committee, Lilia Mikhailovna Grinevich, will report.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-07-m0.u163	Dear colleagues, Reverend Vladimir Borisovich, thank you for having us on such a special occasion for all Christians of the week, the Passionous Week, when we mention the baptismal and fear - inspiring way of our Lord Jesus Christ, we can also speak of the laws that are aimed at spirituality, the morals of our country. The bill that I am now presenting, also presented by the team of authors with me, is Lilia Mikhajlovich Greenevich, as well as Viktor Jelenski. We're making a simple offer to you. To date, religious organizations have the right to establish only higher educational institutions. And an example of such a unique university in Ukraine is the Ukrainian Catholic University. We know that this is a very influential scientific institution. Perhaps the best experts in many fields are being trained by the Ukrainian Catholic University. Of course, a very high level of education, higher education, universal education is also being taught in facilities that include the Kyiv Patriarchate, the Moscow Patriarchate, the evangelical, and Protestant churches. But this law actually legalizes what churches and religious organizations are doing today, establishing kindergartens, establishing schools. And that's perfectly normal. It is not an invasion of education at all, for the law says that if a church is founded by a garden or a school, it can also coordinate its activities. This is not an intervention in the State system of higher or middle education or preschool education. Therefore, the request to support this bill is based on the first reading and the second reading of all proposals.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-07-m0.u164	Please, Lilia Mikhailna Grinevich.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-07-m0.u165	Dear Mr. Head, honourable colleagues, the Committee on Science and Education has considered this bill carefully and is, in fact, the purpose of this bill is to ensure the constitutional right of believing parents and persons who replace them to raise their children according to their own religious beliefs and to improve their respective legislation. To help me out, today any human being, any citizen can set up a private educational institution on his own, and religious organizations can't. And this is the result of our post - Soviet treatment of the principle of separation from the church. Thus, the State should not interfere with the affairs of the church, nor should the church intervene in the affairs of the State. But they can interact, and the most successful interaction in the whole world is in the field of education. I want to inform you that in the European Union one of the highest quality schools in general secondary education is Catholic schools. And today we must take a civilized step, allowing transparently religious organizations to establish educational institutions so that they do not do so because of some well - founded organization. In addition, when we make transparent legislation, it will be possible to implement exclusively officially registered religious organizations in Ukraine. I would also like to say that this project is well supported by the All - Ukrainian Council of Churches. We ask you to vote for him. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-07-m0.u166	Thank you. Dear colleagues, what Lilia Mikhailovna said is of key importance. That is to say that religious organizations today cannot directly be the founders of these institutions, they are looking for other combinations, how to achieve this and the well-functioning institutions, even secondary education, preschool education, are already in Ukraine. Therefore, we need to support this initiative in general, allowing and empowering religious organizations to establish such institutions. And so the quality of preschool and preschool education will be much higher. I know, for example, positive examples like this, and I think a lot of national MPs know. That's why I have an offer. Without too much discussion, vote on it as a basis and as a whole and take the decision. [[B in m in s a l in]] They don't want it as a whole. Okay. Okay, then there's a proposal based on it to vote now, a simplified procedure for preparing for second reading and then in second reading, we'll agree on all the proposals. Do you have a deal? Based on the base. Please, friends, let's support it. Please prepare. You are considering a draft Act amending certain laws of Ukraine regarding the establishment of educational institutions by religious organizations. There's a proposal for the committee to take it as a basis. Please, colleagues, support this bill as a basis. Please support, please vote, colleagues. Based on the base. Based on the base. [[13:37:09]] For 259. Decision taken. Still, respected colleagues, also by a reduced procedure for preparing for the second reading. Please also support the proposal to prepare for a reduced procedure for second reading. Please vote, please support. [[13:37:36]] For 208 Is there no consolidated decision or should we vote again? Colleagues, let's look at the simplified procedure, yes. Let's see, this is an important question. Friends, an important question. This training, morals, spirituality, must be supported. Preparation for the second reading procedure, please, colleagues, let's support it. For a reduced procedure of preparation. We'll discuss how it's supposed to be, there's no warning here. Please be supportive. [[13:38:17]] For 233 Thank you, Your Honor, for your understanding, the decision is made. We're working on a reduced procedure, preparing for second reading. Next, honourable colleagues, draft Law No. 2375, on electricity, report to the head of the profiling committee. There is a proposal for the head of the profile committee to review the draft law in a simplified manner. Please identify yourself for consideration and please support the consideration of the reduced procedure. [[13:38:53]] For 203 Thank you, Your Honor, for your decision, 203. Please, Mikola Martinenko as a reporter and from the committee. Please, four minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-07-m0.u167	Dear Vladimir Borisovich, distinguished colleagues! Your opinion is proposed by the Ukrainian Law on Amendments to the Ukrainian Law on Electricity on Energy Regulatory Features in the Area of Anti-Terrorism Operation, registration number 2375 from 16.03.2015. At the legislative level, the issue of electricity supply, calculation, generation and consumption of electricity between Ukraine's electricity market entities is not regulated: the power supply, the state energy company, the power generators, the electrical transmission and power supply providers and consumers in the territory of the anti-terrorist operation. These are separate cities and districts of Donetsk and Lugansk. The bill provides for the definition of the characteristics of the regulation of energy relations in the territory of the operation, similar to the already in place legal mechanism for regulating such relations between the wholesale electricity market and entities and consumers in the temporarily occupied area of Crimea. The adoption of Law 2375 will provide the government with a legislative tool to respond to unforeseeable cooperative activities in the field of energy from the heads of terrorist organizations called DNRs and LNRs. The Committee on Fuel Energy, Nuclear Policy and Nuclear Security has decided to support it on a basis and as a whole. That was the view expressed by Minneergowil and the National Energy Regulatory Commission. Please support this bill, it is extremely important. I just want to say one thing without passing such a law. We're left with a level of energy payments -- slightly over 80 percent. These issues need to be settled, or our stations can't work properly, they can't buy fuel. And we need to think about the next winter. Thank you very much. The bill is short, please accept as a basis and as a whole. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-07-m0.u168	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I think that everyone understands the factions the necessity of adopting this law and there are no differences, 2375 on the basis and in general -- a short bill, there are no warnings, it's a matter of administration in Anti-Terrorism territory. Colleagues, I suggest that we don't waste time repeating these questions, getting ready for the vote now. Dear colleagues, let us prepare for the vote and your consideration of the bill (registration number 2375), which is considered on all committees, including factions, is supported. Draft Law amending the Law on Electricity on the Specificities of Energy Relations in the Area of Anti-Terrorism Operation. You've heard the report from the head of the profile committee, it's meaningful. I'd like to point out that the committee accepted the offer. I've decided to make a decision on the basis of the bill. And the Chief Scientific and Experimental Authority didn't find any reference to this bill either. So please support me, Your Honor. Ready to vote? I ask for the basis and in general 2375, please vote, please support, 2375 please vote, please support. [[13:42:49]] For 249 Decision taken. Thank you, Your Honor. We're doing the job, actually. Draft Act (Registration No. 1416). amending the Law on State Registration of Legal Persons and Business Persons on Simplification of the Stopping of Legal Persons by Merger, Joining, Division, Transformation (Reorganization). He'll report to the head of the profile committee, Victor Halasyuk, but there's an offer to look into it. The proposal has been tabled by the author to consider this bill by a reduced procedure. Please. Please, dear fellows. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. [[13:43:34]] For a hundred and Thank you, colleagues. Decision taken. Please, Victor Halasyuk. It's four minutes. By the author of the committee. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-07-m0.u169	Thank you. Dear Volodymyr Borisovich, distinguished fellow national MPs! I present to you draft Law No. 1416: Amendments to the Law on State Registration of Legal Persons and Business Persons on Simplifying the Stopping of Legal Persons by Merger, Joining, Division, Transformation (Reorganization). This bill is submitted to members of the Committee on Industrial Policy and Entrepreneurship. Dear colleagues, a moment of your attention, please. This is a very important bill that allows businesses that are in the process of reorganizing and have branches to do it normally, not to set people free, not to shut down branches, not to kill production. Because to date, the law that exists, if an enterprise wants to divide, reorganize, not eliminate, but change its branch structure, it has to artificially release people, pay them the corresponding costs, and so on. It's a huge budget burden, it's a colossal bureaucracy. This bill was very well worked out, because the previous law, which had such an idea, was promised by the President. So we've taken into account all the remarks that were in the veto, we've submitted this bill. It has a positive conclusion from the Chief Scientific and Scientific Administration, it can be based on the proposals made. The Committee on Prevention, Anti-Corruption, indicates that the project meets the requirements of anti-corruption legislation. The Budget Committee of the Supreme Council indicates that it has no impact on the State Budget. So, honourable colleagues, given that this bill is technical, but very important, and it will allow you to properly reorganize state and other enterprises, to submit relevant data to the register of state registration, without which it is not possible. Therefore, our committee proposes to adopt this important bill in the first reading and in general.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-07-m0.u170	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I don't think anyone has any differences about the need to adopt this bill. It only simplifies procedures that have always delayed normal business registration. That's why. including the simplification of business registration. It's going to take a long, long time. Therefore, you are being reviewed by the draft Act 1416 amending the Ukrainian Law on State Registration of Legal Persons and Business Persons to simplify the cessation of legal persons through merger, integration, division, transformation (reorganization). Reported the author and head of the profile committee, Victor Halasyuk. There's a proposal and a profile committee, there's no reference to this bill in the GNEU, to accept it as a basis and as a whole. Please prepare for the vote. Vote, fellows! On the basis and in general. Vote, Your Honor, on the basis and in general. Please be supportive. On the basis and in general. Please be supportive. [[13:47:04]] For 263 Thank you. Decision taken. 263. The draft Act (registration number 1475) is a draft law amending the Ukrainian Law on State registration of legal persons and natural persons who are entrepreneurs (to prevent changes to the Single State Register under false documents). It's also a flawed bill. The reporter is Ukrainian national deputy Oksana Prodan. There is a proposal by the author of the bill to consider it as a reduced procedure. I'd like to make a statement. Please support the consideration of the reduced procedure. Please support your colleagues with regard to consideration of the reduced procedure. [[13:47:53]] For 202 Decision taken. Thank you. Please report to Oksana Petrovna. The focal point is the head of the Victor Halasyuk Profile Committee. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-07-m0.u171	Dear colleagues! We are now considering a bill that needs absolutely every legal person who works in Ukraine today. At this point in time, to make changes to statutory documents, just to change the manager of any enterprise, any legal person, is enough, according to the law, to give the civil registry a simple copy of the paper, paper, a copy of the document without certifying any, without any sealing or signing of the wet. So there's a lot of cases where people, well, criminals change owners, change the management of businesses, and as a result, even law enforcement agencies don't accept those statements, because it says that there are no documents on which criminal cases can be opened, that data can be entered into registers. The bill proposes any changes in the state register relating to the management of statutory documents, to be made solely by means of wet signatures or wet signatures on the basis of the decisions of the founders, participants or notaries. I ask you to support this bill, to vote it as a basis, and to protect with you the property rights of those entrepreneurs, those owners who now have and work in the Ukrainian economy. Please support and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-07-m0.u172	Thank you. Please, the head of the profile committee, Victor Halasyuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-07-m0.u173	Dear Volodymyr Borisovich, distinguished colleagues of the national MPs. The 1475 bill is extremely important because it allows to protect the interests of those who create jobs in Ukraine, those who export products, those who pay taxes. This law allows us to make it impossible to take a company for counterfeit documents, for xerops, as is often the case. The investor will invest in the economy only if he has assurances that no one will take his property. So this law takes a very important step on this path, because the protection of investors' rights, the protection of employers' rights, the manufacturer's rights, that's more than anything, because it gives jobs, it gives taxes, it gives the country prosperity. So, dear colleagues, I would like to stress that this bill is also supported by the Chief Scientific and Scientific Administration. In conclusion, it can be accepted as a basis. Supported by the Committee on Prevention and Anticorruption, there are no corruption signs. Supported by the Cabinet of Ministers. The Budget Committee indicates that it has no impact on the state budget, no need for additional costs. So, honourable colleagues, I ask you to support the decision of the Committee on Industrial Policy and Entrepreneurship to vote, to adopt this very important project as a basis for the first reading. Dear colleagues, please support.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-07-m0.u174	Dear colleagues, there are many suggestions. On the basis and in general, I think it would be possible. Oh, no? Okay, we're not going to turn this into a good thing. Colleagues, there is a proposal to vote on the results of the first reading of Bill 1475. So without saying too much, I understand that everyone supports it as a basis. Please support 1475 as a basis, prepare for the second reading, take into account all of the fractions' proposals. Is such an offer accepted? All right, come on, get ready for the vote, colleagues. On the basis of that, please support the People's Front. 1475, based on. We will prepare for the second reading together. Please, stand by. 1475, based on. [[13:52:14]] For 267 Thank you, colleagues, for listening. To prepare for the second reading, I think all issues will be settled. Decision adopted, fellow believers, 1475, second reading. Dear colleagues, a draft law is being submitted to your consideration. Whoever called for a break, please come up. Who's ashamed to say "breakup"? Colleagues, we have a break at 2 p.m., 15 minutes tops. And now we're working. And I ask everyone to remain in their seats. Registration number 0905, second reading. Reported to the head of the Taras Kutov subcommittee. I looked at the comparative table, there's all the proposals included. A carefully prepared committee decision. So I think we can vote after the report. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-07-m0.u175	Thank you, Volodymyr Borisovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-07-m0.u176	All deputies remain in their seats, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-07-m0.u177	Ladies and gentlemen, on February 3, of this year, the Ukrainian Law Committee on By-products of Animal Origin, which are not intended for human consumption. Well, from the key points, I want to say that this bill, we need it to remove barriers to the entry of our animal products into the EU market. It provides for an effective and transparent system of dealing with animal by-products at all stages of creation. Collection, transport, storage, processing, processing, disposal, disposal of by-products. The government will increase its control over these products. These are three categories that are divided into by-products. Depending on the risk to health, there will be different types of control. This will maximize the risk of developing particularly dangerous diseases, both in humans and in animals. What's important here? On the one hand, we're strengthening control, on the other hand, by introducing three categories, we're giving an opportunity in cases where this control is really unnecessary, to avoid it. Twenty-six amendments were tabled before the bill. The vast majority of them were of a technical nature. They were all taken into account by the committee. So we ask the Supreme Council to support this bill in the second reading and the law as a whole. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-07-m0.u178	Thank you. Colleagues, all the suggestions, the table is given to everyone. All offers are included. And the committee has worked very hard on this issue. I propose the adoption of Bill 0905 on second reading and generally in accordance with the decision of the committee. I don't think anyone has any comment on this. Please prepare your colleagues for the vote. Please prepare your esteemed colleagues for the vote, please. You have been introduced to your vote (registration number of bill 0905) on animal by-products not intended for human consumption, in second reading, with the recommendation of the committee. In the second reading and in general, I ask you to vote, Your Honor. Please be supportive. As a whole, in the second reading, I ask you to vote. All the proposals were taken into account by the committee. [[13:55:25]] For 275 Decision taken. Thank you, Your Honor. 2258.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-07-m0.u179	Who said, "Perm"? Please 2258: Draft Act amending the Ukrainian Budget Code on State Investment Projects. 2258 is a real bill that is part of the World Bank cooperation programme. We looked at it in factions, the Ministry of Economics, you know what the position is. There is a proposal to vote on this bill in second reading and in general. The program is 800 million. Is it accepted? Let's go. 2258 is based on and in general in the second reading. Please vote on the basis and for a total of 22,58. I'm sorry, second reading and the whole thing. Please vote. 2258. Please vote, colleagues, 2258. In general. In the second reading and in general. [[13:56:31]] For 248 Thank you, Your Honor. Thank you. 2259, honorary colleagues, for your consideration. It's a joint World Bank project, a 800 million-dollar interaction program. 2259 in second reading. Same position: based on the base. in the second reading and in general. All factions reported these laws, we have support. The committee's been working very hard. For your second reading, draft Law 2259 is introduced as a whole in the second reading. Please vote. In general, in the second reading. The second reading as a whole. [[13:57:23]] For 236 Decision taken. Thank you, Your Honor. There will be proposals, we will make changes to the Ukrainian Act on. 2259. Dear colleagues, we still have the bill. I think we'll look at them at the evening session. Yeah? We'll start an evening session with him. There are only a few more announcements, dear colleagues. But I would like to draw your attention, dear colleagues. We'll have an evening meeting with you at 4:00. There are still a number of draft laws that are extremely important. So I would ask you very much, and I would ask you to come immediately so that we can consider the matter. Please give the floor to the First Deputy Head of the Supreme Council, Andrey Volodymyrovich Paruba, to announce the applications.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-07-m0.u180	Announcement. According to the application and in accordance with part three of article 60 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Rules, I am reporting the departure of the Ukrainian national deputy, Mr. Denisenko Andriy Sergiyyyovich, from the MP's "Block of Petra Poroshenko". Announcement. According to the application and in accordance with part three of article 60 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Rules, I am reporting the departure of the Ukrainian National Deputy Kupria Vitalia Mikolaiovich from the MP's "Block of Petra Poroshenko". I am reporting on the creation in the Supreme Council of Ukraine of the eighth interfractional parliamentary association on prevention and non-infectious diseases, the leader of this interfractional party of Ukraine’s elected national deputy Musia Oleg Stepanović. These are the announcements that came to the presidency of the Supreme Council of Ukraine and that I officially announce. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-07-m0.u181	Colleagues. Dear colleagues, the morning session is closed. There will be an evening meeting at 16 p.m. I'd like everyone to be on time at 4:00. Thank you.
