ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-03-m0.u1	Good morning, distinguished national deputies. It is a pleasure to welcome you to the Hall of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. We'll get you started. Today we will begin the second session of the eighth call. And I would ask all the national MPs to take their jobs. Faction leaders please invite deputies to work. And we will begin the sessions of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. I'm asking the people's deputies to prepare for registration. Please take your seats and prepare for registration. Dear faction leaders, I ask you to invite the national deputies to the hall. I'm asking you to take your seats, please. Ladies and gentlemen, I ask you to prepare for your registration. Please turn on the " Rada" system. Please register, Your Honor. [[10:07:48]] There are 302 national deputies present. Ladies and gentlemen, please take your seats. Honourable National Deputies and Visitors to the Supreme Council of Ukraine participate: The Prime Minister of Ukraine, Arseny Petrovich Yacenuk, welcome him, and the members of the Cabinet of Ministers; the heads of the central executive authorities; the leaders of the judicial branch of power; the officials appointed by the Supreme Council of Ukraine; the heads of diplomatic representations of foreign states and other officials; representatives of public organizations and the media. As you recall, we have decided with you that we are working without interruption between sessions so that the day of the beginning of the second session of Parliament will be the day of the end of the last session of the Ukrainian Parliament, the work of the Ukrainian Parliament. That is why I declare the first session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the eighth call to be closed, distinguished colleagues. Honourable National Deputies and Guests of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, in accordance with article 83 of the Constitution of Ukraine, the second session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is declared open.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-03-m0.u2	Glory to Ukraine! [[Applause]] Ladies and gentlemen, we begin our second session of the eighth call. We've been working with you for this call for two months, and they've probably been unforgivable, but we've managed to form Parliament's organs, form a government. To make a number of important decisions that have allowed us to respond to the circumstances in which Ukraine is today, to strengthen our security, many other questions. But I am convinced that this session is to become a session of qualitative dynamic changes, of reforms. We don't have time for roaches with you, we have to act now and now. And now we've formed, as decided by the Conciliation Board, a two-week schedule. Today you will be given the order of the day of the second session of Parliament. I'd like you to work on it, and by Wednesday, we'll be working on everything we need to be able to systematically start our work. I am convinced that this session should become very clear from the point of view, including the adoption of constitutional changes, other reforms that Ukraine and society are looking forward to today. I believe that we will be able to solve a number of tasks that have been faced by past parliaments. In particular, on Thursday, to vote on the removal of the parliamentary immunity that is already there, I would say so horrendous in terms of such unprecedented in touch that we need to get rid of it. Because I think that each of us talked about this during the election campaign, and I'm convinced that each of us will come and vote for that decision. We're going to adopt a number of laws that will strengthen our defenses, increase the effectiveness of fighting corruption, we're going to start constitutional changes in the near future, that's all, the Elections Act. We're going to need economic reforms, so a lot of life has to be changed. And part of this very brief work has to be done by Parliament itself, because any plans, they only go into specific things when they're approved by the Ukrainian people's deputies. So I wish all of us success, I would very much like every day of our work to be effective, open, public, and this is our task with you. Dear National Deputies! I would now like to thank the head of the Government, Arsenija Petrovich, for participating in the opening of the second session and the members of the government. Thank you! And I wish us good luck together. Thank you! Dear colleagues, today is the birthday celebration of our colleague Yuri Miroshnichenko, a national MP, let's welcome him on his birthday. [[Applause]] In accordance with Rule 25 of the Rules, we have 30 minutes Tuesday for the presentation of the authorized representatives of the MPs and groups. I now ask the National Deputies to prepare for registration for factions and parliamentary groups. Please. Please, Self-Help faction, Krivenko Viktor Mikolayovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-03-m0.u3	May I have Oleg Berezuku's word?
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-03-m0.u4	Oleg Berezuk, Self-help.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-03-m0.u5	Ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Head, it's a pity that Kabmin left, because today is actually my conversation with him. We gave a loan to Kabmin when we voted on his immature government program. We gave a loan of trust to Kabmin when we voted on a completely immature budget. We have been patiently watching for over a month now, as Kabin corrects his mistakes in the budget after we accepted it. Unfortunately, we see that the Ministry of Finance of the Cabinet of Ministers has no institutional internal resources and capacity to shape the State's financial policy in a qualitative way. Unfortunately, to all our tolerant remarks and respect for our minister and our Cabinet of Ministers, the Cabinet of Ministers ignores its institutional incompetence. And so far, to this day, we haven't received a revised budget in 2015. Yesterday, that's enough. The way we were told after meeting with the President that Kabmin had promised to serve up to 15, he'd give it up by the 15th. If the Kabdin will feed us with promises, if the Kabdin prepares this budget with the institutional resources that he has prepared the previous one, don't bring it into Parliament. [[Applause]] We immediately propose to the Prime Minister not to sit for 17 hours and solve the problem instead of his deputies, to create an urgent task force on the basis of a budget committee with the participation of factions to review a budget that already exists and make qualitative changes. Moreover, we propose to set up an immediate working group to prepare the 2016 Declaration of Budget, which must enter Parliament by March. We're more like the Self-Help faction of the Cabinet of Ministers and Minfin's trust loan. [[Applause]] Next: tariffs. The Cabin is going to raise the gas tariffs from March to April, and we demand, I emphasize, what do we need to calculate what the tariff is? We want to see what's being put in the tariff so that yachts, houses and hundreds of dollars a month are not suddenly put in there by officials of Naftogaz Ukraine. In order to form high-quality tariffs, we propose to set up a working group of factions, MINS, and MINFIN right now.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-03-m0.u6	Ten seconds, complete, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-03-m0.u7	Over this complex fiscal policy intervention that will take place in the spring of this year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-03-m0.u8	Thank you. Please, People's Front, Victoria Sumar.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-03-m0.u9	Thank you. Dear Sir, dear colleagues! You know, we're starting a very difficult new session, we're talking about budget intervention, and I think we should think first of all about the intervention of Russian troops, today in Ukraine. Because you know that peace negotiations are actually broken down, and we have to admit it by the Ukrainian Parliament. You know that there are constant fighting in both the Mariupola and the Debaltsev region. You know, there were attempts to build a boiler and a second Ilovysk or completely demoralize the Ukrainian army. Thank God it didn't work! On the contrary, the Ukrainian military is striking the enemy very seriously today. And there was a blow, particularly against Stahanov and the Uuglegirsk, where a huge concentration of Russian troops and this is the great success of the Ukrainian army itself. You know, it seemed that as representatives of the Ukrainian people, we should be setting an example, an example of unity, and an example of efficiency. Instead, we have to learn on the front, because there's mobilization, and there's no mobilization. And when we, colleagues, talk about immatureness. [[Congrats]] So I don't think immature is the ability to negotiate even within a single coalition. It's a failure to understand that we have a coalition government with you and there are your representatives, and please work with them, and not talk here from this rostrum constantly to the address of the government that is doing everything possible today to stabilize the situation. [[Applause]] We have a situation with you, colleagues, today very simple: either we show the enemy that we can be alone and strong, or the attack will continue. We have to show here that we are the Parliament of Ukraine, not any other state. We need to show that we can adopt effective laws that can protect the country, including information space. For example, is there a normal situation when in fact Ukrainian citizens watch Russian shows celebrating the Russian army, Russian law enforcement agencies that at the same time kill Ukrainian soldiers? Is that normal? This offends the entire Ukrainian society today. Why do we allow the aggressor state today to have ownership rights in the Ukrainian media? In the United States, there's a rule about a total ban on anyone today. So that any foreigner can have ownership, instead, we're putting under some kind of democratic category of freedom of speech and things like that. Today, we face the challenge of proving whether we are the Ukrainian Parliament or whether we are a group of lobbyists. Let's not forget that our power today is united and able to mobilize and act differently than we did during an extraordinary session, when, forgive me, we simply passed statements and appeals, but passed laws that will specifically allow the government, the President and we with you to protect our country. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-03-m0.u10	Thank you. Oleg Kulinich, Economic Development.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-03-m0.u11	Oleg Kulinic, Economic Development Group, 147 constituency, Poltavščina. Dear Mr. Head, distinguished colleagues, distinguished voters! In addition to the problems already common to them, the territorial communities faced problems with the application of the so - called tax reform at the end of 2014 on tax cuts. Local budgets are said to receive more resources because the government has passed on 10 percent of the corporate income tax to local budgets, 25 percent of the rent, 25 percent of the environmental tax, excise tax, property tax, holding, administrative fees. But it's real for rural areas. Instead, the government took 25 percent of the income tax and expenditure on kindergartens and cultural buildings into the village. In this area, only 10 percent of this tax remains to be taken care of. The remaining 15 percent were lost in the district and state budgets. If they gave all 25 percent of the income tax they took to the villages, they wouldn't have had holes in their budgets, and they could have fully maintained both kindergartens and cultural buildings, rather than taking them on the verge of survival. It seems to me that such decentralization of public finances seems questionable and asks local communities where to raise the cost of survival. In addition, communities are virtually out of land use. At present, the governments of executive authorities, not the bodies that are chosen by humans, are responsible for the land outside the populated areas. This led to absurdity: Local communities cannot solve the problems of demarcating areas under pastures, cemeteries, garbage dumps, and other objects that are vital to local communities. That is why the problem of decentralization needs to be addressed in a comprehensive manner, taking into account the interests of local communities. First of all, it allows communities in places to actually manage the land. This problem is solved by Bill 1159, the authors of which are representatives of four MP factions and groups. It is about increasing the role of the territorial communities in land administration. The bill is supported by the Agrarian Committee of the Supreme Council, the Ministry of Education, the Association of Local Self - Government Authorities, and public organizations. In addition, I received many requests from the local communities of the Poltava region asking to consider this project as soon as possible. Despite general support, it is not clear why it has not yet been put into the voting room. So, Your Honor Vladimir Borisovich, I ask you to include in the agenda of the day plenary a bill of 1159, which the local communities are waiting for and which will be a real step towards decentralization. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-03-m0.u12	Thank you. Please, Fatherland faction, Julia Timoshenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-03-m0.u13	Dear colleagues, I think we are all reporting that the situation regarding Russia's aggression against Ukraine has changed dramatically in recent days. It has changed dramatically! All the Minsk Accords are broken, all the deals are broken. And today it's obvious that the strategy for the retirement of an aggressor has virtually been defeated for the retirement of a terrorist country. Today, there must be a radically changed approach both to Ukraine and to the end of the war in eastern Ukraine and to the return to Ukraine of peace. And that's why we're proposing a fairly clear and clear algorithm for action today. First and foremost, we need to act, not negotiate in the towers that lead to the further destruction of the Ukrainians and the loss of our territory. We need to act on a clear plan. And the first step from this plan is Ukraine's immediate appeal to the International Criminal Court to bring the leadership of the aggressor country to justice. Today, we have every reason to do so. According to United Nations Resolution 3314, Russia falls entirely within the definition of an aggressor country. Article 3 stipulates that an invasion or attack by the armed forces of a state in the territory of another state, or any military occupation, or annexation, is recognized by aggression. And this is the most serious crime against humanity, the most serious crime recognized by the United Nations. Furthermore, the Russian Federation falls under UN criteria in the recognition of Resolution 1267 on the definition of a terrorist organization, namely, participation in financing, planning, promotion, preparation or commission of acts or activities, support for a terrorist organization; the provision, sale or transfer of arms to terrorist organizations and many other coincidences. That is why we must immediately appeal to the International Criminal Court. We may not even ratify the Rome Statute for this reason, because Parliament, a part against this, but an appeal by Parliament to vote and thereby confirm the ad hoc procedure, as set out in article 11, paragraph 2, and article 12, paragraphs 2 and 3, of the Rome Statute. The Fatherland Party insists that today, but tomorrow at most.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-03-m0.u14	Ten seconds. Finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-03-m0.u15	has been put to the vote by appeal to the International Criminal Court and attraction, an organization that draws the leadership of the aggressor state and the terrorist state to criminal responsibility.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-03-m0.u16	Please, let me finish for another 10 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-03-m0.u17	There have been such precedents in the history of the world. On June 27th, 11th, Muammar Qaddafi was drawn to, on July 21, 8, the president of the Sudan.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-03-m0.u18	How much time do you need?
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-03-m0.u19	Ten seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-03-m0.u20	Give me 10 more seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-03-m0.u21	I would ask that we take action, return to Geneva's negotiating format, and do whatever it takes to get the world to put airplane weapons on Ukraine. Every day and every step is now very important. I'm asking you to support this algorithm. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-03-m0.u22	Thank you. Please, Opposition Block, Boyko Yuri Anatoliyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-03-m0.u23	Dear Volodymyr Borisovich, distinguished colleagues! The vast majority of politicians, both in Ukraine and abroad, realize that there is no military solution to the conflict at Donbassa. That's why we registered Regulation No.1847, which is a clear political plan for resolving a conflict in which 10 steps are taken. Key positions: holding direct negotiations with the Russian Federation on joint ceasefire efforts; involving a United Nations peacekeeping contingent to separate sides; and restoring social benefits at Donbassa. We call on our fellow Members of Parliament to support this decision in order to end the war. Given that we are advocating a diplomatic solution to the East conflict, our supporters and deputies are under constant pressure. The government in the party of war is trying to shut their mouths to those who are advocating a peaceful settlement of the conflict, and confidence in tomorrow is proposing instead of a deep socio-political crisis. That's what the People's Deputy of the Opposition Block of Julia Ljovczyn said at the PARJ session. Its position was found in support of the European Parliamentarians. In her resolution, PARJE demanded that the Ukrainian authorities restore social benefits to the population and stop the repression of civilians. At the same time, the reaction of the authorities to our MP’s speech in PARJE runs counter to all European parliamentary standards. It is unacceptable to use the Attorney General's Office to intimidate the opposition. We also focus on the atmosphere of total pressure on the media, the lack of an alternative position, the introduction of censorship in the information space. To this end, the Ministry of Censorships was first established, TV channels were pressed, and now laws were rewritten to remove the channel of license and switch owners. The proposed bills will bring all independent media to its knees. In fact, it is the preparation of a raiding of unfavorable media. The board may accept the right without the court’s decision to suspend the licence of the channel or radio station. The absence of language is the destruction of the media. In fact, a few people in Nakrad may decide what to say and what to show. "The opposition block" thinks it's unacceptable to attack freedom of speech, whatever the slogans are. We are confident that Ukrainians have the right to learn the truth about events in the country. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-03-m0.u24	Please, Oleg Lazko, Radical Party.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-03-m0.u25	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. Honorable citizens of Ukraine, honourable colleagues and national deputies, I think for the whole world, including this room, it's obvious that the politics that we tried to please Putin suffered from the fiasco. And when we have armies today about us separatists at Donbassa. Where did it come from? Did she fall out of the sky? We're guilty of being there today because when we went to the command to stop when we had to attack, we said not to shoot when our soldiers were killed, we said not to answer to provoke the aggressor when humanitarian convoys were going to die in Ukraine because we didn't kill them because we said we were provoking Putin to war when we signed disgraceful mine agreements in September, and the Supreme Council in secret voted the law on the special status of Donbass, we allowed it to be done because we thought that we would fool Putin, that we would satisfy him, that we would convince him that we would stop him. No, only a fool can't see beyond his nose that Putina will stop only our strength when we have a strong army. We were told that we were using this truce to make a powerful army. What I'm asking is, why is an army of terrorists stronger than ours? Why are they coming and we're holding a deaf defense? I have a question, a question and a question. And it's not just me, it's a question in Ukrainian society. How long before our heroes are killed, so we can finally understand that we have to be tough and fight?Oh, my God! I have before me a representative of the so - called thief’s block, who tells them that they are being applauded, and their lifter is applauded in South Africa. Who's applauding you, traitors?Oh, my God! Russian delegation! For selling your country! For your authority, you humiliate your army, and you call terrorists peaceful citizens, hailstones, grenade launchers, machine guns! You will not be applauded by the fighters of the 13th Chernobyl Battalion. 23 dead in three days in Debaltsev because of you! Because when you needed to be put in prison, the authorities made arrangements with you and gave you the opportunity to contact the Supreme Council. And you continue to betray the country today! Ask the Foreign Service where they fly when they were called parliamentary vacations! To Moscow, charters! Who lets them out? Try me or Filatov or Jaroz or Parasuk to fly to Moscow, they will tie us there, they will fly back and forth. For what? By instruction, by money, by betrayal, by betrayal! That's what you're flying to Moscow for! That's why I'm calling on the Chief of the Supreme Council to disband the opposition block faction and demand the government to ban the traitorous party.Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-03-m0.u26	Let me finish, 10 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-03-m0.u27	Those who serve enemies who hate Ukraine, who have waged war on Donbassa, who will make money in war today. The task of authority is to hold them accountable. If the authorities don't do that, we'll change it!
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-03-m0.u28	Vladimir Ariev, "Peter Prashenko's Block".
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-03-m0.u29	Dear colleagues! What happened last week in Strasbourg, when the Ukrainian delegation took part in the session of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe, this was a huge victory. This was the great victory of all democracy and the Ukrainian delegation in general because we did not allow the delegation of the Russian Federation to return to the room with the full restoration of their rights. Friends! This victory of parliamentary and official diplomacy is very difficult to overestimate because the Russian Federation has given up absolutely all its efforts to return and restore all its rights to the Assembly. Why did they need this? Well, first of all, when the delegation includes the head of Parliament, and this was the head of the Narizhkin State, it already shows how important it is to them. But it was important for them to do a number of things: legitimize their aggression against Ukraine through the European institution, justify the annexation of Crimea, and start the way to abolish sanctions. It would essentially reject our diplomacy back, but it didn't happen later on. We had three key questions in the session about Ukraine. The first is a report on the humanitarian situation in annexed Crimea, in the territories occupied by terrorists in the area of Donbas, as well as the situation of temporarily displaced persons who fled occupied Crimea and Donbas. We were able to make all the amendments from the Ukrainian delegation, and they were accepted. And as a result, not so loyal of the report turned into a very clear text: we condemned the humanitarian convoys, we condemned the gross violation of human rights in Crimea, we recognized Russia as the country that occupied Crimea. The question of freedom of speech in Europe was different, and there we condemned the search on the ATR Crimean Tatar channel. Special attention was given to the diplomatic immunity of Hope Savchenko, because it is the only tool to release her from custody. Everything has been done and, in this case, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and the President of Ukraine are now continuing. But the main issue was the review of the credentials of the Russian delegation. You know, the Russians have given up absolutely everything, all the levels of motivation have been used, none are ruled out. But I have to say one thing, we were able to break a situation that on Tuesday was still almost critical, almost impossible, it seemed, and we turned it 180 degrees.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-03-m0.u30	Please, let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-03-m0.u31	It was because of just one thing, the unity of the Ukrainian delegation for the first time in years. The Ukrainian delegation was, first of all, very quality in terms of its composition, extremely active and already experienced members of the Parliamentary Assembly and new ones were good. And the third. We've done everything at every level in our business with the only front. And I can say that maybe one statement by the opposition was anti-Ukrainian, unnecessary, terrible, and we all condemned it, but voting, committee work was the only one, and that gave us a result. The Ukrainian delegation unanimously voted to reinstate sanctions against Russia and to convince the other 150 MPs of the Parliamentary Assembly, we have received a very serious result. From this rostrum, I want to thank our partners to the foreign delegations that helped us, this is the British delegation, this is the countries of the Baltic, Poland, Georgia, Germany, Scandinavia, Spain and Italy that have produced almost unanimous results. I would like to thank the President of Ukraine, who was with us all the time, the delegation met with him yesterday and we discussed a plan for the future. I want to thank you for the very active position of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. Friends, let's thank all of our partners, let's applaud our colleagues from other parliaments who have helped us achieve this outcome. They are worthy of it, and this is once again the work of our delegation in PARJE stressed, together we are a force and if we unite we can break even the harshest Russian scenarios and win a real victory. And this victory has become a very important moment for our boys on the front who have seen, if diplomacy wins, then the military goes ahead, so does the winning. Glory to Ukraine! All together, my strength!
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-03-m0.u32	Thank you. It was from both the faction and our group of national deputies in the Council of Europe, so it was a little bit larger than the usual statement. Dear colleagues! The talks are over and we are moving on to the agenda issues identified by the Conciliation Council. We begin our first reading of the draft Act amending article 9 of the Ukrainian Defence Act (for prisoners of war and interned during a special period). I suggest that you and I, as the people's deputies wish, consider a reduced procedure, if there is a need for a full procedure, I think you will make such a proposal and the people's deputies will support it. Dear National Deputies! There is no need to approve the schedule for this week, since it is consistent if there are no objections to it. No objections in the daytime? None. If there is no insistence on approval, there is sufficient decision by faction leaders on the Conciliation Council. Dear National Deputies! I'm making a proposal to review the bill (registration number 1535) with a reduced procedure. I would like to refer to the people's deputies for consideration of the bill by a reduced procedure. [[10:44:44:44]] For 190 Decision taken. May I have the floor of Russian Deputy Defence Minister Ivan Stepanovich, please? Pashinski Sergey Volodymyrovich, head of the committee of profile, will report. Please report.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-03-m0.u33	Honourable Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, Honourable National Deputies, draft Act amending article 9 of the Ukrainian Defence Act (for prisoners of war and interned during a special period). The draft law is designed to organize matters relating to the congregation, to protect and to ensure that prisoners of war are kept and interned during a special period. At this time, at the legislative level, there is no order for dealing with prisoners of war and interned undecided, and no central authority of executive power is authorized to protect them. Article 9 of the Ukrainian Law on the Defence of Ukraine is proposed in the section "Responsibility of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine" to supplement with a new paragraph the following content: The Cabinet of Ministers sets out procedures for dealing with prisoners of war and interned persons during a special period, in accordance with international law. In the future, the Cabinet of Ministers will identify ministries, other central authorities, local executives, and law enforcement authorities who are authorized to provide for vision, protection and possession of prisoners of war and interned during a special period, such as their protection, financing, food and property. The task of the assembly of prisoners of war is proposed to be placed on the Armed Forces of Ukraine, and convoys from the assembly, security and maintenance are proposed to be placed on the National Penitentiary Service and the National Guard of Ukraine. The draft law is accepted by all interested central executives at the Supreme Council Committee on National Security and Defence. Please be supportive. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-03-m0.u34	Thank you, Ivan Stepanovich. Please refer to the report by Sergei Pashinsky, head of the profiling committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-03-m0.u35	Dear friends, good afternoon. I think a few years ago we couldn't have imagined that we would be dealing with prisoners of war and interned. Ivan Stepanovich Rusnak detailed the need for the adoption of this law. The committee considered and asked the Chamber to introduce this legislative rule into the legislative field and to vote on the basis as a whole. Once again, I remind you that the essence of the changes to the law is that the Cabinet of Ministers determines that the Cabinet of Ministers, according to our international treaties, treats prisoners of war and interned persons. Please support the bill as a whole. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-03-m0.u36	Thank you. Dear colleagues, please sign in two for, two against. Please, two for, two for against. Please, Olena Sergiyevna Masorina, People's Front.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-03-m0.u37	Masorina, People's Front. Please pass the word to Yuri Berezi.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-03-m0.u38	Please give me your word.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-03-m0.u39	Berezha Yuri Mikolaiovich, People's Front. I'd like to ask all of our colleagues to support this bill, because it's very important today that we legislatively anchor all of the moments that are happening in us in the east. Today, unfortunately, the civil administration in its entirety cannot do its job in the East, where fighting is taking place. And all the questions that arise with regard to the interns, everything that arises with regard to the captives that we today, unfortunately, have, are, for the most part, provided for in this law. So I urge all coalition partners to vote in favour of this law in the first reading and to take into account all the suggestions and observations that have been made. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-03-m0.u40	Please, Fatherland, Olena Skrum. Sergey Sobolev, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-03-m0.u41	Please pass the word to Mr. Sobolev.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-03-m0.u42	Dear colleagues, I'd like to express my position on the Fatherland faction. We think this bill is urgent because we are now operating in a state of war. If a military situation were to take effect, the issue of prisoners of war, interned persons, would be clearly defined by this law. That's why we need to bring our legislation into line with the standards that will work in the context of an anti-terrorist operation. But there is a second norm that is very important. This is a matter of human rights violations and the protection of human rights. That is why we also insist on the adoption of this bill on the basis of the first reading, and then on the second reading, this bill should be analysed not only by a committee that embraces defence issues, but also by a professional committee that embraces human rights. Because compliance with the Geneva Convention and other international instruments is the most important thing to protect our warring or interned individuals. And the second. A resolution of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe has just been adopted, where the direct requirement for the Russian Federation is that everyone who illegally abstains should immediately be released by the Russian Federation, either by individuals or by prisoners of war. This is a fact that confirms that the Russian Federation is keeping our citizens in its territory illegally. This law should also correspond to the resolutions of the last Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe. That's why our faction will insist and approve in the first reading, and then through the analysis of the relevant profiling committees, including the Committee on Defence and Human Rights, we should work on the second reading, if we need an accelerated procedure, we wouldn't deny it because next week we have a working one. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-03-m0.u43	Thank you. Please "self-help", Paul Kishkar.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-03-m0.u44	We support it. The faction of the political party "Unification Self-Help" supports a colleague from "Fatherland" for voting in the first reading and insists on upholding international legislation in this area. Let me draw your attention to the Security and Defence Committee on Human Transfer. Now that we're exchanging people, there's no authority to transfer these people to either the Security Service or the Public Prosecutor's Office. Condemned people are actually illegally transferred to terrorist organizations. It's worth considering, there's an appropriate security bill developed, and we're very much asking you to settle this issue at the legislative level. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-03-m0.u45	Thank you. Please, Your Honor, are you willing to make a statement on this bill? It doesn't. Please, the closing word. Is there a need? He doesn't? Dear colleagues, we have considered. Please, Sergey Pashinsky, the closing word. So there's two factions, there's a denial of consideration in general.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-03-m0.u46	Dear friends! You know, it's not a piece of legislation, I don't even know what to call it. One paragraph, one paragraph, shall be inserted into the law in force. One of the deputies or the faction has a desire to modernize legislation, draft legislation, register it, we will consider it, discuss it, vote. At the moment, there is a paragraph that states that we have the rule that military prisoners and interned under international law are determined by the Cabinet of Ministers. Where is the subject of the debate? I'm talking to the chairman again, we're at this rate, so if you'll excuse me, we're not going to do legislative work, not understand what we're doing. We need to lay the law on the ground and on the whole. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-03-m0.u47	Thank you. Please, Oleg Lazko. Wait a minute. They did not participate in the discussion.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-03-m0.u48	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. Dear Volodymyr Borisovich, distinguished fellow national MPs! Ukraine is in a state of war and Parliament has to work very quickly, giving answers to the challenges that are facing, including by performing a major function -- a change in legislation that will allow us to strengthen defence, free our prisoners, protect their rights. Clearly, then, the bill must be adopted in general. And let's do it. I'm looking at the hall, and after the holidays, a lot of MPs are loose: walking, squeezing, someone's sitting on the buffets. Who's relaxed, go to the front and let's work here. More energy! More energy! Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-03-m0.u49	Thank you. Dear colleagues, there are two suggestions. Indeed, if there is only one paragraph about the fulfilment of Ukraine’s obligations under international agreements. Please, Sergey Sobolev.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-03-m0.u50	Sobolev, the Fatherland faction. We would support it if it were the coalition's common position to vote on the basis as a whole. The only suggestion in this matter is that there should be an analysis of the conformity of the Geneva Convention. Because that's the most important question, so the position of government here is going to be decisive. If the government supports this, we don't mind in principle, because there are changes, in fact, in the Regulation of Regulatory Procedures, it's exclusively the government's position to be the government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-03-m0.u51	He is supported by a government representative, the prime minister’s deputy minister, in line with Ukraine’s international obligations. Dear colleagues, that's when we took out all the contradictions. I'm asking all national deputies to take their seats. We are about to start voting on the bill (registration number 1535). Please take your seats, dear colleagues. The bill amending article 9 of the Ukrainian Defence Act (for prisoners of war and interned during a special period) (registration number 1535) is proposed for voting. As a result of the discussion, I put it as a foundation and as a whole. Please vote on the basis and in general. Please vote on the basis and in general. [[10:57:16]] For 283 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, we will now look at the block of defense and security, and then we will move on to anti-corruption. A bill (registration number 1848) is submitted for your consideration Draft Act amending the Ukrainian National Guard Act (to improve the organization and order of operations of the National Guard). Reported by the National Deputy of Ukraine, Sergey Pashinsky. But before that, there is a proposal to consider this bill in a simplified way. Is there no objection? I'm voting on a reduced procedure. As far as consideration is concerned, the reduced procedure is concerned. [[10:58:06]] For 227 Decision taken. Thank you. Please, Sergey Volodymyrovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-03-m0.u52	Dear friends, one of the first decisions of Parliament after Janukovich's escape was the National Guard Act, which was in early March as a challenge to the problems that were then faced by the state. I want to point out that in the first stage of the unit of the former internal forces that were transformed into the National Guard, the volunteer battalions of the National Guard, they were the units that were the first to defend the sovereignty and national integrity of Ukraine. Our National Guard has entered history forever as a structure that, at the most difficult moment for our nation, has become a weapon in our hands to protect our people. Unfortunately, we have had a sad experience in the last year. And in this law, including that of the President of the National Guard, it is approved by Parliament. We have in the Constitution a comprehensive list of those positions that are submitted by the President are approved by Parliament. Plus, the question is to make some adjustments to the internal reorganization of the National Guard. The National Guard, I remind you, is a dual-functioning law enforcement agency, as a law enforcement agency, and in the National Guard Act, the functions of the actual participation of the National Guard in hostilities in the event of an emergency that is now taking place. And you know that parts of the National Guard are on the front line. And in order to regulate their work, we have made some changes to this law, which provides for the presence of artillery parts and armoured parts in the National Guard. So let's say that this will normalize and facilitate the planning and formation of new operational parts. It's a development plan.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-03-m0.u53	Please finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-03-m0.u54	To complete, because there were so many insinuations around this law that there would be no questions at all.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-03-m0.u55	Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-03-m0.u56	Once again, I want to point out that the National Guard's operational units are being formed. This is essentially a division with functions of military units. And once again, parts of the National Guard are now standing on the front line of defense and taking the enemy's blow directly to their forehead. And that's why I want to ask everyone, we don't have a commander of Nazgwardia, we have a position of president. As soon as we pass this law, the procedure of Commander Nachwardia is initiated. And to settle all these questions that I've been saying. The committee is informed. We've studied this in detail, we've had some discussions with our colleagues, and I hope that there is no doubt that this law should be adopted as a basis and, in general, now, today and in this place, no one will arise. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-03-m0.u57	Thank you. I would like to invite the head of Andria Kozemyakin’s committee of profile to report.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-03-m0.u58	Dear Chairman, dear colleagues! A committee on law enforcement dealt with draft Ukrainian Law No. 1848. The purpose of the bill, as stated in the Explanatory Note, is to improve the organization and order of the Ukrainian National Guard. The aim is to achieve the changes made to the National Guard Act to clarify the size of the National Guard, improve regulations on the order of use of firearms, the appointment and discharge of senior command, the approval of regulatory mechanisms and the implementation of nuclear security functions. During the committee's consideration of the bill, Ukrainian National Deputies, members of the Committee noted the ambiguity of the following proposal: this proposal to re-edit part two of article 7 according to which the National Guard Commander of Ukraine would be appointed and dismissed as President of Ukraine, with the submission of the Minister of Internal Affairs. According to the valid National Guard Act today, the National Guard Commander is appointed and relieved of office as the Supreme Council of Ukraine, with the submission of the President of Ukraine. Therefore, in view of this discussion, the committee in the process of voting for the proposals currently in force under the Rules, accepting the draft as a basis, returning the subject of the legislative initiative, or rejecting it, the votes of the deputies were divided into 50 by 50. Therefore, the Committee decided to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine its own decision on the bill by voting. Thank you for your attention!
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-03-m0.u59	Thank you! Please two for, two for against. Please sign up. People's Front, Michael Bondar.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-03-m0.u60	Mikhailo Bondar, People's Front. I support this bill, because whoever I am, still knows that the boys from the volunteer battalions, the National Guard, in the first days were standing there on the front and often without the heavy weapons, and taking on these terrorist attacks. First of all, we need to help the boys to have weapons, heavy weapons. So please support this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-03-m0.u61	Thank you. Please, Oleg Berezuk, Self-Help.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-03-m0.u62	Creating a system of responsibility is one of the most important tasks we have with you. The war and all the responsibility for winning or defeating this war are borne by the Commander - General of the country, who must have all the resources, resources and tools to do so. The task of directing such a huge and important unit, which is important, both in times of peace and in times of war, is important. Therefore, the Self-Help faction supports this proposal so that the country's commander-in-chief, the President of Ukraine, can assume full responsibility for the appointment. But we also want to remind ourselves that the internal forces in the wrong hands stood by and directed their weapons against the people of Ukraine. But Shevchenko, the prophet, wrote: "Whoever forgets his mother, God punishes him!".. So we hope that the National Guard will never be used against the country and against its people, either in peace or in military time, and now this responsibility lies with all of us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-03-m0.u63	Thank you. Please, Igor Mosiyczuk, Radical Party.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-03-m0.u64	Igor Mosiyczuk, Radical Party. Of course, during the war, the Commander-in-Chief has the right to appoint a commander of the National Guard, and the Commander-in-Chief must be solely responsible for the actions of the National Guard and other military units. That's why we're going to vote in favour of this law. At the same time, though, recalling not too long ago, it is worth noting that the internal forces, which became the foundation of the National Guard, were used against the people of Ukraine. Therefore, we must put the safeguards in the form of the President's impeachment Act so that the tragedy of Maidan, the shootings and the use of the National Guard against the people of Ukraine will never happen again. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-03-m0.u65	Thank you. Please, Julius Mamchure, Peter Dusty Block.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-03-m0.u66	Good afternoon, honourable chairman, distinguished colleagues, MPs! Peter Prashenko's Block generally supports this bill that the responsibility for the country's defence lies with the Supreme Commander-in-Chief and therefore appoints the commander of the National Guard to be appointed by the President. But some questions need reconciliation -- that's the number, the number of National Guards and the military formations that will be included in it. The purpose of the presence of tank units and artillery is to be observed only in the event of a special condition. So in the first reading, we take as a basis, and then we work out. Because the creation of a parallel army is not appropriate in our country, because we all know what happened in 2013-2014. So we support, please support, and by second reading, reconcile these issues and make changes. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-03-m0.u67	Thank you. National Guard, please. One minute. Wait, I'll give you a chance to speak. Please, Fatherland, Sergey Sobolev.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-03-m0.u68	Sobolev, the "Fatherland" faction. Dear colleagues! I wouldn't want you to bring this law down solely to the one who appoints the head of the National Guard. This law, in my opinion and in my view, of our faction, is much broader -- a law that actually restores the status of special forces in Ukraine. The National Guard, which was actually created from scratch, has gone through several stages of its formation, and this law we're passing on those, in fact, powers and structural units that allow the National Guard to become fully armed. That's why our faction will support this bill, we think it should be crucial, but maybe we should move on, and maybe we should consider transferring the National Guard to the Ukrainian Armed Forces, because the functions and powers, the weapons that will be in the National Guard, correspond to the key parameters of the country's Armed Forces. That's why we're going to support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-03-m0.u69	Thank you. Please, Sergey Pashinsky. Next, the representative of Nachwardia will inform.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-03-m0.u70	Dear colleagues, any military, any sober politicians and MPs understand that an army without a commander can't manage. We don't have a Commander-in-Charge for four months. There's the position of Commander-in-Chief, we've developed a normal, civilized model and we've agreed to this proposal. Once again, my dear friends, any MP, any faction, any group of deputies has the right to legislative initiative. All these suggestions that have been made in this room are additional, and it's your right to implement them. We as the People's Front faction are going to study and support the actions. But now there are three specific questions and I ask again, we need to appoint the Commander-in-Chief. I ask you very much, Mr. Groissman, put this law on the ground and in general, and we will determine who is taking our problems seriously and who is just plentiful about them.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-03-m0.u71	Thank you. Please, National Deputy Winnick.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-03-m0.u72	Dear colleagues, first of all, I'd like to pay attention to the Nazwardia Act. There at the beginning of this law, the preamble states that the National Guard is military formation, first and foremost. And that's when we say what's there. That the Supreme Commander of Ukraine cannot influence the appointment of a military leader during a special period, I think we are acting irresponsiblely. So I would like to support this bill on the basis and in general. Because today, Nazwardija plays one of the most prominent roles in the conduct of the Anti-Terrorism Operation and actually protects Ukraine's borders from armed aggression by the Russian Federation's aggressor state under the leadership of President Putin's aggressor. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-03-m0.u73	Thank you. Please, the representative of Nachwardia.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-03-m0.u74	Ladies and gentlemen, it is suggested that you make changes to the organizational structure, primarily the National Guard of Ukraine. This specifies the regular number of military personnel, the standards for the use of firearms, the involvement of reserve personnel in the performance of the Ukrainian National Guard. There are also arrangements for the implementation of nuclear facilities, nuclear materials, radioactive wastes, other sources of ionizing public property, important public objects, and special cargo. It is in this area -- I would like to point out -- that forces with collective weapons such as armoured units, artillery units, anti-aircraft units, especially in the area of anti-terrorist operations, that we need them not only for protection, but for the defence of particularly important public objects, which are established by the Ukrainian Cabinet of Ministers. In addition, article 106 of the Ukrainian Constitution refers to the appointment and release by the President of Ukraine of all senior officials of the Ukrainian National Guard as the Supreme Commander of the Ukrainian Armed Forces. Taking into account the situation in the south-eastern areas of Ukraine, such as the conduct of an anti-terrorist operation requiring the improvement of the organization, the arrangements for the activities of the National Guard of Ukraine, the performance of the tasks provided for by law, the National Guard of Ukraine supports the proposed bill introduced by the Ukrainian National Deputies. In view of the above, please support the project as a whole on amending the Ukrainian National Guard Act. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-03-m0.u75	Thank you. Respectful colleagues, taking into account a special period, realize that such decisions of a defensive nature are extremely important. So I'd like to ask all the national deputies to return to their seats right now. And I would like to welcome you to the words of Andrija Volodymyrovich Parubia.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-03-m0.u76	Ladies and gentlemen, the National Guard has in fact become a symbol of the Ukrainian victory. And that's why it's most commonly referred to in Russian propaganda as a symbol of, in fact, Ukrainian, all the armed forces in general. We voted here as one of the first reforms for the creation of the National Guard of Ukraine. And speaking of Maidan, I want to emphasize. From Maidan, thousands of defence volunteers from Maidan went to the National Guard of Ukraine, creating the first and second battalions of the National Guard. Volunteers who have become an ideological foundation on the front. There, under Slovenian, in Debaltsovo with one machine gun, they are all the time on the front line. When someone says the National Guard should be on line two, I'll let everyone know. At the hottest points I've seen recently, at the Lugansk Station, the National Guard's Department of Volunteers, at Debaltsovo, the National Guard's Department of the Kulczytsky Battalion, the unlocking of the uglegir World Battalion, was carried out by the National Guards. When I talked to them and asked them what they needed, they didn't talk about the benefits, they didn't talk about the land, they didn't talk about the funds. They said, "Let the state provide us with normal weapons." On the fore in the hottest battles with one machine gun, they are taking up the best modern technical weapon of the Russian aggressor. I mean, they're going to have a hard time waiting for us to discuss between the first and the second readings that we're going to apply and what kind of remedies we're not going to make. I think it's going to be a huge injustice, and it's going to be unfair in front of those guys who are on the front line if we keep discussing how to give them arms. I believe that the fact that we're handing over power to the President is merely the order of the President's constitutional powers. I think we should give heavy arms to our boys who are now in the trenches protecting both Ukraine and us and our families, and I think we should vote for this bill as a basis and, in general, all together, the hall, supporting the boys of those on the fore. Thank you. The glory of Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-03-m0.u77	Thank you, Your Honor Andre Volodymyrovich. Dear colleagues, in fact, our boys are on the front line right now. They need daily care, daily support. They must have everything that allows them to be effective, they must have everything that allows them to be unharmed, and they must have everything that can seriously strike our enemy. That is why this law is timely. There may be a lot to talk about, but today and now our boys need to fulfill their responsibility, which they are proud to do in protecting our home land. So I propose that we now consider as a basis and as a whole this bill and once again demonstrate our support to our Armed Forces of Ukraine, the National Guard. I think our boys really need it. So I ask all the national MPs to take their seats and prepare themselves for the vote, your honorary colleagues. I put to the vote a draft law amending the Ukrainian National Guard Act on improving the organization and order of operations of the National Guard, registration number 1848. There were suggestions for putting it on the ground as a whole. I'm voting on the basis and in general, registration number 1848. [[Noise Nodes]] Stop! Stop the vote! Please stop voting. Please stop voting. Dear colleagues, there are objections to the national MPs who are proposing to vote on it as a basis. So I'm voting on the basis of this project, number 1848.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-03-m0.u78	On the ground! Based on the base. [[Noise Nodes]] [[11:19:27]] For 299 Dear friends, I have an offer. Let's do it now. [[B in m in s a l in]] Wait a minute. One second, one second. I suggest, dear fellows, let's take the simplified procedure now to prepare for. Let's put it all together. Right, that'll be justice. Wait, on the basis we voted, it will be fair to put on the ground, and in general an important and extraordinary question. And there's no way. Let's just look at it a little bit. There is a proposal to put the bill on the table as a whole. Please vote and determine on the vote, on the vote. All in all. Please. [[11:20:17]] For 269 Decision taken. [[Applause]] See, voted both on the basis and in general. And that means that there is no difference in the adoption of this law. In principle, everyone was given the right to vote. Thank you, Your Honor. 1848 accepted as the basis and in general. Next bill, your honors. Draft Act amending the Criminal and Criminal Procedural Code of Ukraine (for war crimes) (Registration No. 1849). Before we begin the discussion, I am proposing to review this bill with a reduced procedure. As far as consideration is concerned, the reduced procedure is concerned. [[11:21:14]] For 219 Decision taken. I invite the reporter, Ukrainian national deputy John Julius Vinnik. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-03-m0.u79	Good afternoon, dear colleagues. Yesterday at the faction, we were briefed by the Attorney General of Ukraine, Jarem. You know, there was a lot of "why" and pretentiousness to him. I have come to the conclusion here that, of course, the actions of the Attorney General are limited to a certain extent by the Criminal Code and the Criminal Procedure Code in relation to individual crimes and individuals. So today our committee, the National Security and Defence Committee, has prepared an appropriate bill to amend the Criminal and Criminal Procedure Code to refer to individual war crimes. Why is this necessary? Because we've already voted in the first reading of Bill 1762 of the People's Deputies of Teteruk and others on increasing the responsibility of the military for violating the disciplinary statute. Today, in order to balance, we introduce article 426-1 into the Criminal Code, called military service excess, the military officer of disciplinary authority. What are we talking about? There is a disciplinary charter in the army that can actually be imposed on the military. But if the commander violates the Military Statute, the commander should be punished in the same way. Therefore, we suggest that we introduce separate articles of the Criminal Code to punish the commander if he exceeds the disciplinary statute. As far as the Criminal Procedure Code is concerned. We are introducing very important standards today that individual war crimes described in article 407-409 of the Criminal Code are primarily about the avoidance of mobilization and recruitment. There will be intransigence, follow-up action, because in fact, at present, many people, subject to a powerful Russian antipropaganda, are avoiding the appeal, thus effectively undermining the security principles of our nation. We grant the right to carry out unannounced investigations.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-03-m0.u80	I'm asking you to finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-03-m0.u81	And start criminal conduct accordingly. We are also amending the section of the Criminal Procedure Code, which regulates the special order of criminal conduct. It's the same order as, for example, when a criminal offence was committed on a ship or on a plane, or on a diplomatic representation, when a trial director can give the right to a suitable leader, in our case, it's about the commanders of parts where the necessary criminal conduct is not physically possible. This refers to an emergency, a special period, or in the area of counterterrorism, when a processive supervisor may grant the commander the right to conduct the necessary investigations. This is very important because we have many areas in which military action is taking place today that need to be given the right of commanders to detain, interrogate, and conduct preliminary investigations. So I'm asking you to support this on the basis and in general, because this will ensure an improvement in discipline, a balance of discipline in our military forces, and will ensure that criminal conduct can be carried out in places where it is physically impossible today to conduct these conducts by anyone other than our military personnel, who are in a position to protect our borders of Ukraine. Please support as a whole. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-03-m0.u82	Thank you. Andrew Kožemiakin, please, head of the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-03-m0.u83	Dear Lord Chairman, distinguished national deputies, present! A committee on law enforcement dealt with draft Law No. 1849. The purpose of the draft law, as has already been said, is to increase the responsibility for crimes against the establishment of a military service, that is, war crimes, and to define the characteristics of criminal conduct in situations of war (unorthodox) status, especially during periods or in the area of anti-terrorist operation. The aim is to achieve this by supplementing the Criminal Code with article 426-1 of the Code of Criminal Procedure of Ukraine with article 426-1 of the Code of Criminal Procedure for the Military Service of Disciplinary Power, as well as the Criminal Procedure Code of Ukraine with the chapter 41-1 of the Code of Criminal Procedure for the conduct of criminal conduct in the context of a state of war, especially during periods or in the area of the conduct of an anti-terrorist operation. In doing so, it is suggested that military commanders, heads of military headquarters, military agencies and organizations, or authorized officials, at the direction of the investigator, the prosecutor, should be allowed to conduct investigations and indiscreet investigations into the criminal conduct of war crimes. I would like to point out that the Chief Executive, the scientific and expert administration of the Supreme Council's apparatus, is proposing to reject it at all. In the course of the committee's discussion of the bill, it was decided to recommend Bill No. 1849 to the Supreme Council of Ukraine as a basis for the first reading. In view of the conditions in which our Fatherland is present today, it is appropriate to establish criminal responsibility for the military and service superior to that of the disciplinary authority. But on the basis of that, and on the second reading, we'll work it out. Thank you!
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-03-m0.u84	Thank you! Two for, two against. Please sign up. Please, Gregory Nemira, Fatherland. Sergei Vlasenko "The Fatherland."
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-03-m0.u85	Please pass the word to Vlasenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-03-m0.u86	Dear colleagues! Of course, this bill should be adopted, but it should be accepted only as a basis. We must put an end to the absolutely shameful practice of covering up war issues, and we are beginning to change the Criminal Code in the first reading and in general. The same is true of the Criminal Procedure Code, introducing essentially new institutions. It's not about changing one word or two words in the text of the law, we're adopting a fundamental, systemic law that will be applied. And that's why this law has to be quality, it has to at least preserve and protect, at least, human rights. It's not that we're insidious investigative actions, according to the new procedure, in the first reading, in general, without amendment, without anything. I think that this practice is totally unacceptable and therefore I propose to support this bill, but to support it only on a basis, perhaps by a reduced procedure. In order for us to be able to adopt this law in general during the next session of the week with the rights and analysis of the Ukrainian national deputies. Thank you!
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-03-m0.u87	Thank you! Please, National Deputy Palamarczuk, Peter Dusty Block.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-03-m0.u88	Dear colleagues! This law is necessary, it takes time, but it needs to be approached very systematically. So I propose that this law be adopted in the first reading as a basis and further developed.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-03-m0.u89	Thank you. Mikhail Papiev, "The Opposition Block."
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-03-m0.u90	Please pass the word to Deputy Dudenkov.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-03-m0.u91	People's Deputies.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-03-m0.u92	Thank you. Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable colleagues, citizens of Ukraine, the faction of the political party "The Opposition Block" will not support the stated legislative initiative, as military formations, in particular military commanders, are given no functions for them. It should be noted that the establishment of a military prosecutor’s office was justified by the need to improve the quality of the pretrial investigation by appropriate experts. And it has been pointed out accordingly that it is necessary to create these specialized prosecutors, the state of divisiveness, but they also point out that those instructions, I take it, the investigators who work in the military prosecutors will be given appropriate instructions to the commanders. And they, instead of performing the functions that they have, they're going to have to do the tracking functions, not the loud, search-and-seek functions that aren't inherent. So we think that this legislative initiative is wrong, that the quality of the actions will leave them better, it will not be quality, because the relevant persons, the military officials, do not have the necessary professional training to carry out appropriate investigations and not to carry out public intelligence. Therefore, we believe that the legislative initiative in question will not benefit from the detection of appropriate war crimes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-03-m0.u93	Thank you. Please, Olena Sotnik, Self Help.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-03-m0.u94	Dear colleagues, the Self-Help faction generally supports the adoption of all the laws that the military situation in the country needs today, but in this case, we ask that we stop covering all the laws that are being passed on unprecedentedly today in three days before the plenary session. We draw your attention to the fact that the criminal responsibility that is proposed in this case, i.e. the amendment to the Criminal Code, has no basis at all. Because the Criminal Code contains all the criminal articles necessary today to bring virtually all military officials to account, including the disciplinary charter, so there is no reason for adoption in this case. As far as the Criminal Procedure Code is concerned, these changes require considerable work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-03-m0.u95	Thank you. People's Front, Anton Gerashchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-03-m0.u96	Deputies! The need for the adoption of this law is due to the fact that the conduct of investigations into crimes committed in a war zone by military personnel or militiamen is special. There's no way to investigate an investigator who works in a 50-70-mile radius of combat. So I have a lot of respect for the idea that it doesn't matter, and I want to say that we have a lot of war crimes committed by our military personnel. And for them to be effectively investigated, they need to be given to military commanders to conduct interrogations, and there's nothing so terrible about it. Because at the end of the day, the military prosecutor's office will assess the quality of the investigation on the spot, but no one but the commander and the officers who were there will be able to effectively help investigate the crime that was committed on the front line. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-03-m0.u97	Thank you. I see the hand of the People's Front, please. Yuri Timoshenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-03-m0.u98	Tymoshenko. Ladies and gentlemen of the MPs! I propose all military issues to give priority to those who have at least been on the front and sniffed the dust. And he who has not been and knows not let them sit down and remain silent, without a command the army perishes, always conquers an army where there is more discipline, not more. How many more people have to die on the front line while you're here drooling about what kind of reading to review these laws? Have you thought about how many people have died from this morning to this moment, people on the front? Immediately, all that is for the front, all that is to win is in the first reading and final as the law.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-03-m0.u99	Please, National Deputy Winnick.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-03-m0.u100	I'd like to remind colleagues from Self-Help and Parenthood, among other things, that articles 364, 365 were decriminalized and removed from the Criminal Code on February 21, 2014. So today, when we're talking about overcoming power by commanders, we definitely have to introduce it, we have to do it -- enter article 426-1, which we're talking about, because these articles on overcoming power, they're not there today. I'd like you to consider that. And my colleagues at the Opposition Block would like to advise me to read better bills, where it is clearly stated that when carrying out the orders of the investigating prosecutor, military commanders or officials authorized by them do not use the authority of the investigator, nor do they have the right to carry out criminal proceedings in the course of their own initiative or to address the investigating judge or prosecutor. So we're actually talking about a learning function that is not in the Criminal Code today, in the Criminal Procedure Code. And taking into account the special order of implementation.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-03-m0.u101	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I think everyone's thinking now. Yuri Lewchenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-03-m0.u102	Thank you. Leuchenko, Freedom. It has been said that there is a vote for any laws that help the war and help our boys in the east. Of course, in order for these laws to really help the boys, not the other way around, they have to have the right laws. Each letter, every comma, each dot has to be correctly spelled out. And anyone who votes has to think before voting, whether this law will help or not, it will prevent. You know what we see in this law, and what we've seen in others today is the desire to bypass the state of war. You're trying to write the state of war standards in some way quietly somewhere, but at the same time the state of war does not introduce, thereby completely balancing Ukrainian legislation and the same front. Let's enter a state of war. Because that's what you do when you're balancing. Please tell me if you give the commander of the military the right to investigate, and he will be interested in properly investigating in his own part. That's why there's a military prosecutor's office, and that's why there's separate units. It's a conflict of interest. How will he do his own follow-up work in his own unit?
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-03-m0.u103	Thank you, Your Honor. Please take your seats. I think that such laws should not disunite but should unite. So it will not be a big deal if we take it as a basis today and decide to consider it for a second reading on a simplified basis. That means that next week, for example Tuesday, we're going to consider it and we're going to approve it, or we're going to adopt it on Wednesday, including the conclusion of the profile committee that's offering us to take it as a basis for it to get most of the votes. So, dear colleagues, I ask you to take your seats. And I'm voting on a bill amending the Criminal and Procedural Code on War Crimes (registration number 1849) as a basis. Please vote on the basis. On the basis that we don't break the procedure, we create a good, good bill. [[11:38:14]] For 223 We didn't make it. [[B in m in s a l in]] There are many questions that have not been answered. For my return, please vote on the return of Bill 1849, 1849 for my return. Colleagues, I'd like to ask the people's deputies and faction leaders to be more careful! To return to consideration. [[11:38:47]] For 234 We're back. And now I'm putting Bill 1849 to the vote as the basis. Please vote on the basis. And then I'm going to put a vote on the preparation of the reduced procedure. Based on the base. [[11:39:13]] For 240 Decision taken. Ladies and gentlemen, I am voting on the proposal to prepare this bill for the second reading under reduced procedure. Please be supportive. And that way, all thoughts will be taken into account. I'd like to ask you for a second reading on a shorter procedure. Please vote on the preparation of the reduced procedure for the second reading. [[11:39:38]] For 235 Decision taken. Please prepare the task of preparing the profile committee for a reduced procedure for the second reading. Thank you, Your Honor. The bill, registration number 1534, the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Civil Code on the location of the discovery of an inheritance (registration number 1534) is submitted to your consideration. I propose to consider this bill in a simplified manner. I would like to refer to the National Deputies for consideration of the bill number 1534, under a reduced procedure. [[11:40:29]] For 219 Decision taken. Please report to the First Deputy Justice Minister of Sevastinova Natalija Ilarionovna. Please, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-03-m0.u104	Dear Volodymyr Borisovich! Dear National Deputies! Your opinion is proposed by the Ministry of Justice and a bill introduced by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine amending the Ukrainian Civil Code on the location of the discovery of an inheritance. The current development of the bill is due to the geopolitical situation in Ukraine. Today, we have about 700 citizens from the Ministry of Justice from the Autonomous Republic of Crimea, Luhansk, Donetsk oblasts, on the grounds that they cannot receive an inheritance. Today, according to current legislation, the last place to discover an inheritance is where the heir resides or where the immovable property is located. The bill aims to ensure the realization of citizens' rights to access notarial services. In particular, with regard to the unhindered processing of inheritance rights, there is no link to the last place of residence of the heir or the location of the immovable property. The bill proposes to amend existing legislation and propose to open an inheritance on the basis of the first statement by notaryus and to institute an inheritance case that is registered in the Succession Register. It is noteworthy that the Succession Register is in operation today. And that will allow any state or private notary to trace any of the inherited cases that have already been discovered. In view of what has been said and the importance of the bill, please support it on the basis and develop it into a second reading, taking into account the committee’s observations. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-03-m0.u105	Thank you. Please report to the head of the profile committee, Knyazevich Ruslan Petrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-03-m0.u106	Thank you, Mr. Head. Dear colleagues, just before the first Deputy Minister of Justice was absolutely faithful, he actually reflected the situation that was on the committee on this issue. We recommended both the Ministry of Justice and the Cabinet of Ministers as the author, the subject of the right of legislative initiative, if the committee agreed to recommend this law to be adopted as a basis, to work in detail before the second reading, and to do everything in order to ensure that the objective of both the Ministry of Justice and the Cabinet of Ministers was really reflected in the text of the bill. Because the goal is indeed noble and we will now have to respond objectively to it. The point is that we have hundreds of thousands of Ukrainian citizens who have become displaced by the will of fate who are denied access to the Register of Things rights, because they are, unfortunately, not at their place of registration. And so they create a special regime for submitting the first application to any other body where they are now, so that they can have access to the register. Sadly, though, this is not addressed in the very text of the bill. There it actually spreads to all Ukrainian citizens and to any region of Ukraine without restrictions. Therefore, in view of these circumstances, the committee decided to recommend the bill solely as a basis, and in the second reading, we, together with the Ministry of Justice, undertake to work on it in such a way as to reflect the basic objective of creating such a bill. So today I ask you to support this bill only on a basis. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-03-m0.u107	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, please sign in for two, two against. Yes, please turn on Olen Masorin's microphone, People's Front. Please turn on Elena's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-03-m0.u108	Please pass the word to Igor Alexei.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-03-m0.u109	Ladies and gentlemen, the People's Front faction supports this bill. It is asked to be accepted as a basis, since it is aimed at ensuring the enjoyment of citizens' rights regarding access to notarial services. I would like to point out to all the deputies that hundreds of thousands of our fellow citizens have been forced to leave the territory of eastern Ukraine, the territory of the temporarily occupied Autonomous Republic of Crimea, and are currently deprived of opportunities to exercise their immaterial rights, including the establishment of inheritance rights. I ask you to support this bill on the basis and put it to a vote in favour.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-03-m0.u110	Thank you. From Peter Prashenko's Block, who's going to act? Please, Ruslan Knazevitch, Peter Dusty Block.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-03-m0.u111	The honourable chairman, the honourable colleagues, well, I've actually already formed a position on behalf of the committee and such a position and in our faction, we're only going to support this bill because, indeed, the problem is extremely relevant and, believe me, we don't even fully understand the number of people it directly affects, because you know that this process, it goes on permanently, unfortunately, we have a situation and now the last for Debaltz, when thousands of our fellow citizens are forced to change their place of residence and become internally displaced persons. Either way, it's a problem that needs to be solved. The other thing that's here, frankly, is a complex of problems that probably will not just have to be solved by adopting such a law. literally this week in the committee there was a delegation from the European Union and you know that once again and the Council of Europe has raised this issue, that the law that we passed, it needs, well, it's about the rights of internally displaced persons, it needs maximum adjustment in part of the challenges that we have already received since the law was adopted. What is more, the whole range of things that are in that law are foreshadowed by the very quick decisions of the executive branch, starting with the Cabinet of Ministers, the authorities of the local executive branch. I have to say that, unfortunately, not all decisions have been taken to the end, and it would be very good to take advantage of the opportunity of a representative of the Ministry of Justice, the Cabinet of Ministers, to re-examine that law, to propose such decisions quickly and in the Cabinet of Ministers, and perhaps complex changes to that basic law in part of the internally displaced persons, and which not only concern the subject that we are discussing today. On the other hand, the committee, once this legislation has been duly voted on as a basis, is obliged, together with the minister, to work it expeditiously in such a way that it really applies to the subject of regulation, which has been passed in the title of the bill, and the goal will be achieved, I think very quickly. Therefore, in view of these circumstances.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-03-m0.u112	Thank you. Please, Sergey Sobolev, Fatherland.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-03-m0.u113	Sobolen. Please pass the word to Oleni Shkrum.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-03-m0.u114	Olena Schrum, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-03-m0.u115	Dear National Fellows, Your Honor Mr. Head! Indeed, we all realize that this is a rather important problem that helps displaced ones. But I just can't help but say that for the first time, unfortunately, we're getting bills from governments that aren't just imperfect, but that, well, pretty bad quality, they're incomplete about these issues and they're creating a huge number of other problems. So there's no definition of what the first statement is. There will be a very difficult procedure for the notaries themselves. If you look at the conclusion, including science and expertise, they say that by trying to resolve this problem for internally displaced persons, displaced persons from Crimea and Donbas, we're setting this standard for everyone who is very, very difficult to process, and at the place of the first statement, it can now be happening for all of us with you, the discovery of an inheritance. In fact, we believe that the bill needs to be improved considerably, and it creates, unfortunately, more problems than it solves. But even though we understand the problem, we're ready to accept it as a basis, but we'll point out in the second reading that this will only apply to the legacy of forced displaced persons from the scene of the Anti-Terrorism Operation and the Crimea, for example, by 2017, as proposed by the Scientific and Experimental Authority itself. To see how this will work, to improve this mechanism, and to continue to talk about how it will spread to all of us and to all of Ukraine’s citizens. And I'm still asking for more quality preparation of these government bills. Thank you!
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-03-m0.u116	Thank you! Please, Yuri Lewchenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-03-m0.u117	Leuchenko, Freedom. Society! This bill is correct, but only for occupied areas, only for occupied territories. And I point out to my colleagues that, in accordance with the rules of the Supreme Council Rules, if we want to introduce this rule between the first and the second readings, we will not be able to do so, because this will have to be changed to articles that are not affected in the first reading. We cannot now vote on this bill in this way, because it will allow us to actually introduce fraudulent actions, when the false heirs of the present fraud, will be around the real heirs, in other parts of the country register statements, and the true heirs will not even know about it, and will learn from the fact that they will be deprived of their inheritance. So, please, we suggest that we move this, send it for approval, for the subject to be processed. Because we stress that appropriate changes will not be made between the first and the second readings under the Supreme Council Rules.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-03-m0.u118	Thank you! Please, who wants to speak to the deputies? Final word, please, Ruslan Knyazevich, head of the committee. And we'll vote. I beg you, Ruslan Petrovich, the committee's proposal immediately.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-03-m0.u119	Dear Mr. Head, honourable members of Parliament, colleague, I would ask you not to reject this initiative, because simply not accepting it means that we are hiding our heads in the sand and, in fact, we do not want to solve the problems of our internally displaced persons. Perhaps if there's a common vision, I'd like once again to give the floor to a representative of the Ministry of Justice who, under the transcript, should inform the Joint Position and the Ministry of Justice, along with the committee, to work on the very part of the internally displaced persons. Such a possibility is, we do not violate article 116 of the law. If the Ministry of Justice agrees to offer such an appropriate offer under the transcript, the committee will do everything on its own. If there is no such position, then let's at least send it back for the first read.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-03-m0.u120	Dear colleagues, we can accept it peacefully on the basis of this bill and under a reduced procedure, jointly by Minust, a committee of profiles, national deputies to work on it, and that will be the decision. I'd like the national deputies to take their seats. People's deputies, please take your seats. We are about to begin voting on this bill. I think there's good reason to talk about the quality of preparing him for second reading. If he is not well prepared for the second reading, he will not be voted by the National Deputies, so I would like to take this into account. Ladies and gentlemen, please take your seats and prepare for the vote, distinguished national deputies. I am voting on the draft Act amending the Civil Code on the location of the inheritance (registration number 1534). The bill proposed by the profile committee is proposed for adoption as a basis. I'm betting on the basis of the vote (registration number 1534) Ukraine's Act of Amendment to the Civil Code on the Place of Heritage on the Basis, Honorary Colleagues. Please vote and vote on the basis of preparation for second reading. [[11:54:11]] For 263 The bill was passed on the basis. I would like to vote on preparing this bill for the second reading of the reduced procedure. Please identify how to prepare for a reduced procedure of the bill for the second reading. For a reduced procedure of preparation for second reading. [[11:54:36]] For 239. Decision taken. The commission of the committee to prepare, if you prepare with quality with the Ministry of Justice, then we can look at it. Dear colleagues! We are now determined by the Rules that a break of up to 12 hours should be announced for 30 minutes. I'm calling it a 12-hour break for 30 minutes. Thank you, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-03-m0.u121	I will ask the leaders of the coalition to come to the office of the Chief of the Supreme Council to agree on matters of order of the day.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-03-m0.u122	I'm asking you to come into the hall, take some space to continue the difficult but important work for our country. I'm asking the Kuluar deputies to come into the hall and take their seats so that we can start our work in two minutes. Ladies and gentlemen, I once again urge all those in the towers to enter the hall. We will now consider anti-corruption legislation – responsible, important laws. I ask you very much to return from the dining rooms, from the towers to the hall, and to take up your jobs. Let's get started. Please come into the hall and take your jobs.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-03-m0.u123	Ladies and gentlemen, I ask you to enter the Hall of the Supreme Council. Faction leaders and groups, please invite the national deputies to the hall so that we can continue our work. We will now consider an extremely important bill amending some legislation on the activities of the National Anti-Corruption Bureau of Ukraine and the National Anti-Corruption Agency of Ukraine. So I ask you, ladies and gentlemen, to come to the hall. Ladies and gentlemen, we continue our work. I'd like to take a seat in the hall. Please. Ladies and gentlemen, you have a bill, registration number 1660-d. Draft law amending some Ukrainian legislation to ensure the activities of the National Anti-Corruption Bureau of Ukraine and the National Anti-Corruption Agency of Ukraine. I want to remind you of the history of the drafting of this bill. There were several alternative bills. And I've given the commission to a suitably qualified committee led by Jegor Sobolev to work out proposals for a joint bill, to discuss it with an expert environment, and to present it as agreeable on this issue. This work by the committee and Yegor Soboljev, was done jointly with Yuri Lucenko, Victor Chumak, with all the participants in this process and also discussed with the expert environment, and this bill has been introduced today. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that this bill today will be considered only in the first reading, and in preparation for the second reading, perhaps we will discuss again all the issues that may seem to be common in order to prepare this bill as much as possible for the second reading as possible and to accept it as a whole. So I suggest we now discuss this bill, consider this bill as a simplified procedure, but those who wish to speak we will not limit it, and thus we will consider it as qualitatively as possible now in the first reading before consideration. I, Your Honor, ask you to prepare for the vote. I will now make a proposal to review this bill in a simplified manner and ask for a vote. Honorable colleagues, on the first, only on the first reading of the shortened procedure. Only in the first reading. Please vote in the first reading on a reduced procedure. In the first reading of the abbreviated procedure. [[12:50:22]] For a hundred and Decision taken. We're going to consider the simplified procedure. But, dear colleagues, I would like to stress once again, we will be considering an extremely important bill in a qualitative fight against corruption in Ukraine. That's why I'm asking all the national deputies to return to the hall. The Secretariat would like to invite all members of the people to consider this important bill. Let's start with a simplified procedure. And the reporter is Chumak Viktor Vasilovich, the reporter for the question. Please, Your Honor, Victor Vasilovich, report. Then Jegor Sobolev.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-03-m0.u124	[[Unheard]]
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-03-m0.u125	Please, Reverend Victor Vasilovich, then Yegor Sobolev.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-03-m0.u126	Thank you. I'd like to understand what I'm reporting from the drafters and Yegor Sobolev from the committee. I would like to say that Bill 1660-d is a work-by-work project, which is a villain, let's say, of the three drafts 1660, 1660-1 and 1406. Mr. Chairman, I would like to put to the vote, according to the procedure, a vote on the rejection of Bill 1406, which is in our daily order. I'd like to go over 1,660 just to reject Bill 1406, because it's going to stay practically in order of the day, so we have to take a picture of it.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-03-m0.u127	Dear colleagues, you have heard the reporter. There is a proposal to deal with the question of the rejection of Bill 1406, because it has lost its relevance and a new joint bill has been drafted. I'm asking you to support this proposal. The proposal is submitted by the project author. I will now ask for a vote on the rejection of Bill No. 1406, on the repeal of the bill. 146. As regards the removal of Bill 1406. Please vote, Your Honor, as one who has lost his relevance. 1406 is an off-the-book review. Dear colleagues, we vote. [[12:53:12]] For 201 The decision is not taken. Dear colleagues, I would like to emphasize that you should take your seats. As to how the bill was considered, the bill had become obsolete, so it should simply be removed from consideration. Dear colleagues, please, I ask the factions to take part in the vote. Dear colleagues, on the motion of the author of Bill 1406, who has lost his relevance and we will be considering a joint bill 1669. Please vote, Your Honor, on the 1406 withdrawal. Please vote, honourable national MPs, 1406 on the withdrawal. For. [[12:54:08]] For 255 Thank you, Your Honor, for your vote. As for the removal, well, that's a procedural question. We're looking at 1660-d. Victor Vasilovich Chumak reports. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-03-m0.u128	And never before has the author been so pleased to withdraw his bill from the agenda. I would like to say, dear friends, that the 1660th Bill is a joint, harmonized, finalized bill of three anti-corruption bills. This is, in principle, a direct implementation of the qualifying agreement that was undertaken by the coalition to improve anti-corruption mechanisms in the National Anti-Corruption Bureau Act, the Anti-Corruption Act, the Prevention of Corruption Act and other legislative acts when the Coalition Agreement was drafted. I won't talk too much about this bill. I'm going to say a little bit about the innovations and the major innovations that it's made. First. In accordance with the text of the Coalition Agreement, the National Anticorruption Bureau has established detective posts in the text and in the activities of the National Anticorruption Bureau. This is likely to be a promising position that will also work in the departments of the Ministry of Internal Affairs, the State Bureau of Investigation, and other law enforcement agencies. The team of detectives provides for the unification of the positions of investigator and intelligence officer. In accordance with the text of the Coalition Agreement, we in the same bill determine the level of salaries for bureau staff so that the level of monetary reward does not become a pressure tool. We talked about the fact that independence is also guaranteed by the high pay of employees of the National Anti-Corruption Bureau. Third. A specialized anticorruption prosecutor’s office is being set up to oversee compliance with the laws of the National Anticorruption Bureau. A special competitive order for the selection of prosecutors into a specialized prosecutor’s office is being created. A bill requiring all coalition representatives to write the Coalition Agreement, the bill prohibits recruiting individuals who have worked for the past five years in the anti-corruption units of the Ukrainian Security Service, the Attorney General's Office of Ukraine, the Ministry of Internal Affairs of Ukraine. Nor can a person be admitted to the National Anti - Corruption Bureau if his financial declaration reveals unreliable information.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-03-m0.u129	Please, just give me time to finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-03-m0.u130	That's more than 50 minimum wages. We will expand the list of officials who fall under the jurisdiction of the National Anti-Corruption Bureau. This is where the National Anti - Corruption Agency, as well as the presidents of Ukraine, who are now in office. We're going to try to depoliticize the procedure for assigning the head of the bureau. How? The appointment of the director of the bureau is based on the submission by a competition commission of three individuals to the President of Ukraine, who appoints one-on-one, of these three or two selects the manager. At the same time, we set up certain political insurers that the director of the bureau cannot be released without the approval of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Thus, the Supreme Council of Ukraine is directly involved in the release of the Director of the National Anti-Corruption Bureau, and the President is directly involved in his appointment. We're proposing. We're simplifying the procedure for confiscating the illegal way. To this end, changes are being made to the Ukrainian Civil Procedure Code, which allows civil action to be brought for the recognition of unwarranted corrupt assets. It's a so-called civil confiscation. It's a very difficult institution, it's a complex institution, but it works in the United States and in some other developed democratic countries. In doing so, this institution takes effect three months after the adoption of this law after a comprehensive Council of Europe expertise has been carried out. It is predicted that with a view to uncovering offences related to the NAB’s investigation, his detectives may also investigate other crimes under the direction of the director of the NAB. In addition, the possibility of making deals with the investigation of those who have not only become involved in corruption but are willing to cooperate. Other crimes being investigated by the National Anti-Corruption Bureau. It is suggested that agreements be made with the investigation, regardless of the severity of the commission of the crime. These are basically the main works, the main big points about the work of this office, or this bill. There are technical remedies. I understand that this is an unforgivable law, I know that in the Supreme Council all anti-corruption laws are subject to fierce resistance. I know that almost a large number of people's deputies are wearing these clothes right now. But I want to remind you all of you of the famous film where two genius artists from the Papanov and the Mironov made it. You remember "Beware of the car" when the young man runs around the apartment and yells, "Daddy, I'm going to be put down!"and he says very simple things, "And you don't steal," And so I'm asking, it's really a test of whether we really want to fight corruption, or whether we want to do some simulations again. I ask you to adopt this bill as a basis in the first reading, and to prepare it for the next reading of the reduced procedure and to vote on it as a whole in the next plenary week. Thank you for your attention!
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-03-m0.u131	Thank you, Victor Vasilovich, for the report. I would like to ask the head of the Committee on Prevention and Anti-Corruption of Corruption, Egor Sobolev, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-03-m0.u132	Colleagues! Because of the total sabotage of law enforcement officials and courts, we have a real fight against corruption just being discussed. Creating a new organ that won't have a disease that won't have "viruses" from the old system is one of the ways out, is one of the solutions for this fight to start. In this law, at large, three key ideas. The first is to ban the admission to the National Anti-Corruption Bureau and the specialized anti-corruption prosecutor's office of those who have already been responsible for the fight against corruption. The other one. Give them normal wages, about 20,000 dollars for a detective at the bureau. And the third. Allowing officials who cannot explain their belongings to take away their belongings is a property along with their imprisonment. The idea was brought by colleagues from Georgia, who worked beautifully in them, who horrified all their corrupters and turned from a very corrupt country to a very uncorrupted country. The committee has supported this bill and recommends that it be adopted on a whole basis.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-03-m0.u133	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I'm asking you to sign up. Two for two against, please. But I'm reminding you, colleagues, we're just talking about first reading, between first reading and second reading, we're going to have more discussions to get this law adopted as best as possible. Please two for, two for against. Please, Paul Kishkar, "self-help."
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-03-m0.u134	The faction of the political party "The Self-Help Union" will support the bill and we ask that we join the discussion process in preparing for the second reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-03-m0.u135	Oleg Barna, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-03-m0.u136	Dear colleagues, we are now on the path of our nation's life. Any constitutional reform, political, administrative, financial or otherwise, will not change the state, reform it, bring it to life until the system of corruption of power is destroyed. And now we have a very crucial moment, a moment, a moment, a moment of adoption of legislation to put an end to a corrupt system, and people are waiting for us, people are hoping that we will act. So let's support, to do, the glory of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-03-m0.u137	Thank you. Please, Opposition Block, Yuri Voropeyev.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-03-m0.u138	Congratulations, dear colleagues, this is the first law in our history that gives the law enforcement authority and its staff the right to demand from the population, from any person in that country. Whatever he wants, without any restriction, anyone who resists and does not follow the team of an Anti-Corruption Bureau worker is liable to criminal responsibility. In all other laws, the Prosecutor's Office, the BSS, the police are only legally required by law enforcement officials. Here, in this case, full exemption from any restrictions. That's the first one. Second. They also have the right to take property not only belonging to the offender but also to any close relative or his or her relationship. Note, however, that not only did he hand over the property to the relative by any treaty whatsoever. appointment of a contract. But also property belonging to the same relative or to the same acquaintance. But once he was driving, he was driving a car, and this property is considered criminal. That is, the presumption of innocence in this country has disappeared since the adoption of this law, and we will not have it. Finally, I would like to draw your attention to the requirements under this law for monitoring banking transactions. Please note, again, that any staff member of the Anti-Corruption Bureau has the right to cease any banking operation without trial and investigation for three days. And there's a lot to be done in this time of year. Thank you very much. Please, pour and drink.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-03-m0.u139	Thank you. Please, People's Front, People's Deputy Helen Masorina.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-03-m0.u140	Massorina Olena, People's Front, please pass the word to Pashinsky Sergey Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-03-m0.u141	Sergei Pashinsky, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-03-m0.u142	Dear colleagues! Dear viewers! I was one of the initiators of the Anti-Corruption Bureau Act. The last call after the long debates we adopted a law where, in my view, the function and appointment of the governing bodies of the Anti-Corruption Bureau was as important and as far away as possible. Let me remind you, the procedure that now exists in the law is now three bodies: Parliament, the Cabinet of Ministers and the President create a competition commission, and we know that this commission is created and we work, and we are proud of this commission. They elect three persons, they give the President and the President one of these three persons submits to Parliament for approval. There is a comprehensive list of grounds for release, including through Parliament, through 150 signatures, through 226 signatures. We are absolutely convinced that this procedure allows for the real independence of the anti-corruption office. This bill, which amends this law, from our point of view, conveys everyone, not from our point of view, gives all powers to the President of Ukraine. First of all, our Constitution clearly defines what powers the President of Ukraine has. Secondly, President Poshenko is our political partner and associate. But we have a parliamentary-presidential republic and we have to think, excuse me, not a month ahead, but years ahead. Only then will these laws work and be effective. That's why the People's Front faction refers to the authors of the law, and we're willing to vote in the event that the first part of article 6 returns the previous edition, namely, an editorial that provides for parliamentary control over the release and appointment of the head of the Anti-Corruption Bureau. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-03-m0.u143	Please, Sergey Vlasenko, Fatherland.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-03-m0.u144	Thank you, Vladimir Borisovich. Sergei Vlasenko, Fatherland. The law needs deep discussion. The law touches very, very important fundamental human rights. Again, the language is about making changes to legislation that undoubtedly touches the most important. I am personally troubled by the situation that previous colleagues spoke of, although it is also happening. I'm concerned about the fact that we've begun to return to this law what we've refused -- the possibility of the Anti-Corruption Bureau without a court decision to violate basic human rights -- is unacceptable. I want to remind you that when the law was passed, we threw those formulas out of the law. I see no reason to go back and allow the Anti-Corruption Bureau to arrest property without investigation, without the court's decision to arrest property, to detain people, and so on, without any restrictions. This does not apply only to officials in the first category.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-03-m0.u145	Let me finish, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-03-m0.u146	This applies to all Ukrainian citizens. Therefore, these questions must be settled between the first and the second readings. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-03-m0.u147	Thank you. Anton Yatzenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-03-m0.u148	Dear colleagues, indeed, this law needs to be discussed, since it rebuilds the system when, for example, a member of the Anti-Corruption Bureau has done something, it investigates the same Anti-Corruption Bureau, and all employees are appointed director of the Anti-Corruption Bureau. So that's the, that's the, that's the, that's the, that's the, that's the, that's the, that's the, that's the, that's the, that's the, that's the, that's the, that's the, that's the, that's For example, now that any officer, such as a militiaman or an informant, has done something, the Attorney General's Office is investigating, not where he works. That's the first remark. And the second point is that today, the subject is in the KPC, and every organ is acting according to the sequence. The SBU has its own subordination, the IMF – its own, the tax police – its own. So this is a very vague formulation that the Anti-Corruption Bureau can investigate not only corruption-related crimes but any crimes. Well, he's actually taking over the functions of the prosecutor's office, which we left when we passed the Procurator's Act. You have to think. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-03-m0.u149	Thank you. Please, Oleg Lazko, Radical Party.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-03-m0.u150	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. A colleague of Buharev, when I went to the rostrum, asked, "Aleg Valeriyovich, will you give jazz now?" Let's give the hell to those corrupts who are sitting in this room, too. And I have a question for the Attorney General's Office: why isn't there still a lawsuit against those Janukovitch gang robbers who robbed the country? Why are they sitting with MPs today? And there's no need for the Anti-Corruption Bureau to create. We have hundreds of thousands of people working in law enforcement, and the result is zero. Therefore, we demand an immediate submission of the responsibility of those who have stolen the country, who have killed people, who have committed crimes against the hundreds of heaven. As far as the bill is concerned. We will support this bill in the first reading, but we believe that this bill can be supported if the balance of power is maintained. To prevent the Anticorruption Office from becoming a branch of a government structure. We're definitely against it. The Anti-Corruption Bureau must be independent.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-03-m0.u151	I think all of these questions should be agreed between the first and the second readings that have just been announced. Dear colleagues who would like to make a statement on this matter, please. People's MP Solovay. I said, National Deputy Soloway, please. Give me your word.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-03-m0.u152	Dear colleagues, in our country, only a lazy one is not talking about corruption, and a real and serious first step on the way to solving this problem is the bill. And what's important is that this bill primarily obliges MPs and top-level officials to explain where they have villas, where they have Jaguars, Bentleys, Landcruisers, where they have money bills, banks, if they've worked their whole lives in public service. And so the principle is very simple. Today, all members of the television network are calling for the fight against corruption. And the only way to do that is to vote for this bill. Because whoever really supports overcoming corruption votes in favour, and whoever declares themselves in television channels will abstain or vote "against". Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-03-m0.u153	Thank you, Your Honor. Please, Stephen Barna. Then there's Victoria Sumar. Stepan Barna.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-03-m0.u154	Dear colleagues, Stephen Barna, the Peter Dusty Block. First, we stand before the famous events of today when a million-dollar nation was killed when heroes were destroyed in Midan. Today, we need to speak openly about what is at the hands of those who were then in Midian and who had certain obligations toward those who gave their lives in the fight for the European Ukraine. If we are going to be Europeans, we have to start with ourselves. Because the foundation of European civilization, culture, is to uphold the rule of law. This is punishment for criminals who take advantage of power. So those who are jurying this law have committed millions of sins and have stolen billions of dollars from our country, stole from Ukrainian citizens, and they have to answer for that. It's a principled position and I think it's going to be a worthy answer to ours.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-03-m0.u155	Thank you. Please, Victoria Sumar.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-03-m0.u156	Dear colleagues! An extremely important bill. We need to start the Anti-Corruption Bureau and that's an obvious fact. You know there's a procedure today for appointing the head of the Anti-Corruption Bureau. It has already begun, and obviously it must be brought to an end. There's an active law that defines these rules. Now they're trying to change them, and I hope it's not to delay this process, because it doesn't have to be delayed. Moreover, it is proposed that the President be framed in that part in order to give him non-constitutional powers. We should then make changes to the Constitution. The People's Front will vote in favour of this bill in the first reading only if the committee head now confirms that the format of the appointment will provide for the preservation of the balance of power and the selection of presidential candidates by voting in parliament if it is now made public. Otherwise we're going to have to work on this bill that we wouldn't want to do. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-03-m0.u157	Thank you. Please, Yegor Sobolev.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-03-m0.u158	Colleagues, we need to create legislation for the National Anti-Corruption Bureau to work. It cannot work under existing legislation. Let's make a decision. If Parliament has to agree to appoint and release the heads of the bureau, let's get it in place.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-03-m0.u159	Please, Yuri Lewchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-03-m0.u160	Leuchenko, Freedom. Of course, it's a very important law, because, in fact, without overcoming corruption, we don't have anything to change in the country so that we don't talk about it. And I'm, frankly, deeply surprised and outraged at the fact that many deputies, not only from the Opposition Block, but also from the coalition, are very concerned about someone being able to confiscate something. Wait, listen, if you have something to confiscate, then maybe you have to confiscate it so that people have something to live for, you know, you understand. So these moments are completely unobjective, and in today’s conditions such things must be introduced so that each official can be held accountable for his or her possessions and that people can see that he or she has whom and how much he or she has. So, of course, Freedom will vote in favour of this bill. The only thing that we did want to point out is that we need to keep the balance when the Supreme Council influences who is appointed to the head of the Anti-Corruption Bureau on the appointment of a leader. Since the President cannot appoint him alone, he will appoint whoever he wants. And so we are against assigning foreigners to the Anti-Corruption.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-03-m0.u161	Thank you. Dear colleagues, during the discussion, I would ask you not to substitute ideas. Because the selection of candidates is created by a commission created by Parliament, the government, and the President. It's a public commission, it's enough authority. And they're going to be making three nominations, not anyone. You can't say that. Please, Sergey Lechchenka. Two or three candidates.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-03-m0.u162	I'm amazed at the zeal that our colleagues in the People's Front stand for Parliament to be the body that finally approves the head of the Anti-Corruption Bureau. We can already see from the example of Henprocuror, how dependent such a leader is in that case. And one of the requirements of international financial organizations in assisting Ukraine is that there is no political influence on the head of the Anti-Corruption Bureau. Parliament should therefore not be the body that approves the leader. The President chooses from among the members. The president chooses from the list of persons designated by the nomination commission. [[B in m in s a l in]] And the People's Front in this case shows its face as an oligarchic party that wants to continue to influence anti-corruption missions. Shame on the party.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-03-m0.u163	I'd like to, please. Fellows, look, listen, listen very carefully, dear friends. Take your seats and listen very carefully. An extremely important bill. It has been awaited by Ukrainian society for more than a year and we need to create mechanisms to combat corruption in our country. Corruption devours Ukraine from within. Now we're talking about the first reading of the bill. We've now heard a number of issues that concern, concern people, no matter what political party. There is and is a procedure for dealing with the issue in the first, second, and if necessary in the third reading. So today it's not, we don't have to make any proposals out of the voice, because it's a very important question. We have to consider, we have to approve in the first reading, and then you will, I'll put it to the vote and you'll figure it out. Yes or no? But in the process of preparation between first reading and second reading, you will be able to make your position official and I believe that if there is no understanding of this position, it will simply not be voted on. But to drag, correct and thus destroy the work that public activists have done, including international experts on the drafting of this law, I think it's wrong and unconstructive. Wrong and unconstructive. I can tell you the next thing that balance needs to be kept, no monopoly should be given to anyone, we're based on international experience, which means we have to find understanding in the middle of the room. And I'm sorry, and I'm sorry that there might be a problem with adopting this bill for such formal reasons. Please, Yuri Lucenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-03-m0.u164	Dear colleagues, first of all, I want everyone to calm down and look at the document, not just the headlines. What is the Anti-Corruption Bureau? Today, these functions are actually performed by the Chief Investigation Authority of Ukraine’s HBU. And his supervisor is single-handedly appointed by the prosecutor without consulting Parliament or the government or anyone else. The President of Ukraine, who you understand can have a strong influence on these assignments as a Democrat, has suggested that such an abnormal order of action be removed and that another mechanism be created. What? Nine people, the best activists that society trusts, nominate certain candidates for this position. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that among the 9th in President 3, even considering the candidate in the Presidential Party, 4th. So the President doesn't have a majority of the candidates for the post of director of the Anti-Corruption Bureau.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-03-m0.u165	Please, let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-03-m0.u166	But we insist that the Head of State is politically responsible to society for the state of the fight against corruption, and we all demand it. So we suggest that he be given the right to choose among the three candidates appointed by the nominee committee, which does not have the majority of the President. Third position. What I'd like to offer to my colleagues at the People's Front. First of all, to participate in the committee’s work, for a month as this decision had been made, and only today did it begin to erupt. The other one. This is now accepted in the first reading, bearing in mind that in the second reading, standards cannot be taken off, but standards can be added. And we're on the committee, by my word, including, and I think, all the members of the committee, we're going to have a rule by which Parliament will be given authority when the director is removed. In fact, when the President suddenly, theoretically, not ours, the next one, does not want to film the bad director of the Anti-Corruption Bureau, Parliament will be able to do it on its own. I agree that this might be a balance, but we'll talk about it on the second reading. Colleagues! The law must be adopted today – it is the fight against corruption that is no less important than on the front!
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-03-m0.u167	You know, right now I think Yuri Vitaliyovich has completely removed any speculation on this subject. If. Look, fellows of honor! Look at you, fellows of honor! Listen, we're here. Do you know how to listen, or can you only scream? I heard you! I'd like to ask my respectable fellow national MPs who are absolutely equal: can you only scream, can you still listen? I will give my word, including to your representative, Paul Pinzenik. But you know how to listen, not just shout, please. I emphasize that Yuri Lucenko has just testified that there is a full readiness to seek a balance on appointment and liberation, is not the very main basis for this question, and between the first and the second readings it should be worked out. So I would ask that we take this very carefully, because the question is extremely important and I don't think there's going to be forgiveness for not adopting it. Please, Paul Pinzenick.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-03-m0.u168	Dear colleagues! It's a faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-03-m0.u169	I'm sorry, Paul Pinzenick. Did I show you what I hear? Did you show it? Thank you, for your understanding! Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-03-m0.u170	And once again, Paul Pinzenik, the People's Front. The People's Front faction first confirms its willingness to work on the National Anti-Corruption Bureau draft law is a really necessary project. The other one. In order to restore normal work to Parliament and, above all, to coalitions, we would like to see Luvocken's acceptance from the BPP faction apologized, or perhaps apologized for, the leadership of the BPP faction. [[Applause]] Third. When we return to the normal work of Parliament, we refer to a return to the first reading, a return to the rule that the President will not be given unconstitutional powers to appoint the head of the National Anti-Corruption Bureau. This standard should be taken into account when first reading. Yuri Vitaliovich Lucenko in his speech de facto confirmed that in the second reading we would not change that norm. Thank you for your attention! The People's Front votes in the first reading, on the basis and in general only if the rule of appointment of the head of the Anti-Corruption Bureau through Parliament.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-03-m0.u171	Thank you. Dear colleagues! Look, colleagues, with great respect to the national MPs of all factions, you do not yell at yourself, stressing that we should make a contribution between the first and the second readings. But what Paul Phinehas said was a basic statement in general. And I don't think it's right today to vote on this bill as a whole, and it needs to be considered in accordance with the procedure. Please, two factions of the People's Front and the Radical Party faction are requesting a recess. I invite the faction leaders. True, you cannot interrupt the discussion. Really. Thank you. Please, let's finish. We're done talking, we're done talking. Victor Chumak's closing statement. Is Egor Sobolev done? Victor Chumak, closing.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-03-m0.u172	Dear colleagues, I thank you so much for this lively discussion, it's like an X-ray, it's made everything clear and everyone who wants it. [[Applause]] The whole country understands that some people actually want to create an independent body, I repeat, an independent body to fight corruption, others want to influence at any level the political agenda in any law enforcement body. I thank you for this discussion. I very much want all of our voters to see the voting process. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-03-m0.u173	Thank you. He's still asking Oleg Lazko and we'll take the risk, please. Oleg Light, please, a minute and we'll vote, let's vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-03-m0.u174	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. Honorable fellow MPs, respected Ukrainian citizens, right now we're going to see who really wants to fight corruption, and who lies just before the election about what he wants to fight, and when it comes to doing it, he doesn't want to fight. But, at the same time, I'd like to say to my well-respected coalition colleagues: dear friends, let's not hide from war when we want to monopolize the information space. Let's not hide from war when one of you wants to monopolize and put the Anti-Corruption Bureau under you. You don't have to cheat people out of war when pensioners take their last money, and the oligarchs get millions to make money, and they say that war prevents them from pensioning. You don't have to cheat on the lack of political will to change the country, because there is no war here, you just don't have one place to take you and throw you out. [[Applause]] So please give it to the people.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-03-m0.u175	Thank you. Dear colleagues! I ask you to take all your seats and listen to me very carefully. Listen to me very carefully. I am convinced that between the first and second readings, all questions will be either completed or settled, or they will not find support in the session room. I'm asking you to get ready. I am voting on Bill No. 1660-D on the draft Act amending some Ukrainian legislation to ensure the activities of the National Anti-Corruption Bureau of Ukraine and the National Anti-Corruption Agency of Ukraine. In the first reading, between the first and the second readings, everyone's working on it, honorary colleagues, including the Peter Dustenka Block and the People's Front and the Radical Party, and the Fatherland and the Opposition Block, and our self-help colleagues, and non-fractional, until the second reading. And all the balances are going to be kept I'm genuinely convinced of this, but we don't have to stop this process. So I ask you to support the basis of the first reading, please vote. Please support this bill in the first reading, we vote. First reading. First reading. [[From the hall. Shame! Shame!]] [[13:30:35]] For 203 It's not a decision you make, dear friends. What happened was what you said -- it was a shame, actually, because we had to vote for this bill. I'll give the factions a minute. Julia Timoshenko, Fatherland.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-03-m0.u176	Dear friends! I think we are witnessing today that, in principle, the National Anti-Corruption Bureau will be effective because such a struggle to influence this person has never been seen before. [[Applause]] And I can tell you that the more people are going to influence this leader, the less he's going to work for the country. And so maybe the compromise that Yuri Lucenko offered is a good one. Because there's a parliament that can take down a leader who doesn't work well. But at the same time, we know that there is a part of the lobbyist groups in Parliament that directly participate in corruption and therefore join parliament in influencing this leader -- it will not be right. You might ask the President, "Someone has to be personally responsible for fighting corruption."
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-03-m0.u177	Thank you. Please, from the People's Front, Victoria Sumar. Ah, let's finish Julia Volodymyrna. Please finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-03-m0.u178	And that's why I think you can vote in the first reading. The one blocking now is very careful not to be called to account. And we have to vote in general.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-03-m0.u179	Victoria Sumar, People's Front, then Oleg Berezuk, Self-Help.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-03-m0.u180	Dear colleagues, I am all in favour of voting this bill and launching the process, and the People's Front absolutely for it. Let's hear each other out. For starters, I'd like to ask a member of the Coalition and the Peter Dust Block to apologize to the faction for the oligartics, for the accusations. It's an unacceptable form of behavior in the Ukrainian Parliament, we're partners here. [[Applause]] You forgot about Majdan. Majdan was against dictatorship, and today we have to work on a system of government balances. Today we have to seek compromises, Parliament is a place to find compromises. If Yuri Lucenka agrees, we are ready to consider and support this proposal. Let's talk about it now. Oleg Lášk and I are ready to ask for a break, to reconcile these positions, to go out into the hall and go out to people with an effective solution. You don't have to break each other up here, it's wrong. We are expected by the people of Ukraine to make effective decisions, balanced, completely balanced.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-03-m0.u181	Thank you. Oleg Beresuk. Then Yuri Lucenko of the faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-03-m0.u182	Dear colleagues, distinguished people in Ukraine! This is what the resistance of the system looks like, the resistance of the system. [[Applause]] And there are no weights and opposites. This law may be adopted in the first reading and restored in the second, but this is what the opposition to the system looks like. Do you remember the vote on "The Scrooge"? One at a time. [[Applause]] Dear colleagues, I am addressing the Ukrainian Parliament, I am addressing the coalition. You and I are building heavy, strained co-operation with the weights and opponents of the coalition. Now let's go to this compromise, preserve unity and give up our ambitions, vote in the first reading, and in the second reading we'll find the opposites with which, I agree, every thing has to be counterproductive, we can't usurp power, and from the first day we talk to you about it.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-03-m0.u183	Thank you. You could even say right now that you could prepare for the second reading by finding the compromise of the coalition. And that would be perfectly normal, and no one's talking about either leaving or taking anything away. But we need to talk to an expert environment. We have to do this as national MPs, so why take such an important issue?Oh, my God! Please, Peter Dusty Block, Yuri Lucenko. Lucenko Yuri Vitaliovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-03-m0.u184	Dear Chairman, dear colleagues, first of all a colleague from the People's Front! As the leader of the Peter Prashenko faction, I think the faction that Lechchenka's words are his own personal thought, I declare officially, I have friends in the People's Front, a larger polo, the largest number of all other factions. The other one. Colleagues, I'm really calling for compromise for not party but national interest. And I want to ask you -- listen to two people who haven't been in politics for a long time and who have been out of politics for a while -- Julia Volodymyrovna and me. Listen! Henprocuror, appointed by Parliament, seeks to serve the authorities at the expense of parliamentary opposition. Hear me. And secondly, ask for the head of the Anti-Corruption Bureau, says Julia Volodymyrna, from whom you might ask. I have great respect for all nine members of the Anti-Corruption Committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-03-m0.u185	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-03-m0.u186	The first people of Ukraine. They have a huge political responsibility in the selection of candidates. But where they'll be in a year, 2, 3, 4 and 5, when suddenly the director doesn't act like that. It is the President's election of one of the three nominated dignitaries that is the mechanism of personal responsibility for fighting corruption. I now ask only one person: to hear all these arguments, to remove the images, to vote in the first reading and to compromise in the parliamentary importance of controlling the activities of the Anti-Corruption Bureau until this leader is removed if he does not comply with the criteria laid down in the law. I think it's a great compromise, colleagues.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-03-m0.u187	Is that okay with you?
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-03-m0.u188	Let's give a gift to the Ukrainian society that we all promised in the elections. All of you!
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-03-m0.u189	Please, Oleg Lazko, then Nikola Knieżicki. Later, there'll be a line at the end.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-03-m0.u190	Dear colleagues, can I have your attention for a moment? Look at our colleagues from the Opposition Block. Notice, they're not even a pair of lips. You know why? Because they're happy to see what's going on here. They're happy, they're wiping their hands, they're already counting the millions that they're going to make on our split. Do you know what society expects of us? Unity! In unity, our strength. Remember what lost the orange team? [[Applause]] Remember, it lost an orange team in 2004 -- a grizzly. Remember what lost us in 2009 when Janukovic arrived, a rodent. What's happening here is the beginning of our end. If we want to save the country with you, protect it, we must be the only one! We must be strong! In unity, our strength! That's why they're all like one in a coalition.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-03-m0.u191	Vote. Dear friends! Literally, please, Mikola Knieżicki.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-03-m0.u192	So much for the faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-03-m0.u193	I'm asking you to remember what Maidan was up to. Midan was behind the changes to the Constitution when one person was unable to decide the fate of the country. We absolutely support this bill. We ask one of you not to make him another fake, fake literate. We have a bunch of bills on transparency of property, on banning Russian content, all of it. Any corruption will be brought to justice because the President under the Constitution has no right to appoint the Head of Bureau and this court will win. And we're going to create another fake to justify corruption. The only way is really to compromise now. Introduce the amendment proposed by Sergey Pashinsky, which is proposed by the People's Front, only according to the current Constitution, not as Janukovic did. Create a strong Anti-Corruption Bureau. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-03-m0.u194	Thank you. Dear friends! Look. I'd agree with everyone. Look, I would agree with everything if it were a matter of voting a bill in general. Well, I'd agree with everything that's been said. But it's the first reading, there's the procedure and it's public. Please, Yegor Sobolev.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-03-m0.u195	Colleagues! There is a proposal to vote on this law at the same time as the parliament will be given the right to accept the appointment of the director of the bureau. I just got off the phone. [[Noise Nodes]] Listen! Listen to the end! Guys, listen to the end. I've just consulted with developers from the public, and they have a very important point of view. If we grant Parliament the right to release the head of the bureau on our own, we will balance politics, but at the same time we will make the head of the National Anti-Corruption Bureau entirely dependent on Parliament. Let's look at our Parliament. We already have 100 votes ready for the resignation of the normal head of the National Anti-Corruption Bureau. They still have 126 votes left, and they're going to take out any normal person who's going to start fighting corruption. Lawmakers specifically wrote a very difficult removal procedure.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-03-m0.u196	Guys, let's assume that the shot is 300 votes. You'll have a balance. Yegor Sobolev, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-03-m0.u197	Colleagues, look at the logic. We suggested that the political institutions should be removed from the appointment procedure at all, so that an independent commission could elect one person and the President or Parliament would approve it. His many arguments for this are serious arguments against this. If we agree that an independent commission is to present two or three candidates for approval to the President, then we can agree that the Supreme Council should agree to the approval of the candidate elected by the President. He will continue to work for many years under the protection of our law. Let's do this, call a colleague from the People's Front to join our joint decision and conduct it.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-03-m0.u198	Thank you. In fact, the author of the law has made a proposal that can unite a hall that we can vote on. But I'm asking for Stepan Kubeva's word. I'd like to give him my word. From the rostrum or from the scene? From the rostrum.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-03-m0.u199	Dear fellow MPs, today's law, which was introduced into the hall, has long been worked not only by deputies, experts, have been given opinions and legal and international institutions. I want to remind you that when people went out on the Midan, they didn't marry us politicians, they married themselves, children and their future. The second question is important, which is in fact. You don't have to change the law now. We worked and we came to consensus that this law should be voted on in the first reading, then all the amendments are put together, and we have enough time to make and find a balance. Today it is a test of every national MP on whether we are actually fighting corruption or not fighting corruption. This is a test to fulfill the promises we made to the elections. I ask the Head of the Supreme Council to vote in the first vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-03-m0.u200	Thank you. Look, there's the next offer, listen, I'll make another one, then I'll give you a line. Listen! Let's take it now in the first reading on condition, listen, if you're preparing for the second reading for the purpose of settlement, with the aim of settling the question of the appointment balance and releasing the director of the Anti-Corruption Bureau. Now, I think that would be completely objective, and you could work on that. I don't see any problems in this. Let's have Sergey Pashinski and then the lineup, Sergey Lechchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-03-m0.u201	I'm talking to Head, the whole room. We support the committee head's proposals, ready to vote for them. We, the Parliamentary-President Republic, have supervisory functions under the Constitution. And to gather, excuse me, if we don't trust each other as a coalition, then why are we meeting at all, let's put in a mandate, let's have a new parliament come. I ask the Head of the Supreme Council to put this law in line with the additions made by the committee head and the People's Front faction will vote. For the second reading, we're going to take note of those suggestions and those comments that were made by the National Deputy of Fatherland, and we're going to gather everyone else and we're going to adopt a normal, transparent law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-03-m0.u202	Borislav Bereza. Please, I'll give it to you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-03-m0.u203	Ladies and gentlemen, good afternoon! I see that this room has seen very often as something when voting, it then disappears, it was budgeted. We all remember that some had been amended, others had forgotten something else. Now I see a blackmail of one faction of the entire Parliament. You don't have to do that. When you wanted to be loyal to the PNB, you had an impact on the Anti-Corruption Bureau, you did it, you tried it, you got it. But don't do the show now. You see, society is waiting to fight corruption, and now everyone will determine whether you really promise or really do. Promises are not dots, please vote. Society will support you and will be able to tell you that you are really doing what you promise. In another, you'll see that what you need is exclusively your faction, that's what you're getting, and that's what society needs, you're ignoring. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-03-m0.u204	Dear colleagues, at the request of two factions, I, since we voted, declare a ten-minute recess. [[B in m in s a l in]] What, no? What, no? [[B in m in s a l in]] Dear colleagues, the leaders of the factions of the coalition, please, please. The leaders of the factions of the coalition I ask you to come to my office for a further 10 minutes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-03-m0.u205	Distinguished People's Deputies! The board of directors of coalition factions is closed. I'm asking the people's deputies to take their seats. For 15 minutes, I have the right to continue my sessions, so I ask everyone to take their seats in the House of Parliament. I'll give the faction leaders a minute to inform them of the agreed decision. And we're going to go to the vote on this issue of order of the day. People's deputies are invited to come into the Parliamentary Hall to consider agreed proposals. Dear National Deputies! Please take your seats, the cancer session has been resumed for 15 minutes, and we are continuing to consider the issue of combating corruption. And now I'm going to give you a minute from the factions, and we're going to start with Yuri Lucenko. One minute, Yuri Lucenko. Then from the People's Front, who's going to act? Victoria Sumar. Then Oleg Lazko. From "The Fatherland" who? Sergei Vlasenko, one minute. And then Oleg Beresuk. And from the Opposition Block a minute. It's a deal.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-03-m0.u206	Dear Mr. Chief, distinguished colleagues! I think this bill is one of the most important in this session, and that's why we want to make it better. I want to take away any speculation that someone here wants to blow up the law, and someone is a righteous man in the fight against corruption. In fact, the coalition of the Ukrainian Parliament is committing itself to creating an anticorruption office. Sadly, after forgetting that he is a better enemy of the good. In the first reading, we vote for a good basis for further work. We have now agreed and is proposing to the fellow MPs to support the voting of this document in the first reading so that the committee and all the interested MPs can improve the balance between the branches of government and prepare it for the agreed second reading. I call.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-03-m0.u207	Let me finish, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-03-m0.u208	I call upon all the people's deputies, coalitions and parliamentary minorities all together to finally create a body that will change our country. Today the beginning of this movement, the beginning, and we can vote as a good basis for this decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-03-m0.u209	Thank you. Victoria Sumar, please, a minute, then Oleg Lazko please prepare.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-03-m0.u210	My colleagues, I thank you all very much, our coalition partners, for hearing our logical comments on the need to preserve the system of "government balance" that will be further elaborated in the Anti-Corruption Bureau Bill for second reading. We've made this clear, and we understand that we can find these balances, and it's only for the benefit of the power system in Ukraine and for the anti-corruption office itself. I also thank you for your constructive position, which proves one thing to us, the coalition today is the only one to protect our common interests. The People's Front, under such conditions, absolutely unanimously supports the creation of an anti-corruption bureau and this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-03-m0.u211	Thank you. Please, Oleg Lazko, please. Then the opposition block, then the Motherland and finish Oleg Berezuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-03-m0.u212	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. Dear fellow members of the National MPs, I address my colleagues from the Coalition first. The whole society, the whole Ukrainian community, all the people who have delegated us here, they expect us to do what is determined, radical, just. They are waiting for real changes in the country. Fighting corruption is a real result that we can show. Because corruption is no less an enemy than outer road rage. So I call on the coalition to unite, and I call on the coalition to vote on the bills that will enable the real fight against corruption in Ukraine. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-03-m0.u213	Please, Opposition Block, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-03-m0.u214	Dear colleagues! First, I want to upset you a little bit, this law has no retroactive effect, so it does not concern either the Party of the Regions or the Opposition Block, they have no representation even on officials, as you understand. In this regard, I have a great appeal to you, so please turn off your emotions, turn your mind on. Now you're looking at an article -- who's going to appoint and remove this chapter from the Anti-Corruption Bureau. But in the very law of 70 leaves, there are no limits to the authority of these people, and power, which is not limited to anything, gives rise to powerlessness. Let us treat this law with reasonableness, and let us refine it in such a way that these people who will be able to perform their duties there, but at the same time, everything is done by law, not by law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-03-m0.u215	Sergey Vlasenko, please and Oleg Berezuk and let's go to the vote. Please invite the national deputies to the session room.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-03-m0.u216	Sergey Vlasenko, "The Fatherland" faction. The Fatherland faction supports this bill in its first reading. Such discussions in the hall show the importance of fighting corruption, and we are sincerely glad that the position of the coalition is the only one. And I am convinced that the coalition will vote almost in full for this bill in the first reading, but of course this does not mean that this bill should not be worked out particularly in the part where there are certain human rights issues, about the possibility of carrying out certain actions without the permission of the court, about the introduction of new articles into the Criminal Code of Ukraine, unfortunately, where not only officials of the 1st, 2nd category are to be dealt with by the Anti-Corruption Bureau, but virtually every citizen of Ukraine. So we're going to be very balanced in terms. And I'm convinced that this bill will be finalized in a second reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-03-m0.u217	Thank you. Please, Oleg Berezuk. And I'd like everyone to take a seat for the vote, dear colleagues.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-03-m0.u218	I'll wait, I'll wait.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-03-m0.u219	The situation that is now in Parliament is a reflection of the difficult reality, the honourable citizens of Ukraine, it will never be easy, today is easy. So what happened today is a sign of difficulty, but what happened just now is that it's a coalition. I hope I have stood up, made a decision that is not a compromise, which is the right decision to make on the basis and work on the second reading. So we can say today that there is a coalition and it should be on the protection of our nation, its changes. We hope we stand. But there was one factor in Parliament: fear of people. People, keep us in fear, this is the main task of society today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-03-m0.u220	Thank you, Your Honor. Please, Andrew Parobius, and we vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-03-m0.u221	Ladies and gentlemen, we literally had the worst example of the coalition and of the work of the deputies of the Supreme Council of Ukraine half an hour ago, the worst since we began to have relations here in the hall. That's what the most feared society is, is what our partners are most afraid of, which are supporting Ukraine at the most difficult time -- the time of fighting. And that's why I call on all the national MPs to listen to the Council of the Coalition. We agreed that those issues of conflict that relate to the appointment and order of withdrawal and appointment of the head of the Anti-Corruption Bureau would be agreed upon by a common issue between all the factions in Parliament. We should now vote unanimously, and for the second reading, we agreed, and under the transcript I announce it, we will improve the order of appointment and removal. I invite everyone to vote in favour of this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-03-m0.u222	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to begin by thanking the factions of the coalition. As soon as the meeting took place, you listened to the results of the discussion. It is decided that in the first reading we will now adopt this bill, which is extremely important, because regardless of the political parties we have to do everything we can to ultimately make corruption that consumes the lives of our country and people just overcome it. And to do that, we need to make good decisions. And between the first and the second readings with the aim of preparing for the second reading, we need to take into account and preserve all the balances and the opposites so that there are no distortions in that direction, and so the second reading is going to be a harmonized bill with all the factions, and we can vote on that. That's why I'm putting the 1660th Bill on the vote. [[B in m in s a l in]] I'm betting on the vote: to go back to the 1660-d bill, to the draft bill, to go back to the debate. Please vote. It's about coming back. [[14:17:04]] For 261 Decision taken. Now, in order to prepare well for the committee’s second reading, take into account the adjustments that relate to balance and contrasts in the appointment and removal of the director of the Anticorruption Bureau. And then this harmonized bill will be submitted to the Ukrainian Parliament. I'm betting on the vote on the bill (registration number 1660-d) on the first reading. Please vote. 1660's in the first reading. Please concentrate and vote, dear fellows! In the first reading, please vote for the basis in the first reading. [[14:17:54]] For 283 Bravo! And the glory of Ukraine! And the shame of corruption in Ukraine! Thank you all for understanding. Thank you, dear friends. I declare the session closed in the morning. We're opening an evening meeting at 4:00. Thank you for your attention and work. Thank you for understanding.
