ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-27-m0.u1	Good morning, distinguished colleagues, distinguished fellow national MPs! Please take your seats in the session room of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. We have a government hour today. But there is another event, today, colleagues, exactly the year we fought you. It must have been one of the hardest years for me, and I think it's very difficult for us for the Ukrainian people, and for our nation. And if you don't mind, I'd like to say a few words today from this rostrum, I don't often use that right before we do the "government hour." Do you have any objections? It won't? Thank you. Please. Thank you, Your Honor. Please take your seats in the hall, let's get ready for registration. The present Prime Minister of Ukraine, Arsenij Petrovich. Welcome, Arsenia Petrovich. Please be prepared for registration, dear colleagues. I'd like you to turn on the "Council" system for registration. [[10:05:28]] Dear colleagues, 278 national deputies are registered in the Supreme Council of Ukraine. I hereby declare the morning session of the Supreme Council open. Dear colleagues, according to our tradition of good, let's welcome a fellow nationals' birthday party, namely: today marks the birthday of Tetjana Dmitrovna Bachevieva, Victoria Mikhailna Vojcicka. Welcome, most distinguished colleague. Oleg Yuriovich Krishin and Mikola Leonidovich Skorik Honourable nouns, good to all, health, success and well - being, and devotion to the ministry of Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-27-m0.u2	The head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, Vladimir Borisovich Groisman, is invited to attend. Please don't interrupt the head of the Supreme Council, Deputy Lazko. No replicas, attention in the hall, please. Please pay attention and take up jobs.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-27-m0.u3	Good day again, noble fellows! I'll take a few minutes of your time. And I want to address the Ukrainian people today, each of us. We have had a rather difficult time: a year of hard work, with enormous challenges. And I think there's a period today that would probably allow us to make some kind of interval, an assessment of how we worked with you, what we managed to do, what we couldn't do. And I think it should be self - critical, but objective, for you and me. These are five thesaurus, which I think are decisive in assessing our work. The first thesis that I would like to talk about is the values of revolution as a criterion of assessment and our actions as a whole as authorities and as reforms. The criteria for such an assessment of our annual work should be how we deal with the challenges that lie ahead. The Supreme Council of the present warehouse is part of the Ukrainian authorities, recharged by the revolution. And we all have a challenge: to answer what people went out for two years ago. On November 21, when the government of Azarova announced that preparations for the signing of the Association Agreement with the EU, Kiev and other cities of Ukraine had been stopped, people demanded that they return their own future. After a tragic night from November 29 to 30, when the police brutally beat the peaceful demonstrators, millions of people were on the street demanding justice. When they were not heard and after that, the pressure began to increase. People have come out to defend their dignity, and in my opinion this is the mission of today's power, and we are with you in particular. To stand up for dignity is not simply in the current circumstances. In my opinion, this is the mission of today’s power and us with you as part of it. To pave the way for our European future, to restore justice in society through the establishment of the rule of law and law, and to restore people with a sense of dignity. These values determine the reforms that are needed by the nations that people are waiting for. As legislators, we must ensure that the legislative framework for these reforms is formed. Next. Any reform, any change that needs to be fought, has its risks. The level of trust in all power today shows that all of us, the whole Ukrainian authorities, do not always meet the expectations of society regarding the pace and depth of such reforms. I think it's not just our fault, but it's our problem. Like many who came into power to carry out reforms, I had great hopes that we would soon be able to make the changes we had been waiting for for so many years. Today, I have less illusions and more experience, including negative experiences. I can tell you about myself and I think there's going to be a lot of people here under my word. I underestimated the risks I had to face. The magnitude of our catastrophe, we all understood that we needed to make changes, but we didn't report to ourselves to the end that the system had rotted so much that there was virtually nothing left that was not affected by the destruction. The deeper I got, the more I realized that the system was doomed, and that there was no sphere in the life of the state, in a society that didn't need to be reformed. The other one. It's an institutional weakness, and we're always dealing with it. The level of degradation of the entire government system in the state has proved catastrophic. People who can design the necessary reforms, define a clear plan of action, and implement it have proved to be so few. Working in government and now in the Supreme Council, I've always relied on experts from the public community and international experts. But everyone who has ever made changes knows that from the idea to the realization of the great way. And the very lack of managerial ability in the system is one of the key stopping factors. But at the same time, when we're approaching a change in the system, I don't know where the power is coming from, and it's starting to make a furious resistance. In many cases, this resistance is accompanied by simple human fear. But it is systematized that in many cases officials are accustomed not to act in the interests of people and the state but in their own private interests. And it's the big and small oligarchs that are mobilizing the system to resist any positive change. And finally, when we're starting to get through all these problems and obstacles, there's another brake -- it's populism. Our political tradition is still built on playing with people’s moods, on beautiful slogans, and on empty promises. And the bigger and deeper the problems in society, the more splendour this mold thrives. I'm not wrong, because I think populism is a huge problem for us today. Today, unfortunately, this threat is one of the most important for successful reforms. I'd like to say a few words about our results, obviously. I'll talk about what I don't think we're working on, but I have to say about what we've done with you. When you speak objectively, you need to be objective. We need to be honest about the difficulties and not the work, but we need to talk about what has been done. This Parliament, which may be criticized most in society than any other previous parliament, is actually working almost three times as hard as the previous one. You and I have over 800 decisions in a year. In principle, quantity is not an indicator if quality is not behind it. And the main indicator of quality is that we are with you, despite all our intense discussions, so far, I emphasize, have not yet failed any important decision for Ukraine. In this room, as we saw yesterday, whenever it comes to the pro-Ukrainian government decisions, we find more votes than we need to make a simple decision. And yesterday, these decisions were made by 250 votes and 270 votes, and some by 300 votes. Now it's a little more specific. It was you and I who made all the decisions necessary to strengthen the country’s security. And the fact that the Ukrainian army today is fundamentally different from the one it was a year and a half ago is also a credit to the Ukrainian Parliament. I would also like to remind you of our decision to abolish Ukraine's non-block status. It was in this room that all the necessary decisions were made to ensure financial stability and to continue financial support from our international partners. We've adopted all the necessary legislation for a visa-free regime. I would like to point out that the ratification of the Agreement with the EU by the national parliaments of the EU also has the merit of our parliamentary diplomacy. We've adopted all the necessary legislation to properly organize the fight against corruption, and we've launched a reform of the law enforcement system and the judicial system. We have embarked on one of the key structural reforms for Ukraine that constrains the European future from its post-Radians past. We started a real reform with you from the decentralization of power. We started delligarchizing the Ukrainian economy, we took substantial steps to form democratic media, we revealed information to the media about ownership structure, information about end owners. We began to restore historical justice: We passed the Laws of Decommunization. It's a fundamental decision to make ours. strengthening our identity for historical justice. This is not a complete list of decisions. And I'd like to point out that a lot of the laws we've adopted haven't come to this room in years. And in previous years it was even hard to imagine that such laws could be adopted at all in the Supreme Council of Ukraine. I think those MPs who are now in the hall and who were deputies of the previous years, they can confirm that. I would also like to point out that, although the Lobian laws are still open in this Parliament, there is virtually no chance of being adopted in this room. I don't think anyone could call an example of laws that were openly lobbying and we would have been voted. We began to overcome chaos in the work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, which was one of its traditions. We've adopted a legislative reform plan, a document based on all the basic strategic documents, and we're actually the operational plan. Accordingly, we increasingly structure our work by focusing it on real priorities. And finally, together with the European Parliament, we started reforming the Supreme Council of Ukraine. You know there's a separate mission headed by our colleague, Mr. Pat Cox. Along with our fellow Ukrainian national deputies, we are working to change the work of the Ukrainian Parliament from the inside and to make the Ukrainian Parliament really European. In particular, we started implementing elements of the electronic parliament, reorganizing the work of the apparatus, launching a new system of preparation for plenary sessions. The road map of reforms should be ready by January, and our European partners will continue to help us put it into practice. But even now it can be noted that in all the years of independence, no such massive attempt has been made to reform the Supreme Council of Ukraine and transform it into a true European Parliament. I am convinced that we will have enough political will with you, decisions that will be made, to put into practice. And perhaps most of all, despite all our inner difficulties, we have maintained unity and the ability to make decisions. We have not yet justified the expectation only of those interested in destabilizing the situation in Ukraine in any way, including through the dissolution of parliament. I think it's obvious that the dissolution of parliament can cause a huge crisis in the Ukrainian state. I'd like to say separately about our underwork. There are many positive results of our work, but at the same time, I feel a great dissatisfaction with our work. What were we not working on? The lack of confidence in the Ukrainian Parliament is largely due to the fact that we have not yet become a parliament of responsible deputies. Unfortunately, even today's composition of Parliament has not fully realized yet, to the fullest extent that being a national MP is a job, it is a duty, not just a privilege. The disciplining of deputies in plenary meetings of the Supreme Council of Ukraine and committee meetings remains a huge challenge to our effective work, as in many cases puts at risk the adoption, including, and the impeccable decisions in the walls of the Ukrainian Parliament. To this day we can fight this disgraceful phenomenon only through public participation and we have discovered information about the work of MPs, but the problem is not solved. Another disgraceful phenomenon is the non-parliamentary conduct of the people's deputies, both inside and outside this room. We need to achieve results by adopting laws, not by applying physical force. We must not cover ourselves with parliamentary int touch to commit lawlessness. We have made several decisions to deprive some of those who have disgraced the MP's honour, but we have never made a decision to cancel the MP's immunity. And once again, I want to go to the profile committee: make suggestions to the Supreme Council on this issue. And what I want to say is that for any crime, there should be no immunity. All that about parliamentary work, all that about political position, everything has to be protected by a hundred percent. And we have to do this to you. We have not yet made the full range of decisions that society expects of us. They're not broken, but in some cases we find it difficult to compromise in order to vote effectively. Sadly, in some cases political interests take precedence over common sense. I think we still need to work in the coalition to learn, including working for the entire Supreme Council. I spoke at the beginning of our work that I would like to see Parliament in a factory of quality laws. We haven't become her yet. There are valid comments to the government about the quality and timing of the drafting of laws, but we also need to present ourselves with claims because this is our joint work. Urgent laws often take place on committees at the last minute. There's also a lot of legislation, I'd say spam. We have about 2,000 reported bills, not all of which are worth spending time on them by the Supreme Council's Apparatus and the MPs' time. I've assigned committees to do a series of laws that the committees don't recommend for consideration, but this work is still not done. We haven't come up with a proper priority for our work yet. As a result, we are often guided and not guided. Cooperation between Parliament and the government on the basis of common priorities should be improved. And I think we have all the grounds today, and we have full understanding between the Cabinet of Ministers and the Parliament, in order to make this work better. We adopt many good laws, but Ukraine's problem is often not in the absence of laws, but in their implementation. As a parliament, we have oversight functions, but so far I want to make a statement that we do not follow up on the way in which the decisions we make are properly implemented. Our role in controlling executive power should be strengthened, and I think next year it should be one of the priorities -- quality European parliamentary control. And one more thing. We actually don't work in communication with society. We constantly criticize Parliament and our colleagues. If so, it has the right to life, but we care little about explaining to society the role of parliament, explaining the essence of reforms. We also need to explain the challenges that we need to face in the way of their realization. Populism often predominates, and there is a lack of open direct communication with society. Are these underdevelopments critical? I would like to stress once again, despite objective obstacles to making important decisions and our own shortcomings, which still need much work, this Parliament is demonstrating the outcome and retaining the potential to make the necessary national decisions. And if you and I respond responsibly to our mission and our tasks, we will clearly set priorities and continue to work on ourselves if we always put the interests of the state first and perhaps put aside for a while. And I emphasize, in time we'll put aside our political, no one today needs ambition, and you and I can make this country a success. We can make the Ukrainian people self-sufficient. It is we who can fulfill the dreams that people today have put in each of us. I often hear that the Ukrainian people have chosen the right to live worthily during the Dignity Revolution. Yes, that's true. But the choice is right, and right now we have to do more with you than just assert this right, we have to implement it. One revolution, another revolution, the next Dignity Revolution, which has already sacrificed people. This is a very clear signal to you and me that we have the political and historical responsibility for Ukraine's success. 2016 priorities This is an important task ahead of us. I think you all agree that without the proper development of the economy, we will never build any social standards. We will not be able to resolve the issues that concern every citizen and every one of the deputies present, representing some areas, cities, districts. We've got a lot of problems, but we have to solve them with you. Only economic recovery will give people a sense of perspective. After the revolution, we got the country robbed. Today, few mention it, but today I want to remind you that the State Treasury account for March 2014 accounted for 108 thousand dollars. Period. Nothing was paid, everything was in a catastrophic situation, and we waited from day to day for a massive military invasion of the Russian Federation. These were very difficult times, but this time has passed. And I think we have to be very objective here too because of what was done this year. We suffered a severe blow through the annexation of Crimea, Russian aggression in the East. But I do not consider war an obstacle to economic growth. There are countries that have demonstrated successful development and under constant conflict. Unfortunately, the Ukrainian people have not yet been offered a model for the country’s economic development. I feel that there is no excuse to continue living in a climate of uncertainty and economic chaos. We need to work with the government, I stress, together with the government, to immediately propose a short-term and medium-term economic strategy. It is generally clear what steps it should include: deregulation, deligarchisation and incentives for small and medium-sized businesses, support for prospective clusters and exporters, improved efficiency of government asset management, and creating favourable conditions for investors. By the way, some decisions have already been made, and that is a good thing. In the near future, we have to identify ourselves with tax reform, because a simple, understandable and stable tax system is the foundation of any economy. And we need to achieve at least a small economic growth in 2016. The next two points are a prerequisite for economic development, for the continuation of an effective management system. Last week, I was visiting with my fellow national deputies in Sweden and Finland. Two small European countries that do not have special resources are extremely successful economically. What's the secret? Their advantage is an effective management system. Without an effective management system, we have no future. Personally, I have always been convinced of this, and my previous experience is a confirmation of these. The left-hand side of my efforts as Vice-Prime Minister as the Head of the Supreme Council has been and remains focused on the formation of an effective system of government in the state. The steps we started -- decentralization, reform of the public service -- unfortunately, we didn't consider it yesterday. I am convinced that reform of the public service is one of the key. The true European future of our nation cannot be built with diletters. Reform of Parliament, introduction of elements of electronic governance and as a result of the electronic parliament. Changes to the Constitution, new electoral legislation. These are elements of a single mosaic, an integral form of an effective model of government. It's an unforgivable process that can't be done quickly. But I think we should make a breakthrough in this direction next year. People should finally feel that power is becoming qualitatively different, effective, and oriented toward Ukraine and its citizens, not to serve their own interests or the interests of a small group of people. Anti-corruption and the rule of law. We talked about justice as one of the basic values. Perhaps the sense of injustice is one of the dominant social sentiments. That's what's driving people to justice, but that's the wrong way. We need to establish a real rule of law in the country. When we talk about adopting anticorruption laws, people say, and what, and what, has changed? Much of the laws we have adopted have not yet been published. But there is a very good message for all. They're going to start working in 2016. And I think everyone will still feel the quality of anti-corruption legislation. I think we have two priorities, two priorities in this area. First. Completion of the creation of a legislative framework for the creation in Ukraine, in fact, of effective and independent law enforcement and judicial authorities, especially the judicial system, through the adoption of appropriate changes to the Constitution. The other one. Using all the powers of the Supreme Council to strengthen the monitoring of the implementation of the legislation we have adopted. All these things will give the State additional resources to implement the social contract. However difficult, the State has no right to translate all the burdens on the shoulders of ordinary citizens. But we can't spend more than we have. So we need to look for reserves, economic growth, overcoming corruption, improving governance efficiency. They're all state budget reserves. And I'm sure with effective policy, we can find hidden reserves that can be geared towards raising social standards. At the same time, we must finally begin to reform health care, reform education, the two most sensitive spheres. I believe that inadequacy in health and education is a threat to the future nation, a threat to success or an obstacle to the success of our nation. All these priorities are closely linked to the values of Europe’s future, justice, and dignity. And it is they that should be a criterion for us to evaluate each decision we make. The nearest test we need to pass is the 2016 budget. We should take it not as a sum of numbers, but look at it in terms of its corresponding strategic priorities. I would like to point out that we are waiting for the government to implement it as soon as possible. But what's very important is that before the Prime Minister's introduction, together with the government, the MPs will work on the agreed position. And I would very much like what will be sent to the Ukrainian Parliament to be a shared vision of the budget and tax system of 2016. Completions, distinguished colleagues. I'd like to say that this has actually been a very difficult year. I think we have, and we have to tell each and every one of you what has been done. Have we made mistakes with you? Apparently, yes. Do we today have more experience than a year ago? Yes. Do we today have the opportunity to be more united, stronger, and forget about our political ambitions? I think so. Is that what society expects of you? Yes. All these questions are answered in an acceptable way. Just because it is you and I that have full responsibility as the legislative branch of power in what Ukraine will be like today and what Ukraine will be like tomorrow. And I deeply believe that regardless of the political colors of factions, groups, non-factional deputies, we will be able to unite for the Ukrainians and for Ukraine. Thank you for your attention. And thank you for your work together.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-27-m0.u4	Thank you, Your Honor, for your attention. In accordance with the Supreme Council Rules, we are with you now "the hour of the government." And I invite you to say: Vladimir Vasilovich Demchisin, Minister of Energy and Coal Industry of Ukraine. Please, come on. A year, a year. Please inform.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-27-m0.u5	Vladimir Borisovich, Arseni Petrovich, distinguished national deputies! I want to brief you on the situation in the South of our country in the Hersonian region: the explosions, the disruption of energy supplies in these areas, the status of renewable labor, and the short talk of some of the risks that arise from the situation. I've prepared a few slides, basically, the information is clear. I want to go back literally to November 20, when the first four - line explosions took place. The lines were at that point, it was the fourth hour of the night 20 numbers, they were destroyed: two of them were completely disconnected, two were under stress and worked for two more days. We sent some Ukrenergo specialists, right after these lines were broken, who were supposed to ensure that renewables were carried out and that electricity supplies were restored, first of all, to the region, in the southern region of the Hersonian region, which is primarily Chaplinsky and Calanchik regions. That's about 30,000 subscribers, about 60 to 70,000 people. In addition, businesses that also have strategic significance for the economy of Ukraine. First of all, ground work was done to ensure safe access to these lines, and it was also very important to have access to sanitary areas. Given that the two lines of 330 kilovolts were still under stress, any disturbances, i.e. wire failure or line collapse, could have caused damage to people within 50 meters of these lines. So it was very important to ensure access to the sanitary area. In the area of these lines, activists were identified, ranging from 150 to 500 at different times. Two headquarters were created right away, one at Ukrenergo to coordinate restoration work, as well as working with the force in terms of land exchange, because they were explosions, there was a suspicion of possible danger and also substitution. In addition, an operating headquarters was established under the leadership of Mr. Putilov’s chief of staff at the Herson’s headquarters. So these two headquarters have been working in sync with the goal, I say, once again, to minimize any consequences, and also to do active, renewable jobs. Six working groups of Ukrenergo were and are still at a direct distance to these injuries in the village of Chaplinka and in the Chongar district are ready to work. At the moment, taking into account the position of activists, Crimecatarian activists, only one line of work was carried out on the Kahovka-Titan line. That's 220 kilovolts. The line itself was almost restored. It takes about 3 hours to complete the work. At the moment, there was no access to this line from the Ukrenergo specialists. This line is very important, because at the moment, the back-up supply schemes have been restored, I've already said, to the Chaplinsky and Calanchansky regions. So first of all, we need to do this work, we need to connect the line, and we need to re-establish it, and we need to experience these areas in a standard way. I've said this over and over again to rebuild the lines, we need about 72 hours for each line, after green light is given from the muscles to a degree, let's say, exchange and repair. At 16 o'clock today, an energy headquarters meeting will be held under the leadership of the Prime Minister, with the participation of all specialists, a meeting, a discussion of the situation and a plan for further action. Convinced that we will be able to take effective steps to do both restoration work and to experience the territory of Ukraine. In view of the fact that electricity was supplied to the Republic of Crimea from about 600 to 1,000 megawatts and, at this point, the supply of electricity from Ukraine to the uncontrolled territory of the Republic of Crimea was limited to zero, there were several risk factors. Like, first of all, we are currently limited in the supply of coal from uncontrolled territories and from the Russian Federation. At this point, coal reserves at our warehouses and our heat plants are enough to work for at least a month. But in the longer term, there are still some rather problematic questions. In order to address the rhythmic security of our stations, we are actively negotiating with suppliers from South Africa, South Africa. At the moment, at present, there are two ships in the delivery process, which is 168 thousand tons for the centrifuge, and 80,000 tons for the heat power plants. This coal will come in fourth. (first boat 168 and second boat 80,000) December 12th. So for December, during December, about 250,000 tons of extra anthranitized coal will be placed -- that coal that, unfortunately, is not currently being mined in the territory of the controlled Ukrainian government. There are more than a million tons of coal in warehouses. And these 250 also make sure that for at least the next 45-50 days, our energy system will be in a stable manufacturing process. In these 50 days, it is clear that a solution can be found to supply coal, including from South Africa and other suppliers. So from the coal point of view, we see possible solutions, of course, that's going to have some negative impact on the tariff, we're working with NCRE to ensure funding for these supplies. Unfortunately, for the moment, the main electric power manufacturer of DTEK, given the presence of two mines, two large shafts: "Rwenkyantracite" and "Sverdlovantracite" -- in the uncontrollable territory, it did not conduct active coal purchases abroad, it was meant to be in the marine direction, hopefully they would understand the gravity of the situation and carry out active activities. From the point of view of nuclear fuel, at present there is enough fuel in Ukraine at the stations to go all the way through 2016, somewhere until September 2016, that is, there are no problems at present. In addition, we did a very active job with Westinghouse, which is a Swedish-American-Japanese company that's ready to supply five supplies in 2016 out of 13 supplies. So I think the main production power in Ukraine is in a fairly stable situation. Of course, this is the result of the work on the diversification of nuclear fuel supplies carried out by the Ministry, and I think that's the first result that gives us peace of mind that the energy system will be secure. Sure. There were also some comments on the supply of gas. Currently, there are more than 16.5 in Ukrainian repositories. 16.4 billion cubic meters. This, in principle, is enough to pass this heating season with supplies from the European Union. So the Russian Federation's dependence on gas supply is not at the moment at all, and we have enough gas. So please lower the level of discussion, the situation is controlled. I also wanted to pay attention to the supply of petroleum products. At this point, we were buying about 30 percent of diesel and gasoline from the Russian Federation. During the past few months, we have succeeded, again, in diversifying supplies, including through the Herson Passage, which is under the control of the Ministry, in ensuring the uninterrupted supply of diesel and petroleum products, in addition to negotiations with Kazakhstan and Turkmenistan, there is no risk. So in these circumstances, I want to reassure the citizens of Ukraine. Convinced that no matter how the political situation develops around the restoration and power lines in the Herson region in the Republic of Crimea and also the restoration of energy supply, the ministries and enterprises under the control of the Ministry have sufficient resources to manage the process. Of course, there was a period of destabilization of the energy system after the line was broken. And these steps, of course, have a very negative impact on the energy system. Because the lack of high consumption over a short period of time has a negative impact. So we had to rebalance production. At present, reduced stress on nuclear power plants has been replaced by hydro and heat generation. Yeah, right now we're burning a little bit more coal that we don't have, but over the last five days we've managed to stabilize this system and, let's say, secure a stable job. I've already talked about some of the spare parts. It's about, well, there's about 40 percent of the Hersonian and Mikolai regions at risk. It's a pretty big risk, well, at the moment, it actually manages that risk. But the question needs to be resolved. So I hope so. This is, of course, a political decision, hopefully in the near future, the issue will be addressed both in the Cabinet of Ministers and in the PNBO, and decisions will be taken. This is a supply map. You see, four lines coming from the Kakhovska Substation, one from Melitopolska. Unfortunately, repairs cannot be done at this time. Well, the humanitarian situation is probably not worth talking about yet. So in the case of any questions, I'll be ready to answer them. Thank you so much.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-27-m0.u6	Thank you. First Deputy Minister of Agriculture and Food of Ukraine Jaroslav Vasilovich Krasnopolski is invited. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-27-m0.u7	Good afternoon, distinguished national MPs, television crews! Let me tell you some of the questions that we have been asked. before the agrarian. to the Ministry of Agrarian Policy and Food. First question. This was discussed at a previous plenary meeting on the removal of the moratorium on agricultural land sales, and the law instructed the government to draft laws that regulate the use of agricultural land. This area of responsibility of the Ministry of Agrarian Policy, which is carried out by the Ministry for the execution of the tasks assigned. This question was asked. Accordingly, following the signature by the President of Ukraine of the aforementioned Act on the Functioning of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, an appropriate mandate will be given to draft a bill on the circulation of agricultural land, the deadline for implementation by March-month. At the same time, I would like to report that the issue of land reform is constantly under consideration in the government and, in particular, on 23 September 2015, a mandate was given to create a working group chaired by Mr. Zubko, Deputy Prime Minister. The working group was composed of: Minagropolitics, Minregion, Min. The State Department of Economic Development, Minnesota, and other interested authorities A number of laws have already been developed by the working group to improve land relations, such as the transfer of land orders from State authorities to local self-government authorities; the settlement of relations related to the introduction of the agricultural land market; the development of land use and ownership relations on agricultural land; the legal status of the land of former collective ownership and of the dead inheritance, which is very important; the facilitation of land ownership procedures by natural and legal persons; the establishment of a fair land tax on the use of land jointly used by state enterprises and operators. Bills are currently being drafted with the participation of interested executive authorities and public organizations. As far as the Land Circle Act itself is concerned, I think it's going to be a serious and deep enough discussion on the grounds not only of the Ministry of Agrarian Policy, and for that reason we invite all interested parties to discuss the project. Bill. The next question that we've been asked is what we're going to do about deregulation in agriculture. As of today, 14 permits have been revoked in relation to the agribusiness complex, including veterinary certificates, quality certificates, and quarantine certificates. The obligation to obtain a veterinary certificate of form No. 2, 6 of licences, 50 other changes related to the facilitation of obtaining permits, has been revoked. In the near future, it is planned to ensure that the draft Law on Amendments to Certain Legislative Acts (Registration No. 2558), which was recently voted in the first reading of the Supreme Council walls, is accompanied. And it provides for the simplification of 22 additional permits in such areas as veterinary, plant, animal, food, and fish farming. All this information will be discussed in detail again, and proposals from the Ministry of Agrarian Policy will be made accordingly. The following question was asked by the people’s deputies. "Information on the state of preparation of state-owned enterprises for privatization." Well, first of all, I want to say that we were forced to, despite reducing the number of APCs, this is the department, the government property management, where we were forced to add even two more departments to actually find out the specific state of affairs that is taking place in state-owned enterprises that are subordinated to the Ministry of Agrarian Policy and Food. We had 571 companies like this at the start. Then, according to the decision, it was. According to the decision there is a transfer of part of the educational institutions of the Ministry of Education, and such work is now being carried out in a practical manner at the stage of the transfer. Next. We've audited 30 of the largest and most complex enterprises. Audiences include those businesses that are harmful. Although if they're harmful, you can't practically do an audit, you know. That's why we invited famous audit companies, this is almost an eight-year-old who helped us conduct this audit free of charge. And we've already started working on preparations for privatization. In particular, today we have made proposals to the Ministry of Economics for 102 enterprises that can be considered for privatization. Now, according to the decision, the decrees of the Cabinet of Ministers of 86 state-owned enterprises are included in the order of decommissioning. Of these, 24 companies can be privatized after being expelled from the Law on the List of Property Rights that Are Not Privatized. But we see that they need to be reviewed, and these 24 companies should be added accordingly. The land bank of the listed enterprises will be about 120,000 hectares [120,000 ha]. Today, he has to say that we've organized a joint venture with the State Property Fund. Every Tuesday we gather together to discuss all the work we do on how to prepare and transfer to the State Property Fund appropriate enterprises. In particular, a decision has already been taken to privatize specifically 17 state-owned enterprises, 8 of which have already been transferred to the area of privatization authorities. In particular, the Agricultural and Industrial Company Poltavasadvinmarket, the State Science and Production Company Winconserveproject, the State Schovkorgosp "Crivorezki", the land plot of 274 hectares, the State Agricultural Company "Kelchen", the land area of 141 hectares. "Sensuous", land area 2 000 acres. The Zacarpathian state-owned agricultural plant Agropromtechnics. A farm called the Hawk, a land plot of 2,000 acres. Trust Farm, 288 hectares. The process of privatizing the industrial complex is largely slowing down due to the lack of legal documents to land, real estate, and the fact that property is under arrest and so on. We have a lot of litigation, a lot of businesses in bankruptcy, and a lot of them in liquidation. But at the same time, this work is being done. Well, the last question that was said to be asked. " Comment on the situation of the Russian Federation's imposition of a food embargo on Ukrainian exports. What measures are being taken to deal with the possible negative consequences?" Well, first of all, I have to say that the trade between Ukraine and the Russian Federation fell by 69.4 percent in 10 months 2015. On one, almost 1 billion. Compared to the same period of the previous year. And it was 456 million. The trade balance for today is positive -- $51.4 million. As regards the decline in exports of Ukrainian agricultural products. It started in 2012, and exports decreased from $2.1 billion in 2011 to 983 million in 2014. And the state of 10 months 2015 is 253 million dollars. Exports of concentrated milk, eggs, birds, grains, grains, mainly corn, seeds of oil crops, mostly soybeans, and sunflower seeds have completely ceased. Confectionery made of sugar, tobacco, and tobacco substitutes To a minimum, the supply of prepared or preserved fish and crustacean products, animal oil, beer, juices, cigarettes, and cigarettes with tobacco or substitutes has been reduced. In the face of a sharp decline in the supply of Ukrainian products to the Russian Federation, its exports to Asia are increasing. In general, I have to say that the total export figure of the Russian Federation is a little more than 2 percent, even though it was more than 12 percent at the time. Now we're reorienting and conducting enough negotiations. And the possibilities for going to other markets, including reorienting our exports to Asian countries. In particular, the share of exports to Asia now accounts for almost 47 percent. At the same time, we are trying to preserve the basic positions of trade with EU countries, where the figure is within 26.4 percent. However, in agricultural and food exports, their share decreased from 6.7 in 10 months to 2.2 in 10 months. So we see that the Ukrainian business is definitely getting ready for what might be the embargo imposed by the Russian Federation. After all, I have everything. If you have any questions, please ask.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-27-m0.u8	Thank you. Please take your seat. Dear colleagues, we now have 30 minutes to question the national MPs. I would stress that these questions are not from factions but from MPs. So if a faction doesn't register, I won't be able to add extra time to the questions. I'd like you to just be very careful, get yourself mobilized before you record the performance. Are you ready? Fellow factions? Thus, a record is being made of questions raised by members of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. Please record. Please, People's Deputy Golovko. I remind you, one minute to ask, two minutes to answer. Please, Head.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-27-m0.u9	Mikhail Golovko. Please pass the word to Andrew Illenka.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-27-m0.u10	Andrew Illenko, the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union. I want to ask a question to the government. I see there's no minister of the interior, and the Prime Minister's gone, too, but he's gone somewhere. But I still want to ask them questions. Please tell me, how could it be that the first deputy head of the National Police was Vasil Pascal, who led the Ministry of Criminal Investigation in the days of Yanukovich, in Midan? He was one of the key men in the repressive system against Maidan, one of those close to Zacharychenk, Minister of Interior Janukovich. How could such a person be appointed to such an office, a person who is subject to the law governing the cleansing of power? This is a full campaign of the IMF reform that's going on. How could this happen, give an explanation? Because it's a spit in everyone's face that mayan's not an empty word for.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-27-m0.u11	Ladies and gentlemen of the people, I think we're going to consider this a question of parliament and directly, so to speak, an answer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-27-m0.u12	Thank you. Dekhtarchuk, Peter Dustock's Block, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-27-m0.u13	Order of the Cabinet of Ministers 31.03 In 2015, the draft guidelines for budgetary policy for 2016 were approved, which provides for the transfer of budgetary scientific institutions of the Ministry of Education and Science to the administration of the Ministry of Education and Science of Ukraine. Motivating the denial of a professional Supreme Council Committee on Agrarian Policy and Land Relations is based on the fact that the concentration of expenditure on science in the Ministry of Education may result in the loss of certain government functions in the relevant fields, as well as a breach of the integrity of the relationship with science and production. Are these convincing proposals taken into account regarding the inadequacy of the transfer of the Ministry of Agriculture's food policy to the administration of the Ministry of Education and Science of Ukraine in the formation of Ukraine's state budget for 2016? Thank you. Questions to the representative of Minfin.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-27-m0.u14	Good afternoon, distinguished national MPs! Thank you for asking. In fact, we are dealing with the issue of the transfer of all sectoral science to the Ministry of Education. A number of concerted meetings were held on this subject. The final decision has not yet been taken by the government, and when considering the draft budget for the following year, a decision will be taken, including with regard to agrarian universities. As a result, in the State budget, we will be able to reflect, either by the Ministry of Education and Science or by the Ministry of Agrarian Policy, the corresponding costs of maintaining these institutions. So far, the final decision has not been taken, the project you talked about has not been approved, including by the Supreme Council. So to this day, these are just conceptual proposals that are being discussed in the government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-27-m0.u15	Thank you. Please, Yuri Chizmar, Radical Party.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-27-m0.u16	Yuri Chizmar, Oleg Laska Radical Party. Last year, the Russian Federation proved to be not a stable partner in the gas and energy sectors, and we were hoping that, over the course of the year, we would set up alternative sources of supply in Ukraine. Unfortunately, this is not done, and we see that recent events have clearly shown us that we have again based our purchasing strategy right from the Russian Federation and the ATO zone. And that's why we have this year's problem again, possible, wind-offs, energy crises, which will lead to the cessation, shutdown and cessation of many businesses. Will anyone take such an irresponsible state position in the government for not working out an alternative in a year and not having economic stability today because of such a system of energy purchases? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-27-m0.u17	Mr. Chizmar, thank you so much for asking. In my short speech, I was actually talking about how we managed to reduce this year's dependence on gas supply, for example, from the Russian Federation to 35-40 percent at the moment or during 2015, compared to 100 percent literally a few years ago. It's work and ministry, and NAK Naftogazu in a vertical direction, so called, that's the first question. As far as nuclear fuel is concerned, 5 shipments out of 13 are in 2015. In 2016, they will be non - Russian. As far as coal is concerned, the main limit at present is the port infrastructure that has been formed over the years. So in one year, there's no way to build a big port with big ports. With terminals that can unload large ships, there's Panmaxi or Kepsis. It's a work in progress. At this point, we can take 400,000 tons a month, at the necessary 600, it's quite comfortable. But the work is still going on. Moreover, consumption itself, the very structure of consumption, we have been able to change in favour of nuclear energy, which is clean and cheap. This allows not only to reduce cost, to reduce structure. To improve tariff structure, to keep electricity tariffs at today's level, to allow our businesses to be competitive, but also to reduce their dependence on coal supply. This work is being done, done and done, but one year is unfortunately not enough to build such large infrastructure projects at a time when war is taking place, when investors do not want to go to Ukraine and invest billions of dollars in this infrastructure. But that's going to happen because we're also at the legislative level changing the system, and we're doing a very active job with state enterprises where.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-27-m0.u18	Let me finish. Is there a need?
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-27-m0.u19	Anyway, I want to assure you that this year, the dependence on external coal supply has dropped by at least 30 percent in at least 1 year. So I'm convinced that next year we're going to solve this problem. In the next heating season, we will enter without dependence on Russian coal.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-27-m0.u20	Thank you. Mikola Fedoruk, People's Front, please. Mikola Trohimovich Fedoruk.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-27-m0.u21	Please give the floor to the National Deputy Alexander Kodola.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-27-m0.u22	Kodola, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-27-m0.u23	Alexander Kodola, 209 constituency, Chernigovishte. I have a question for the Minister of Energy. Dear Mr. Demchisin, on Tuesday in the city of Chernigus, there was an untimely protest against Montenegrin entrepreneurs, just active citizens against the black-and-blanner's saviour. We understand that Czerniwoblanergo is a monopoly that belongs to the Russian oligarch of Grigorishin, but it is a monopoly that creates impossible conditions for business, especially today we have about 160 enterprises that are actually unable to start their work because of cloudy electricity prices. So the question is, Do you know about this problem? And I'm addressing you right now with the Antimonopoly Committee to intervene in solving this problem, and avoid increasing social tension. And the second question.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-27-m0.u24	Please, 30 seconds, finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-27-m0.u25	Second question, the Ministry of Finance. We don't have a minister today, but we do have a deputy. Question of this nature: Is the bill submitted to the Supreme Council by Mrs. Jaresko on the restructuring of foreign exchange loans for poor Ukrainian citizens, and how many citizens are covered by the bill? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-27-m0.u26	The first question is, about the archergo. Mr. Kodola, thank you so much for asking. Actually, it's not just the Chernigian region. In fact, all archetypes have monopolistic influence in their territories. And access to networks is one of the main problems. Throughout the year, we are actively involved with the NCRE regulator. During this time, two different amendments were developed to the Energy Market Act and the proposed changes. Unfortunately, however, they were not accepted by Kabmin and, accordingly, not yet in effect. A great deal of work has now been done on the Energy Market Act, which corresponds to the third energy package developed jointly with the Energy Community and the World Bank. This law, literally today, may be introduced into Kabmin on Monday. Hopefully, we'll work quickly and be able to meet him in the near future. Under this law, there is a network code that should ensure free access to the networks of all consumers. I am convinced that only at the legislative level can this matter be resolved. So I look forward to your support and I believe that this law will soon be passed to the Council, and you will have the opportunity to help us solve this complex problem. In fact, the olanerge is abused by its monopoly.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-27-m0.u27	As for the second question of the bill. Thank you for asking. He, this bill on the restructuring of monetary mortgages, first of all, credits from the last government meeting were considered, approved by the government. It's almost done with its editorial work. And, as far as I know, on Monday, he's scheduled to be sent to the Supreme Council for registration. This bill, as I recall, may directly apply to 38,000 families. Thank you for asking.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-27-m0.u28	Thank you. Yuri Solovay, Peter Dustock's Block, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-27-m0.u29	Yuri Solovay, 89th constituency. Well, I have a question for the Prime Minister, but considering he's not here, Hennady Grigorovich, you have a question. We recall under what kind of pressure the Ukrainian Parliament has passed legislation on the opening of a visa-free regime with the European Union, so I am personally asked by the electorate what to expect on a time scale when the Ukrainian people will be given the opportunity to travel to Europe without a visa? That's the first question. The second question. Given the absence of the Prime Minister, the question is to the Minister of Finance. What are the economic reasons for the dollar exchange rate today? Since we see daily, yesterday was 23-24, today 25, 26, 27. And the final question to the Secretary of Defense. I don't know if he's there or not. There is an intercessor. I have been approached extensively by public sector enterprises that are engaged in the production of weapons for the illegal actions of Mr. Pavlovski’s deputy minister.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-27-m0.u30	30 seconds. Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-27-m0.u31	What state funds are earmarked for the purchase of weapons not to Ucroborprom, but to private structures. Please consider this question and ask the Minister of Defense to conduct appropriate service investigations into what actions the deputy minister is doing and where the state funds are being channeled. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-27-m0.u32	Dear National MPs! I once again welcome everyone that Parliament has successfully passed the adoption of a series of laws relating to the visa-free regime, and I would like to welcome the entire Ukrainian people with this very week's receipt, the last ratification in Brussels of the deal that all of our Ukrainians have been so looking forward to today, the Association Agreement with the European Union. Yesterday the President of Ukraine was in the Netherlands. And virtually the last ratification of the Dutch government that has already taken place, but now we are waiting for a referendum, opens the way for Ukraine to practically implement all directives related to the European Union agreement, including granting Ukrainians visa-free status. I think 2016 will be the key to opening up these issues, including the granting of a visa-free regime. Indeed, there are many factors that affect such decisions today. But Ukraine has today fulfilled all the conditions to join the visa-free regime. 2016, I believe that on the basis of Parliament and the work of the government and the economy of the country and the situation of stability in Ukraine, it will provide a direct and direct opportunity for direct communication with Europeans. Thank you. It's the money. Igor Ivanovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-27-m0.u33	Thank you for asking. Of course, the issue of the currency market situation would have been better addressed by the National Bank. But the seasonal factor, always during this period, is certain fluctuations in the course and weakening of the bracelet. Once again, Christmas and New Year’s celebrations are traditionally followed by a reverse trend, and the national currency is being strengthened. So, on the one hand, there's pressure on the market for excess bracelet fluidity that's gone through, including a fund to guarantee the investments of individuals, through payment to banks, to depositors of banks that have moved to the management of the fund, on the one hand. And on the other hand, I'm going to repeat the seasonal factor, and now we have the trend that is. But in my opinion, this trend will be closer to Christmas and has an exclusively seasonal and temporary character.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-27-m0.u34	Thank you. Papiev Mikhailo Mikolaiovich, "The Opposition Block."
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-27-m0.u35	Thank you. Please pass the word to Deputy Shurma. Igor Shurmi.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-27-m0.u36	Please turn on Shurmi's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-27-m0.u37	Igor Shurma, the Opposition Block. Dear colleagues, I welcome you not only with the anniversary of our work together but, in fact, with the start of the premiere. After listening to the chairman’s report today, as well as those initiatives that roam the hall, we can understand what interests us. There's a very interesting period ahead of us. But for now, I'm going to go talk to those who work. I'm talking to Mr. Zubko's deputy prime minister. I don't ask you questions about health care, about reform because they keep answering questions, and in a week, everything will be submitted to Parliament. And I'm asking you a question that I asked you two weeks ago, you promised to answer it yourself, it's VAT compensation to exporting companies. Without them there will be no budget, without them there will be no pension, without them there will be no salary, without them there will be no development at all. Today these questions are not resolved. In particular, Zaporoztal owed a billion dollars a month in May, suspended from automatic return, a legislative one. Please tell me why you promise not to do what you promise. At least give me the information. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-27-m0.u38	Your request was made to the State Fiscal Service, and, I think, on the basis of the results of the verification of the VAT paid to the Treasury, and the automatic return, the question will be resolved. I think that's not just about Zaporoztals, which works today, but also about a lot of businesses. And I'm going to check on Monday, and I'm going to check on the state of the U.S.R.S. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-27-m0.u39	Thank you. Sverk Grigory Aronovich, Peter Dusty Block, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-27-m0.u40	Thank you. I have a question for Reverend Vladimir Vasilovich, he's the most popular today. Vladimir Vasilovich, the question is, today, Ukraine is spending $1 more on GDP than almost all countries in the world. So if we were to spend on energy, like Poland, which spends four times less than we do, we wouldn't think about where to buy energy, we would think about where to sell it. So the question is, is there any comprehensive program in your ministry or government to stimulate Ukraine's energy dependency and energy efficiency not only for citizens, but also for Ukraine as a whole, in the Ukrainian industry? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-27-m0.u41	Mr. Sverk, thank you so much for asking. In fact, energy accounts for about 30 percent of the total gross national product of Ukraine, so you can explain a lot of questions to me. In terms of energy efficiency. There's a special agency led by Mr. Saucuk, and it's managed by Mr. Zubko, and he's very active. There's a lot of work going on, but the main reason is access to capital. Unfortunately, at today's rate of 25 plus a year, it's very difficult to do any kind of energy saving. Therefore, the main objective is to lower the cost of capital for the Ukrainian business, primarily an industry that is clearly competitive. They're investing, and they're going to invest further in energy-saving technologies. But the main inefficiencies are housing. This is also the energy efficiency of buildings that need to be maintained and not only by citizens, it needs to be maintained systematically. Because changing the windows or smoldering the walls in one apartment from the apartment building is ineffective, a system approach is needed. In addition to repairing transmission lines, or pipes, that the World Bank is also involved in. So this year there's more than $300 million spent on thermal power plants and heat stations, but these are obviously not enough. It takes about 25 to 30 billion dollars to upgrade the entire housing structure.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-27-m0.u42	Dear National Deputies! I'd like to add information and divide energy efficiency into two areas: the industrial zone and the zone, in fact, the consumption of ordinary Ukrainians or the residential-communal economy, which is about heatcommuneering, is that, or is just an individual consumption of our Ukrainians. First of all, the program that was launched by the government to compensate the body for the loan, as well as those memoranda signed with local self-government to compensate the interest on loans sent to Energy Efficiency, has shown that today there is a demand, which is now virtually 1 billion 100 million dollars of credit. But for the next year. We feel that we need to move on to standards that are clearly binding. If you want to make an energy efficient move, you have to do it with standards that don't just invest and spend it, and you get an economy of 20 percent, you have to do the maximum effect, the maximum effect that's really going to reach 45 percent, is what we're seeing today. In Ukraine, heat consumption is nearly 230 kilowatts per square meter [230 kilowatts]. If you take the average in Poland, in Belarus -- 95-100 -- it's practically twice as much energy efficiency as you can save today by the Ukrainians. And so in the direction of the housing sector, we're going to be doing work in terms of both the standards and the cost. Now it's industry. Today there are programs from the European Investment Bank to support small and medium-sized businesses. And now there are almost 400 million tranches, which should directly support the development of such enterprises. We are also now in the process of negotiating with the European Investment Bank and with other international financial institutions on the inclusion of cheap loans for energy efficiency measures, on energy conservation measures for the transfer to alternatives. for an alternative energy source to make our industry competitive for the consumption of natural resources and competitive products in order to come out, indeed, and diversify its production on European mornings. So, please, I think we have a lot of decisions to make that we will jointly and ratify agreements with international financial organizations to consider, and that is why I propose that the committees actively join this cooperation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-27-m0.u43	Thank you. The king is referring to the question of Berezuku. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-27-m0.u44	Just before the Court of Appeal of Dnipropetrov district cynically sold justice and honor, ignoring the desire of the people of the Horn of Creature to have free will, he ignored completely all fundamental evidence cynically and unjustly. So today, justice and justice are in hand, in a large account, the Supreme Council and the temporary special commission that was created yesterday, in the hands of the people of the Horn of Creature and the people of Ukraine, who are watching closely with this and in the hands of the Ministry of Internal Affairs. Because what happened yesterday in court when witnesses were cynically lying, confused, is the basis for powerful criminal cases and the investigation of the Ministry of Internal Affairs. So today, our question is to the Ministry of Internal Affairs. How is it going to investigate cynical crimes against the will of people in Ukraine, particularly in Bloody Rose?
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-27-m0.u45	Oleg Romanovich, we're going to think that this is a quote, and we consider it a parliamentary request.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-27-m0.u46	Aresonkov Volodymyr, Petra Dustenka's Block, please,
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-27-m0.u47	Volodymyr Aresonkov, 64th District, Žitomirščina. I have a question for the Minister of Energy and Coal Industry first. Yesterday, there was a meeting of the Privatization Supervisory Commission to discuss the future privatization of the peat industry. I have a question for you, Mr. Minister, what is your personal position? Has the Ministry exhausted all possibilities for helping this sector to work or privatizing objects if they were your final vision? And the question to the Ministry of Education and Science: where are the textbooks for the 4-7 classes? On these issues, funds were allocated back in June, and textbooks seemed to have been printed, but by now they had not submitted to the Ukrainian school. Where, in what condition, and when will they finally come to the disciples? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-27-m0.u48	Thank you so much for the questions about the peat industry, the peacock. The question is actually very simple. At present, by reducing the volume of gas consumption, it would be logical to use the resource in Ukraine. And calories, technological processes provide an opportunity to replace gas consumption in a fairly large amount. Of the eight companies of peat mining that are under the administration of the Ministry, only two work more or less adequately, with eight to six damages and are in various stages of bankruptcy, liquidation, and rehabilitation. So this is the inheritance I got coming to the Ministry. Regrettably, the State was not an effective manager of such enterprises. So I think that actually the privatization process can have a significant impact on this segment and give it a new life. Moreover, there are coals and peats within the Ministry, which, in principle, compete in some way. That's why I think privatization is the right thing to do. The main problems are solved at the local council level -- that's land survey, that's consumption, because transporting more than 200 kilometers is not economically feasible. That's why peat industry is a matter of local self-government and council. Privatization will enable them to do so more effectively. I fully support privatization. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-27-m0.u49	Dear colleagues, as of today, the contracts for the purchase of textbooks have been made, in due course, I think that by the time New Year comes, all textbooks will be in school. So the contracts are already in place, there's a purchase procedure, there's a payoff. And I would also like to point out that we managed to buy textbooks six times cheaper this year than we did in the last few years. So the relevant information, you've seen, is already in the media. So, I think by the new year, the main mass of textbooks will be in schools.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-27-m0.u50	Thank you. Kosheleva passes the word to Oleg Laško. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-27-m0.u51	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. I have a question for the Minister of Energy. One of my colleagues said that the Minister of Energy was very popular. In fact, I think this popularity is motivated by only one -- an extremely high level of corruption in the system led by Minister Demchisin. In particular, Mr. Demchisin is now aspiring to restore electricity to Crimea as soon as possible. Isn't that why he's aspiring because his business partner, the Russian oligarch Grigorishin, has almost 20 percent of Crimeanrego's shares, and Demchisin has an old partner with him because he helped Grigorisin, advised him to buy Luganskkoblanergo a few years ago? And it was for Demchiin's initiative that an agreement was signed on the supply of electricity to the Crimean Federal District from Ukraine. That's why I have a question for Mr. Demchikin. Do you see a conflict of interest here with Gregory, your longtime partner? Can you, under these conditions, work as a minister, or engage in corruption schemes that are now in the Ministry of Energy? And when you give it to me.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-27-m0.u52	Mr. Easy, thank you so much for asking. I was really ready for him. I made a special agreement, which you talk about so much about, and which I studied with various institutions, including the force, in February. And he gives simple answers to the questions that you are. That's the kind of speculation you're making. That's the answer that there's no reference in this contract to the federal district that you're talking about, no. There are no questions about the supply chain, there is no question about the price, since in additions contained in this contract, the price of 2.99 at the beginning of the year rose to 3.95 today. In addition, many questions are asked regarding the settlement of disputes under this treaty. This is also true in Ukraine. And as for Gregorian, I think you're using it as a scarecrow for everyone. You know, you're not talking about the Cologne you're working on, you're not talking about Ahmetova, and you're talking about Grigorisin, who's not in a country anywhere in the Ministry. Please concentrate on your work, please, not on political declarations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-27-m0.u53	Please, according to the Rules, when the name is mentioned, a replica is given. I recommend not to mention the last name. Please repeat, one minute. Easy.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-27-m0.u54	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. Demchisin, who is lobbying for the interests of the Russian oligarch Grigorishin, said that I work for the Cologne. I want to remind you, it's my initiative, for support, for the active position of our faction that we have taken away the Colombian monopoly on the state company Ukrnafta, which today, thanks to the position of the Ukrainian Parliament, is back in state ownership. And I hope that dividends from the company's activities will go to the state budget, not to the private companies of Cologne. As far as cooperation with Ahmtov is concerned. It was for our faction's position that we voted in favour of increasing the rent on domestic hydrocarbons, and it hit the Ahmtova pocket. Now, about your cooperation with Grigorisin. You, Grigorishin, Cassic, are a corruption group that today, because of rising electricity tariffs, is stolen from the energy industry by billions. You're getting suspended for this, you're working for the corruption of the Russian oligarch Grigorishin, and you're supposed to be sitting in jail for this, not lobbying.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-27-m0.u55	Thank you. Dear Deputy Prime Minister. You know, but one more question, because we had a long discussion. One more question, Gus. If possible, comment, and then question.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-27-m0.u56	So first, I'm going to say that we can view this as a parliamentary question, but I would like to be a parliamentary request and a shared responsibility for every word in this room that the Ukrainian people hear today. If this MP's request is not confirmed, I think you'll just have to apologize for such serious, thorough accusations against the Minister of Energy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-27-m0.u57	And so, the last question to the government. The Hopil of the People's Front passes to Ass Igor. Dear colleagues, may I have your attention in the hall, final question, final answer. And we'll finish "the hour of questions to the government." Please. Igor Gus, please speak.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-27-m0.u58	Deputy Gus, 19th constituency. Mr. Demchisin, I don't work for Grigorishin or Ahmedov or Colomoysky. But I want to tell you from the neo-voluntary miners. Remember, this banner was on Maidan, and I don't know if you were there. Well, I've been fighting for a year! Your position has taken hold of me and the neo-voluntary miners! I know you'll be on Volina, please, Mr. Demchikin, don't drive behind the noses of novice miners. Clearly state the position of the Ministry of Mines of Novovolinska, will the 10th Mine be funded or not? What are we going to do about the First, the Ninth and the Bug? People are tired of being patient! You're driving by the nose. You don't give specific information, you run away from responsibility. You've changed the controls of the mines three times and you don't know what to do! So please identify or leave! Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-27-m0.u59	Thank you so much for asking. In fact, the situation in the coal industry depends to a greater extent on State support. I want to remind you that last year, government mines received nearly 5 billion dollars of government support. In line with the coalition agreement for this year it should have been, this support should have been no less than 4 billion. Over the course of the year, we got 900 million that were not issued further, but redistributed from other programs run by the Ministry of Fuel and Energy. Unfortunately, without State support, rapid reforms are very difficult. Because it's also a complex geology, it's also a corrupt enterprise that's left behind, that's been running into damage for 20 years. The best have long been privatized by the DTECO, and everything else remains with the state. What's more, the position of trade unions you've seen, trade unions are constantly blocking any steps to optimize, by increasing efficiency. It's about Volin miners. So what I'm saying is that at this point in the production plan, 15,000 tons per month of yield is less than 5, that's 30 percent of the plan. What can we talk about? About the 10th Mine? All the funds in the budget will be used by the end of the year, that's 200 million. The following year, we put in place a program that is unfortunately not supported by either the Cabinet of Ministers or the Supreme Council. So please vote, support the coal industry, and there will be no problems. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-27-m0.u60	Thank you. The year of questions to the government is over. I thank both Deputy Prime Minister Hennadia Zubka and representatives of the government for the professional, though sharp, discussion in the hall. According to the order of the day, our next chapter is the announcement of parliamentary inquiries. I will first read the announcement that came to the fore, and Mr. Yuri Suhevich is waiting for this announcement. So I'm reporting on the creation of the 8th Interfractional Union for the Free Caucasus in the Supreme Council of Ukraine. The head of the Interfractional Deputy for the Free Caucasus was elected the National Deputy of Ukraine, Sukhevich Yuri-Bogdan Romanović. Welcome. And we're going to read the MP's questions.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-27-m0.u61	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, I just wanted to say a few words before I read the questions. We had so many people left on Friday that, unfortunately, we cannot pass the laws. People say that MPs have to go to work, but the question is, what is the job of deputies, what should they do? I don't know if our radio audience knows, but in the parliaments of most democratic states, decisions are made by a majority of the deputies present. For in such circumstances both presence and voice matter. What should be the work of Parliament? It is also a big question of whether it comes down to legislative work. The House of Democracy has four basic functions as a representative body. It's control over government activity, in the broadest sense of it, it's control over human spending, it's debates on socially meaningful issues of discussion, and it's finally the adoption of laws. The adoption of quality laws is not possible without these three functions. What do we actually have? So far, Parliament's monitoring function has been reduced to "the hour of questions to the government" and the reading of Friday's requests. And the debates from socially significant problems are brought to the "Variance." And as a result, I think we have seen very brightly today. The biggest social problem today is probably, this morning it's actually the outcome of the trial of the election in Bloody Rose. But there was no one in Parliament, no representative, I'm not even talking about the Minister of Internal Affairs anymore, to respond to the facts, to the testimony of witnesses about falsifications during the electoral process. You know, you can talk about reforms for a long time, and, of course, this is not just a problem for today's parliament, because we inherited this procedure. But I think it is time for Parliament to finally make it a representative body and allow it to carry out its mandate. And the government should probably learn to become a full-fledged executive power, accountable to Parliament. Thank you. Now, let's move on to reading the questions that I hope will also be published soon only on Parliament's page. I would also like to point out that, according to the procedure laid down in the Constitution, requests to the President of Ukraine should be voted on. That is, for them, there must be a majority of the votes from the constitutional composition -- 226 votes. There were not enough people in this room to vote on the President's motions on the day of the inquiry. So today we have questions from such deputies: from Viktor Romanyuk; from Dmitry Link; Igor Skiny; Mikoli Lušnjak; Oleg Petrenko; Sergey Visatsky; Yuri-Bogdan Shuhevich; groups of national deputies: Lapina, Timoshenko and others and groups of national deputies: Palatno, Romanov and Sporis – to the President of Ukraine, who unfortunately cannot be considered and voted on in the first place. Besides, we have questions from the people's deputies. Vladimir Parasuka to the Chief of General Staff, Commander-in-Chief of the Armed Forces of Ukraine, for granting the Order "For Courage" to some military personnel of the A3817 military, for performing an outstanding heroic act in defence of independence, territorial integrity and sovereignty of Ukraine. Vitalia Gudzenka to the Minister of Health of Ukraine for payments to the younger medical staff of the Hospital "Staviščenska Central District Hospital" for harmful working conditions, night changes, health care and indexation. Jury Bereza to the Chief of the Ministry of Internal Affairs of Ukraine in the Dnipropetrovsk oblast concerning the illegal possession of TOV II "Novopharma" property by members of the Society's limited liability "Rost-Agro", as well as to the unlawful actions of the investigating US GUMWS of Ukraine in the Dnipropetrov sub-police district of the Maslenikov militia. Yurya Berezi to the Minister of Education and Science of Ukraine for the renaming of the Dnipropetroval assembly technology into the Dnipropetrov College of Building Technology and Architecture. Jury Lewchenk to the head of the National Bank of Ukraine on the improper exercise of bank supervision by the National Bank of Ukraine in the area of legal regulation of relations between commercial banks and investors under term deposits contracts. Jury Levchenka to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the arbitrary occupation of the land in the post office area in Kiev. Vladimir Litvina to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Health of Ukraine, head of the Zitomir District State Administration for the functioning and financing of the City Hospital. Eugene Balitsky to the Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine, the Attorney General of Ukraine, for the capture of the building of the Melitopol City Council, for the obstruction of the work of the elected Secretary of the Council from the opposition bloc. Viktor Razwadowski to the head of the Zitomir district government regarding the allocation of the gas pipeline to his own house as a participant in the fighting activities of Giluk Vasil Fedorovich, resident of the village of Krasnovolice of the Wonderland, Žitomir district. Viktor Razwadowski to the head of the Zitomir district administration for the allocation of funds for the construction of a platoon on the Beregovy Street in Razine Romanovsky district, Zitomir district. Alexander Abdullin to the head of the Ravenna District State Administration for immediate assistance in the reconstruction of the settlement that suffered from the fire of a single pensioner from the city of Dubrovnik of the Plain area of Vera Kostuchek and for the treatment of the fire-stricken invalid Gennady Wednesday, who is in serious condition in the Dubrovnik District Hospital, and who has no means of treatment and for survival in general. Alexander Abdullin to the head of the State Border Service of Ukraine to provide support in the difficult life situation of the Natalia Oneschuk family in the city of Dubrovic of the Plains region. Sergey Larina to the Attorney General of Ukraine on systematic violations of legislation by the management of the State Enterprise, the Kyrovograd Science and Production Centre for Standardization, Metrology and Certification. Igor Kononka to the Minister of Interior of Ukraine, the Attorney General of Ukraine, is temporarily acting as head of the Ministry of Internal Affairs of Ukraine in the Vinnitsk region for the failure of the Ukrainian law enforcement authorities to stop the illegal manufacturing of the forestry enterprise in the village of Granów of the Heissin district of Vinnitsk. Victor Ostapchuk to the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine for information on the status of execution by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, section VI, 11 Final and transitional provisions of the Codex Budget. Jacob Besbach to the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, the Ministry of Environment and Natural Resources of Ukraine, the Ministry of Internal Affairs of Ukraine, the Office of the Attorney-General of Ukraine, the State Environmental Inspection of Ukraine, the Dnipropetrov Regional Administration on the need to verify the possible lack of compliance with environmental legislation in the city of Dnipropetrovsk. Alexander Dekhtyarczuk to the Head of the Ukrainian Security Service, the Attorney General of Ukraine, for the verification of the legality of the actions of PAT officials, "Ukrainian Danube steaming" from the sale of the vessel Georgy Agafonov. Olga Bogolitz to the minister of internal affairs of Ukraine regarding the destruction of documents, registration magazines and books of the Ministry of Internal Affairs of Ukraine. Dmitri Andriyewski to the Minister of Social Policy on the provision of official information (explanation) on the accrual and recalculation of pensions following changes in the legislation in force. Natalia Wessellova to Prime Minister of Ukraine on subsidies for the reconstruction and reconstruction of the Donetsk and Lugansk regions. Jacob Besbach to the Notary Chamber of Ukraine, the Ministry of Justice of Ukraine, for possible violations of the order of notary action. Vladimir Litvina to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the adoption of measures to put an end to the undue pressure on the Society with limited responsibility for Cersanit Invest by the Public Shareholders of the Energy Supply Company Zitomiroblenergo. Andrija Nemirowski to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the review of municipal tariffs and on the introduction for the population and the indexation of wages, pensions and subsistence minimum. Andrija Nemirowski to the prosecutor of Dnipropetrovsk district for a statement of the commission of a crime by the head of the Magdalena District Court of the Dnipropetrov district of Vivoslovovi Andrija Mikolajovich. Alexander Kirsch to the military prosecutor of the Central Region of Ukraine, the Head of the Security Service of Ukraine, the Attorney General of Ukraine, the Deputy Attorney General of Ukraine, the Chief Military Prosecutor for the attempted illegal possession of property of the state-owned enterprise, the Kharkiv machine factory "Fed" and the raiding of the property of the factory. People’s Deputies (Conditional, Najim, and others) A total of 18 deputies) joined the Ukrainian Defence Minister to assign the name Hero of Ukraine to Colonel Armed Forces of Ukraine Krivonos Sergey Grigorovich. Irina Suslowy to the Minister of Infrastructure of Ukraine, Head of the State Border Service of Ukraine, Head of the Lviv District State Administration for the construction of the "Lopushanka-Michnowets" crossing on the Ukrainian-Polish border in the Turkov region of Lviv. Michael Bondar to the Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine for changes in the structure of the Chief Police Department in the Lviv region, and for the establishment of the Police Department of the Brodivo Police Department. Michael Bondar to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the amendment of the Ukrainian National Budget for 2015 Act on debt repayment and the provision of timely payment of wages to employees of state-owned coal companies and the provision of coal production through state support. Vitalia Chapinoga and Hennadia Chekita to the Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine on the return of the Ukrainian citizen child to his homeland. Vladislav Buharev to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the improper investigation by the law enforcement authorities of the sum of the falsifications of local elections in the separate constituencies of the district of Suma. Vladislav Buhareva to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the monetary income index for residents of the Suma region and all Ukrainian citizens. Gennady Chekita to the Attorney General of Ukraine, Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine, on the verification of the State's losses and the prosecution of those responsible. Sergey Chlana to the Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine on the cessation of violations of the law by the head of the self-organization body of the House Committee Petrenko, 79 of the city of Herson. Vladimir Aresonkova to the Head of the Security Service of Ukraine on the provision of information on the status of investigation and verification of criminal conduct against officials of the State Enterprise of the Corsatene Forestry Agro-industry complex. Vladimir Aresonkova to the Prime Minister of Ukraine to amend articles 11 and 14 of the Ukrainian Act on the Status and Social Protection of Citizens affected by the Chernobyl disaster. Andrija Pomazanova to the Attorney General of Ukraine for the conduct of the pretrial investigation of criminal conduct No.1201511000000288. Sergey Labazuk to the Ukrainian Defence Minister for the payment of military personnel for the execution of military orders in the ATO area. Sergia Labazuka to the Minister of Social Policy of Ukraine on the mechanism and order of the implementation of pension payments and their indexation. Group of National Deputies (Kremina, Wesselova, Kaplina) to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the non-admission of property and the deliberate destruction of consumer cooperation in the Mikolai region. Jury Babia to the Ukrainian Defence Minister for the maintenance of altitude standards by warplanes during training and training flights over densely populated locations. Mikoli Kucher to the temporary duty of head of the State Geology Service and the nadr of Ukraine to stop the operation of a special permit for the use of the nadrama given to retrieve the sand of the Birlovski genealogy. John Baloga to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for the restoration of the flood control program of the Tis River Basin. John Baloga to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for the financing of the repair of Vinogradovsk and Irsavovsk regions of the Zakarpatsk region. Vasil Petyevka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the organisation of the Teresva crossing on the Ukrainian-Romanian border in the village of Tereswa Tajov district of Zakarpatsk. Vasil Pétovka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for the allocation of funds to the Rahiv City Council of the Zakarpatsk Region for the reconstruction of the watershed and for the conduct of hydrological research. Anatolia Evlakhova to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the inclusion in the Ukrainian National Budget 2016 project of construction costs in the city of Koryukowka Chernigiv district of the "Museum-Memorial Memory Complex of the People of the Peoples of Ukraine, destroyed by the fascist occupations". Denisa Silantiev to the Ministry of Infrastructure of Ukraine on the service negligence of the management of the state-owned enterprise. The United States of America to the Ministry of Internal Affairs of Ukraine on non-compliance with the laws of the Borodian People's Republic of Ukraine's Armed Forces in the Kyiv region during the registration of allegations of a criminal offence. Paul Rizanenka, head of the Ukrainian Antimonopoly Committee on Action to Eliminate Violations of Economic Competition Law. Paul Rizanenka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine regarding the enforcement of the right of citizens to compensation for property damage caused to natural persons by the introduction of animal quarantine or by procedures and work to eliminate particularly dangerous diseases. Anton Heraszczenko to the head of the Court of Auditors for the conduct of non-planned action. Anton Herashchenka to the Minister of Energy and Coal Industry of Ukraine, the Public Shareholder Society of Ukrnafta, the head of the National Shareholder Company Naftogaz Ukraine, on the illegal refusal of officials of the Public Shareholder Association of Ukrnafta to provide information on the legitimate demand of the Ukrainian National Deputy. Igor Guza to the Minister of Energy and Coal Industry of Ukraine regarding the absence of a confirmed list of positions and professions that are reserved for military-related enterprises in the coal sector of the Volin region. Andrija Illenka, head of the Kyiv City Public Administration, a temporary head of the Right District in Kiev State Administration, Director of the Communion Enterprise, Managing Company for the Housing Fund of the Desnian District of Kiev, head of the Department of Housing and Communal Infrastructure of the Kyiv City State Administration for the inclusion in the Kiev Social and Economic Development Programme for 2016 of the capital repair of the asphalt cover on the street of Milutenka, 40/16 in the Right-wing Region of the capital. Andrija Illenka, head of the Kyiv City Public Administration, head of the Shevchenkov District in Kiev State Administration, director of the municipal company "The Managing Company of the Shevchenkov District Housing Fund of Kiev" for the protection of the interests of residents in connection with the possible emergency situation of non-residential premises in the Shevchenkov district of Kiev. Dmitra Dobrodomov to the Attorney General of Ukraine on an improper examination under the law on the cleansing of power in relation to Sheremet Yuri Vitaliyovich, who in 2012-2014 chaired the post of Chief of the Department of Procuratorship and the support of the State's prosecution in criminal proceedings concerning the activities of criminal groups of the Office of the Attorney-General of Ukraine and the Deputy Director of the Office of the Attorney-General for the supervision of compliance with the laws of the special departments and other bodies that fight organized crime and corruption, and currently heads the General Authority of their own security of the State Fiscal Service. Dmitra Dobrodomov to the first Deputy Prosecutor of Kiev, Head of the Ministry of Internal Affairs of Ukraine in Kiev, for a proper, transparent and objective investigation into the violation of traffic safety rules by the Director of the International Academy of Personnel Management, and in the past Deputy Minister of Interior of Ukraine, Colonel General of the Police, Anatoly Podolak. Anton Yatzenk to the Attorney-General of Ukraine, Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine, on the use of urgent measures to restore confidence in the law enforcement system and to verify the numerous facts of service inaction, abuse of office and cover the sale of narcotic drugs in Uman and the Uman district of Cherkas region by the head of the Umman City Department of UMC Ukraine in the Cherkas region of Vitali Shkolenko. Sergia Soboljeva to the head of the Supreme Administrative Court of Ukraine, the Attorney General of Ukraine, for the revitalization of work aimed at the return of all without excluding land of the pine Rosemow forest in the Zaporozhye region. Constantine Usova to the head of the Ukrainian Presidential Administration, Minister of Interior of Ukraine, Head of the Ukrainian State Security Service, Minister of Defence of Ukraine for the provision of information on the issuance of prize arms. Ivan Rybak to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Finance of Ukraine, Minister of Infrastructure of Ukraine, Head of the State Agency for Roads of Ukraine, Head of the Montenegrin District Administration for Projection of Funds in the State Budget of Ukraine for 2016 for the financing of the capital repair of the bridge that passes through the Siret River and connects the housing force of Zarića with the city of the Black Sea Stražinec. John Rybak to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Finance of Ukraine, acting as Minister of Ecology and Natural Resources of Ukraine, Head of the Montenegrin Regional Public Administration for the provision of funds for the financing of the construction of clean-up buildings in the city of Černovetske District in the Ukrainian State Budget for 2016. Groups of National Deputies (Gorbunova, Berezi and others) A total of 35 deputies) joined the Defence Minister for the assignment of the name Yuri Olefirenko to the average landing ship "Kirovograd" in honor of Hero of Ukraine, captain and rank Olefirenko Yuri Borisovich. Andrija Gordjeyeva to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for the transfer of the Black Sea Biosphere Reserve to the administration of the Ministry of Environment and Natural Resources of Ukraine. Andrija Gordjeyeva is acting as Ukraine’s Minister of Environment and Natural Resources for Admission to the Ministry of Environment and Natural Resources of Ukraine of the Black Sea Biosphere Reserve of Ukraine. Igor Shurma to Prime Minister of Ukraine on the threat of economic and social collapse in Ukraine's economy. Igor Shurma to the Attorney General of Ukraine, the Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine, for the deliberate establishment of obstacles to the prosecution of the accident, resulting in the death of the Cornelius family in the Slovenian district of the Donetsk region. Paul Kishkar to the Minister of Interior of Ukraine, the State Enterprise of the State Treasure Metals and Precious Stones of Ukraine on the number of illegally extracted amber. Victor Krivenk to the head of the Kyiv City State Administration regarding illegal AGCs in the city of Kiev. Victor Krivenk to the Darnick district office of the Ministry of Internal Affairs of Ukraine in Kiev regarding the failure to provide answers to a citizen’s request. Igor Vasyunika to Lviv City Head, Director of the Department of State Architecture and Construction Inspection in Lviv Region, Director of Lviv Municipal Enterprise Lvivtodor for the reconstruction of St. George's Square with the construction of the Metropolitan Monument of Andrey Sheptick in Lviv. Andrija Kota to the Minister for Agriculture Policy and Food of Ukraine, the Head of the Ukrainian Security Service, the Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine, the Attorney General of Ukraine on the intervention between the Semenses Games Incorporated (Canada) and the Soy Research Institute (Ukraine). Valery Davidenk to the head of the National Commission of Securities and Stock Market to provide information on all transactions with domestic government loans to the Ukrainian State Railway Administration. Mr. Vasil Janicki to Prime Minister of Ukraine, Head of the State Treasury Service of Ukraine, on the settlement of the issue of the repayment of the debt of the decisions of the courts guaranteed by the State. Alexia Lensky to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the use of response measures to implement the constitutional rights and social guarantees of the city’s citizens for safe living and environmental health, the provision of additional social guarantees to the inhabitants of Kirovograd, the opening of new cancer centres, and the provision of medicines for the city’s residents in connection with high levels of cancer by extracting uranium. Alexia Lensky, acting as Minister of Ecology and Natural Resources of Ukraine for the conduct of a check of the legality of renting 79 stakes in the Kirovograd region and a full-scale inspection of the form of ownership and unauthorized use of some 2,800 other rates, often resulting in the destruction of fish stocks and water resources, the deterioration of the quality of soil and environmental conditions of the environment, and the violation of constitutional rights of residents of the Kirovograd region. Stepan Kuba until the temporary duty of the Head of State to deal with the free settlement of the Heroes of the Sky to the hundreds in residences of state property during court proceedings. Stepan Kuba to the head of the Kyiv City State Administration for permanent maintenance in good condition of the Aleia Heroov of Heavenly Hundreds. Igor Goose to the head of the State Fiscal Service of Ukraine, acting as Head of the General Directorate of the State Fiscal Service in the Wallin Region for the non-admission of Natalia Yelova as Head of the Sales and Tax Control Department at the U.S. Department of the U.S. Department of Taxation in Volinsk Region. Igora Lucenka headed by the National Property Fund of Ukraine on the need to terminate the lease agreement between Pat "Restauration" and the State Property Fund of Ukraine. Roman Semenha to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the full, impartial and prompt investigation of criminal conduct in violation of the requirements of environmental legislation in the village of Taranovka in the region of Kharkiv. Roman Semenha to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the establishment of pensions, social assistance and other social benefits, depending on the size of the subsistence minimum for those who have lost their jobs. Mikli Tomenka to the Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine about the possible involvement of Ex-Minister Zacharychenk in illegal gold mining in Ukraine. Mikoli Tomenka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the inadmissibility of liquidation of the Ministry of Environment and Natural Resources of Ukraine. Oleg Kulinić to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the need to make changes to Cabinet Decision No. 332 of April 4, 20012. Oleg Kulinić is head of the Ukrainian State Service on geodesy, cartography and cadastre for the transfer of land to ATO participants and the transfer to the municipal property of the land for the organisation of the public pasture. Ruslan Solvar to the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, the Ministry of Health of Ukraine, the Kyiv District State Administration for Unsatisfying Provision of Medical Institutions in the Kyiv Region with Chemotherapy Drugs and Drugs to Assist Cancer Patients. Anton Kisse to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the construction of a new school in the village of Sadowa Arci district, the completion of the construction and implementation of schools in the villages of Minajlovka Saratsk and the Terutina Overyear districts of the Odessa region. John Melniczuk to the Attorney General of Ukraine, Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine, Head of the Security Service of Ukraine on the detection of violations of current legislation by law enforcement authorities in criminal proceedings No220150200000015 concerning Boris Pasichenko. John Melniczuk to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Social Policy of Ukraine, Head of the State Fiscal Service of Ukraine, Head of the General Directorate of the State Fiscal Service in the Vinnicki region, on the protection of the rights of persons with disabilities, and on the non-derogation of the exemption from income tax for enterprises of public organizations of disabled persons with a share of employed persons with more than 50 per cent of the total number of employees in the enterprise. Alexander Suprunenka, head of the National Property Fund of Ukraine, for the clarification of legislation regarding the transfer of a social object from the state to municipal property. Alexander Suprunenka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for the provision of official clarifications and copies of documents, in connection with the adoption of illegal decrees by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. Alexander Gorbunov to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the non-execution of the legislative right of the population of areas where mining and conversion of uranium ores are located to socio-economically offset the risk of their activities. Anatolia Denisenka to the Deputy Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Culture of Ukraine, on the identification of the responsible persons for the provision of information on the composition of the family and the adoption of the relevant regulatory acts. Anatolia Denisenka to Ukraine’s Minister of Agriculture and Food on how to solve the issue of obtaining permits for entrepreneurs to carry out activities related to the production and storage of food products of animal origin. Sergey Rudika to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the payment of scholarships to the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine for young scientists. Sergey Rudika to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for the repayment of debts to residents of the areas of Kamyansk, Smiljansk and Cherkas region of the Cherkas region for fixed solid fuel subsidies. The depth of Zagoriya to the Odessa city head and the procurator of Odessa regarding the illegal construction of the Odessa park zone Alexander Marchenka is head of the Kyiv District State Administration for the inclusion in the socio-economic development plan of the region of objects in the city of Bila Church of Kiev. Alexander Marchenka to the Minister of Infrastructure of Ukraine for the restoration of the work of the railway movement in the city of Bila Church of Kiev. Gregory Timesa to the head of the government of the public shareholder society of the State Saving Bank of Ukraine for the continuation of the work of branch No.0142 AT U.S.O.D.B.K. in the village of Jordanesti of the region of Montenegro. Oxana Jurinec and Gregory Times to the Deputy Prime Minister of Ukraine - Minister of Regional Development, Construction and Housing of Ukraine on the use of measures to ensure overall coordination of cross-border cooperation. Ruslana Demczak to the Minister of Infrastructure of Ukraine for the restoration of the operation of the Turbov train station and the Kalinovka-1 Turbov race. Ruslan Demczak to the Director of the Chief Service Centre of the Ministry of Internal Affairs for the reorganization of the inter-regional registration and examination departments in the Winnitsky region. Igor Popov to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the state of use of the budget for the implementation of the National Wall Project. Taras Batenka to the Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine, Head of the Department of Internal Affairs of Ukraine in the Lviv region, for the personal control of the investigation into the beating of journalist Zoločov.net. Taras Batenka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, the Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine for the review and implementation of substantive adjustments to the concept of reform of the Ukrainian National Police in part of the construction of a branched structure of the local police for the service of small towns, districts and villages, as the restructuring (in the case of the Novorozdil City Police Department) has led to a significant increase in crime and mistrust in the reform of the law enforcement system. Groups of National Deputies (Dove, Shevchenka and others) A total of 4 deputies) to the Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine, the Attorney General of Ukraine, on the verification of the corruption activities of the Head of the Odessa District Public Administration of Saakashvili regarding the use of cars purchased by the Charity Fund for Odessa. groups of people’s deputies (Doubova, Shevchenka and others) A total of 4 deputies) to the Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine on the need to investigate possible corruption by the head of the National Police Department in the Odessa region of Giorga Lortipanidze. Jaroslava Markevich to the head of the Borispilla Correctional Colony for the protection of the citizen's rights to parole. Jaroslava Markevich, head of the Ukrainian State Fiscal Service, to prevent economic activity by members of the DPA of the Kyiv district of Kharkiv. Sergey Vlasenka to the Head of the Ukrainian Security Service on the need to take measures to prevent a stay from being drawn to the criminal responsibility of the ex-chief of the Ukrainian Security Service in Kharkiv region of Mikola Vijacheslavovich for falsifying criminal materials for the purpose of unlawful criminal prosecution of Timoshenko Yulia Volodymyrovna. Jaroslava Dubnevic to the head of the Lviv District State Administration for regulating the sound of Russian-speaking music in public transport in the Lviv region. Jaroslava Dubnevic to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the distribution of excise taxes. Group of People's Deputies (Gerashchenko, Ionovo, Lucenko) to the Minister of Defence of Ukraine on ensuring the return to the property of the property of the Dnipropetrov military hospital No. 385. Dmitri Linka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the theft of Russian troops in the ATO zone. Alexander Kodola to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Energy and Coal Industry of Ukraine, for the exacerbation of the situation in the T.O. "NižinHeatNetwork", which could lead to the collapse of the heating season in the city of Nizhin, Chernigiv district. Alexander Kodola to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the artificial bankruptcy of the public stock company Nizhin Mechanical Plant. Dimitar Timchuk to the Ukrainian Defence Minister for Housing for Ukrainian Armed Forces military personnel at the expense of their budget in 2015. Alexander Revega, head of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Budget, Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Health of Ukraine, on the need for sufficient and effective allocation of funds in the Ukrainian State Budget for 2016 to provide medical care to patients with transplanted donor organs and patients with rare (orfan) diseases. Andrija Shipka to the Minister of Infrastructure of Ukraine on the use of urgent measures aimed at improving the link between the city of Nicopol of Dnipropetrovsk and the city of Kiev. Andrija Shipka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Health of Ukraine, on the increase in the amount of the cost-effective allocations in the form of a medical subsidy to the need to cover the current costs of the state institution "Specialized Medical and Health Unit No.9 of the Ministry of Health of Ukraine", located in the city of Yellow Waters of the Dnipropetrov region. Jury Bublika to the Minister of Health of Ukraine, the Attorney General of Ukraine, on the inaction of the Odessa City Council with regard to the prevention of illegal construction of the territory of the Fountain Sanatorium, its disregard for prohibited judicial decisions, the task of damaging the environment and the local community. Jury Bublika to the Attorney-General of Ukraine on the delay in the law enforcement of the Poltava region in the investigation of criminal conduct, revealed by the failure of officials of the Poltava City Council to execute the ruling of the Poltava Regional Court. Groups of National Deputies (Semeniahs, Wessels, and others) A total of 8 deputies) to the Head of the National Property Fund of Ukraine on the provision of information necessary to verify compliance with the requirements of Ukrainian legislation during the privatisation of VAT by the Shretelekom. Andrija Shinkovič to the Hmelnick district council on the critical condition of most medical institutions in the Hmelnicki district. Andrija Šinkovič to the Minister of Infrastructure of Ukraine, the Head of Hmelnicka District State Administration, the Hmelnicka District Council on the critical condition and the need for a comprehensive solution to the issue of passenger transport in the Hmelnicki district. Sergia Kiwalova to the Minister of Foreign Affairs of Ukraine on the initiation of the ratification by Ukraine of the International Labour Organization Convention of 23 February 2006 on maritime navigation. Sergia Kiwalova to the Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine on the need to conduct prompt and objective investigations into the fact that fraud was committed in the Odessa district organization of the Red Cross Society of Ukraine. Sergey Kaplin to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the investigation of the possible facts of corruption during the election of the President of the Poltava District Council. Olesia Long and Sergey Larina to the Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine on a balanced approach to the restructuring of the regional offices of the State Automobile Inspectorate of the Ministry of Internal Affairs in Kirovograd. Groups of National Deputies (Palatno, Romanova, Sporis) to the Minister of Social Policy of Ukraine on overcoming the bureaucratic burden of assigning the honorary title of Ukraine to women born and raised to the eight-year-old age of five and more children. Paul Dzublik to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for the transfer of unused budgetary resources to 2016. Mikhail Golka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, Vice Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Culture of Ukraine, on the allocation of funds to pay off the debt from the heat supply to the Kharkiv National Academy of Opera and the ballet of the name of Lysenka. Mikhail Golka to the Attorney General of Ukraine, Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine, for the restoration of the damaged property rights of the resident of Ternopil. Oleg Osuhovski to the Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine on the use of road safety measures in the city of Raven. Oleg Osuhovski to the Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine regarding the conduct of the pretrial investigation. Vladimir Parasuka to the head of the Ukrainian State Service for War veterans and antiterrorists, Deputy Attorney General of Ukraine - Chief Military Prosecutor for determining the conditions for granting the status of a participant in hostilities to the deputy chief of the Directorate - General for Combating Organised Crime of the Basil Song Bay, who was in the ATO zone for only three days. Vadim Denisenk to the Attorney General of Ukraine, Head of the Ukrainian Security Service, on possible corruption in the Ministry of Infrastructure and the Ministry of Agrarian Policy and Food. Dmitry Lubinz to the Ukrainian Presidential Administration, Ministry of Defence of Ukraine, concerning the delay in the formation of the Force of Special Operations of the Ukrainian Armed Forces. Edward Matthewchuk to the Ministry of Health of Ukraine, the Ministry of Social Policy of Ukraine, the Odessa District State Administration, the Odessa City Council on the need to provide medical care in order to provide adequate, comprehensive treatment for cancer patients in the Kyiv district of Odessa, Lyudmila Volodymyrni Arkushenko, and to provide social assistance to her second - group daughter. Edouard Matviychuk to the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, the Ministry of Regional Development, Construction and Housing of Ukraine, the Ministry of Social Policy of Ukraine, the Odessa City Council, the Odessa District Public Administration regarding the need for proper response and the provision of comprehensive assistance to the internally displaced person of Osipów Zinaida Eugeneni, who has completely lost her residence in the Lugansk region and is currently temporarily living in the Kyiv district of Odessa. Irina Sisoyenko to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, Head of the Ukrainian State Service for War veterans and anti-terrorists, Minister of Health of Ukraine, Minister of Defence of Ukraine, Minister of Social Policy of Ukraine for Information on the Implementation of Programmes and Measures for the Rehabilitation of Disabled Persons and Participants of the Anti-Terrorist Operation, funded in 2015 at the expense of budgetary resources. Vitalia Gudzenka to the head of the Zacarpathian State Administration for the repair of the road between the settlements of the Lower Gate of Mizgir. Group of People's Deputies (Korchinska, Gopko, Chiskarra) to the Director General of ALTIS-CONSTRACSHN, Director of the State Enterprise "Food Design Building" to provide information on the construction of the new NDSL "OHMATDIT" Corps. Sergia Matvienkova to the Head of the Ukrainian Security Service, Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine, Prosecutor General of Ukraine to ensure that the election process of the city of Mariupol and Krasnoarmian is conducted in accordance with the requirements of national legislation and international standards. Robert Gorvato to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the problems of the operation of the special economic zone of Carpathians. Robert Gorvato to the Uzhgorod City Head to provide access to information on open data budgetary indicators and use of public funds. Jegora Soboljeva to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Interior of Ukraine, on the need to take action to implement the Ukrainian Law on Cleaning Up Power for the First Deputy Head of the National Police of Ukraine Vasil Fedorovich Pascal. I've finished reading the queries. And according to the Rules, I announce a break of up to 12 hours for 40 minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-27-m0.u62	Ladies and gentlemen, the break is over. Please enter the hall, take up jobs and prepare for this not simple but necessary parliamentary work. Please come into the hall. Dear colleagues, we continue our work. And I would like to begin by reading the address of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to the democratic states of the world regarding the recognition of the Holodomor of 1932-1933 in Ukraine as a crime of the genocide of the Ukrainian people. If no one would deny it. Ukraine experienced a terrible tragedy in 1932-1932, which took millions of lives. The criminal communist totalitarian regime, through the violent removal of food, the blockade of villages and entire areas, the ban on going outside the country’s hunger, the collapse of rural trade, and the repression of unfavorable areas, deliberately created for the Ukrainians such living conditions as were intended for their physical destruction. This regime policy is a crime against humanity in accordance with the UN Convention of 9 December 1948 on the Prevention and Punishment of the Crime of Genocide. Attention! The Supreme Council of Ukraine, by the Ukrainian Act of 1932-1933, declared the famine a crime of genocide against the Ukrainian people on 28 November 2006. And the Ukrainian Law on the Conviction of Communist and National Socialist Totalitarian Regimes in Ukraine and the Prohibition of the Propaganda of Their Symbolism of April 9, 15th, condemned the Communist totalitarian regime as criminal. In 1932-1933, the totalitarian regime hid its crime behind the wall of propaganda and lies. Over the coming decades, the regime has tried not only to hide the truth about the famine in Ukraine but also to destroy its memory forever. It was dangerous not only to write about it in the press, in letters to party leaders, or relatives abroad, but even to mention it in private journals. In 1932-1933, any unwary record could ruin life, pour out in the decades of the gulag camps. Yet, despite all the dangers of the most difficult times, there were people who felt the temporary responsibility of the next generation, unable to keep quiet. The USSR leadership has blocked any information on the real situation in Ukraine. They deliberately disoriented the world’s public. Nevertheless, some foreign journalists, who were surrounded by an iron curtain and covered by famine in Ukraine, have mastered their publications to tell the world the truth about crime, the murder of millions of people. We today call them people of truth. They are journalists, public figures, artists, politicians of the democratic world, and ordinary Ukrainian peasants. Some published free - press articles, others described what was seen and experienced in the journals, or simply photographed the horror that was happening around them. They believed their record of truth was important to confronting the evil that kills millions of people. Their efforts have helped to preserve information about one of the worst crimes in human history — the Holocaust. Years later, this information became one of the causes of the collapse of the Communist regime, which was destroyed by an independent Ukrainian state. Today, Ukraine is once again a victim of aggression by Stalinic followers of the Kremlin. Ukraine is opposed not only to aggression from the East but also to a massive informational flood of lies. The aggressor rebuilds the propaganda wall to cover up his crimes. And today, like 8 decades ago, Ukraine needs the words of the truth: "Let the world know that the world knows!".. Those words were relevant to those who spoke and wrote in 1933. And that's what they're still like. It is very important for us that outside Ukraine we know what is happening to us. The Supreme Council of Ukraine, honoring the memory of those killed by famine, expresses its deep appreciation to all those who broke through the Communist totalitarian regime’s iron curtain of propaganda and lies. All those who kept in mind the tragedy that the Ukrainian people experienced. And to all those who have reached the point of restoring the truth about Holodomor. The Supreme Council also expresses its gratitude to all the nations of the world who today support our nation in opposition to the aggressor. I thank all those today who are telling the truth about the events in Ukraine to the world community. The Supreme Council of Ukraine refers to the nations of the world to recognize Holodomor from 1932-1933 in Ukraine as a crime of the genocide of the Ukrainian people. Our shared memory of the crimes of the past is a guarantee that they will not return in the future. " I want this statement to be regarded as a statement of general support by the Supreme Council of Ukraine. And I want to call on all Ukrainians in all parts of the world and Ukraine, in Lviv, in Donetsk, in Lugansk, in Sevastopol, in Kiev tomorrow at 16 o’clock, to honor the memory of the victims who died of Communist terror, to light the candle of memory. And I ask you to honor the memory of all those who died by a moment of silence. [[A Minute of Silence]] Thank you. Dear colleagues, is there general support for this statement to be accepted by the Supreme Council? No objections in the hall? None. We will assume that this statement is accepted by the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Dear colleagues, with your permission, I will not put to the vote the bills that are now in order of the day. With your permission, if there's no objection, we'll move on to the next item of the agenda: the national MPs' speeches. There are many important statements, and I know that many of the deputies would like to make these statements. And so I would invite those who are still in the classroom to come into the hall and sign up for a speech so that there are no questions for those who are not able to sign up. Are all those who wish to speak in the hall? Then I, my dear fellows, ask you to record the performance at the Miscellaneous. Please sign up.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-27-m0.u63	According to the record, I'd like to invite you to the floor of the People's Deputy Alexander Revegue, the Party of Peter Prashenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-27-m0.u64	Good afternoon, dear fellows! Good afternoon, distinguished voters! I want to focus your attention on the issue of gross violation of the right of workers to clean up the offices of Andrušev 2 of the state-owned company "Korostišev alcohol combine" of the Ministry of Agrarian Policy of Ukraine to pay for the work of the administration of this company. Debt from employees’ salaries has accumulated since 2013 and to this day. Despite the numerous requests made by employees to various authorities and my parliamentary request from October 9, 2015, the issue was never resolved. Since the Ukrcspirt Concert, according to the APC Ministry's reply of 18 November of this year, is in my state of liquidation, the Minister's Commission of Disposal of the Concert must first address the issue of repayment of the debt on the payroll of employees of the Andrusha office of the Andrusha 2 state-owned company "Korostiševska alcohol combine". Next, I want to draw the attention of the government and Parliament to the problem of state-owned free supply of medicines and food for patients who have been transplanted by donor organs and patients with rare diseases. In 2015, 4.1 billion dollars were allocated to the government budget to address this problem. Within the framework of the budget programme, the provision of health care for individual government programmes and integrated programming measures. However, according to practice, the cost of treating such patients from the state budget is not available. Local communities and local budgets are trying to support the patients at their own expense, but these costs are barely enough right now. In 2016 they may not be at all. I would like to point out that stopping the use of drugs by such patients for at least one day has had fatal consequences for them. Therefore, in the preparation of the Ukrainian State Budget for 2016, it is necessary to foresee a sufficient and real allocation of funding for the budget programme for at least 5 billion dollars. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-27-m0.u65	Thank you. The national deputy Kutov gave the floor to the national deputy Dubnevich.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-27-m0.u66	Good day, Your Honor, presiding officer, distinguished fellow members of the national deputies who stayed in the hall to work for the benefit of the Ukrainian people! We discussed this week, and Bill 0954 was put in place on passing the roads of state-wide roads of local importance under the authority of local self-government authorities. I am glad that the right decision has been taken to postpone this bill, because this bill should be read in conjunction with the 2724 and 2725 bills that are registered in the Ukrainian Parliament and are now under consideration by the Main Committees, most importantly this is a budget committee. And the subcommittee has already decided to support Bill 2725 on the creation of a road fund. We, the Ukrainian Parliament, have to make decisions about decentralization, decentralization and road transfers only with support for the transfer of funding to local governments. We're not doing populism, we're doing concrete decisions. Only after voting in favour of Bills 2724 and 2725 on the creation of a road fund, which clearly states that 35 per cent of the costs that come into the road fund, which is charged with oil products and excises collected from imported petroleum products, is 35 per cent of all the costs automatically transferred as a subsidy under the authority to finance the public roads of local importance to the district budgets. And in the funding complex, we then have the right to vote on Law 0954 on the transfer of essentially state-owned roads of local importance under the authority of local self-government. Just like that. Everything else is populism. And you don't have to tell me what we are. and write on Facebook that we speak European roads. European roads will only be in this way, and our Ukrainian roads will be built and repaired and properly funded when financing for repairs and construction of roads, especially public roads of local importance. We work together. In unity, our strength. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-27-m0.u67	Thank you. I'd like to invite you to the words of National Deputy Yuri Timoshenko, People's Front. He gave the word to the Medunice People’s Deputy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-27-m0.u68	Oleg Medunica, town of Sumi, faction of the People's Front. Dear friends! Today, Andrew Volodymyrovich, from the rostrum of the Supreme Council, spoke of the anniversary of Holodomor. Indeed, one of the most tragic stories in the life of the Ukrainian people and of the Ukrainian nation. Now we are experiencing a very difficult moment in the development of the Ukrainian state. Uncovered aggression is taking place against Ukraine, Ukraine was actually kneeling before Russia, ahead of Putin's regime, Janukovich. A year and a half ago, the Ukrainian president, who was assigned here, in the Supreme Council Hall, began a Titanic work to get Ukraine out of this mud. Today, it has been said that only 100,000 dollars were left in a single treasury account at the end of February 2014. In a year, including the existence of this Supreme Council, we voted on a large number of laws required for Ukraine. One of the systemic changes you and I have made with the government is, above all, that we have managed to minimize the impact on the population of housing and utility tariffs that are now in Ukraine. What have we done with you? We've actually stopped funding and date the Naftogaz State Monopoly, and instead, we've been channeling the funds specifically to poor people, poor people daily, poor Ukrainians who have been sent this money as subsidies. Today, at the briefing, we said that the magnitude of these subsidies had grown significantly. There are families that receive up to 4.5 thousand per household subsidies. This is an unpleasant situation, this is a bad situation, this is a very bad situation when we have people who are poor, unfortunately, as a result of the rule of Yanukovich, and the war that is solved, and the corruption that is unfortunately still in this country that we hope to overcome with you. But the fact is, we've been able to allocate a normal amount of money this year to get people subsidies. On my Content 47 households, 47, imagine receiving subsidies from the government of Ukraine. First of all, I want to thank not the politicians who have made this decision wisely, certainly, but, first of all, I want to thank the social protection workers from this rostrum who have gone through all the households that have checked all the documents, even though the documents are now.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-27-m0.u69	Ten seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-27-m0.u70	They went around all these households and carried out their titanium work and made it possible for each other’s Ukrainian family to receive a subsidy.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-27-m0.u71	Thank you. People’s deputies Linko and Lensky gave their word to the national deputy Oleg Lášk.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-27-m0.u72	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. Honorable citizens of Ukraine, respected colleagues, today the year the government of Yatsenuk was formed, this year when the new Supreme Council of Ukraine began its work. In the vast majority of Ukrainian citizens, I think 95-97 percent of what associations with the year of the Supreme Council, with the year of government and the year and year and a half of President Prashenko's reign? I think these associations can be expressed in one word: disappointment. Disappointment in the politics of today’s government, disillusionment in the politics of the parliamentary majority, disappointment in the politics of the President. It's a disappointment after Maidan, when people had huge hopes that finally drove away Yanukovich's gang, drove away a bunch of corrupts, drove out those who killed our citizens. We've brought new people to power. Everyone thought they were going to elect a president, they were going to choose a new parliament, they were going to choose a new government, and finally they're going to start living in Ukraine, and finally in 24 years, we're going to have the power to serve Ukrainians, not their own pockets. What have people seen this year? That they were cruelly mistaken. And that's why they're disappointed because they're cruelly wrong because the authorities just overpowered them. Because they talked about fighting corruption, and it's not there, this fight, and this corruption is even greater than it was in Yanukovich's day. Talk about reform. Where are the reforms? What are these reforms that have turned millions of people into beggars, receiving subsidies, not feeding their children, and young people cannot find employment because today unemployment is the highest in Ukraine? What are these reforms that have led us to give up our territories that have not protected Donbas and have not protected Crimea? That's the disappointment. But I'm talking to Ukrainian citizens. The Bible says: Disappointment — sin, gross sin. And I want to say that hope is, this hope is linked to the radical economic, political and social changes proposed by the Radical Party team. We offer hope, but hope is not just an ephemeral thing, we offer to shake that hope, we offer it in a concrete way. This is a radical change in the economic policy of today’s government. If today's parliamentary majority, the President and the government are unable to change this policy, we have to change them. We're ready. The Radical Party team is ready to take over. We are ready to form a new coalition in Parliament and a new government that will propose another agenda, another agenda for the country, first of all, job creation. Millions of people today have no jobs, no means of livelihood. We know how to make these jobs. We know how to change economic policies to make millions of Ukrainians. Not foreign professionals who have already been brought here by taboos, and millions of Ukrainians have received jobs, received wages, received confidence in tomorrow, and the main hope is hope. The hope that we will live in our country, the hope that we should not go abroad in search of a better destiny, and the hope that power will serve our citizens, not our own pockets. We, the Radical Party team, a powerful team all over the country, we're ready to take power, we're ready to change the country, we're ready to fight corruption. We know how to do that. We start this from our own ranks when we expel those who betrayed Ukrainian citizens who betrayed the party. That's what we're going to do on a country-wide scale. But to do that, fellow citizens, we need your support, because hope is synonymous with faith. Faith, hope, and love. Give us your faith, give us your support, and you will receive the realization of hope. We will live in a decent country, we have every opportunity to do so. The whole world is looking at us and saying: Why are we living like this? With such a land, such potential, such people, such language, and we live the worst of all in Europe, we live at the level of African countries. Because this authority wants to take your hope away from you. This authority wants to take away your last one. We won't let them do that. We will not let them destroy hope. We will not let them destroy the country; we will not let them destroy your families and your future. We're ready for this job. We understand how difficult this is, we understand that we are taking on our shoulders, we are aware of all the responsibility for the steps we are willing to take to radically change the country. But we have no other way. You respectable citizens have been experimenting for 24 years. You trust one, the other, the third, the twentieth, and they seek your trust. They're trading it for thirty pieces of silver, they're trading it for houses in Switzerland and bills in the Bahamas. These are pygmies, these are political pygmies who don't understand one very simple thing: your hope, your faith, your support, they're priceless. They cannot be traded for gold or silver, they cannot be traded for anything. Because that's the most important thing that we have: it's your hope, it's your faith, and it's your support. If you give me, me and my team, your support, your faith, I assure you that we will choose our hope of life in our own country -- worthy, successful, peaceful, stable, confident tomorrow. That's what the country needs today. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-27-m0.u73	Thank you. I'd like to invite you to the floor of National Deputy Sergio Rudik, non-factional.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-27-m0.u74	Sergey Rudik, 198th constituency, Smila, Kamyanka, Cherkas region Dear Ukrainians! Dear colleagues, those who continue to serve and serve in the Hall of the Supreme Council. Today I was approached by our colleague, Mr. Barna, a national deputy from the Petra Prashenko Block, with a letter of appeal to the Ukrainian National Deputies who wish to sign for the resignation of the current government. I was the 30th person he offered it to. And I told him why I'm not second, why did you come so late to me? On the other hand, why are there only 30 signatures? Because what is happening in the state today is uncriminal, and the number of signatures should be as low as 226. Because, on the one hand, everyone is talking about what is bad in the state, everyone realizes that today’s government does not perform its functions and responsibilities, but unfortunately, there are few people who want to do so today. Whether someone is being renegotiated or perhaps someone else’s thoughts come up. Perhaps someone is convinced that the government has changed? Maybe there's someone in the room who thinks that, maybe forever, Prime Minister Arsenius Yatzenuk will run this country? My colleague here recently, literally 10 minutes ago, told me that the government had been working titanically on subsidies. But fear God, the People's Front! True, keep quiet about it! Subsidies accounted for? I have the data that was announced today from the Supreme Council Chamber of Vice-Speaker Oksana Siroid, the debt for the solid fuel subsidies of my 198 constituency, I'm reading you the figures. The Cherkas region is 443 families, 317 thousand roubles; the Kamyan region is 119 thousand roubles, 163 families; the Kamyan region is 763,000 grevens, 561 families; the Smilyan region is 1 million 245,000 gravel, 935 families; and the city of Smilla is 70,000, because the city. You don't have enough numbers like that?Oh, my God! But across the country, you're going to get the maximum number in all districts. Today, one of the TV channels came to me and asked me, "Tell me, please, a girl whose name is Sofia, 12 years old, speaks to you with our mouths." Would you explain to her in a simple, childish language that it prevents the situation from changing in the country so that the elderly are not beggars in the streets? I explained it to her. I'm saying, imagine that our nation is a factory. And there's an executive director of this factory who doesn't carry out his own powers, who thinks that people who worked for 40-50 years at this factory are useless! What a life span of three hundred and seventy - eight dollars! Change this executive director and give him a chance.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-27-m0.u75	Ten seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-27-m0.u76	The Society, December 11, will have a chance to replace the executive director of a factory called Ukraine. Come under the walls of the Supreme Council and support the normal composition of the Ukrainian Parliament that wishes. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-27-m0.u77	Thank you. People's MP Solovay, Peter Prashenko Block.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-27-m0.u78	Yuri Solovay, 89th constituency. Dear colleagues! During my talk, I wanted to draw attention to an extremely serious question. This is a question of the production of arms and participation in this process of the Ministry of Defence of Ukraine. I want to point out that this year, we, the national MPs, have budgeted 10 billion dollars for these goals. And I also clearly realize that the production of weapons is the very segment of the Ukrainian economy that can give a very significant boost. But unfortunately, all of these powers and these resources that have been allocated by the Ukrainian Parliament are, in most cases, just leaking like water into the sand through the U.S. Department of Defense. In particular, I would like to focus on the activities of one of the Deputy Minister of Defence of Ukraine, Mr. Pavlovski. The point is that under the direction of the General, all measures are being taken to create, to some extent, an alternative to state enterprises, a branched structure of the Ukrainian Armed Forces repair and rehabilitation units. This is about the fact that instead of fighting today, the Ministry of Defense is turning into a department for making money at the expense of the funds allocated for the production and repair of military equipment. And I want to say, in particular, that it deserves attention only this year, that out of the 3 billion dollars of the state budget allocated to the defence authorities for the restoration of weapons to defence companies for their orders, 1 billion dollars is paid, and the rest -- 70 percent -- is now directed to private entities, completely non-state enterprises that are engaged in the production of weapons. This is a serious fact that deserves serious attention. And so, given the things that are set out in my address today, please consider my statement to be an official address to the Secretary of the National Security and Defence Council of the Republic of Ukraine, Mr. Turkinov, Minister of Defense of Mr. Poltorak. And as a result of this call, I ask that the stated facts be examined for spending public funds, and more specifically for dispersing them for defence purposes and for the purchase of arms for the Ukrainian army, including the verification of compliance with public procurement and pricing procedures, the efficiency and correct use of State funds, the compliance of officials with their official duties and duties. In addition, I urge you to consider in an appropriate manner the appropriateness of the further presence of the above - mentioned officials of the Ministry of Defence in these positions. Please inform me about the consideration of this appeal in accordance with the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-27-m0.u79	Thank you. National MP Oleg Medunica. He gave the word to the People's Deputy of Krivoshia, "The People's Front."
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-27-m0.u80	Good afternoon, dear fellows! Good afternoon, reverend Ukraine! Today it has been said by the Head of the Supreme Council, and we all know very well that today is exactly the year the Supreme Council works. And that's why I'm not going to take the time of anything else, but I'd like to do my report for a year as a member of the Supreme Council. Today, I, as a member of the Supreme Council, have been registered and taken part in the co-authorship of the 57 bills that I have registered, including personally. Among them are five already voted by the Supreme Council and have become laws of Ukraine. In addition, there must be two more bills, one of which has been voted on, and the other, which should be bills relating to the issue of electric vehicles. The other one. As a national deputy of Ukraine, I make personal calls to citizens, even though I am not a majority MP, I have three social receptions. One public reception works in the city of Boguslav Kyiv district, the second public reception works in the Śvoszyń district of Kyiv, where I live, the third public reception hall is the reception of the interfractional parliamentary association "Deputy Control", whose co-head I am. Today, more than 200 citizens have come to my personal name. In response to these appeals, I sent 451 appeals and a parliamentary request to various agencies. According to the answers received, we have both effective and fairly negative answers, which indicates the separate inaction of individual state institutions, municipal, separate city and district authorities, local self-government authorities. Along with the interfractional MPs, whose head I am, there are 1,463 incoming addresses registered today. Among them, citizens, including the collective, have spoken more than half a thousand. In fact, "Deputy Control" has sent more than one and a half thousand appeals and queries to various institutions today. This is a question that concerns, first and foremost, the corruption of individual officials on the ground. As a national MP, I take an active part in citizens' travel and, first of all, I do it not in my place of residence, but in a place where they don't work, I'm sorry, other major MPs. I took three public trips to Cherkasa, I took a trip to the Gitomirsk Region, well, and, of course, to the town of Boguslav, where I have a social reception. Along with my national deputy, I conducted social trips to the city of Chernivci, Odessa, and other small towns in Ukraine. Dear colleagues, this is the first year of my parliamentary activity as a member of the Supreme Council. I hope that as a member of the Supreme Council, I have not disgraced a single word.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-27-m0.u81	Please give me 10 seconds to finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-27-m0.u82	Nor did he violate Ukraine's law on the status of Ukrainian national MP. I will continue to carry out my duties in good faith, and I will be responsible for all my transgressions, whatever they may be. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-27-m0.u83	Thank you. Welcome to the speech of the People's Deputy Alexander Sugonjako, "Block of Petra Prashenko".
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-27-m0.u84	Sugonyako Alexander, 158 constituency, sumina, "The Party of the Simple People." Honorable Ukrainian people, respected colleagues, today exactly a year as we took an oath to serve the Ukrainian people faithfully. Many expectations and expectations, and sadly, have not had real positive changes for our people, for the common people. Friends, allow me a kind of creative report for this year, as it were, a report to the soul language. "The year passed like a crucifix on a cross, expectations, hopes, disappointments. Though the rules of life are very simple, friends, forget: Do not lie, never lie, do not tempt bribes and authority, but still in the center, and you will be impaled in the dead for your insidious treachery. For he did not feed all of them with a boar, nor did he give up the office, nor did he make the rich. And what you've dreamed of, what you've lived for, the people don't care. But you can be covered with dirt, for you are yours, shed with sorrow and despair, if ever, my friend, but all I understand and forgive. For a nation of slave rebels, there are no prophets and saints among us. When we are overtaken by God’s anger, we begin to destroy our own. But right now, it's really hard for us. There's a war coming, people dying on the front. But I hope that there will be break in the souls, and strife, and despair will leave them. Simple people, I believe, time has come, thoughts are ours and desires are unique. Let the land live and prosper, and let us unite the glory of Ukraine!" Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-27-m0.u85	Thank you. I'd like to invite you to the floor of the People's Deputy Sergio Leschchenka, "Peter Prashenko's Block."
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-27-m0.u86	Good afternoon, colleagues and Ukrainian citizens! A year ago, this Parliament was elected with high expectations that we would overcome the greatest danger to the Ukrainian state -- corruption. Corruption is what destroys our nation from within and it's present in all aspects of our lives, but of course all citizens talk about high-level or VIP corruption. Many anti-corruption laws have been approved by this Parliament, but in addition, there must be precedents for punishing people who engage in corruption at the highest level. And to that end, unfortunately, there is not enough political will in either the active leadership of the state or the acting Attorney General Shokin for the resignation of which I have signed. But aside from creating precedents for punishment, we also continue to cover even this session hall, the people who engage in corruption. And these people are their names known, for example, Mr. Yuri Boyko, the leader of the opposition block faction, this person, we all know, of course, is known for the "high Boyko" thing that everyone talked about in Yanukovich's time, the investigative journalists did a lot of publications, but unfortunately he wasn't drawn to responsibility. But it turns out that the Henprosecutors' investigators did a different investigation, and they were preparing papers to draw Boyko to the responsibility for the case of compressed gas. Together with Kurchenk, they were involved in making the gas that would go to the population, buying it at low prices, and selling it to industrial assets, industrial enterprises at market prices, and making more than 5 billion dollars worth of it. Regrettably, Henprosecutor Shokin, who received from his investigators the report that he had brought Boyk to justice, did not move the document. He hid it under his dress, and Boyko is now continuing to work in the session hall as a national MP with his integrity. Similarly, a valid genprocurorist, for example, tried to bring out Yuri Ivanyushchenk, a colleague who had worked in this room before in Yanukovic, who was one of the "watchers." They tried to stop his international search so that he could travel Europe. But aside from these oodous names, I would like to tell you another story that unfortunately happens in our Parliament. Yesterday, under the camera, I handed over one document to Prime Minister Arsenija Yatzenyuk. This document is called the submission of a Swiss Attorney General to the Ukrainian Attorney General for legal aid in investigating the case of another MP, Mikoli Martinenko. This document, you can see it on the Internet. I personally gave it to the Prime Minister. The point is that Mr. Martinenko is under investigation in Switzerland. It's not a test, it's a direct text that says, "Criminal case against Martinek in two episodes: bribery and money laundering." It turns out that Mr. Martinenko received a commission from Panama, or actually a withdrawal, from all the contracts that the Czech "Skoda" on "Energot" to a state-owned Ukrainian enterprise. It turns out that his commission, even under these documents, was between 15 and 20 percent. The Swiss law enforcement authorities have established that a total of nearly 7 million euros have been stockpiled on these accounts.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-27-m0.u87	10 seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-27-m0.u88	Seven million euro of the commission was stocked in these accounts. And even the form "A" was removed from the Swiss banks that Mr. Martinenko owns this Panamanian company where the commission came in. I asked Henprosecutor to open criminal conduct and bring Mr. Martinenko to the Supreme Council and also Arsenius Yatsenuk to make a political assessment of these phenomena that have already been established by the Swiss Attorney's Office.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-27-m0.u89	Thank you. I invite you to the words of National Deputy Jehora Soboljeva, "The Self-Help Union."
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-27-m0.u90	The people in Bloody Rose need help right now. They went out on the street against forging elections, as we did in 2004. They have the same thoughts, the same desires, the same principle. Elections should be fair; those voted for should become officials; those not voted for should go. Unfortunately, that's not true in Bloody Rose, 752 votes -- that's Yuri Vilkula's advantage over the Seven-Seventh-thousandth Curve Rig. These 752 votes were obtained exclusively by means of so - called hospital wards. On the last day before the election, more than a thousand were added, and they all unanimously voted for Yuri Wilkull. We suggest that Parliament be in the condition that it is the highest authority of the state, when people in Curve Rose say: "Don't leave us, don't give us to them," we suggest that Parliament say the decisive word in stopping these forgerys. Sadly, in our country, we cannot expect to be judged. Self-help lawyers, many members of the territorial electoral commission, members of the district electoral commission, who weren't afraid to tell people about these forgerys, who weren't afraid to testify in court, weren't heard. The three courts, with shy eyes closed, read their sentences one by one: Not to be satisfied with the complaint. On the question, "So you've heard real evidence of real forgery?".. The judges said, "It's not our business, go to the law enforcement agencies." We're really going to go to the law enforcement agencies, and there's already been two criminal prosecutions based on the facts of the falsifications of the election in Bloody Rose. And we hope that the new police will not be like the old courts, that people in the new police will see a real investigation tool, will be really serious, independent and will determine who and how they faked these elections. And certainly Parliament. You and I have set up a temporary special commission. There are representatives of all political forces involved. It's very important for the commission to go out to the city and figure out right there, work with documents, question witnesses -- and help people, help parliament help people. We do not really have any moral right two years after the victory of Edomydan to abandon humans. Counterfeiting, stealing votes in this country must stop and be punished cruelly. Let the Bloody Riggs be the last election anyone will ever try to falsify them. Let all forgers sit down.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-27-m0.u91	Thank you. Welcome to the speech of National Deputy Igor Guzai, the political party of the People's Front.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-27-m0.u92	Good afternoon, dear friends, our television viewers! This time, I want to address Mr. Nasirov, Head of State Fiscal Services. Mr. Roman, I did not have a personal conflict with you, but a conflict in the context that at the time you wanted to appoint the head of the Volin Customs of the former region, which was leading up to this time in Yanukovich's time, the Equinox, the Volinian, the Viennese and the Lion Customs of Mr. Mikityuk. Thank God, this is where the colleagues supported us, and we've defeated this candidate. And the former regions now don't control one of the main customs. But, I see, you're continuing to do a systematic injection work, sorry for that word, regionals in the structure of the DFS on Volin. So in October 2015, you were assigned to the c.o. Head of the DFS in the province of Volin, Lvivian, Mr. Juristovsky. There are no serious questions. But literally the other day, we get, you know, the wankers, information about the next thing. A scandalous Volin official, Natalia Yelova, who was a member of the Party of Regions, who, during 2011-2012, was involved in organizing and controlling the illegal scheme initiated by the Young Yanukovich environment in the implementation of the Volin area of counterfeit vodka, returned to the case. There are no official documents on its appointment by the head of the Sales and Taxation Department today, but this person is in the workplace and has access to documentation. Sorry, it's a crime. So I'm asking you very much to pay attention to this. If, indeed, this person is confirmed to be in charge of it. By this structure, I am convinced that we have the time of Janukovich back on Volina. If you want me to come with my colleagues, although this is a woman, but let's not start with her, but with Juristovsky, the head of the DFS at Volina, take the coat rack and throw it away, please. If not, react and do your best to ensure that the pots that worked for Klimenko do not work for us in the DFS. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-27-m0.u93	Thank you. I'd like to invite you to the floor of the People's Deputy, Oleg Laska. Fishing. People's deputy Fishball.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-27-m0.u94	Dear Ukrainians! Dear colleagues! I want to tell you about another disgraceful fact that the military prosecutor's office and the Ukrainian Security Service are out of action. This is one of the heads of the Dnipropetrov district authorities, Mr. Klimchuk. This Mr. Klimchuk. There is a public record that it was he who was on the team of traitors closest to Yanukovich Yakimenko and Hanji, who today is looking for crimes against Maidan in favor of Russia. He has a luxurious lifestyle, and it is not a secret, he lives in a three - story house with a swimming pool on the shore of Dnieper, and he travels on luxury cars. And that's all the journalist data. And now I want to tell you the legal facts. At the end of 2014, according to the victim’s statements, in which Klimczuk demanded $10,000 for the closure of a criminal case, a criminal case was filed by the military prosecutor’s office. There's a record on which Klimchuk requires these funds. He says that he is a businessman from the Ukrainian Security Service, and with this money he will share his leadership. There's an expert on this film, by which the IMF says yes, it's really Klimczuk's voice, it belongs to him. But for three times now, the military prosecutor’s office, without questioning any witness, has closed the criminal case. It's inaction, and that tells us that there is corruption in the ranks of the U.S.S.S.A. and the U.S. Attorney's Office. I wrote a few questions, and that's what I call football, and only after the meeting of the Anti-Corruption and Orgcrime Committee, did the Security Service finally say that she was going to conduct an official review of these facts and criminal matters. That is why I want this statement to be considered an official address to the Head of the Security Service of Ukraine and the Chief Military Prosecutor. And I demand a real service check, a illustrative check on this manager. The second question is also very important: it's a matter of money lenders. Dear colleagues, we have a legal court today. Everyone wants to, I hear about New Year's Eve saving money lenders. They save, they save, and they can't save, because they are now living under the walls of the Supreme Council and led to poverty. They would like to pay, but they can't pay anymore. We have to sign Law 1558-1 today, I am addressing Mr. Groysman's Chief of Staff to send him or to sign him or to make a promise to the President and to consider, in fact, bills that will solve the issue of monetary lenders. Because for the third year, they've been out on the street in winter. So I'm asking you, my fellow dignitaries, and I'm asking the Head of the Supreme Council how quickly this matter can be resolved, and our committee is ready to be a normal platform for dealing with the issue of monetary borrowers. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-27-m0.u95	Thank you. I would like to invite you to the words of the national deputy Yuri Derevyanka, who is not a factionist.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-27-m0.u96	Yuri Derevyanko, Will Party. Honorable Predestination! Dear National Deputies! Dear Ukrainians! Residents of the United Territorial Communities! We continue to fight for the right of united territorial communities to live and work as a community on their own, which for more than a month remains paralyzed today. Today, I want to thank all the national MPs present, as well as all the deputies from those factions and non-fractional groups who supported the vital bills 2983 and 3940 yesterday, so that the united territorial communities, 159 such communities throughout Ukraine, where more than 1 million 570,000 citizens live, can begin to work. We demand the Supreme Council's apparatus, and we ask the President of Ukraine to sign and publish these bills as soon as possible in order to unlock the treasury accounts. In order to start financing urgent payments related to wages, electricity, utilities, garbage and all the other problems that each community has to face in order to become fully operational. These bills settled some of the issues. But another part of the issue remains unresolved. This is Bill 3106 and Bill 3510, which envisions the transfer of land that had previously been outside of a inhabited area, but now fell within a united territorial community, like the land of municipal property of territorial communities. Today, too, there are vast numbers of outstanding issues concerning the Ministry of Justice, Registration, the Ministry of Finance, Treasury, the Ministry of Education, the Ministry of Health, and other ministries. Because all educational institutions, health institutions, and cultures must also be transferred back to united territorial communities. We demand that the treasury sabotage be stopped regarding the opening of accounts, the blocking of accounts, and the making of all necessary payments for united territorial communities. We demand that the Deputy Prime Minister take personal control of the coordination of the actions of all officials in order to clarify the bills adopted and direct all necessary instructions to ensure that these communities and relevant officials have clear guidelines for action. The most important thing for the united territorial communities is that none of them submitted the 2016 budget. This means that since 2016 all gardens, schools and other institutions will not be able to be funded, they will not be able to carry out the necessary tenders in order to provide food and all the other necessary items for these social institutions. We demand it.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-27-m0.u97	Ten seconds, please finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-27-m0.u98	We require the government, the Ministry of Finance to send all the necessary calculations, formulas, to the unified territorial communities, and to provide them with practical assistance so that they can provide projects for the 2016 budget.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-27-m0.u99	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-27-m0.u100	Please support all the national deputies for the next session week with all the bills relating to the unified territorial communities and government officials to face all our united territorial communities. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-27-m0.u101	Thank you. People's MP, the People's Front.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-27-m0.u102	Gennady Kryvoshea, faction of the People's Front. Good day again, dear fellows! Good afternoon, reverend Ukraine! Continued decentralization of power and the issue of territorial communities, I would like to draw the attention of every Ukrainian, and perhaps not even how many, first of all, Ukrainians, but the newly elected deputies of local councils, district deputies, urban ones, in particular, city heads of all Ukrainian cities. Honorable colleagues, honourable deputies, distinguished mayors of cities, today's issue of decentralization of power and transfer of authority in one of the points and most of all belongs to you. Why? Because today, only you, as representatives of local authorities, must be primarily interested in presenting and clarifying all prospects for uniting local communities. This is a question that concerns a whole series of housing and utility issues. This is a question that concerns a number of land issues. That's what people, our people, your voters are in need of. Taxes and finance are among the most important issues of uniting the territorial communities today. This is exactly the kind of money that needs to stay in place. When someone talks today about what local authorities can't do one, the other or the third, I want to tell you, honourable colleagues, honourable deputies in places, you have a lot of authority and ability to make those decisions that your city or village will make, or the area will live better. But our main task as members of the Supreme Council, as my colleague has said, is to adopt all necessary legislative norms. And one of these norms is the changes to the Constitution that we are obliged to, I think, have to vote. Therefore, taking into account the primacy and necessity of all the needs of the common people today, the people who cannot reach their local authorities, I ask every MP to go to people, not with taxes, but to explain how Ukraine will live, who will receive every peasant, every citizen on the spot from the prospect of uniting communities. Give an example of how this community will work. Because you are the only one in place, not us national MPs, who will be able to tell people the truth and the benefits of these unifications. This is our future and this is the prospect that Ukraine is looking forward to on the path to joining the EU. Thank you. Gennady Kryvoshea, faction of the People's Front.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-27-m0.u103	Thank you. Welcome to the speech of the People's Deputy Rosenblatt, "Peter Prashenko's Block."
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-27-m0.u104	I'm shutting down the People's Deputy Velichovich, People's Front. National MP Bereza Yuri, People's Front. People's MP Rybak, Petra Dustenka Block.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-27-m0.u105	He gave me his word, Dubnevich for another. 202 constituency, Ribak Ivan Petrovich, Cherniewec district. Dear Ukrainians, my constituents, today I have the opportunity to speak from this high rostrum. During the last year, some say that we have done very little, others say that we have done nothing. But I still think we've done as much as we could. I would like to report briefly to my constituents, what was done to me personally during the year I spent in the walls of the Ukrainian Parliament? I was registered with 52 MPs, and most of them were not lobbying questions, namely, how should voters live in my constituency, how should Ukraine live? I was prepared and sent to the 360 MPs, which resulted in 367 calls received from the citizens. I also conducted 48 personal admissions of citizens, registered legislative initiatives 39, registered second reading rights under Bills 95, attended 121 sessions out of 122. I haven't missed a committee meeting, and I'm proud of it. You know, dear colleagues, I try every Friday to be until the last minute of the closing of our plenary session. And yet I want to point out that the people in this room today are people who are devoted to serving the Ukrainian people. Which I want to thank you for. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-27-m0.u106	Thank you. I'd like to invite you to the floor of the People's Deputy Olga the Mantis, "Peter Prashenko's Block."
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-27-m0.u107	Dear colleagues! Dear National Deputies! I also prepared my report both as a national deputy and as the chairman of the Health Commission. But with your permission, I'm going to do it next week at the session, because now I have a very hot spot. First of all, I wanted to say that when Mr. Papuy read the Holodomor decree today, it was extremely painful and sad that today's decision did not start the day of the Supreme Council. Because both the Speaker of Parliament before his report, and all the members of the government, and the Prime Minister, they were to stand. Stop, listen, shut up. Because the historical memory of our country is something that can unite people today. That's it. All the dead, all those who have given up their lives, tortured, sent to Siberia, are all those people who today are supposed to be the Cameron of the building of our society. And now I'm going to go to the next question, very practical. And now I'm calling all the deputies, hear me out. We had, you know, an outbreak of polio. The possibility of death and disability is behind every outbreak. You probably all know Deputy Suškević, who is confined to a wheelchair because he had a polio problem when he was a kid. Both him and his brother. Then tens and hundreds of children died. Well, we have polio vaccines today. And what I'm saying is that it's already been vaccinated out of the 2 million 269,000 children that we have today in Ukraine children under five years of age, almost one and a half million are vaccinated: 1 million 468,000, that is 64 percent. This doesn't seem to be a bad figure, but in fact, to reduce the risk of vaccination, we need 90-95 percent. Why aren't all the children actually vaccinated? Let me give you some examples. I want to thank the executive authority of the Kirovograd region, who has been vaccinating more than 90 percent of the children from this rostrum. The hops, Kharkivska, Mikolayivska and Žitomirska oblast – more than 80 percent. And examples of failure, terrible failure, where less than 40 percent of children are vaccinated, are Kyivska, Kyiv, Odessa and Zacarpathia, only 22 percent. So in the Odessa region, 103 thousand children are not vaccinated. Please give me another minute. In Sumska, only 70 children are not vaccinated. First. Vaccines that are vaccinated. We didn't have any complications after the vaccination, none of them. It's a vaccine. It's a new vaccine, not one that was frozen, defrosted and questioned by the Canadian government. And if we have only half or 60 percent of people vaccinated, the virus enters the environment, into nature, and it mutates, and it poses a threat to children who are not.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-27-m0.u108	30 seconds, please complete.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-27-m0.u109	The concentration of the virus in Ukraine has increased. So I'm asking you very much to tell all of your voters that there are no risks, there were no complications in a million and a half children. That's not what the press says, that's what we need to talk about. And today, using the free vaccine provided by the Canadian government, we need to vaccinate 90 percent of the children of Ukraine in order to ensure that Ukraine has a wonderful international future and that there is no risk of children with disabilities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-27-m0.u110	Thank you. Welcome to the words of the people's Timish, "Peter Duster's Block." National Deputy Chizmar, Radical Party.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-27-m0.u111	Yuri Chizmar, Oleg Laska Radical Party. The Radical Party is in constant control over the issue of gas rent and population prices that are now being determined by the government. Obviously, we can't be outside, because those prices that are set for gas and housing services, they're not up for a simple Ukrainian today, they're living on wages, not on corruption revenues. So we need to make a system to allow these prices to be economically sound but socially oriented and honest. So we've put in a number of bills on draft laws and regulations to the Supreme Council that would aim at lowering the rent on gas and reducing the price of gas. One of them is the Supreme Council's decree, the Supreme Council's draft decree on the elimination of the NAC of Naftogazu Ukraine, which today is one of the biggest corruption posters that has ever been made. in the form of gas prices. Think about it: in 2015, the country's budget was 30 billion dollars in rent, 30 billion dollars in rent, while the planned NAC Naftogazu losses for this year were planned at 34 billion dollars, according to Naftogaz, of which 32 billion were donated to them. So they got over 60 billion dollars. Subsidies level. The level of subsidies for this year is estimated at 24 billion, not just gas subsidies, but subsidies for all services in the HKG, such as electricity, gas, and utilities, and other services in the HKG, cleaning up areas. So we think that these figures show that NAC Naftogaz is today refinanced and so in the government there is an opportunity today to lower gas tariffs and not tie rent down to gas prices. Similarly, we want to note that not all today have received subsidies from the 24 billion dollars that were calculated for all who need subsidies. And we know that at the level of September of the month, there were only 24 percent of the citizens who received subsidies. So there's an economy, too, but unfortunately, the government doesn't provide accurate reports and accurate prices. Regrettably, the government speculates that lowering the rent will result in a failure to implement the subsidy program. We can't see from these numbers, which is a threat. Another question, we see today, is that the government is running such a policy in rent just because the sweets are very much licenses for Crushing. By the end of the years today, the Banking Bankruptcy, a state corporation that produces the cheapest gas in Ukraine, which is to go to the population of Ukraine, whose cost with transportation is not more than 1,000,900 dollars, is now being denied licenses. By now, the government agency had taken two licenses this month and 13 had been alerted to the cancellation of these licences. So we see a redistribution of the gas market. And the main tool is rent. So today's rent is not a tool for completing the grant budget, it's a tool for redistributing the gas market. We would like the Prime Minister and the government to pay attention. And the government's remarks that from April 1st of the following year, the rents will be reduced, that's pharisaicism, because.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-27-m0.u112	Ten seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-27-m0.u113	Gas prices will not be affected, for under the IMF agreement, the government, on the other hand, undertook to increase gas prices on April 1. So we'd like the government to look a little differently on the ability of the population to pay for housing services and gas. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-27-m0.u114	Thank you. And we got the Rosenblatt People's Deputy back. Please, a word.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-27-m0.u115	Dear friends, dear colleagues, all those present in the hall are honored because, I believe, there are those here who are really very concerned about our country, about its future. You know, this week was so, so full of events, the laws that we passed, did a lot of good things, did something wrong, but we worked and worked together. But, you know, right now I'd like to talk to my colleagues at the People's Front. I have a lot of respect for your faction. I have a lot of respect for the people with whom we communicate all the time. I respect you as members of the coalition. But the statements you're making about the fact that you, besides the Prime Minister of Ukraine, besides other people, aren't going to accept anyone, is a very, you know, very dangerous position. Why? Because today's most important thing for us is the country, and we should not be hostages of someone's wishes, but we should have opportunities to go on. directional. So I'd like to go back to you and just say that we've been with you in different countries. If we were with you in the land of Israel and we heard that the Prime Minister said if he said "we're going to kill and reduce terrorists," he would. If President Erdogan says today he's going to shoot down planes flying into the territory, he's going to do it. If the government says it is a government of kamikaze, it is necessary to carry out its duties and to carry out its obligations. I'm asking you to compromise. I'm asking you to really look for a way out of this situation, not just for ultimatums. We can't be hostages, we can't be hostages of one person or one person, we have to be able to work together. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-27-m0.u116	Thank you. National MP. There's no Agafone. People’s deputy Shuhevich gave the floor to the national MP Link.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-27-m0.u117	Dear Ukrainians! Dear colleagues! Regrettably, the Ukrainian Parliament left behind serious events in both Ukraine and the world. In particular, at the end of last week, there was a very serious event that was overlooked by both the NPBO and the President and the Parliament. I'm talking about the blockade of Crimea, which is in fact. The energy blockade of Crimea, which has in fact already taken place, but neither the government nor the President nor Parliament has made a clear statement on this situation. We believe, the Radical Party, that the Ukrainian authorities must build a clear strategy for sanctions against the Russian Federation and the invaders that are standing on our lands today. If society pushes us to block. First the Crimea commercial blockade, then the energy block, we have to build this position in the same way. And if we want to bring these lands back, we have to apply all of the methods that the universally civilized world always uses in the annexation of territories. I mean, the energy blockade that took place today has to be legalized if it's our decision, not what it is today, when the power lines go off, and when the state and society are at odds with this situation. That's why we have to block the occupied territories, but this has to be Parliament's decision, the highest representative body of the state. We need to react clearly if we want to get our territories back. Just like Turkey did. A very serious move by Erdogan, which we are. Ukraine, which is at war with Russia, must support it. Today, Turkey has proved to be an effective state, and this should be an example for us. If two kilometers of military aircraft or military forces enter the territory of the country, this is already the reason for an adequate military response. And the crashed plane, the Russian plane of an aggressor over Turkey, is therefore an example. Our Ministry of Foreign Affairs has made no statement in support of such actions by Turkey, nor has it taken any steps to unite our efforts in the fight against Russian aggression. That is why Ukraine today has no allies, clear allies to help us in our war. Because France and Germany are now united with Russia in the fight against the Islamic State of Iraq and Lebanon. In fact, there is no help for Ukraine. Since Ukraine does not have a clear position, there is no clear strategy for the return of our territories. I believe that the Ukrainian Parliament must also listen to the Head of the Bureau, the Head of the Ministry of Internal Affairs, the Head of the General Staff in order to understand how we must continue our fight for our territory, which we must build a strategy. Individual culinary arrangements on all of this will not solve the problem. We need a clear defense strategy and a clear strategy.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-27-m0.u118	Ten seconds, please finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-27-m0.u119	finding allies at the international level in our struggle. Because the arrangements that are for us today are a capitulation agreement, not a victory agreement. Our victory will be only when the last meter of our land belongs to the Ukrainian army. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-27-m0.u120	Thank you. The morning session is closed. The next meeting will take place on Tuesday, December 8. Tuesday, December 8, 10 a.m.
