ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-16-m0.u1	Good afternoon, fellow countrymen! Please take your seats in the Supreme Council Hall. We can start our work. Please. Dear fellow national MPs! Dear fellow members of the National Parliament, please take your seats for registration. Please, dear colleagues, we are taking our seats, preparing for registration. Ladies and gentlemen, please take your seats. Please activate the "Council" system to register Ukrainian national deputies. [[10:12:47]] Dear fellow national MPs, 331 national deputies are in the hall. I declare this morning's plenary session of the Supreme Council open. Dear colleagues, at the request of the Fatherland and Self-Help factions and the Peter Prashenko Block and the People's Front, I will now announce a 30-minute recess on their request. I ask the leaders of the factions and groups of the Ukrainian Parliament, all factions and groups of leaders to come to the office of the Supreme Council for consultations on matters of order of the day. 30 minutes, a faction-demand break is announced. Thank you, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-16-m0.u2	Dear fellow national MPs! I apologize to the Conciliation Council for such a long and long break, during which a very important and meaningful discussion took place. The discussion is over. But some factions asked for another 15-20 minutes to consult inside the factions. And so I'm going to announce that the extension of our work will begin at 12:30. At 12:30 a.m., the day’s Constitution will begin. So I very much ask the heads of factions, the Council Secretariat to inform all our fellow deputies that at 12:30 we are all in the hall and are able to start a constructive and responsible job. Thank you. At 12:30 a.m., please be in the workplace.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-16-m0.u3	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to inform you that a working meeting has just been concluded with the participation of the President, the Prime Minister of Ukraine, the factions' leaders and groups of the Ukrainian Parliament. And we continue our work. I'm asking all the MPs to come into the hall, take their seats, and we'll move on to the day-to-day issues. Please, fellow members of the national parliament, take your seats. We can continue our work, dear colleagues. Ladies and gentlemen, please take your seats. We are continuing our work. First of all, dear colleagues, I would like to welcome you with a definite date in the history of our nation. 25 years ago, on this very day, the Supreme Council, back in the U.S.R., adopted the Declaration of State Sovereignty of Ukraine. [[Applause]] Let's welcome each other and the entire Ukrainian people with this definite date. A quarter of a century has passed since Ukraine was determined to be an independent, sovereign state, and today we are also, today, on the threshold of making important historic decisions that will ensure Ukraine's European integration, which will ensure the formation of democracy that will ensure the development of local self-government. That's why I think today will be an event that sets us apart from the post-Radians' centralised past and will set a very clear path for us to build a modern European state. Dear colleagues! Today, we finally have this chance. Dear colleagues. We have a rather serious and tense schedule today. We have a lot of work to do. Given that we will be considering today the Order on the integration into and referral of the daily Constitution to the Constitutional Court, and that we have many laws relating to international obligations in the economic sphere with various international financial organizations, security, visa-free treatment, socio-economic life of the country, I will make a proposal to determine today's effective timetable for our work, the plenary session. And I'm counting on your support. Dear colleagues, before we begin our consideration of the agenda, I would like to inform you that today there are ambassadors and representatives of the diplomatic corps of the various states of the world in the Parliamentary Chamber. Let's welcome our partners. [[Applause]] Dear colleagues! Members of the Venice Commission and representatives of the Council of Europe Let's say hello! [[Applause]] And also, honourable colleagues, representatives of local self-government bodies, all three associations of local self-government bodies: district, district, rural, village and city councils, city heads, district council heads -- are present in this room. Welcome, fellows of honor! [[Applause]] Dear colleagues, in view of the large number of issues that we need to accept today, taking into account the tense schedule, are invited from 12 to 12.30 not to announce a break, today to take one recess between the 15 - to 16 - hour sessions. And from 16 hours if necessary, a plenary meeting can be resumed until the day - to - day agenda or questions that will be determined by the Ukrainian National Deputies can be considered. Dear colleagues, before putting this motion to a vote, I ask all colleagues to take their seats. Dear colleagues, ready to vote? The proposal, honourable colleagues, is made in connection with the tense daily routine and relevance of the various issues that need to be approved today, it is suggested that from 12 to 12.30 do not announce a recess and make a session today with a recess of 15 to 16 hours, and continue the evening session, with the possibility of continuing this meeting until issues of order or questions are exhausted, the circle of questions to be determined by the Ukrainian national deputies. Is it accepted? Please, Your Honor, take your seats, and for this very proposal, I urge you to vote, and I'm putting it to a vote. Please, Your Honor. [[12:47:25]] For 241 241, respected colleagues. The decision has been made. We'll work in this order today, according to this order. Dear fellow Members of the People’s Parliament, we turn to the draft Law on Amendments to the Constitution of Ukraine (on the decentralization of power). And I, my distinguished colleagues, would like to inform you that the President of Ukraine, Peter Alexiyovich Poroshenko, is taking part in the plenary meeting of the Supreme Council. Please welcome the President of Ukraine. [[Applause]] And also Prime Minister of Ukraine Arseny Petrovich Yacenuk. Let's welcome the Prime Minister. [[Applause]] Your Honor, Mr. President, Mr. Prime Minister, my fellow national MPs! The draft Law (2217a) amending the Constitution of Ukraine (decentralization of power) is being submitted to your consideration. A bill introduced by the President of Ukraine pursuant to article 154 of the Constitution of Ukraine and defined as urgent. According to the requirement of part one of article 146 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine’s Rules, the matter is being considered in full discussion. Therefore, the next order of consideration is proposed. There will be information – a statement by the President of Ukraine, Peter Alexiyovich Prashenko. The next report will be to the head of the profile committee in five minutes. It will be possible to speak to the leaders of the MP factions and groups, three minutes at a time, 21 minutes at a time. And we're going to continue to make three speeches from the National Deputies on this issue, two minutes from now. There will be a closing word, and we will be able to move on, after the discussion, we will be able to move on to the issue of voting in substance and the adoption of the decision. Ladies and gentlemen, if there is no objection, I invite you to the floor of President Peter Alexiyovich Prashenko of Ukraine. Please, Your Honor, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-16-m0.u4	Dear, venerable Ukrainian people! Dear National Deputies! Dear Leaders of Foreign Representations! Your Honor! Dear friends! I would like to join the greetings of the Head of the Supreme Council with the 25th anniversary of the approval of the Declaration of State Sovereignty of Ukraine. [[Applause]] For that historic act, thank you in absentia to all 355 then popular voters, and to those few national MPs who are still working in the current office of the Supreme Council, and who are now present in the Hall. You then took a courageous and historic step. [[Applause]] And I remember that at first many people were skeptical about the declaration as if it were a communist plot to break the speed of the movement for independence, as if it was an obstacle to the creation of the independence of the Ukrainian state. But calm down: Time has set things right. And without this declaration there would be no act of independence for Ukraine, and it seems to have become its forerunner. And the historical choice of the Ukrainian people confirmed, both in the December 1, 1991 referendum and in the ongoing domestic war for independence, for sovereignty, for the territorial integrity of our nation, where, in fact, for its right to exist as a great European nation. We have not just endured this difficult year in this unequal struggle. We have grown stronger so that the enemy has become too obvious a very high price, which can result in direct further incursion. And it's much cheaper to blow us up than to attack us from the front than it is to blow us from the back of the head. So our task with you is not just to build impenetrable fortifications. By the way, on this very day, I've set a date for the completion of the fortifications. We've been through this. And the fortifications on the collision line strengthened the defense of our nation. But we need to take further steps to prevent any internal destabilization that would make Ukraine an easy prey of a predator. An enemy who does not see our place with you on the political map of Europe. I repeat what I said yesterday in Uzhgrad and Mukachev. I will not allow anarchy in Ukraine. Let us read the history books. Didn't we have a period of chastity -- bright but short and tragic. Has this period of chastity been over with Russia’s complete victory and the loss of Ukraine’s independence for nearly 70 years? Enemies of Ukraine, remember, this will be no more! () [[Applause]] And no party will have any armed forces or armed criminal elements. Although I have announced the course for demonization, the monopoly on the use of force and weapons will forever remain only for a state that is imperfect and that is not yet our law enforcement agencies. And no one is allowed to rent patriotic Chevrons to bandits. I thank you, distinguished national deputies, for the unprecedented attention you have given this week to the resonance events at Zakarpatta. That's right. Without waiting for the results of your work, I made important human resources decisions. It is very clear that several clans have become narrow on mountain trails, smuggled cigarettes on all run out. And Minchvr long ago warned that smoking is very dangerous to health. [[Applause]] And just as Minchur warned, the heads flew completely deservedly. Together with the government, we cleaned up the top of the regional government administration, the police, the Ukrainian Security Service, customs, and foreign service. And I'm confident that we will overcome the resurgence of medieval clanry in the geographic center of Europe, and Carpathia will cheer the world up with bright advertising tracts, not bandit grenade launchers. On this optimistic note, let me move on to the main theme of my talk. I will try to explain briefly what is so important and beneficial to the country of the amendment of the Basic Law that you today, if it is your will, will be addressed to the Constitutional Court of Ukraine. First of all, I want to point out that I am only the subject of submission, and the real authors are two highly respected commissions: Ukrainian Constitutional and European Venice, which approved the work, a great deal of work that was carried out in Kiev. Yesterday I made a telephone call to the head of the Council of Europe's Venice Commission, Gianni Bukikkio. He reiterated his support for constitutional changes and their full compliance with European standards, including local self - government. Of course, I was not a foreign observer in the process of preparing changes. In part, the constitutionalists took into account my vision, as detailed in that project that I was doing last summer. So these changes, we talked about them for over a year. It's time to finally go from conversation to action. I'm convinced that in two weeks, from the coming of the bill to the walls of Parliament, you've all been able to study it carefully, sometimes even very narrowly. So I'm going to stop at the most important points. It's important. For the first time in the history of Ukraine and the head of state, and the Ukrainian government that supports the project, are voluntarily giving way to a huge amount of powers that are still part of the presidential executive vertical. Secondly, we don't just share power, we share responsibility. And the direct norm of the updated Constitution will require any, I quote, "change in the competence of the local self-government authority must be made at the same time as the corresponding changes in the distribution of financial resources. There will no longer be a totally indifferent populism, not supported by a financial resource that only burdens the territorial communities. This requirement is not yet approved, but it is already being fulfilled. By the beginning of the year, you and I had made changes to the Budget and Tax Codes, which resulted in a 40 - percent increase in local budgets. Thirdly, the powers that we pass on to the community, not to the districts, and, God forbid, to the level of some mythical republic, namely the communities, such as cities, villages, villages and their unifications, are the primary, basic, main unit in the administrative and territorial system of Ukraine, its backing structure, its cornerstone. Fourthly, the Institute of Heads of State Administration, which is now being appointed from Kiev, is proposing to eliminate. The operational management of areas and areas goes completely to district and district executive committees. They are formed by the councils of the right level that people choose. Only the selected level boards are accountable and subject to control. This is what the supporters of local self - government longed for. I emphasize -- just the council, which means only the electorate. Neither the President nor the government, only the people. All these steps, of course, bring real power closer to people, figuratively speaking, at a distance of the outstretched hand. Moreover, due respect for local specificities and traditions that do not conflict with national interests and laws will make our country stronger and stronger. My principle of position, which I hope you share, is that you, honourable national MPs, decentralization have no place in such areas as defence, national security, foreign policy, control over constitutional rights and citizens' freedoms. [[Applause]] To oversee the observance of the Constitution and the laws of local self-government, only for supervision, a new Institute of Prefects is introduced in areas and areas. I don't think anyone who has an inherent state opinion will object to such a completely justified warning. Prefects will be given far less powers than they now have heads of government. They will have no relation to the management of budgetary flows and financial resources at the local level. They're not going to control it, they're just going to perform surveillance functions. It's an important detail. Prefects will be appointed and released in the same way as today's heads of state administration: the President's decree for the submission of the Ukrainian government. Those who want to find more power in this position will not find even a day with fire. Ladies and gentlemen, may I have your special attention now? I finally got to the point where the claims were the biggest, but it's not justified that I'm now going to prove to you the language of the dry constitutional text. Read, look, listen. It's about the President's right to dismiss local councils. Why do I say "so-called"? Because in fact it is written in white: it is a joint prerogative of the head of state, the Constitutional Court and the Ukrainian Parliament. If the devils confuse a local council, and it adopts a decision that threatens sovereignty, territorial integrity or national security of Ukraine, which violates the Ukrainian Constitution, the President will be able to immediately, simply in a flash, temporarily suspend its mandate. In time, it would be possible to do so in just a few hours entirely on the basis of the Supreme Council of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea. Everyone remembers this, especially Rephat Chubarov and Mustafa Jemeliev. Then take the court, the Constitutional Court. And then you, the Supreme Council, decide on the selection of the appropriate council or the head of the community. Without you, the national deputies of Ukraine and the Ukrainian Parliament, nothing can happen. But you are now, but without any violation, without any court decision you may decide to terminate the powers of any council and election. So we're increasing the guaranteed protection of the constitutional of local self-government. And the one who advocates decentralization without such a very important safety net is essentially proposing federalization. That's exactly what it is when central authorities have no right to immediately end any separatist perverts. The Venice Commission's right to such, I quote, a "faster and more effective intervention as a suspension of the powers of counsel" has been found entirely justified. The conclusion is logical within the limits of law and common sense. The right to dissolve local self-government is inherent in many European democracies. What about Ukraine in this situation. And in general, the Venice Commission has recognized the model that we have proposed that is compatible with the European Charter of Local Self-Government. Decentralisation will bring our political system closer to the European system, and on the other hand it will become another civilisational distinction between our neighbors in the Soviet camp. Because self-government, I've been talking about this for days, it's just impossible in a totalitarian or authoritarian state. Dear National Deputies! Dear Ukrainians, compatriots! And a few words about what, in conflict with rumors and conspiracy versions, there's just no indication of federalization in the project. Ukraine was and will be a unitary state! [[Applause]] And the draft changes to the Constitution are neither predictable nor predictable, as some media have today written, the special status of Donbas. It's just not there. [[Applause]] The project only assumes the possibility of a specific order of local self-government in individual administrative and territorial units of the Donetsk and Lugansk regions, which are defined by a separate law. I would like to point out that this separate law has been approved twice by the Supreme Council of Ukraine of the previous and this calling. I'm sure the proposed standard doesn't go beyond the Minsk Accords. Who, the Security Council of the United Nations, all our partners who provide a powerful world coalition of support for Ukraine in the course of Russian aggression, recognize these Minsk agreements as an unalterable basis for political and diplomatic settlement. To us, and this is what I want to tell the individual social media correspondents, to us, to Ukraine, to the Ukrainian authorities, and to me, as the Ukrainian President, no one is pressuring. And he can't push, and he can't. Yes, our American and European partners, who have really helped us to stand up to the aggression of the world superpowers, demonstrate a legitimate interest in the success of the constitutional process. But let us identify ourselves with you: the President, the Supreme Council of Ukraine. In this situation, any decision has both its causes and its consequences, which must be taken into account responsibly in the exercise of its sovereign rights. We're more than the United States or Europe, interested in solving the crisis in Donbas in a political and diplomatic way. And I urge you, I urge you not to deprive Ukraine of this opportunity. I have no doubt that we simply have no right to create with our own hands a situation that will leave Ukraine alone with the aggressor. So now, today and in the future, when we vote in favour of the adoption of the Constitution as a whole, we must take an extremely responsible approach to this vote. I understand how difficult it is to vote for that. Believe me, it's not easy to sign. But we're with you as politicians, not as statesmen have to do it for Ukraine. We were chosen not only to enjoy ourselves but also to be able to make uncomfortable decisions, explain them to others, and take responsibility for them. Of course, we may be in a beautiful position, but it will cost the country too much. So I urge you to support the proposed changes, which, by the way, do not affect the distribution of powers between the Supreme Council, the government and the President, but only apply to the relationship of Kiev, the central authority and the community, that is, local self-government. From time to time, voices are heard, saying, from a managerial point of view, it would be more effective either the presidential model or the parliamentary model in pure form. I formed my position on Constitution Day, speaking before the graduates of the Kiev-Magilian Academy. The hypertrophysic power of the presidents in the post-Radians space was a sign of authoritarian or even dictatorial regimes in general. And beyond this non-democratic reservation, we are now taking a decisive and irreversible step. And a clean, no-brained parliamentary model for us is also problematic because of aggression and a powerful long-term military threat. It will not end in a month, not in a year, and we must learn to live in these conditions, and it is impossible to face such challenges without the President-in-Chief with sufficient authority. What the Constitution gives me, as President, and as the Supreme Commander is fully sufficient to ask for more, I will be the first President to declare asking for more I have no intention. The active form of government that we have built on this time for Ukraine is absolutely optimal, and I urge politicians not to tear society down with empty talk, but to learn democracy and adopt, to learn the art of finding compromise, we now very much need to demonstrate to Ukraine and to demonstrate the world's strength of our unity. This is exactly what the Ukrainian people and the world community expect of us. In the near future, changes to the Constitution in the reform of the corrupt judicial system are urgent. The first steps to purify it have only begun, but the global transformation needs to be amended to the Basic Law, and I look forward to it from the Constitutional Commission. Yesterday, during our conversation with the Venice Commission, we also agreed that the debate would take place in the summer, and we would get it soon after the Constitutional Commission accepted it and gave it to us. I want to explain my position separately and pay attention to you. Attention! As for chapter X of the Constitution of Ukraine, this is the Autonomous Republic of Crimea. At further stages of my work, I ask the Constitutional Commission to listen to the leaders of the Crimean Tatar people and to foresee that the Autonomous Republic of Crimea, as an integral part of Ukraine, is a national-territorial formation through which the Crimean Tatar people realize their right to self-determination. [[Applause]] Dear national MPs, those who have not yet identified and will be identified or determined right now, here's an additional orientation that will allow you to make a decision. The draft changes proposed for your consideration, supported by the Constitutional Commission, the authoritative Ukrainian experts, the Venice Commission, our key international partners, whom we asked ourselves. The most insidious critics, the Russian Federation, the so-called LNR and DNR, all of them, I think, had the opportunity to read today's statement by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of the Russian Federation. Say, isn't that an argument that we're doing you right? [[Applause]] And I ask you to support this draft amendment to the Constitution. First of all, I am counting on a positive parliamentary coalition vote, but I call for the radio and the political forces that are outside the parliamentary coalition. I would very much like change to be an expression of an unprecedented broad political consensus, because only in this case can it be sustainable and lasting. I'm sure it's only in that case that we're going to demonstrate, once again, the world and Ukrainian nard our unity and the integrity of our sovereignty, our territorial integrity, our independence. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-16-m0.u5	Thank you, Mr. President. Please invite the head of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Legal Policy and Justice, Ruslan Petrovich Knazević, for a report from the question. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-16-m0.u6	Mr. President! Mr. Head! Dear colleagues! Allow me, on behalf of the Committee on Legal Policy and Justice, the subject of which is the question of amending the Constitution, to read out the conclusion that our committee unanimously adopted at its meeting yesterday. The Committee of the Supreme Council on Legal Policy and Justice considered at its meeting, submitted by the President of Ukraine as an urgent draft law amending the Constitution (for the decentralization of power) (for registration number 2217a) and established such a bill. The purpose of the bill is to move away from a centralized government model, to ensure the ability of local self-government and to build an effective system of territorial governance in Ukraine, taking into account the principles of subsidiarity, generality and financial self-sufficiency of local self-government. To achieve its goal, the project proposes to amend articles 85, 92, 106, 118, 119, 121, 132, 133, 140-144, 150, and the "Transitional Provisions" of the Constitution of Ukraine. These changes relate primarily to the decentralization of government in Ukraine and the strengthening of the constitutional and legal status of local self-government. It is proposed to establish that the administrative and territorial system is based on the principles of unity and integrity of state territory, the decentralization of power, the universality and capacity of local self-government, the continuous development of administrative and territorial units, taking into account historical, economic, environmental, geographical and demographic characteristics of ethnic and cultural traditions. The bill provides that the delimitation of powers in the system of local self-government bodies and their implementing bodies of different levels is carried out in accordance with the principle of subsidiarity, which corresponds to the European Charter of Local Self-Government. Yes, in accordance with article 4 of the Charter, local self-government bodies within the framework of the law have the full right to decide freely any matter which is not removed from their sphere of competence and whose solution is not entrusted to any other body. In addition, changes are being removed from constitutional regulations by local government administrations, and the institution of heads of local government is being duly abolished. Rather, basic powers focus on the basic level of the community. The material and financial foundations of local self - government are being established. In particular, it is determined that this is the basis of land, movable and immovable property, natural resources, and other objects belonging to the communal property of the local community, local taxes and congregations, part of public taxes, and other incomes of local budgets. At the same time, the proposed decentralization does not provide for a weakening of central authority in such matters as defence, foreign policy, national security, the rule of law, respect for human rights and freedoms. That is why it is proposed that the Institute of Prefects be established to oversee the observance of the Constitution and the laws of Ukraine to the authorities of the local government. The project provides that the prefect will be appointed and dismissed from office for the appointment of the Ukrainian Prime Minister. The Prefect stops acts of local self-government on the grounds of their inadequacy of the Constitution or the laws of Ukraine, with simultaneous appeal to the court. In addition, the bill provides that, in the event of the approval by the head of the community, the council of the community, the district and district council of an act that does not correspond to the Constitution, threatens to violate State sovereignty, territorial integrity or the threat of national security, the President of Ukraine shall suspend the act at the same time as a request to the Constitutional Court, and shall suspend the authorization of the head of the community, the community of the region, the district council and the appointment of a temporary state-appointed representative. In the event of the Constitutional Court's recognition of an act of the head of the community, for the community, for the district district council, which is not in conformity with the Constitution of Ukraine, the Supreme Council, for the submission of the President of Ukraine, shall suspend the mandate in due course and shall appoint elections in accordance with the established law. The President took into account a set of steps taken to implement the Minsk Accords of February 12, 2015, and according to this, the bill stipulates that the specificities of local self-government in the individual areas of Donetské, Lugansk Region, are defined by law. Thus, the amendments proposed by the bill fully meet European and international standards, taking into account the relevant conclusions and observations of the Venice Commission, including the conclusions of June 24, 2015, at number 803-2015, will enable local self-government and the building of an effective system of the regional election organisation. According to part two of article 145 of the Supreme Council’s Rules of Procedure, the committee concludes as follows. According to article 154, part one of article 156 of the Basic Law, the bill was submitted to the Supreme Council by the rightful subject of the legislative initiative, the President of Ukraine. The adoption of this bill does not require the systematic unity of the Constitution of Ukraine, the simultaneous amendment of Chapter I, the General Principles, Chapter III, the Elections and Referendums, and Chapter III, the Amendments to the Constitution of Ukraine. Bills amending articles 85, 92, 106, 118, 119, 121, 132, 133, 140-144 and 150 of the Constitution of the Supreme Council of the Eighth Council were also not considered, and the Supreme Council of the Eighth Council of Ukraine did not change the position of these articles, parts of the Basic Law, during its term of office. A preliminary analysis of the project allows the Committee to consider that it does not have the position that in the earlier conclusions and decisions of the Constitutional Court of Ukraine have been recognized as nullifying or restricting the rights or freedoms of a person and citizen or aimed at eliminating independence or violating Ukraine's territorial integrity. The committee also has reason to believe that the provisions of the draft meet the requirements of articles 157 and 158 of the Basic Law and will not need further elaboration. According to the committee, the adoption of the proposed amendments to the Constitution would not lead to a breach of Ukraine’s international obligations. Taking into account the position of article 146 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine's Rules of Procedure, the Committee on Legal Policy and Justice decided at its meeting by a majority of votes to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine, submitted by the President of Ukraine, as an immediate draft of the Act amending the Constitution of Ukraine (for the decentralization of power) under registration number 2217a, to include in the order of the day-long second session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine the eighth vocation and to refer to the Constitutional Court of Ukraine to obtain a conclusion on its compliance with the requirements of articles 157 and 158 of the Constitution of Ukraine. Thank you. The report was concluded by a committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-16-m0.u7	Thank you, Ruslan Petrovich. Dear colleagues, according to the order we have determined at the outset, I ask the factions and groups of the Ukrainian Parliament to sign up. Each faction and group will receive three minutes of performances. Please. Please, the team is the Rebirth Party, Victor Bondar. Then it's the People's Front.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-16-m0.u8	Reverend Peter Alexiyovich, Volodymyr Borisovich, Arsenija Petrovich, distinguished colleagues! The Rebirth Party is represented in Parliament by a group of 100 percent majors, and during the elections, and after the elections, we have repeatedly demanded that the process of decentralization be conducted, full, powerful, real, real decentralization in Ukraine. It is about transferring not only authority but also financial powers, budgetary powers, the transfer of regulatory powers, and others to the premises. So we certainly support the beginning of the constitutional process of decentralization. And what is happening today in the hall is a direct indication that Ukraine is taking a European path of development and is beginning real reforms, including constitutional ones. Yes, there are a number of comments before this bill, including on over-authorization of prefects. There is even an appropriate observation by the Venice Commission that there is a need to study carefully in the Constitutional Court this complete list of credentials for prefects, including. And we expect that, after the Constitutional Court's decision, in September months, we will be able to come to conclusions as to what, indeed, powers are passed on and how they will be implemented. At the same time, there are many questions that we ask to be settled in the fall, which concerns transfer, including financial, budgetary and other powers. We demand that, at the same time as the changes to the Constitution are considered, laws passed and voted that effectively amend the Budget Code and transfer powers that effectively change regulatory relations and delegate authority to places that, including land transfers to local authorities and confer the right on municipal communities to manage the land and so on. The issue raised by the President of Ukraine on a number of occasions is particularly powerful, with regard to ensuring peace in the country, ensuring peace in the Donbass, and ending the war, and ending the fighting in the ATO zone. We demand, we ask a separate question, so that, at the same time as the Constitution, a law is clearly introduced that will determine the status of Donbas in accordance with the Minsk Treaties, the special status of Donbas, as it will be prescribed for us to look at, read, and at the same time vote in the full package of documents both after decentralization and at the direction of peace and order in Ukraine. That is why we will support the referral to the Constitutional Court of these important changes and look forward to the decision of the Constitutional Court in the fall, with which the full package of documents and decentralization laws will be introduced, which will be considered here in the Hall. And then a decision on the final vote will be taken. Thank you and we'll support it.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-16-m0.u9	Thank you. Please, People's Front, Maxim Yuriovich Burbak.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-16-m0.u10	Dear Mr. President, the honourable chairman, the honourable Prime Minister, the fellow MPs! Today, on this solemn day, when the Declaration of State Sovereignty of Ukraine was adopted 25 years ago, we are on the verge of a fundamental, necessary and urgent reform. Reforms on the question of decentralization of power. This reform has actually begun. Discussions are now under way and the prospects for unifying the local communities are being approved. Remember when we accepted the 2015 budget in December and told the communities that there was not enough money. At present, there is information that overfishing of local budgets is worth more than 10 billion dollars. So all the skeptics who said it wouldn't work now have no reason to talk. The reform has begun, and it needs to be implemented further. The authorization and decentralization of power must now be established in the Constitution. And we, the People's Front faction, will support these changes to the Constitution. Today, we will vote in favour of including in the agenda and focusing on the expertise of the Constitutional Court on the decentralization of power. The authorization of the communities as the basic element of the construction of our unitary only Ukraine is a community, should be enshrined in the Constitution. And there's nothing to be afraid of. This is the first step that we should take today and move on. And by the way, leading constitutional law experts, the Venice Commission approved such changes to the Constitution. So the People's Front faction will support this draft decision. And I urge you all to continue to support him. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-16-m0.u11	Thank you, Maxim Yuriovich. Please, Yuri Anatoliovich Boyko, Opposition Block. Next up, Oleg Romanovich Berezuk, Self-help.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-16-m0.u12	Dear Mr. President, distinguished guests, distinguished national MPs! Today, indeed, we are considering a very important law that the whole country is looking forward to without exaggeration. Because if we go out on the street in Sumas or in Herson, Zaporozhye or in Ivano-Frankivsky and ask the citizens if they want more rights to their region of political, cultural, and, above all, economic, from 10 to 9 will be "for". People really understand that the only way to reconcile and restore stability in the state is through, as it doesn't paradoxically sound, decentralization in the country. If you ask politicians if there is a document that has been made perfect and answers all the questions in the country today in the area of decentralization, it probably does not. And not even because it was created wrongly, but because there are so many questions that have accumulated over the past 25 years in our country. But everyone understands that we need to start with something, we need to take the first steps, we need the commission that created this document to continue to implement it systematically, process it, improve it. So our faction sees this document as a basis for the country's further movement forward and will support the changes to the Constitution introduced into the Hall. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-16-m0.u13	Thank you. Please, Oleg Romanovich Berezuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-16-m0.u14	Mr. President! Your Honour, Mr. Head! The noble people of Ukraine! Peace, will, power, independence, fate. "Deal. You didn't cheat with me and your friend, your brother and your sister. The poor have become. " And today, this poor man stands before you with his colleagues. And in his hands, not just his own fate and those of the people, the fate of the people and the country. We're here to write the Constitution of Peace, the Constitution of Development, the Constitution, not for us with you, but for our children, who are to live in this country happy and carefree. We are sure to fulfill all the Minsk arrangements for peace and tranquillity on our earth. We're here to take all the Russian armies of invaders out of our country. "You said, learn, my dear, one day we will be people. You said I was studying and studying. And you lied!" The Budapest Accords, the Kharkiv Accords, the Crimea, today's situation. And you lied! The power of Ukraine is in its power. We share the opinion of the President of Ukraine and the Commander-in-Chief that the force in the vertical is the militia, the BSS, the Ukrainian Armed Forces. The supercentralization of the state’s performing functions is a guarantee of stability and development, and a fight against the enemy. We are convinced that the free choice of life of communities and people, the Hungarian European right, which existed as long as possible in Ukraine, will guarantee the development of this state. Unfortunately, these changes that are being proposed today, dear colleagues, we haven't seen them, we're not looking at decentralization. And there is a probability that the sovereignty of Ukraine will be threatened. But we say, "Come on, my lady! Let's move on. We don't have the seeds of lies behind us. 'Cause then there's glory!" Glory to Ukraine! I want to remind you of one thing today. I swear.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-16-m0.u15	Ten seconds, complete.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-16-m0.u16	I swear allegiance to Ukraine. I commit myself to all my actions to defend Ukraine’s sovereignty and independence, to care for its good.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-16-m0.u17	Glory to Ukraine! Please, Oleg Lazko, Radical Party.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-16-m0.u18	Dear Ukrainian people, fellow countrymen! The legendary British Prime Minister Winston Churchill said a famous phrase. When Hitler offered him peace in exchange for the exchange, he said, "We are offered a choice between shame and war. If we choose shame, we'll get war and shame." Again today, like six months ago, when Parliament voted in favour of the Donbas Special Status Act and said it was to stop the enemy from giving peace, the majority voted, except for the Radical Party. We've been told that we work for Russia, that we don't support peace. Show me where the peace is on Donbas? We are seeing today a 50,000 army armed with Russian weapons trained by Russian instructors who are ready to move forward at any moment. We're told that if we don't vote on these changes to the Constitution, Europe will turn us away, our allies, America, will turn us away from the whole world. I would like to remind you, Mr. President, of the words of Alexander Olesia, written in 1943: "When Ukraine in an unequal struggle came down with blood, and tears flowed, and friendly help waited for itself, Europe was silent, Europe was silent!".. We have to live by this Constitution. Unrespected members of the Venice Commission, not our partners and friends, allies in Europe and America, we Ukrainians live by the Ukrainian Constitution. A state that allows itself to be dictated outside, which Constitution to have, what language to speak, what church to go to, what state to have, is not a state, it is not a subject of law, it is an object of law. Our leaders in Maidan once made a deal and signed a deal with Yanukovic. Despite the deal with Yanukovic, the Ukrainian people said, "Get away from Yanukovic, and the Ukrainian people have won!" Mr. President of Ukraine! Thousands of fighters, peaceful citizens who surrender their lives today on the front, give it up for territorial integrity, for sovereign, for an independent state. Not for the special status of these territories, not for the special status of the terrorists who are killing our people today, but for tomorrow they will be the authorities. They're with words on their mouths, I want to remind you of those words when you're aspiring to vote for a Constitution that gives special status: "A Ukraine has not yet died of any glory or will."
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-16-m0.u19	Glory to Ukraine! Ladies and gentlemen of the National Parliament, Igor Mironovich Jeremeyev, "The Will of the People".
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-16-m0.u20	Ukrainian people! Mr. President! Dear guests! The question of decentralization of power is a question that has matured over 25 years of independence in Ukraine, not in 25 years has there been a country of authority that would not want to have absolute power. And what we are today, because of these tragic events that have taken place in Ukraine, is forced and we make this decision, is what the Ukrainian people want. The "will of the people" faction is made up of majors, we represent Western Ukraine, Central Ukraine, Eastern Ukraine. Thousands of villages that we have traveled around and there is no village council, or community that would not say: give us authority, we know what to do, we know what to do, we know how to do, give us the opportunity, do not concentrate everything in Kiev. And we have made a decision for ourselves that we will support this bill. If we get out of the circumstances that are happening in the east today and when our soldiers are protecting Ukraine today, and the decentralization of power is one of the elements of the Minsk Treaties, we can do whatever slogans we want to say today, we can call patriotism. But what I'm saying is, six months ago, how hard it was, how hard it was to make this peace. We're sitting here today, we've got provokers, we've got shootings, we've got provocations, because in Ukraine there's a desire to make war! And we want peace, mothers want peace, women want their husbands to come home. And so if today's vote saves life tomorrow, after even one fighter, we have to do it. And you don't have to make hot slogans. There may be mistakes, perhaps. Maybe something needs to be improved, but we'll do it: we'll argue, we'll find a solution. We have two ballots ahead of us. But today we are obliged to take this step. The People's will faction will vote in favour of the bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-16-m0.u21	Dear colleagues, please, Peter Prashenko's Block, Yuri Vitaliovich Lucenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-16-m0.u22	Your Honor, Mr. President, Mr. Head of the Supreme Council, distinguished national MPs, honourable voters! Today we are participants in a historic moment: the transfer of authority to local self - government. Today, we can support a bill that will finally give people the right to the nation of government that the Ukrainian people dream of for centuries. The other one. Once again, I want to tell the critics of this part of the document. The prefects are appointed by the Cabinet of Ministers and the President in order to preserve the whole and democratic Ukraine, to preserve its European choice. Decentralization without prefects is a federalization, and that will never happen! Putin's broken here too! Third. There is no special status for certain regions here. And all those who perform so well here as a conductor or a declarant learn to read: the word "status," the more "special status", the document we are considering is not! Let me remind you that the difference between the status and the specificities of self-government is the difference between the Autonomous Republic of Crimea and the specificities of self-government that we introduce for the entire territory of Ukraine. This is a big difference, and it is worth remembering. And one more thing. Indeed, the Transitional Positions of the Constitution refer to the law that we have here, including colleagues from Self-Help, adopted on the special status of self-government in certain areas of the Donetsk and Lugansk region. Let me remind you, this law has been in force for three years. Enough to speculate that we're giving up some part forever. Three years is a special status with nine fuses. This law on special self - government can only enter into force there under nine conditions. These include: putting down arms, bringing out occupation forces, allowing Ukrainian law to take over their territory, and so forth. Stop speculating and do the hurrah-patriot show! Today, according to the Constitutional Commission, which included all the political forces of Parliament, the President is proposing a peace plan. This is a peaceful plan to restore the integrity of the great Ukrainian State. Yes, there is another plan. Yes, he is. We can attack Donetsk and Lugansk tomorrow. Everyone who is so brazenly aspiring against today’s vote, wear a camouflage today, and take the machine into the first.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-16-m0.u23	Please finish, Yuri Vitaliyovich, 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-16-m0.u24	I'm the father of a soldier who's been standing up for his entire appointment at Donatsky Airport, and I'm saying, stop trading foreign blood! Enough of sending foreign children to their deaths! Vote against, tomorrow on the front! To the first shering and attack Donbas!
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-16-m0.u25	Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-16-m0.u26	We do. For the peaceful reintegration of Ukraine, so that in Donetsk, Lugansk, Uzhgrad, Kyiv, Sumah, Kharkiv, there was a Ukrainian flag, Ukrainian law and Ukrainian only nation everywhere. We are for the peaceful way of restoring Donbas. And that's why we're voting for this law today. And the last. Listen to Russia and do the opposite! Don't throw stones in Europe, don't spit in America! Listen to the Kremlin’s statement against today’s law, and do the opposite. We vote for a peaceful, free, only Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-16-m0.u27	Please, Sergey Sobolev, Fatherland.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-16-m0.u28	Dear colleagues! We may have had the hardest night for our faction, although the Constitution is not adopted at night. I don't want to use hurrah patriotic arguments, call someone to the front. Because, you know, it's an honorary mission, and that's the main thing. But I want to mention the two historical facts that were in this sessional room. The Declaration of State Sovereignty was mentioned today. We had, I don't know what to call them -- patriots or something, who called in this session room not to vote for the declaration, because it's being accosted by Communists. I imagine what would have happened to the state if we hadn't voted in favour of the Declaration of State Sovereignty and listened to these arguments. I remember a perfectly constitutional night when we were told, "How can we vote for the Constitution if President Kuchma blackmails us with his decree to dissolve Parliament?" But the members of the government weren't afraid and came to the session hall, they were here and they were voting for Ukrainian as a national language, and for the country to be the only and the only one. And they voted that there should be a Constitution in the country that we've been fighting for for the last 10 years. And we got back to the legitimate legitimate Constitution in 2006 in the same session hall. Today we have one choice. It's the next one. Mobilization of all military and other forces of the country, which is impossible without American and European allies, without NATO countries. And he who swims towards NATO today understands very well: our patriotism, our heroism without their support and their weapons will be nothing. Because we are opposed to Putin, a fascist today that must be overcome. That's why the position is one. Don't listen to Moscow, don't listen to Washington, don't listen to Brussels, listen to yourself. We have one choice today. We must show the world: we want peace, but from a strong point of view. And that's why we decided to vote in favour of referral to the Constitutional Court. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-16-m0.u29	Dear colleagues, the factions have finished. Do you insist on speaking to the national deputies from factions? I see. Colleagues, we have Prime Minister Arsenius Petrovich Yacenuk present. I invite the Prime Minister to his word. Please, Your Honor, Arsenius Petrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-16-m0.u30	Mr. President, Mr. Golovo, honourable members of the Ukrainian Parliament, representatives of the will of the Ukrainian people! There were no politicians in this room. Government officials gathered in this room. And government officials need to make difficult decisions. I ask that we draw conclusions from the past, from our Ukrainian past. We lost when we weren't the only ones. Our Ukrainian nation today is unique in its pursuit of European values and for a better future. Our people have shown wisdom. I appeal to the Ukrainian Parliament to show wisdom, to accept the Constitution. And create Ukraine as a powerful state. We don't repeat the mistakes of the past! Unite, my brothers! Please, please!
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-16-m0.u31	Ladies and gentlemen of the National Parliament, please take your seats. I would like to invite you to the floor of President Peter Alexiyovich Prashenko of Ukraine. Please take your seats.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-16-m0.u32	Dear Ukrainian people! Dear National Deputies! I think the whole world is watching us today. Respectful politicians are not very responsible! My dears! I know a lot of patriotic poems and songs. My wife says I can sing them well. But, my dears, the country is not waiting for poems, not songs, not just to perform the Hymn. The country is looking forward to concrete steps that the Ukrainian Parliament is expected to take today, not tomorrow, not the day after tomorrow, demonstrating the unity of the Ukrainian political forces, the Ukrainian Supreme Council, the Ukrainian society and the Ukrainian people. And today in this room you, my dears, have to demonstrate it. To win and return the occupied Donbas to Ukraine, we will be able exclusively in a political and diplomatic way, here I support the head of my faction Yuri Lucenka. But there is a very important comment, my dear. Who wants to blame Europe, who wants to blame the United States now, what they've been silent about, what they haven't done, what they've betrayed, is what an aggressor needs right now, to break the world unity that has united around Ukraine. And the Ukrainian Parliament. And the Ukrainian Parliament will never let you do that, I'm sure. If you were to now try to include an idea and paint a picture of what would be the situation if Europe and the United States really would be silent this year, see where Russian troops would be now and where Ukraine would be. A more irresponsible position in this room is hard to imagine. Only strong world solidarity, only the responsibility of Ukraine to carry out its commitments, only decisive reforms, including in parliament, only the fight against corruption, only the construction of an independent judicial branch of power, the creation of an investment climate and the changes to the Constitution with decentralization, as a key element of reform, will allow us to preserve our native daughter Ukraine! Now let's sing a hymn! [[The National Hymn of Ukraine]] Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-16-m0.u33	And with God, to vote for the Constitution! Thank you!
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-16-m0.u34	Ladies and gentlemen, fellow citizens! I am voting for the adoption of the entire draft Decree (Registration No. 2217a/P) on the inclusion in the agenda of the day-to-day second session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine of the eighth draft Bill on Amendments to the Constitution of Ukraine (for the decentralization of power) and its referral to the Constitutional Court of Ukraine. Please vote and please support real European reform! Please vote. [[13:59:40]] For 288 Glory to Ukraine! Bravo!
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-16-m0.u35	Thank you!
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-16-m0.u36	Thank you, Mr. President. We're continuing our work. Thank you all for making that decision. Strong communities will soon be in Ukraine. Dear fellow national MPs, I transfer the right of command to the First Deputy Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. A few organizational decrees, and we're moving on to the day-to-day issues.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-16-m0.u37	Dear colleagues, we are moving on to the draft regulation, according to our agenda, 2374a is a draft decree amending the calendar plan for the second session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the eighth call. There is an offer from the rapporteur to consider the decision in a simplified procedure. Please vote. Please be supportive. Please vote in favour of the summary procedure. Please support the reduced procedure. Please put to the vote. [[14:01:17]] For-67 Dear colleagues, I very much ask those who wish to clarify their relationship to leave the hall. Didn't your parents teach you how to fight?Oh, my God! Please leave the hall. Please stop physical opposition. Thank you. Dear colleagues, please take your jobs. I'm asking you to get ready for work. [[B in m in s a l in]] Attention! Dear colleagues, I ask you to take up your jobs and prepare for responsible work. Thank you for understanding. Colleagues, please, we have a limited time to make decisions, let's not waste it. Once again, I ask you to support the proposal to consider Decree 2374a as a reduced procedure. Dear colleagues, please support. Please vote in favour of the summary procedure. Please vote. We're voting for a reduced procedure. Please. [[2:02:52]] For-142 Not all of them made it. Dear colleagues, please return to your workplace. You can fight after the plenary meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, you have to work here. Are you back? They took up jobs. So, are we ready to vote, colleagues? Ready. Once again, I am putting to the vote the motion for a summary ruling, please support. Please vote. Please vote. Dear colleagues, we vote. [[14:03:39]] For a hundred and Decision taken. Thank you for your responsible position. And I invite you to report to the First Vice-President of the Committee on Rules and Organization of Work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, Phinehas Pavel Vasilovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-16-m0.u38	Dear Chairman! Dear colleagues of the Ukrainian National Deputies, at their meeting on 17 June this year, the National Deputies took the initiative to continue the work of the second session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine until 1 September 2015. In order to reconcile positions on this issue, the committee addressed letters to MP factions, MP groups with the proposal to determine the initiative of the committee and to propose the order of work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine during this period. The decision that is proposed for your consideration deals with the issue. The draft changes to the calendar plan for the second session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine are scheduled to be held by September 1, 2015; the second, to foresee July 17th, the time of questions to the government, the plenary session, the announcement of the closure of the session; the third, to establish that, with a view to resolving issues related to the situation in Ukraine and the need for adoption in connection with this Supreme Council of the relevant decisions, the plenary sessions of the Supreme Council are convened in the context of the need for the Chief of the Supreme Council; the fourth, the Supreme Council of Ukraine in the case of the proposed paragraph three of the decrees, but not later than three days, the plenary sessions of the Supreme Council in the event of the decision-making of the Supreme Council; the Council of the Supreme Council of Ukraine; the fourth, the Council of the Supreme Council of Ukraine in the case of the envisaged paragraph three of the decrees; and the President of the Council of the plenary of the plenary of the plenary of the plenary of the Court of the Court of Justice; the Court of the Court of the Court of Justice of the Court of the Court of the Court of the Court of the Court of the Court of the Court of the Court of the Court of Justice; and the Court of the Court of the Court of the Court of the Court of the Court of Justice of Justice of the eighth. Please support the specified draft decision. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-16-m0.u39	Thank you. Colleagues, first of all, I want the MPs to calm down a little bit so that the emotional sleep will be fine and the tension in the room will be fine. And I'm asking you to sign up for a discussion. Please two for, two for, one for, one for. Romanyuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-16-m0.u40	I give the word to Ungurian.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-16-m0.u41	Unguranu, from the rostrum. Please, Mr. Unguryan is taking his speech. And I invite Yuri Mikolaiovich, "Peter Prashenko's Block", to the words of Macedonia.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-16-m0.u42	Dear colleagues, please support this decision, because if we go on vacations for a month and a half, people will not understand us, there are a lot of laws on the agenda that need to be passed. And I ask you to support this determination. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-16-m0.u43	Thank you. Please, Kishkar Pavel Mikolaiovich, Self-help.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-16-m0.u44	Paul Kishkar, Self-Help faction. We ask the national deputies to study this document very carefully and to listen and continue their work in the second session. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-16-m0.u45	Thank you. Sobolev Sergei, the All-Ukrainian Motherland Union, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-16-m0.u46	We believe that at this time it is necessary to provide an opportunity for an urgent meeting of Parliament. Undoubtedly, plenary meetings cannot be closed. And that will be a very clear challenge to the situation today. Any opportunity to address the most important issues is now the only precaution to keep a controlled situation in the state. We'll vote for it.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-16-m0.u47	Thank you. We had a thorough, responsible discussion on the subject. Let's move on to the vote. I ask my respectable colleagues to come into the hall and take up jobs. Dear colleagues! Mr. Oleg Medunka! Comrade Oleg Medunka! Please come back, please don't leave the hall, don't leave the workplace, but go back to work. Dear colleagues, are we ready to vote? The one who does not vote is in favor of stopping our work. A responsible, important vote. If I am willing to vote, I am voting on a draft regulation amending the calendar plan for the holding of the second session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the eighth call (2374a) I ask you to prepare and vote. Please vote, Your Honor. [[14:09:15]] For-187 Dear colleagues, yes, by factions. Please include the factions. Let's ask my colleagues to come into the hall again. I would like to emphasise, today, a huge number of important, ambitious bills. Now it's easier to call it a break and then it'll be impossible to get together. Today we have laws that apply to IMF requirements. I'm asking you to stop talking emotionally in the classroom and go into the hall so that we can get back to this question, the question that we're about to continue our work. I very much ask colleagues to return to the hall and heads of factions to mobilize deputies. Dear colleagues, the secretariat of the Supreme Council, please inform the deputies that the job is coming. Whoever has communication with the Radical Party will tell them we're waiting for them in the hall. Oleg Valeriovich Lazko, if he hears me, return the faction to work. Dear colleagues, let's consult. Can we work or announce a break? Let's try again to get back to that question, if it doesn't work out, please mobilize, please mobilize, and I'm going to ask the question of going back to the review. Dear colleagues, so I'm asking the question of going back to the draft bill 2374a. And please support this proposal. Please vote, please support. Please. [[14:12:03]] For 185 Dear colleagues, at the request of faction managers, a break of 1 hour is announced until 3 p.m. Is that gonna be all right? Dear colleagues! Attention, colleagues, I'm making a message. According to the Rules, the break will be up to 16 hours. By 4: 00 a.m., a break is announced. I very much ask that all the national deputies arrive at 4: 00 p.m. to continue our work. The morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is closed. We're waiting for everyone at 4:00 in the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Thank you.
