ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-03-m0.u1	Good morning, dear fellows! Please come into the hall, get ready for work. Please, dear fellows, we leave the journalists in the towers and enter the hall. Dear colleagues! Once again, please come into the hall and prepare for registration. Please enter your workplaces, prepare for registration. Once again, dear colleagues, please prepare to register, take up jobs. And now, Your Honor, I ask all deputies to register. Please enable registration. [[10:05:49]] There are 278 deputies registered. I declare the morning plenary session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine open, and ask the deputies to join our work. I would also like to report that today is the birthday of our colleague of the Ukrainian national deputy Vasil Alexandrovich Guljava. Let's welcome him on his birthday. Welcome. [[Applause]] And let's move on to the agenda. I would like to report that the head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, Vladimir Borisovich Groisman, went on farewell in New Petrovka with the National Guard fighters who died during the terrible tragedy, and he will join us in our work for an hour. And during that period, we need to be productive in starting our work. Dear colleagues, in order of the day, which was formed by the committees and was in line with the factions, we have the first question to ask is the registration number of Project 2209a. But according to the committee, this bill is off-limits, and we're moving on to the next bill, 2214a. This is a draft regulation amending the Supreme Council Order on the election of heads, first deputies, deputy heads, secretaries, members of the Committees of the Supreme Council of the Eighth Assembly and the election of the head, first deputy, deputy head and members of the Special Supervisory Commission of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on matters of privatization. There's a request for us to vote in favour of a reduced procedure, right? Dear colleagues, I ask you to prepare for the vote, please take your seats. This is a regular, technical question, and it is a request that we consider it in a simplified procedure. Please vote in favour of the summary procedure. Please vote, colleagues. Please vote. Please be supportive. [[10:08:33]] For 111 The decision is not made. I'll put it to the vote again. But I'm very much asking my colleagues, who are in the towers, to go into the hall, very much asking my colleagues to support the consideration of this issue by a reduced procedure, it's technical, if we look at it for an hour and a half, there won't be any advantages here at the Supreme Council and no significant benefits. And I'm asking colleagues who are in the towers to come into the hall, and I'm asking colleagues who are in the hall to take jobs and get ready to vote again. And I'm asking my colleagues to support me. So once again, I'm putting to the vote the question of reviewing the simplified procedure of draft law 2214a. Everyone, please take part in the vote carefully. Please. Please support the consideration of the reduced procedure. People's Front, please vote. Please vote in favour of the summary procedure. [[10:10:19]] For 132 Not all were careful enough. Not all of them have mobilized enough. High potential, I'm getting tips from the hall. Not all deputies heard and understood the importance of the vote. Once again, I'm asking colleagues who are in the towers to come into the hall. Dear fellow MPs, it's been 10 minutes since we've had productive and productive work. I'm asking you to finish the debates and discussions in the towers and go into the hall and take up jobs. Now I'm going to put the vote again. I very much ask the heads of factions to invite deputies into the hall, to call even. And it's important that those in the hall take their jobs. Is there a high level of readiness, faction colleagues? And I'm asking you very much to support all the factions, all the deputies. I'm re-voting the motion for a simplified procedure for draft regulation 2214a. Please prepare yourself carefully, pick up the card, and support the consideration of the reduced procedure. Please vote carefully. Please, let's vote. [[10:12:12]] For-149 [[B in m in s a l in]] A lot of guilty people. Yeah, he'll be able to rehabilitate. Because I, as a leader, have been able to put a certain number of times. I'm asking you to take another job. And now all of us, together, please vote in favour of the reduced procedure of 2214a. Please vote in kind and responsibly. We're voting for a reduced procedure. Please. [[10:12:57]] For-151 This is a decisive victory. I invite you to report to the First Vice-President of the Committee on Rules and Organization of Work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, Phinehas Pavel Vasilovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-03-m0.u2	The President-in-Charge of Ukraine, the Committee on Rules at its meeting on July 1, 2015, reviewed the application of the non-fractional national deputy of Ukraine, Andriy Valentinovitch, to elect him as a member of the Committee on Law Enforcement. According to part two, article 6, part seven, article 7 of the Ukrainian Law on Committees of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, the election of Ukrainian National Deputies to the Committees is made on the basis of proposals made by the deputy factions, taking into account the principle of proportional representation on committees of parliamentary factions determined in accordance with the quota principle, according to the Rules of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. The Committee notes that neither the Ukrainian Act on Committees of the Supreme Council of Ukraine nor the Supreme Council of Ukraine have settled the issue of election to the Committees of the Supreme Council of the Non-Flocking People's Deputies. At the same time, according to Ukraine’s laws on the status of Ukraine’s national deputy, on the Committees of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, on the Supreme Council of Ukraine, on the Supreme Council of Ukraine, the activities of the National Deputy provide for its participation in the committee’s work. So this job is the main job for the national MP. The Committee took a decision, in accordance with section 1 of Part One, article 15 of the Ukrainian Supreme Council Committees Act, to make a draft decision (registration number 2214a) and to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine by voting on the election of the National Deputy of Ukraine, Nemirovski Andrija, as a member of the Committee on Legislative Protection. Please identify yourself and thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-03-m0.u3	Thank you. Colleagues, is there a need to discuss the matter? None. Can we go to a vote that doesn't want to speak? Society, this is our colleague's question, so I'm asking everyone to take up their jobs in a disciplined manner, and now there's going to be a vote. Please don't leave the hall. Heads of factions, please invite the deputies to the hall. And I'm putting to the vote the draft Amendment Order of the Supreme Council of Ukraine No. 2214a and I'm asking the committee to support it as a whole. Please vote, please support, we vote 2214a. Vote. [[10:16:25]] For-173 The decision is not taken. I don't know if there's a chance in the room to vote right now? And that's why I'm putting the question aside. That's why I'm not making the decision. Here we go to the next issue of the agenda: this is the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Budget Code for the Odessa, Volinska and Lviv experiments for financing reconstruction, the current repair of road traffic for general use of state importance. The bill is discussed in a second reading, which is extremely important for the regions, for the people. And that's why I'm addressing, once again, the heads of the factions of Parliament, while the bill is being considered, let your secretaries contact the deputies to come to the hall so that our irresponsibility does not lead to us not being able to build new infrastructure in the areas of the border, Ukraine. I'm asking you very much for the maximum amount of MPs to be mobilized during the consideration. I now invite the head of the committee's subcommittee on the budget, Istitin Evgenovich, to the report. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-03-m0.u4	Dear Chairman! Honorable National Deputies and Invitations! In line with the decision of the Supreme Council, the Budget Committee prepared Bill 2315a for second reading. The bill received 21 proposals. Based on these proposals, representatives of the President's Administration and the Ministry of Finance are proposed in the final draft of the bill, in particular to establish the duration of the experiment: from 1 September 2015 to 1 January 2017 directly in the text of the bill. Lock down and specify the term "duty payments" for his clear understanding. Include in the experiment the Chernobyl area for the financial provision of the current repair of the road by road of general use of state value, up to 10. To foresee the government's mandate, to approve the calculation of monthly indicative rates of customs payments in the territorial section, taking into account the factors affecting the volume of such payments. And inform the Supreme Council, the President and the Auditor's Chamber every month about the implementation of the experiment. Replace the word "funding" with "financial security" to reconcile with budgetary terminology. Eliminate disagreements with other rules of the Budget Code and provide the necessary editorial and technical legal clarifications. It should be noted that there are certain suggestions for extending the experiment to some other areas. However, it is appropriate to consider this question after receiving a positive result from the introduction of the experiment in the proposed bills to the areas. In general, the Committee on Budgetary Questions adopted the following decision: to take into account 7 proposals, to take into account 6 proposals in part, and to reject 8 proposals and to recommend to the Supreme Council Bill 2315a to adopt a second reading and, in general, to take into account supported proposals in the final text proposed by the Committee, as set out in the comparative table. In addition, when the bill is adopted, the committee will recommend that the Cabinet of Ministers, in the calculation of monthly indicative rates of customs revenue, take into account the relevant factors, including those listed in the proposal of the 21 People's Deputies of Ostrikov. Please support the committee's decision. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-03-m0.u5	Dear colleagues, yes, a respected society! According to the Rules, we are moving on to amendments. Part of the amendments were taken into account by the committee, part of the amendments were not taken into account by the committee. And we have to go through each of them, and so I'm starting to count the corrections that were rejected. The four amendments of the shepherd’s national deputy were rejected. Does he insist on performing? National Deputy Shepherd. Don't insist, all right? Don't insist. Okay. 5th, Vadatoursky People's Deputy, 5th Amendment. She was a committee rejected. Is Vadatursky insisting on his amendment? Don't insist. Okay. 6th, People's Deputy Melnik, his amendment has been rejected. Does Melnik’s national deputy insist on correction? Don't insist. 7 Amendment, People's Deputy Djublik. Does he insist on correction? Don't insist. 9th National MP Melnik. Does he insist on correction? No, it doesn't. The 13th, the People's Deputy Shepherd. Does he insist on correction? No, it doesn't. 16th National MP Djublik. Does it insist on correction? No, it doesn't? 17th Deputy of the People's Republic of Chižmar. Does it insist on correction? No, it doesn't. Society, we've been through all the repairs. The faction heads made a fair observation that we did not establish the order of the day at the beginning of the session. Immediately after consideration of the matter, I will contact my head so that we can put the order of the day to the vote. Thank you. Dear colleagues, I ask you to prepare for the vote. It's an extremely important bill, and I stress that will allow us in experimental areas to build modern European roads, it's in the context of decentralization that we're doing today throughout the country, and it's very irresponsible if we're not able to support it because of the lack of consideration of MPs, because little discipline, we can't support it. I urge everyone to enter the hall again. And I would like to point out that, in accordance with article 20 of the Rules, the issues discussed in the second reading do not need to be included in the agenda. Now we're dealing with solely the decisions and the second-reading issues, they don't need them. I can read, article 20 of the agenda of the Supreme Council's daily session: "In the order of the day session of the Supreme Council, the laws returned with the proposals of the President of Ukraine, the bills that are being prepared for the mandate of the Supreme Council and the bills that are being prepared for the second or third reading. Article 20, paragraph 4, subsection 4. " Questions that appear in the second reading are included in the agenda without a vote. They're prepared by the committee, all the deadlines are met, and so we're looking at this issue completely according to the rules. So has everyone been able to get up and take their jobs? Heads of factions, may we vote? Mrs. Victoria. I ask everyone to come to the workplace and prepare for the vote. My friend John is not provided for reasons. So I'm voting on the draft Law amending the Ukrainian Budget Code for the Odessa, Volinska and Lviv experiments to finance the restructuring of the current repair of public road traffic. This bill is voted on in the second reading and in general. Please vote and please support. Please vote. [[10:27:06]] For 234 234 for. The bill became a project, it was adopted. And I welcome the drafters of the bill, and I wish you fruitful work in this important experiment. Thank you. Now we're going to the next question, but before that, we're asked for a motive. Please Ivan Krulko, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-03-m0.u6	Ivan Krulko, "The Fatherland" faction. The Fatherland faction supported this bill, but I'd like to turn the scale for two moments. First moment. Let's stop this kind of experiment. Road repairs are needed throughout the country, and customs are available in every area. Therefore, the same rules need to be applied to other areas of Ukraine. This is one moment. One second. It is necessary for MPs to establish parliamentary control, since this bill can be corrupt when some customs officers are overstepping plans and some are specifically underestimated. And the next moment. I wonder why this bill did not come to include the Zakartat region, which has four borders with the countries of the European Union? So I think the next time I have to go into more detail about these kinds of bills and distribute them all over Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-03-m0.u7	Thank you. Right next to us. On your application? Please, I'll give Ostrich's national MP one more minute from Self-Help.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-03-m0.u8	Good afternoon! Dear colleagues! I fully agree with the position taken by my colleague Krulko, and I would like to draw your attention to the fact that I have made an appropriate amendment from the Self-Help faction to develop a method of defining predicted monthly indicative indicators. To keep these figures from being taken off the ceiling, because someone wanted to raise the Odessa Customs rate so that Kyivsky could lower these plots of indictive indicators. We need to monitor parliamentary control so that the Ministry of Finance can develop completely clear, predictable, controlled indicators to determine these indictive levels. And we need to take this issue under strict control so that this experiment does not fail and that we can continue to distribute it throughout Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-03-m0.u9	Dear colleagues! There's a forest of hands in the hall with motives. We can talk all day for reasons, come on. The second reading does not provide for a question, only an examination of the amendments. Let me do a couple of performances, but in a limited number. Please, Unguran one minute from the rostrum.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-03-m0.u10	Dear colleagues! The People's Front faction supported this bill. I agree with my colleagues' previous comments that this is really an experiment, which, in fact, parliamentarians can and must support this experiment to be successful. I want to say, for my part, that recently I have traveled the entire length of the Odessa-Reni road, which actually connects Ukraine's Besarabia, the Ukrainian southern Odessa region with the district center and Ukraine. This is the only road that connects. And she's in a terrible state. So we supported the proposal of the President, the government, Governor Saakashvili. And we want this to be implemented as soon as possible. Thank you for your support.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-03-m0.u11	Dear colleagues! I have a message. As soon as the heads of the two factions -- the Fatherland factions and the Self-Help faction -- came up, according to the Rules, demanding a recess. And that's why, according to the current Rules, on the demand of the Self-Help factions and the Fatherland, I'm calling a half-hour break until 11:00. I'm asking the people's deputies to keep working productively. It's 11:00 p.m. to be everyone in the room. And to the leaders of the factions of the coalition, of all factions, of all factions and groups of parliament, I ask you to come to the 3rd floor for a meeting. Thank you. We're waiting for you at the meeting. And at 11 o'clock, please, we're all waiting in the hall. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-03-m0.u12	Dear colleagues, the time for recess is over. And I'm asking the people's deputies to come into the hall to continue our work. Please, the secretariat of the Supreme Council, please inform the deputies of the beginning of our work. Heads of factions, factions' secretaries, please mobilize national deputies to work in the hall. Please. Dear colleagues, once again, I urge you to enter the hall and ask the heads of the factions of the deputies to invite you to the hall. So I want to let you know. Once again, what I was saying was that the first issue of the agenda was the bill submitted by the President, he didn't need a vote to put into the agenda, he didn't need to. But now there's a proposal to confirm the order of the day that was given to you by the first number that was agreed to by the Conciliation Council last week, which consists of the proposal of the committee heads. This agenda is in everyone’s hands today and tomorrow’s weekly schedule. And there is a request that we now maximize our mobility, that we be able to establish the order of the day. I know there are suggestions to include some more questions. But literally, the Conciliation Council is now in parallel, and they're deciding which other issues are important today, and we're going to add them to the agenda by a separate vote after the Conciliation Council is over. I'm not saying numbers, I'm saying the Conciliation Council will decide which bills to include. And once she's done her job, and she'll make her decision, then the MPs will be offered a list of bills, and there won't be a lot of them -- 2-3, which we'll add to the agenda. Dear colleagues, so that we don't vote on a few technical questions, I very much ask you to come into the hall and take your seats and prepare for the vote. Dear colleagues, once again I ask you to take your seats and prepare for the vote, we will now vote. Dear colleagues, ready to vote? We'll assume we're ready. And I'm asking the factions to ask the deputies to take up jobs. Yeah, we're already working. Break is over. I've announced it. And now we're not going to discuss it, and we're going straight to the vote. Thus, the proposal to support the schedule of meetings for today and the day tomorrow, which has been given out, is made available to each member. And so I'm not going to count all the bills that are listed here. There is only a need to approve the meeting schedule for September 3 and 4, for today’s and tomorrow’s plenary session. And I ask you to vote and approve this agenda. Dear colleagues, please take up your jobs. Dear colleagues, Mr. Taras Kutovov, distinguished colleagues, please take up your jobs. Ready to vote? So I'm putting to the vote the approved schedule of meetings for September 3 and 4, which was distributed to each national MP. Whoever supports this proposal, please vote. Please, we take up jobs and we vote. I'd like to turn on the "Ray" system. Please vote and support. [[11:18:26]] For-191 The decision is not made. Dear colleagues, I've just spent five minutes explaining what we're voting for for five minutes. And I hear shouts from the hall, what are we voting for? And that's because we don't have a transaction between the Presidium and the Hall. That they are busy with their conversations and do not hear at all, and they do not want to hear the message of the conductor. And that's why I'm telling you again what we have to vote for. We must vote in favour of the approval of the schedule of meetings for today and tomorrow, without which we will not be able to vote on extremely important issues. I think it is very successful that we voted on the road issues in Odessa and Lvivsky, Volinsk. And our delay in consideration leads to such important issues being left unresolved. So we vote in favour of the schedule of meetings that was given to you, which is supported by the Conciliation Council, which is supported by all factions. And there's no political debate about it, there's just the need for a deputy to be in his place of work and vote. Dear colleagues, I ask you once again to take your seats and prepare for the vote. Heads of factions, please invite deputies to the Hall. Please enter the session room and approach your ballot cards. Please approach the workplace immediately. We're sitting in the workplace. So once again, I put to the vote the approval of the meeting schedule of the Supreme Council of Ukraine for September 3-4, which was released and published on the site of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Please support the approval of the session's working order for September 3-4. Please vote, please identify yourself. Please vote. If you'll excuse me, I'd like to vote. [[11:21:03]] For 212 The decision is not taken. I'm still asking the deputies to come into the hall. Is there anyone who hasn't been able to vote? Yeah, there's a lot. So I'm asking, society, the heads of the factions from the towers to call the deputies and those in the hall are asked to call. I'd like a colleague to come into the hall. Dear colleagues, I'll wait 30 seconds, I see the factions' heads are out calling for deputies. We're going to vote now. Please, dear fellows! Have you invited MPs into the hall? The Secretariat, have they made any messages necessary? Dear colleagues, have you taken up your jobs? Please, there's going to be a vote now, we're going into the hall, we're taking jobs, I'm asking you to support everyone, because this is going to unlock the beginning of our work. I'm asking everyone to come to the workplace and I'm putting once again to the vote the approval of the agenda of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on September 3 and 4. And I'm asking you to support this proposal and I'm asking you to vote. Please vote in kind and responsibly. Please vote, please support. [[11:23:01]] For 227 Decision taken. This was a responsible and principled decision. So we go to the next issue of the agenda -- this is the bill to amend the Ukrainian Law on the Transfer of Objects of State and Municipal Property Law -- number 2660. The rapporteur for this bill is Ivanchuk Andry Volodymyrovich. And I invite Ivanchuk Andrija Volodymyrovich to the floor, please. 2660, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-03-m0.u13	Dear Andrey Volodymyrovich! Dear National Deputies! The Economic Policy Committee considered Bill 2660 at its meeting. Three amendments were made to the second reading, one being counted, three being rejected. And the committee proposes that the House adopt the bill as a whole in the second reading. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-03-m0.u14	Thank you. All the amendments to the bill were supported. There is no rejected amendment. And that's why I'm voting on the draft law on the transfer of objects of state and municipal property" (for the free transfer of individual property) in the second reading and in general. Please vote. Please state: 2660 in the second reading and in general, please vote. [[11:25:35]] For 228 Decision taken. Hello. The following bill (2493) is a draft law amending the Ukrainian Law on State Registration of Legal Persons and Business Persons. The rapporteur for this bill, which we are discussing in our second reading, is the head of the Committee on Industrial Policy and Entrepreneurship, Halasjuk Viktor Valeriyovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-03-m0.u15	Dear Chairman! Dear colleagues! I present to you the bill 2493. The purpose is to simplify the State’s registration of the termination of the central executive authorities, as well as those enterprises that are subordinated and are the founders of such central executive bodies. Second reading. The essence of the law is very simple, you know, that it is now necessary to carry out a truly radical systemic and profound reform of the public service to which it will be linked, including the elimination of a number of central executives who have operated ineffectively. At the same time, according to the legislation in force, there are situations where the authority that has decided to eliminate the relevant state enterprise is itself eliminated. This business has not yet definitively stopped its activity, but it has already gone to another central executive body. To date, the legislative system has completely paralysed the practical solution to such situations. In order to resolve this, our committee has made a decision, according to which the decision on the final liquidation of the enterprise concerned can be made not only by the authority that has decided on the liquidation of the enterprise but by the body that has been given the appropriate powers of the decommissioned central executive authority. Thus, by resolving this legal coalition, we provide a normal opportunity for systematic radical reform of government, including the elimination of inefficient central executives. So, dear colleagues, I ask you to support this bill in your second reading. And the Radical Party faction will support it, regardless of the fact that it's governmental, because we've had a systematic radical reform of the public service in the days that we've had, a corresponding decision has been made in Parliament, which provides for a functional examination of the executive authorities, which provides for an analysis of the powers they carry so that there is no duplication, which foresees a significant reduction in public officials and the filling of the public service by really patriotic people motivated by the state's success, not corruption. Dear colleagues, I would like to support this bill in the second reading and in general with the introduction of appropriate technical and legal rights as a result of the consideration.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-03-m0.u16	Thank you. Please stay in the rostrum. Not all of the amendments tabled by the people's deputies have been approved by the committee, and so I'm going to count these amendments, but the deputies will tell them if they insist on voting. So 1 order, the People's Deputy Melniczuk and Lensky. Are they insisting? No, they don't. 3 repairs, Levechenko. Is it insisting? He insists. Please turn on the microphone. People's Deputy Levchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-03-m0.u17	Lewchenko, Freedom, 223 District, Kiev City. Do you understand the situation? The explanatory note to this project states that the project should simplify the conduct of the state registration of termination as legal persons of ministries and other central executive authorities. A very commendable goal, a very rule indeed, to carry out, to allow for real reforms of executive power. But the project itself is also about simplifying the conduct of state registration and stopping not only the specified bodies but also all other state enterprises, institutions, organizations. I mean, really, I think that this bill is really going to be a government bill that makes it easier to process the acceptance that is now happening, which is now coming into the country. So my amendment concerns that this bill, just like the explanatory note to it, applies only to central executive bodies, not to state enterprises, institutions and organizations in general. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-03-m0.u18	Please, Victor Valeriyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-03-m0.u19	Thank you. Mr. Jury, this amendment, which means that the simplification of the liquidation of the central executive authorities is precisely to ensure that the problems are resolved in a normal way by the central executive authority, an enterprise that is subordinated. So the position of the committee on this issue is absolutely clear. Moreover, this law is also in line with the Supreme Council’s legal administration, its drafting is complete, so the committee insists on rejecting that amendment, i.e. it does not support the 3rd amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-03-m0.u20	Thank you. The positions are clear, but the room should be determined by voting. So, whoever supports Amendment 3, People's Deputy Levchenk, please vote, please identify yourself. Please vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-03-m0.u21	The committee does not support this. [[11:31:38]] For 122
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-03-m0.u22	122 for. The support was not found, and the amendment did not find enough votes to support it. 5th Amendment, People's Deputy Lensky, overruled. Does Lensky insist? No, it doesn't. 6th National Deputy Lensky. Is it insisting? No, it doesn't. And the 7th, National Deputy Levchenko, does he insist? No, it doesn't. So we've been able to go through all the amendments and we can put this bill to a second reading and in general. With the technical legal regulations of the profile committee. So I would like to ask the members of the people to come into the room who went out during the discussion and prepare for the vote. The draft Law amending the Ukrainian Law on State Registration of Legal Persons and Persons of Entrepreneurs, No. 2493, second reading, and in general, is put to the vote. Whoever supports this vote, please vote. Please vote. [[11:33:03]] For 228 228 in favour, the decision is made. We go to the next bill, this is 2190, the draft Law amending the Ukrainian Family Code to take into account information about the social assistance of the family (persons) in the protection of family rights and interests, and second reading. Important social law, also in second reading. And the report invites the head of the Committee’s Subcommittee on Family, Youth Policy, Sport, and Tourism, Spores Ivan Dmitrovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-03-m0.u23	Dear Chairman! Dear colleagues! At its meeting on July 14, 15, our committee reviewed the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Family Code to take into account information on the social assistance of the family (persons) in the protection of family rights and interests, registered number 2190. The draft was adopted in the first reading, and it was suggested that the parents ’ refusal to provide social assistance should be taken into account in the court’s deliberations on the involvement of one parent in the child’s upbringing, place of residence, removal and restoration of parental rights, and removal of the child. Today, according to current legislation, social escorts are voluntary, so the fact that they refuse them cannot be a negative factor. The committee suggests in paragraphs 2 and 3 of the bill that the court take into account information about the social escorting of a person’s family when carrying out such an escort when deciding whether to deprive a parent or to disqualify a child. The committee also proposes to delete paragraph 1 of the bill, since the argument between parents regarding parental participation in the child’s upbringing or place of residence is not a sign of difficult living conditions. Moreover, the content of the conclusion of the body of care and care is determined by the decree of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and does not need to be established in the Family Code. There were nine amendments to the bill, of which the subcommittee suggested that three amendments should be taken into account, that two should be included in part, and that four amendments should be rejected. The committee unanimously voted to adopt the bill in the second reading and in general.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-03-m0.u24	Thank you. So not all the amendments made to the committee were supported, so we'll do a survey on each of them. So, first amendment, national deputy Sidorchuk. Is it insisting? No, it's not. Don't insist. Second amendment, national deputy Lensky. Is it insisting? No, it's not. Don't insist. Seventh National Deputy Lensky. Is it insisting? No, it's not. Don't insist. Thus, we are all the amendments that have been rejected without insistence and are requested to go to the vote. I'd like a colleague of the people's deputies to come into the hall. Important adjustments that regulate child care. An important social bill. And I ask you to prepare for the vote and go into the hall and take your jobs. So I am voting on the draft Law amending the Ukrainian Family Code to take into account information on the social status of the family (persons) in the protection of family rights and interests in the second reading and in the general court. Please support and please vote. Please vote. Please. [[11:37:41]] For 247 Decision taken. There were factions in the hall that immediately raised our mobilization to a higher level. And we're moving on to the next draft of the law, according to our regulations. 2775 is a draft law amending the Ukrainian Act "On Stately Compulsory Social Insurance" to ensure that social insurance funds operate during the restructuring period. Second reading, too. And the report invites the head of the Committee on Social Policy, Employment and Pensions of Denisov Ludmila Leontiyevna. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-03-m0.u25	Dear National Deputies! On January 1, 2015, a new social insurance fund was set up in Ukraine to provide material security and social services to insured persons in case of temporary loss of employment or in case of an accident at work. But until now it's not working, it's not working. Because there is no procedure for reorganizing or eliminating these funds, which are temporary funds and an accident in production. So you and I, on the initiative of the government, reviewed June 16, this year and supported in the first reading the law that we are now considering in the second reading. Our committee has reviewed the table and asks that the bill be supported and voted by a committee that has already been drafted, taking into account the amendments that have been tabled and agreed upon, and adopted by the committee as a whole. in the second reading and in general. The committee considered 14 proposals from the six national deputies who made them. Numbered 4, partially counted 1 and rejected 9. Please consider and support.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-03-m0.u26	Thank you. Thus, a number of amendments were made to the committee. Some of them were confirmed by the committee, some of them were rejected. [[B in m in s a l in]] I'm asking you not to shout loudly. We're going right to them. And I'm going to announce every amendment author. Be restrained and disciplined. So 1 amendment. The Royal People's Deputy. Does it insist? He insists. Please turn on the microphone, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-03-m0.u27	Respectable colleagues, distinguished present! The social insurance system was destroyed in our country in January. Because we've heard in this room how let's do better, let's create a new fund, let's let this fund protect our people, and how it will work honestly and properly. And what did we get in return? Nothing was created today in September. The system of existing funds is completely paralysed. A completely healthy campaign has been broken. Today, dozens of sanatoriums and boarding houses in our country have been forced to close and people have not been paid for months, and unfortunately, the indexation of all social payments has been completely discontinued. We therefore categorically insist that there is enough experience and experimentation on the social protection system. Give me stability, give me the right transformation system. This bill, unfortunately.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-03-m0.u28	Please. I ask you to comment on the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-03-m0.u29	In fact, we have considered such amendments to Mrs. Queen. We can accept these amendments, but it's a different law. We have to decide first in the social dialogue in the law, introduce trade unions as the side that's going to be. and public organizations by the side of the fund. But to date, this bill, which we are considering, does not apply to this issue, so that public organisations are a party to the management of social insurance funds. That's why we rejected them.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-03-m0.u30	Thank you. So, honourable fellow MPs who support Amendment No. 1 of the Royal People's Deputies, please vote. Please. [[11:42:43]] For-66 The decision is not made. Next amendment number 2. Is the Royal People's Deputy insisting? He insists. Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-03-m0.u31	Dear colleagues, I would like to draw your attention once again, today the social insurance system requires global reform, and the experience and experiment that has begun since January cannot continue. Unfortunately, the bill that we are currently considering will not change the situation. Think about it, now thousands of people, employees of social insurance funds are in suspended condition, they don't understand how the system will work tomorrow, they don't have answers, what the structure will be, which means reform itself, what the outcome will be. To my question to the people involved in this reform, the answer was: “Well, it will probably not get worse.” My friends, well, we don't do reform to make it worse. But it is not possible to carry out experiences and experiments on living people. Let's set up a working group, there are a lot of professionals in this room, people who understand the situation, and let's solve this problem today. I assure you, this bill will decide for us.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-03-m0.u32	Thank you. Thus, the committee has already expressed its position on those amendments. Whoever supports Amendment 2 of the Royal People's Deputies, please vote. [[11:44:28]] For-51 The decision is not made. 3 Amendment - Royal. Is it insisting? He insists, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-03-m0.u33	Dear colleagues, we are now approaching 2016. To date, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that there is no social security budget in the country. 2016 can put an end to the social protection system in the country. Therefore, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that if we do not now take responsible decisions and continue the practice of unthinkable reforms, unfortunately millions of people, and those with disabilities, are regressors, those are the people who, pregnant women, who are to receive their sick leave today, will be completely without social protection. Colleagues, think about it. Today, we will continue with our vote with experience and experiment. I therefore insist that this bill should not be considered for the adoption of a single comprehensive Act on the System of Social Protection. To show people the light at the end of the tunnel. And given the right and opportunity to win.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-03-m0.u34	Thank you. So, whoever supports Amendment 3 of the Royal People's Deputy, please vote. [[11:46:03]] For-39 Thank you. The sixth amendment was rejected by the Royal People’s Deputy. Does it insist? He insists. Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-03-m0.u35	I see that there is no constructive and genuine desire to make the social protection system transparent and adequate today. A system that would guarantee to every insured person in our country his or her rights and opportunities. Think about what's going on. If a woman who is pregnant today applies to the Social Insurance Fund for her payment, she's told that you'll go to an unsupervised territory, get a certificate from the employer that you worked there, and only then will we pay you the hospital bills. Think of how many people today are deprived of just by mistake, by mistake, by mistake of parliament, and by social protection. We have an opportunity with you to correct the mistake we've made. Let us be responsible today, let us make already balanced and adequate, most important decisions. Because the social security system is now paralyzed, and we need to get her out of the coma.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-03-m0.u36	Thank you. Dear colleagues who support Amendment 6 of the Royal People's Deputies, please vote, please. [[11:47:43]] For-46 The decision is not taken. Amendment number seven. National Deputy Nemirowski. Is it insisting? No, it doesn't. Amendment number 8. People's MP Papiew. I see he insists. Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-03-m0.u37	Thank you. Dear Ukrainian National Deputies, I would like to ask you very carefully to approach the amendment I am proposing. In December, as I said, the law that's being passed is not going to work, because you put an extermination mechanism in there, and there is no legal succession. It's been eight months now, you see, I was right. The same is true in this regard. You basically want to put this law on the executive directorates of the rule. It's the same thing that you would make today's decision that the laws of the Supreme Council take, not the deputies of the Supreme Council, but the Supreme Council's apparatus. Dear colleagues! I'm asking you very much, it's about millions of people, vote, please. Because in the way you are now adopting the law, it contradicts both the Civil Code and the Code of the Master and the Law of Ukraine on the Registration of Legal and Physical Persons of Entrepreneurs. Please support my offer and then the fund will work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-03-m0.u38	Thank you. Please comment.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-03-m0.u39	What is Mr Papiev’s offer? In order to restore the work of the governments of foundations that are virtually gone, they are dissolved, they need to form new sides, that is, the process will be delayed for a year, almost. I agree with my colleague, Mrs. Queen, that there is no social insurance fund for today, but I do not agree that women have nowhere to go if they are, for example, pregnant. They're looking at that social insurance fund from the temporary loss of employment that it is today. And I ask you very much to support, however, in this way, the process of unifying the organization of the insurance fund that the government and committee are offering for today.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-03-m0.u40	Thank you. So, the 8th Amendment, the People's Deputy Papiew, who supports the amendment, please vote. Please make up your mind. [[11:50:16]] For-46 The decision is not taken. Society, two more amendments and a vote to enter the hall gradually. Amendment 13, Royal. Is it insisting? Please make 13 adjustments.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-03-m0.u41	Dear colleagues! Right now, the head of the committee, Ludmila Denisov, said the fund didn't work. And you're right to say that, yes, pregnant women can go to any department today, absolutely right. But in this office they're told you're going to go to the ATO area and bring us a report from uncontrolled territory today. And we understand that no healthy, pregnant woman who has survived the horrors of war today is in a position to do so. The problem is that the absence of a social insurance system, the lack of management of the fund, the absence of a system that works, is accepted and does not respond to such challenges in a timely manner, i.e. the system is paralyzed. There is now a need to mobilize every effort to resuscitate it. And we're talking about what my colleague Mikhail Papiev said about the fact that we're not going to do the resuscitation by this law, and we're going to make the situation worse. So think, simply, you will vote for the law, and each of you will answer the question, Do you want to paralyze the final social insurance system? Or do you not want to participate?
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-03-m0.u42	Thank you. Dear colleagues! Whoever supports Amendment 13, the Royal People's Deputy, please vote. [[11:51:58]] For-37 The amendment did not raise the required number of votes to support it. The decision is not taken. 14th Amendment, Royal. Is it insisting? Don't insist. And I give the final word to Denis' Ludmila Leontiyevna. Please, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-03-m0.u43	Indeed, there is today a problem with the work of the Social Insurance Fund. There's a director who doesn't actually have a job and has two separate funds that need to be reorganized and all transferred to that Social Insurance Fund. But if there's a problem in getting some material security or services, I think that's what we need to look at the body that's overseeing the existence of social insurance -- the Ministry of Social Policy. If there's such a problem, I think they'll solve it. I'm asking you to support, Your Honor, in the kind of editorial that the committee is proposing to you today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-03-m0.u44	Thank you. Dear colleagues, please come into the hall, which is in the towers. Please take your seats and prepare for the vote. The draft Act amending the Ukrainian Act "On Public Compulsory State Social Insurance" on the provision of social insurance funds during the period of restructuring – an important social law is put to the vote on the second reading and on the whole 2775. Please vote and support in the second reading and in general, please. [[11:53:51]] For 215 Is there anyone who hasn't made it, dear colleagues? Then I invite MPs who haven't been to the workplace to enter the hall, I ask you to mobilize the factions, to report that the discussion is over, that we're moving to the vote, now we're going back to the vote, but please ask the people's deputies to come into the hall and take jobs. Dear colleagues, the vote, so please take your seats. Ready? I am voting for the return to the 2775 bill — an extremely important government bill on mandatory government social insurance. Please vote in favour of the return to the 2775 bill. Please vote. Please support me. [[11:55:13]] For 216 The decision is not taken.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-03-m0.u45	Dear fellow national MPs! The law is not adopted. I'm making a suggestion: turn it back for further processing with the next application for second reading. Colleagues, for a second reading to the committee, it's an offer. Ready to vote? Another reading. Invite the deputies to the hall. Returning to the Committee to prepare for the second reading. Please vote, fellows, for a second reading, return the committee to the second reading. Please vote. For the second reading again. [[11:56:31]] For 229 Decision taken. The law was sent to read again. Dear colleagues, I ask you to be careful about the issues that we are considering. Dear colleagues, a draft Law has been introduced for your consideration (registration number 1329) – Ukraine's Law on the Judicial Assembly on the Exemption from Payment of the Court of Justice of the Counter-Terrorism Operation. Please welcome Eugene Nina Petrovna. The table for the second reading is given to you, let's do some repairs. The first amendment, by Natalia Královska. Is he insisting? She was rejected by the committee. Please, Natalia Royal.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-03-m0.u46	Dear colleagues, I'd like to draw your attention. This bill is expanding today those who can benefit from the benefits in our country, and it is probably right that the State should provide adequate support and adequate protection in time, and the ATO participants must be assisted and supported today. But let's think about what's going on, starting with the new day in Parliament? In a totally chaotic way, some are given benefits, others are granted benefits. But what's most frightening is that then they don't get social protection, not the ones who get benefits. And today, people returning from ATO can't achieve justice and the protection package guaranteed by Ukrainian laws. They have to walk in the courts, they are forced to do so today, and many of them are not in good health because many have returned with injuries and loss of health.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-03-m0.u47	I never understood from the presentation the essence of the amendment itself. Dear colleagues, please, Nina Petrovan Yuzanin, head of the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-03-m0.u48	Dear colleagues, amendment 1a, 3rd and 4th were just rejected by the committee because they are greatly expanding the list of persons who will be released from the payment of the court, by a group such as internally displaced persons and persons living in populated areas whose territory the authorities of the state do not temporarily exercise their powers over all, without restrictions, of appeals. So by paying attention to this, we rejected the amendments.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-03-m0.u49	Thank you. Dear colleagues, the amendment number one, the author of the Royal People's Deputy, who will be rejected by the committee, is an amendment to your consideration. Please identify yourself. [[11:59:30.]] For-47 I didn't get the required number of votes, it's considered rejected. Second amendment, national deputy Shuhević, counted. The third amendment is rejected. The Royal People's Deputy. Please, a word.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-03-m0.u50	Dear colleagues! Look what I'm offering. I propose that not only ATO participants but also internally displaced persons be granted the opportunity not to pay the court fee. Well, think about it, people have lost everything today, and by defending their rights today, when they go to court, they don't have the basic capacity to pay the court fees. Well, let's not aggravate social injustice today by granting benefits to one and the other. Let us, if we are willing to offer benefits today, if we are willing to help people today, let us help all the victims today, both the displaced civilians and the returnees. And that will be today and unity in our country, and that will show our adequacy with you today of the Ukrainian Parliament. Then let's increase this number of people who can benefit from this benefit. Because it's very unfair to share people today.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-03-m0.u51	Dear colleagues! Amendment number three is rejected by the committee. You have heard the position of the amendment. The committee expressed its position. Please, Your Honor, identify yourself as the third amendment. [[12:01:21]] For-54 Correction not supported. Please, the fourth amendment is rejected. Are you insisting? Author of Royal Natalia Yuriovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-03-m0.u52	Dear colleagues! Well, we're all perfectly healthy people. And we understand that social genocide cannot continue in the country today. What happened? Since the beginning of the year, the benefits of Chernobyl, Afghans, veterans, children of war, mothers of many children have been denied. Today, many families have restricted housing and utility rights. The benefits granted by the ATO participant are not being met. That is, the State's safeguards system is completely paralyzed today, and Ukraine's laws are not being implemented today. And now you and I are re-adopting a law that will further strengthen justice. That is to say, the system of benefits needs to be reformed, but it needs to be reformed professionally and adequately, not reformed just to be good for one another, but then not to give people the same benefit, but to punish others today. Therefore, the bill must be expanded and adopted in a comprehensive manner or not to make people feel nauseous.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-03-m0.u53	Dear colleagues! The fourth amendment, the National Deputy Royal, was rejected by the Committee, the position of the author of the amendment you have heard. Please, Your Honor, make up your mind. [[12:03:02]] For-36 The required number of votes did not receive an amendment. It's considered rejected. Dear colleagues, please, head of the Southern Committee, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-03-m0.u54	I would like to point out that the draft Law proposed the Act of September 1, 2015, which involved the introduction of the adopted comprehensive Law No. 484. However, in view of the fact that the term has passed today, I propose that the term of validity be changed by means of a transcript of technical legal rights, which is the law that takes effect from the day following the day of its publication.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-03-m0.u55	Thank you, Your Honor. Please take your seats and prepare for the vote. Please. Ready to vote? Please take your seats, distinguished national MPs. A second reading and a general proposal is made to vote on the Law (registration number 1329) On behalf of the Judicial Assembly on the exemption from payment by the Judicial Assembly of members of anti-terrorist operations and members of families who had died with technical and legal rights, which were announced by Nina Petrovna Južanina, Head of the Professional Committee. Please, Your Honor, we have 1329 votes in second reading and in general. [[12:05:01]] For 232 The law's been passed. Dear fellow national MPs! We have to schedule a 30-minute break right now. But before that, I would like to mention to you today a prominent Ukrainian, a great poet, a lawyer, a dissident, Vasil Semenovich Stus. Today, 30 years ago, he died in the Persian colony. And I urge everyone to honor the minute of silence of his memory. [[A Minute of Silence]] Eternal Light of Memory! Thank you, Your Honor. In 30 minutes, at 12 o'clock, 35 minutes, we'll resume our session. Everyone, please be on time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-03-m0.u56	Dear fellow national deputies, we can continue our work. Please take your seats. I want to give an order to the Parliamentary Apparatus. I think they have the right services today to comment on what's going on in the air today over Kiev, and I can! – the reason there are no nonsense and there are no rumors. So I propose and entrust the apparatus to the executive director of the Ministry of Environment at 16 o’clock. Let them know about the situation in Kiev, about the reasons why it can be found in this rostrum. The whole country will continue to know what is going on so that no one will start spreading rumors. Is it accepted? Please provide the equipment with information. The acting minister of ecology or his deputy, if absent, and the manager of the MNS or his deputy, if absent, is physically absent in Kiev or at events. Colleagues, you have before you a draft Act 1850-1 amending the Ukrainian Tax Code to restore the rules that provide for exemption from land taxes. Please, Deputy Director of the Vitaly Chicken Committee. Let's get to the rostrum. Let's do some repairs. 1 amendment rejected. People's MP Froll. Are you insisting? Don't insist. 2 readjustments included. 3rd National MP. Greenwich Lilia Mikhailovna, please. 3 fixes? Second. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-03-m0.u57	Dear colleagues, we demand that two amendments be made for confirmation. This amendment leads to the destruction of agrosciences in Ukraine. I want to make a few arguments. Today we want to make land tax payments to agrarian vocational schools, all agro-education schools. Unlike farmers who already have preferences, they have to pay not a thousand 500 dollars per hectare, the farmer pays 126 dollars today. In addition, higher educational institutions pay environmental taxes, VAT, and farmers are exempt. To the knowledge of everyone in the EU, in the United States, Canada, agrarian schools do not pay land taxes. So I'd like to get some more attention, there's Amendment 8, which is included, this is the amendment of Oksana Sold. This amendment clearly indicates that.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-03-m0.u58	Ten seconds. Finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-03-m0.u59	This amendment indicates that if land is shared, leased, collective management, then the tax is paid for. So we definitely insist that we put it in place.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-03-m0.u60	The second one for confirmation. The offer is understood. Please, from the committee, the position of the committee and then the author of the amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-03-m0.u61	Dear colleagues and distinguished national MPs, the most important object of the draft law's conflict is the number one and number two rights. I would like to remind you that at the committee meeting on tax and customs policy, our colleague, Mikol Frowlov, was rejected. This regulation has now been applied to the fact that research into the holdings of scientific research institutions and educational institutions of agricultural identity and vocational and technical schools are to be exempt from the tax on land. And our colleague, Mr. Demczak, is due to the huge corruption component. Yes, I understand, Mr. Demczak? In these research institutions. In this regard, the majority of votes were supported and taken into account by Mr. Demczak. That's why I'm asking you to decide now when you vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-03-m0.u62	Thank you. Please, Ruslan Demczak.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-03-m0.u63	Well, I'd just like to say that the hall is semi-lethal. And now any amendment that's going to be submitted for confirmation, if it's positive, it's not going to be supported. So I'd like to just ask my colleague to settle down. And if it's already on the stand, vote in favour.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-03-m0.u64	Thank you. The position is clear. I'd like to ask the faction leaders to ensure the presence of the people's deputies in the hall. An important law is being considered. There are differences in his thinking. So please make the second amendment clear. Third amendment, Kobtsev People's Deputy. We'll talk now, then.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-03-m0.u65	Dear Volodymyr Borisovich, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that there is no point in dealing with the issue that the amendment is going to be supported by the Hall. In view of the fact that if Demczak’s edit is taken into account, the automatic edit of Kobceva is also considered to be counted. And that's why it's a principle to go one by one and one by one.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-03-m0.u66	Thank you. Please, National Deputy Ivan Grigorovich Kirilenko, please. Third amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-03-m0.u67	Dear friends, I'd like to speak to the hall if we vote to confirm this amendment. Friends, we have already disgraced our country in front of all the world’s societies. We have a corrupter on every turn. You're looking at us all in the eye, and you're looking at a corruption, a corruption, a corruption. Look, guys, we've already got more corrupt hunters than corrupters. Twenty-two agrarian vases. A couple of technics and a couple of sweatshops. We're just trying to get the kids to learn from posters and labs. Catch the corrupts if there's corruption. But do not prevent your children from learning professionally. Look at the technology, the technology. Are we gonna teach on posters? Are you out of your mind? Stand by for confirmation. Don't say a word.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-03-m0.u68	Thank you. This is the same thing as the second amendment. The third one is us. Fourth Amendment. The third is partially accounted for. Fourth Amendment. Is there a fourth amendment?
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-03-m0.u69	It's essentially accounted for.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-03-m0.u70	It's taken into account essentially. None. Fifth. People's MP Melniczuk. Rejected amendment. Please, Ivanovich Melniczuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-03-m0.u71	Yeah, I was actually going to say the following. If Demchuk's amendment is taken into account, then I don't insist on my amendment. But I wanted to tell the previous speaker. It's probably not one year in the Supreme Council, it's not one call, it's got to fight corruption in the salt sphere, it's got to fight it, it's not right now, it's embarrassing in front of all of Europe, you know, and it's weird to say things like that. Let me give you an example. Why did we have a stumbling block under this law? In 2010, 400 acres [400 ha] of the best plowed land was transferred to Winnicka Agrarian University. Not once have these lands been processed since 2010, nor has anyone paid any taxes for them. You understand that these lands need to be given to people, because they have students who haven't been working on them, and they're not going to work. Now they've come up with an interesting thing, you know, if we're now asking why these countries haven't been processed, they've come up with a theory that they're specifically growing weeds there to see how they react to poison. Well, stupid, pure brand of stupid.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-03-m0.u72	Thank you, colleagues. Let's do some repairs. The second amendment, which is considered by the committee, was proposed by the national deputy Greenevich for confirmation of the amendment. Dear colleagues, please identify yourself. I propose that the amendment made by the Demchak People's Demchak, Amendment 2, paragraph 282, be made available to you in an appropriate format. The position of the committee – the committee considered, the position of the author – is the insistence on support and the position of Lilia Mikhailna Greenevich – on the contrary, not to support it, that is to say to support it.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-03-m0.u73	The committee counted Demchuk's work.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-03-m0.u74	The committee counted it, the committee supports it, it's only about confirmation. Colleagues ready to vote? [[B in m in s a l in]] Please, 2 revisions for confirmation. To confirm, we vote. [[12:54:47]] Z-77 She did not get the required number of votes and was considered rejected. By the 3rd amendment, she doesn't make any sense, do I understand?
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-03-m0.u75	Dear colleagues! I want to bring it in.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-03-m0.u76	For confirmation?
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-03-m0.u77	I want to make it clear. So that's how Mr. Frollov and Lilia Greenevich were automatically corrected, and that's why our colleague Mikhail Kopceva's revision should also be confirmed, because it's going to have to be taken into account in the technical legal plan.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-03-m0.u78	I wouldn't want to comment on what's automatically counted, we're going to do some repairs. Every amendment defined by the committee, if the deputies agree with it, it remains in force, if the confirmation, if the 226 votes are cast, it is counted if it has not so much as been rejected. So, after 1 amendment, the People's Deputy Froll, this amendment was rejected and the MP didn't insist, now in the hall. 3 amendments, please, Jacenko, 3 amendments.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-03-m0.u79	Dear colleagues! The point is that this law needs to be re-readed, since there is the law of the national deputy Nasirov, who has ceased to be a deputy. That is, we should not be in violation of the Rules at this time, so there is a proposal that we should fully transfer the second reading and not violate the law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-03-m0.u80	Is there an article in the Rules?
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-03-m0.u81	I don't remember, but. He's not a deputy anymore.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-03-m0.u82	The question is, When he made an amendment, did he have the right to do so? Of course he did, he was an MP. All right, colleagues. The third is to confirm the amendment, colleagues. The third amendment for confirmation is also offered by Lily Mikhailovna Grinevich, who is.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-03-m0.u83	It's partially accounted for. It's for confirmation, I understand. Stop, please. Stop voting.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-03-m0.u84	Third amendment to confirm. Please, the third amendment to the confirmation, which is part of the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-03-m0.u85	That's not what the author did.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-03-m0.u86	Identify yourself. [[12:57:27]] For-43 The fourth amendment is essentially taken into account. National deputy of Gordjeev. Is there a denial of 4 amendments? None. The 5th amendment is rejected. National MP Ivan Ivanovich Melniczuk. John Ivanovich, we place it for confirmation, to vote on this amendment. She's been rejected by the committee. There is an offer by the author of the fifth amendment to take into account the draft law rejected by the committee. One minute to the committee, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-03-m0.u87	Honorable colleagues, a hard discussion, may agree with John Ivanovich Melniczuk’s revision, may be put on the stand.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-03-m0.u88	So there is a proposal made by the fifth amendment, which was rejected by the committee to support the author’s fifth amendment. And the committee is also proposing to support the fifth amendment, by Melniczuk. Please, please, after the fifth amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-03-m0.u89	Thank you, Vladimir Borisovich. Dear colleagues, we are currently engaged in, frankly, not the procedure that is not provided for by the Rules. In fact, when number two was not supported, we have paragraph 282. 1.5. remains in the first reading. And around this point, whether or not it should be included, whether it should be deleted, these are the amendments. That is, whether amendment number 5 is voted on or not voted on, we have 282.1.5 in the first reading. Therefore, it is possible not to waste time and simply vote for it.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-03-m0.u90	Unfortunately, we can't help but spend, because there are adjustments and we have to go to the repairs, so we have to hold on to the procedure. Please, 5 amendments, the author is the national MP Melniczuk, identify yourself, honourable colleagues, as to support or other decision. [[12:59:47]] For-58 No support was found for the amendment. Let's move on. 6th, Levenchenko. insists Lechchenko, 6th Amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-03-m0.u91	Lewchenko, Freedom, 223 District, Kiev City. You know, here, there's a lot of right things in this law, where, for example, state municipal educational institutions, they're being deprived of the mill tax -- it's very good for the development of education. But for some reason it is also suggested that land taxes, land taxes, private educational institutions, the vast majority of which are profitable, especially if you look, for example, in the capital, these are institutions where different "majors" pay thousands a month for their children to be taken to gardens and so on and these institutions are very profitable. Why should such institutions not pay the land tax in full? It's kind of like it's just trying to push out its business interests. My amendment is that, in effect, land tax should be waived. the land tax was essentially forfeited by state municipal educational institutions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-03-m0.u92	Dear colleagues, the committee has rejected the law of our colleague Yuri Lewchenko in connection with the fact that according to the Constitution of Ukraine, namely, its violation, the law creates unequal conditions because the aid is offered only for state-owned property, and we have other forms of property. And I would also like to remind you that on July 17th of this year, the Supreme Council of Ukraine adopted Law 654, "To Change the Tax Code" on creating favourable conditions for the provision of educational services to preschool and general educational institutions of non-state forms of property. By the way, this law has become effective since September 1st of this year. And that's why the committee considers it necessary to reject this amendment and we also ask for the support of the committee's proposal.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-03-m0.u93	Colleagues, the 6th amendment rejected by the committee, National MP Lechchenko, amended the amendment. The position of the author and the position of the committee you have heard. Please identify yourself. [[13:02:19]] For-36 36 — no support for the amendment. 7 Amendment, People's Deputies. Overruled. Are they insisting? We don't insist. 8 amendments included and 9 amendments included. Dear colleagues, in fact, we've all been amended and now I'm going to put it to the vote. Oksana Sold. One minute, Oksana sold by nine. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-03-m0.u94	Thank you very much. Mrs. Greenevich mentioned me, so I'm entitled. I'm talking to all my colleagues in the hall right now. I know that many of you have supported Rusl Demchak's amendment, you have reason to believe that, we all understand that. But I want to draw your attention, if we don't now vote on this bill, all the reserves, all those conservation agencies today that don't have money to pay this tax, and they don't have money, they're going to have to pay what they can't pay. So now I ask all my colleagues to vote in favour of this bill and another decision to make the decision that Ruslan Demczak has proposed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-03-m0.u95	Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-03-m0.u96	Dear fellow national MPs, the law is really important. Yes, Mr. Demczak's edit was not supported in the hall today, by the way, she has the right to exist. But what I'm trying to say is that we've just had our colleague Oxana's 8th amendment, and in this direction, which is taken into account by the committee, we've put in place safeguards on the impossibility of abuse by scientific research institutions of their right to land. What it means is that if these lands are leased or shared, the aid for land payments to such entities will no longer be distributed. And that is why this law can be passed with this precaution in general.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-03-m0.u97	Thank you. Colleagues, I take it that there is a unifying, unifying possibility of voting. The procedure does not provide for a discussion of these issues. All expressed their support. I want to quote John Grigorovich. Colleagues, let's not have a replica. We don't have a replica. Let's see, colleagues, it's an important rule and I'm now giving three lines, three. And in the following other readings, I'm not going to give the replica just to make sense of it. Please, Ruslan Demczak, then Ivan Grigorovich Kirilenko and then John Melniczuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-03-m0.u98	I'd like to make a statement. But this point that we're talking about is 282.1.5 "research of the farms of scientific research institutions and educational institutions of agricultural identity and vocational engineering schools to over 300 hectares," that is, limit it to quantity. If it's necessary for research, let's say it's 300 hectares, all that's more taxed. And in such an editorial way, so that we can go through the preceding paragraphs with regard to including the reserves, so that we don't have to overthrow this law right now. Please put it to the vote with such a vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-03-m0.u99	Colleagues, let's refer to regulations. Where do we get an amendment to the second reading from a voice? Is it gone or is it? I'm saying there isn't. Ivan Grigorovich Kirilenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-03-m0.u100	Dear colleagues! I appeal to the entire room to support this law. Absolutely right, our colleague, who is a colleague of the smoking department, said that Oxana's law enforcement sale makes it impossible to abuse agrarian universities, agrarian scientific institutions, makes it impossible to abuse the land. Everything will be used for learning, for scientific research, all the other questions: rent, sharing, everything will then go on a general basis. As the experienced Parliamentary of Oksana Prodan has made the right amendment, with such an amendment the Hall will agree, let's vote, this law is necessary. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-03-m0.u101	Thank you. Last line, Ivan Melniczuk, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-03-m0.u102	Dear colleagues! My personal opinion and I'm trying to reach you. Just three weeks ago, we cancelled one contract, and the elli was cancelled. Between the same university and one of the relatives of our national deputy, who simply has the name of a firm that's been processing this land as "experimental," "scientific research." And that's why he's taking the university to him, and there's kind of research going on there, but it's fiction. Do you understand? And this fiction is going to be all over Ukraine right now. Without the amendment of Ruslan Demchuk, I urge my comrades not to vote in favour of this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-03-m0.u103	Thank you. Dear colleagues, if there is now the will to support this law, it will be supported, if not, we have several options, as provided for in the Rules. We're voting in a second reading right now, and in general, if he doesn't vote, we can send him to the committee to prepare for the second reading, where you're going to have an expert discussion, you're going to do all the joint positions, you're going to talk to the factions, and we can make a decision. And yes, please prepare for the vote. I'm voting on draft law in second reading and total registration number 1850-1. All national deputies please take their seats and identify themselves.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-03-m0.u104	Dear Volodymira Borisovich, as well as the request to be given the task of bringing technical and legal remedies in the event of his acceptance.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-03-m0.u105	With appropriate second reading and generally with technical legal rights. Please, in the second reading and in general. I'd like to make up my mind. In the second reading and in general. [[13:08:40]] For 169 Clearly, respectable colleagues. That offer didn't go away. Second position. I suggest we bring her back to the preparatory committee for re-reading. And there you can all find the right formulations, the complex approach, and solve this question. Is such an offer accepted? Well, it's scheduled. Please return to the Committee to prepare for the second reading. Please vote. Let's support it. To have expert discussions on this subject in the committee and to determine. [[13:09:20]] For 235 Thank you, colleagues, 235. Please work and we can theoretically and practically even take it out for a second reading next week. It's a plenary week. Let's move on, fellows. For your consideration, 1058, draft Act amending some Ukrainian legislation (to remove regulatory barriers to the development of state-private partnership in Ukraine and to stimulate investment). It's a second reading. Victor Halasyuk, please, to the rostrum, head of the committee. And we're going after the repairs.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-03-m0.u106	Dear Volodymyr Borisovich, distinguished colleagues! I present to you Bill 1058, changes to the state-private partnership. An extremely important bill! It is extremely important that it will allow for real involvement of Ukraine even in such critical times of investment, including in large-scale infrastructure projects. Ukraine’s need to provide normal infrastructure, according to World Bank estimates, is about $100 billion! There are no such funds in the state. So the only mechanism is to invest. It's impossible to do this without a state-private partnership. This bill is also included in the list of priority drafts of the Legislative Reform Plan, which we jointly approved. I'm just going to point out the key money that this bill does. It expands the scope of the state-private partnership. The legislation clearly identifies his signs. Set up clear public guarantees for private investors to come. It creates more flexible organizational and legal mechanisms that fit international practice. Legislators provide against the alienation of state property. The obligation to take into account the socio-economic and environmental consequences after the completion of the State-private partnership is foreseen. Which is very important. The public is full of analysis of the effectiveness of the state-private partnership on the Mine Economic Development website. And it's very important. These are guarantees that the conditions for investors will not deteriorate. At the same time, I would like to stress separately what was excluded from the second reading. And here I would like to thank Victor Mikhailovich Pinzenik separately for his keen remarks, most of which were taken into account. Including this law for second reading, we do not regulate the characteristics of held purchases. They also ruled out the features of monetary regulation, restricted the right to refuse judicial immunity, and removed the possibility of free concession of public objects. So this bill is completely considered. It is supported by USAID, a program for the development of public-private partnerships. It is supported by the American Chamber of Commerce, which is those whose companies will invest in Ukrainian infrastructure, invest, create new jobs. It is also supported by the Kyiv City State Administration, which will also implement the project with this tool. So, dear colleagues, I very much ask you to support this very important bill today in the second reading, in general, taking into account the necessary technical legal rights. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-03-m0.u107	Thank you. Please, 1 change is included. 2 revisions are taken into account in an editorial way. Is there a national MP, Solvar? There's no need. 3--declined. National MP Sotnik insists? 3 Amendments, National Deputy Captain, do you insist? Don't insist. 4 - accounted for. 5th, Mikhailo Golovko, National Deputy, dismissed. Are you insisting? He's gone. 6th. Oh, I'm sorry, I didn't see. 6th, People's Deputy Golovko. Counted. Salvar, National MP, 7 amendments rejected. Don't insist. 8th, Victor Mikhailovich Pinzenik. He insists. Please 8 amendments rejected by the committee. Victor Mikhailovich Pinzenik.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-03-m0.u108	What kind of amendment am I making? The law under consideration contains the following rule. One legal person wins the right to be a partner; he has the right to delegate this right to another legal person established by this winner. Well, it's a crazy thing, one wins, and the other gets the right. By the way, I would like to point out that Ukrainian legislation does not provide for the responsibility of the founder of an enterprise established by it. And the existence of this standard creates opportunities for abuse and for avoiding responsibility from the winner. So I insist that this rule be removed, because the right to be a partner is the one who won this right, not the one who then delegated it to him. Please support this revision.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-03-m0.u109	Dear Victor Mikhailovich, this amendment cannot be supported because it is an active editorial. The proposed draft of the bill provides for a mechanism that is fully in line with international practice -- so-called SPVs, you know that. When a major international company wins a project, and a specially designed company that is fully controlled by it is a fully accepted world practice. And if we don't do it today in Ukraine, the mechanism of the state private partnership just won't work, because it won't fit international practice. The committee therefore insists on the original edition proposed by the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-03-m0.u110	Dear colleagues, please take your seats. Faction leaders, secure the presence of deputies in the hall, please. The 8th Amendment rejected by the Committee, by Viktor Mikhailovich Pinzenik. Declined by the committee. You have heard the position of the committee and the author of the amendment too. I propose to consider this amendment number eight, which is rejected by the committee. Please identify yourself. [[13:16:14]] For 116 The amendment did not get the required number of votes. Let's move on. 9th, accounted for. 10th, accounted for, corrected. The 11th amendment is rejected. People's MP Pinzenik. Please, Victor Mikhailovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-03-m0.u111	Dear colleagues, what is the norm of the law to which I apply? The point is that the special features of a partnership should be taken over by an entity of state ownership. The purpose of the public partnership should be to invest in other laws. Well, it can't be the point. Give a created object. Let me manage this object. Use a public object. That's why I'm proposing to delete this rule because the private partnership is supposed to be investing, which is already a valid rule of law. And this is the standard I'm asking you to delete. Please support the revision.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-03-m0.u112	Dear Victor Mikhailovich, we are at the Committee on Industrial Policy and Entrepreneurship, and we believe that it is absolutely appropriate to provide public objects that are ineffectively used in public private partnership contracts, if even a public-private partner comes, not with material investments, but comes with his know-how, with his technology and management, with his management team and shows great added value. It shows an additional budget filling. If it's convenient for a state, it happens in a very transparent way. Any alienation of state property is prohibited. So, Mr. Victor Mikhailovich, I ask you not to insist on this amendment, because once again, it is a major violation of the law and will make it impossible to involve a whole range of investments in Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-03-m0.u113	Colleagues, 11 revisions, the author insists on her vote. The committee expressed its position, rejected the amendment. Please identify 11 revisions. Voting, colleagues, please identify yourself. [[13:18:40]] Z-91 I didn't get the required number of votes. Let's move on. The 12th amendment is rejected. Don't you insist? 13th? Don't insist. 14th Amendment. Declined. Victor Mikhailovich Pinzenik, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-03-m0.u114	Dear colleagues, the draft law you're considering seems to contain no fault of formulation. The words "behave," "waste treatment" replace "behave." What, though, is involved in handling waste? It also means collecting waste. This means that Ukrainian citizens will face a new problem, and the authorities will enter into agreements on the State’s waste collection partnership, forcing services to house dwellers. And this is the right of the houseowners to choose their own companies to collect and remove garbage. So I insist that the words "waste management" be much more widely replaced and restored by the former law. Waste treatment, waste treatment, I have no objection.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-03-m0.u115	Thank you. Dear Victor Mikhailovich, proposed by the Committee, is fully in line with the terminology of the current Ukrainian legislation, which provides for the term of waste management. Moreover, I would like to point out that this law is very carefully dealt with by the judiciary. So, on the basis of legal validity, and on the basis of that, I'm asking you to support the committee's drafting.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-03-m0.u116	Do you insist, Victor Mikhailovich? Please, the 14th amendment is the author’s insistence rejected by the committee. Identify yourself, fellow believers. [[13:20:42]] For-84 I didn't get the required number of votes. The 15th counted. 16 readjustments included. 17th, People's Deputy Golovko. Don't insist. 18th, Victor Mikhailovich Pinzenik, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-03-m0.u117	Dear People's Deputies, in Ukraine there was once a widespread practice of transferring to the administration of private government property, where it was essentially profit privatization, privatization without privatization. It can't be a form of partnership to pass on to someone: wells, gas wells, oil or a cruiser. I insist that the partnership should be about investment, not about using property created by the state. This is not a form of State partnership and I ask you to support my right to delete this form.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-03-m0.u118	Thank you. Dear Victor Mikhailovich, I would like to stress once again that, first of all, there is no expectation of any alienation of state property -- that is the most important thing. Secondly, if there is a current level of efficiency in the use of this property and the state administration is unable to provide a higher level of revenue to the budget and the corresponding operation of an object. So if there's a big foreign partner or a Ukrainian partner who's able to provide a much bigger budget. What can be done to ensure that he kills corruption for providing more efficient governance, a greater result for the economy, so what should we limit this artificially? Dear colleagues, we've been artificially restricting this for 24 years, let's give the entrepreneurial initiative free, with the full protection of state interests, without any alienation of property. We'd be the first to object if that were the case. Dear colleagues! Please support the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-03-m0.u119	Colleagues, Amendment 18, Victor Mikhailovich Pinzenik, the author, expressed his position, rejected by the committee, the position of committee head, you have also heard. Please be sure to support this amendment on the 18th. [[13:23:07]] For-96 Rules! Please, Your Honor, the 19th Amendment, do you insist? No, it's not. 20th, accounted for. 21st, 22nd, 23rd, edited. 24 Amendments rejected, insist? National Deputy Sotnik, don't insist. National Deputy Koseljeva, 25th Amendment, do you insist? Don't insist. 27th is rejected, Victor Mikhailovich, does not insist. Twenty-eight, accounted for. 32rd is rejected. People's MP Pinzenik insists. Please, Victor Mikhailovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-03-m0.u120	Dear colleagues, note the substance of the standard to which I apply the law. In order to obtain a land plot of government property or municipal property, you need to make a partnership agreement with the authorities. Because a valid norm for voting allows for land outside the competition procedures, in this room we have repeatedly talked about fighting corruption, and we are setting a unique unprecedented norm that allows us to use land resources without any competitive procedures. I ask you to support my proposal, which removes the relevant rule of law.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-03-m0.u121	Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-03-m0.u122	Dear Victor Mikhailovich! Dear colleagues! Please support the committee as it is completely weighed, one side liberalizes the market and offers open, free market opportunities. On the other hand, it's very hard to protect the interests of the state, and it makes it impossible for any hidden alienation. And not just the sale, but any alienation of property, because in the law, by the way, there was "sell" in the existing one, and we changed it into "exclusion," and we also strengthened the protection of state interests. Dear colleagues, please support the committee's editorial work.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-03-m0.u123	32 amendments, please listen to the author and committee arguments. The committee rejected the amendment, the author insists on support. Please identify yourself. [[13:25:45.]] Z-77 I didn't get the required number of votes. Let's move on. 34th, 35th, 36th, accounted for. 37th, rejected, corrected. The author is Victor Mikhailovich Pinzenik. Don't insist. 38th National Deputy Sotnik. Don't insist. 39th, 40th, 41st, accounted for. 42nd is People's Deputy Pinzenic, please, Victor Mikhailovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-03-m0.u124	Dear colleagues, I would like to draw attention to the fact that the bill contains a very dangerous norm, it refers to the refusal of Ukraine's judicial immunity. So this rule passes decisions on disputes that arise from partnerships with residents, with enterprises with foreign investments, and that is the residents, if they exist in Ukraine, on decisions by courts of other countries. Dear colleagues, imagine that tomorrow the decision will be made by the very just world in Russia. In the world, it's the Russian Federation's court. By these rules you allow similar things, although I would like to emphasise, the Ukrainian International Law Act provides for exclusive jurisdiction in the courts of Ukraine over decisions relating to property disputes. So I ask that I vote 42, delete the rule that allows for the refusal of Ukraine's judicial immunity.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-03-m0.u125	Dear Victor Mikhailovich, you said these warnings on your first reading. We've taken them partly into account for the second reading as follows. We have significantly limited the possibility of refusing judicial immunity only to those public-private partnership contracts that have been made directly by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. I would like to stress separately that this is exactly what the Immunity Administration is doing today in the Product Distribution Act. So it's not money in any way, it's just the spread of existing practice on public private partnership contracts. In addition, your honorary colleagues, you and I understand how much time and effort we have to go to a real reform of the judicial system in Ukraine. So if we really want to involve serious international investment, those investors that are going through very complex competitions that are taking on the highest responsibility and signing a contract directly with the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, then we are consulting with expert experts, international lawyers, and.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-03-m0.u126	Dear colleagues, 42 amendments rejected by the committee. The author insists on taking her into account. Please determine by vote. You heard the Committee's loans.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-03-m0.u127	Dear colleagues, the committee supports us because that's not how we're going to involve investors. [[13:29:05]] For-84
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-03-m0.u128	I didn't get the required number of votes. Let's move on. 43 Amendment – does not insist on the author. 44th, counted, 45th, 46th, counted. 47th People's Deputy Pinzenic, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-03-m0.u129	To what standards, dear colleagues, I propose to apply. The law that you are offered to adopt provides that in the case of changes in legislation, according to your partner, the law that works at the time of the agreement will be applied. Respectful lawyers present in the hall can be applied to the law that has become invalid? How can decisions be made in laws that do not have legal power? Let's face it, then in Ukraine, there are rules of law for "Russian Truth" by Jaroslav Wise, and that will be the right thing to do. I'm asking you to support my revision that settles the issue.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-03-m0.u130	47 Amendment rejected. Please take the seat of the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-03-m0.u131	Dear colleagues, you know that today one of the biggest problems that scares international investors, and the absolute unpredictability of the changes in legislation that they have in their interests, they come with large, long investments, and in two years, the state says: "We joked, we undo the conditions that we created for you." So, dear colleagues, every one of you knows that, every day we meet with big potential investors who say what their biggest problems are, so that's one of the biggest problems. Dear colleagues, let's create at least an oasis of stability if we can't fix the entire institutional environment immediately. Please support the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-03-m0.u132	Please, 47 revisions, identify yourself. Declined by the committee. The author is Pinzenik Viktor Mihajlovich. Identify [[13:31:29]] Z-77 77 votes. There's not enough. 49th, accounted for. 50th, accounted for. 48th, right? 48th is unaccounted for. Please, People's Deputy Pinzenic.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-03-m0.u133	Dear colleagues! 48 revisions apply to the following. The rule of law that you are asked to approve provides that if, during the duration of the contract, decisions have been taken that make the status of a private partner worse, they should be compensated in one form or another. Now let me give you an example. For days the government raised the minimum wage. Does this lead to extra expenses for a private partner? This is the rule of the State Budget Act, they just introduced it earlier. In such cases, you give reasons to demand that these additional expenses be reimbursed to your private partner. I ask you to delete this rule and vote on my proposal, amendment 48.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-03-m0.u134	Please take the seat of the committee. Attention, colleagues!
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-03-m0.u135	Dear Victor Mikhailovich, the issue of social standards is not about the conditions on which the investor came to the country. If we create certain tax conditions, if we create certain regulatory conditions, and then we make them significantly worse for an investor, we're actually driving it into an angle. First of all, we'll never bring him back to the country again. Secondly, we're going to scare off all the other investors. So this is one of the main money in this bill. Dear colleagues! Let's create at least an oasis of stability to invest in Ukraine and protect and cherish those brave people who today agree, or are potentially considering coming to Ukraine. We need to carry them on our hands, not say we're removing the guarantees of the stability of legislation. Please support the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-03-m0.u136	Please, 48 amendments are not considered by the committee. Please identify yourself. 48th is not considered by the committee. [[13:33:47]] Z-70. 70. The decision is not taken. 49th, 50th counted. 52. Are they insisting? Don't insist. 53. Don't insist. Next, colleagues, 54, Victor Mikhailovich Pinzenik, please. He insists.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-03-m0.u137	Dear colleagues! I'm asking you again. This applies already to the standard of satellite laws. The Act on the Management of Public Property Objects, deletes such a form as the transfer of a public private partnership. If you feel that an object should be transferred into your private hands, sell it. Because it's free privatization. You don't have to. The owner received property for which he paid nothing and used the profit of the created state at the expense of the State Budget. I'm asking you to support number 54, vote in favour.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-03-m0.u138	Dear Victor Mikhailovich! You're a top-class expert. Dear colleagues, let's do one simple thing, let's move on from the adoption of the laws of declaration. Because if we take into account these amendments and remove all the innovations that are provided for by this law, we can simply put them on a shelf like hundreds of other laws. He won't work, he won't invest. Dear colleagues, I ask you to keep the committee's editorial. I want to thank the drafters of the bill, all members of the committee. I would like to thank Mr. Maxime Efimov separately, who has made a tremendous effort to bring this bill to a ready result supported by investors, professional lawyers who will work in practice. I'm asking you to support the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-03-m0.u139	Please, colleagues, 54 revisions, be determined. Declined by the committee. [[13:36:04]] For-65 65. I didn't get the required number of votes. Let's move on. 55th doesn't insist. 56th doesn't insist. 57th is an editorial. Victor Mikhailovich Pinzenik, 57th Amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-03-m0.u140	Dear colleagues! I ask you to support Amendment 57, which provides for the deletion of the rule on the possibility of free concession. Well, government objects cannot be transferred to free use. They're to be paid for. Please support my amendment 57.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-03-m0.u141	Dear Victor Mikhailovich, this amendment is included. It's considered editorially.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-03-m0.u142	You got it? You got it? Let's move on. 58 revisions. 58th, accounted for. 59th is an editorial. 60th is an editorial. 61? Don't insist. 67 revisions. Pinzenik Viktor Mikhailovich does not insist. 73rd National Deputy Koseljeva does not insist. 77th Pinzenik Viktor Mikhailovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-03-m0.u143	Dear colleagues! This amendment applies to the maintenance of the International Law Act on the exclusive jurisdiction of the courts of Ukraine of property disputes. I'm asking you to save them. But obviously there is no point in approving the amendments now. Because in the prepared version, I don't think the law can be voted on. I would like to stress my colleagues in particular. We have the Law on State-Private Partnership. It's a law code, it's not a new law. In the version that was prepared, my proposal, because there was no professional discussion, were calls, unfortunately. And the laws prepared contain many dangerous standards that contain corrupt risks. I ask my colleagues not to support the adoption of this law as a whole.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-03-m0.u144	Dear Victor Mikhailovich, I emphasize once again that all the critical, important remarks you made were taken into account in the second reading. Thank you so much for them. But I'm underlining it. What if today, taking into account the adjustments you insist on in the hall, this law will have no meaning, it will not allow for investment? Dear colleagues, we don't have the luxury of not creating a very attractive investment environment today, providing absolutely strict protection for the interests of the state. Victor Mikhailovich, distinguished colleagues, no alienation of state property. There is an effective use. Let's make the budget fill, let's make new jobs, let's move forward. We have to show a completely real result today. Laws like this, this whole year could be, God forbid, 10. It's a fundamental law. I'm asking you to support the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-03-m0.u145	Please, Your Honor, are we still voting for 77 amendments? 77th vote, please. [[13:39:47]] Z-71 No support was found for the amendment. 78th doesn't insist. 79th doesn't insist. Dear colleagues, all other amendments are included. Faction leaders, please invite the national deputies to take their seats in the hall. We will now vote in the second reading and in the entire draft law. Dear colleagues, please take your seats, prepare for the vote. Draft Law 1058 amending certain Ukrainian legislative acts to remove regulatory barriers to the development of State-private partnership in Ukraine and to stimulate investment). Colleagues, a signal vote on the adoption of this law in second reading and in general. Take your seats, please. Please vote in the second reading and in the whole of this draft law, and then we will be determined. Please, in your second reading and in general, identify yourself as colleagues. [[13:42:21]] For-167 Obviously, there are no votes for this law. 167 votes in favour. There is an offer to send it back to the committee to prepare for the second reading. Colleagues, second reading again. Suggestion: Send the draft law to the committee for re-read. Did everyone hear the offer? Did everyone hear the offer? Please provide a signal vote on the return to the Committee to prepare for re-second reading in accordance with the Rules. Colleagues, please read the second reading again. Let's back up and work on this law. [[13:43:10]] For 208 208 votes. Let's do the factions. There is another suggestion: Send it to the third reading. Victor Mikhailovich Pinzenik. Look, Your Honor, we've already done everything we had to do under the Rules and any call from this rostrum to vote for this law, it won't give the necessary 30-40 votes. Please, Victor Mikhailovich Pinzenik as the author of many amendments that have not been taken into account.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-03-m0.u146	Dear colleagues, for the third time, we can only make separate standards. And there are problems with many standards. Therefore, it is appropriate to recommend a second reading. And try to find a compromise in read-back mode.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-03-m0.u147	Alexander Volodymyrn Kugel also supports this proposal. Colleagues, please concentrate. The language goes that we vote for the second reading again, to prepare it for the second reading on the committee. I'm going to put this proposal to a vote. Please make up your mind, colleagues. Please, Your Honor, for a second reading to the committee. To prepare for the second reading according to the Supreme Council Rules. Sending to the committee for re-reading, please vote, 1058. Let's support the focus on the second, in the committee to prepare for the second reading. [[13:45:09]] For 227 They did. Thank you, Your Honor. Next, 2844 draft Law amending certain laws of Ukraine (to remove regulatory barriers to the development of an industrial park network in Ukraine). Please, head of the Halasyuk Committee on the rostrum. Let's do some repairs. Colleagues, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-03-m0.u148	Ladies and gentlemen, I ask you to support Bill 2844 as a whole with technical and legal rights, because in itself there will be no economic miracle in Ukraine. In order for our economy to grow, we need to create high productivity jobs. And to do that, you have to invest. Industrial parks are the mechanism that allows investment in countries in Europe, Asia and the world. By this law, I thank Peter Mikhailovich Vanata for his initiative, this law we make deregulation in industrial parks, we make a completely clear, transparent, controlled system. We're simplifying the involvement of foreign management companies to bring in an investor and to bring new factories to Ukraine. Dear colleagues, this bill is also part of the legislative reform plan and is placed in the priority category. I ask you to support the position of the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-03-m0.u149	Dear colleagues, please take the first amendment into account. 2 Amendments, Lechenko insists? Don't insist. Third. Don't insist. Four, five, six. Counted. 7th, People's Deputy Kiral. Are you insisting? Don't insist. 8-a, 9-a, 10-a, 11-a, 12-a, we think is supported. 13th, 14th, 15th, supported. 23 Amendment, People's Deputy Kiral. Declined. Don't insist. People's MP Markevich, 24th Amendment. Declined. Don't insist. 29th National Deputy Kiral. Don't insist. 33rd. Don't insist. 40th. Don't insist. 41st. 42nd, Levenchenko. Don't insist. 43rd, Markevich. Don't insist. 45th. Don't insist. 49th. It's too much. 50th. They don't insist either. 52nd. Don't insist. 61st. Don't insist. 65th. No, I'm not. 68th, don't insist. Please, colleagues, invite the national deputies to the hall, faction leaders, and invite the deputies to the hall, please! We've been through all the amendments, please, for two minutes, the head of the committee, and we're going to go to the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-03-m0.u150	Dear colleagues! I ask you to come into the hall because this law is designed to create attractive conditions for the construction of new factories in Ukraine! Dear colleagues, without this, we will not change the situation in the country! When the general situation in the country is not attractive, all countries of the world, starting with China, Turkey, Poland, went this way. They created ready infrastructure sites for investors, simplified regulatory conditions for them, and gave them temporary fiscal incentives. You and I can see the results today in both Turkey and Poland and elsewhere. When they imported everything 10 or 15 years ago, they had poor, backward economies, and today they're ahead of us 2 or 3 times! When wages are 5-7 times higher than in Ukraine! Dear colleagues! There can be no economic wonder if we do not create it ourselves! If you and I do not legislatively accept instruments for investing in the country, tools for creating new jobs, tools for stimulating exports from Ukraine, not raw materials, but finished products, nothing will change, we will remain a raw colony with you! Dear colleagues, I urge you to support the Ukrainian industry, support the bill in second reading and in general! Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-03-m0.u151	Colleagues, please take your seats, there'll be a signal vote, in fact we've just gone to the amendment, I haven't seen any comments on this draft law. This means that a certain unity among the deputies is, right now, only to be clearly, qualitatively voted. Colleagues, please, I will put to the vote a signal vote on this 2844 project on industrial parks. Are you ready to vote, colleagues? Let's do the signal in the second reading and in general 2844, we're voting 2844. It's not political, it's economic law, so I think it is. It's a signal vote, colleagues. [[13:51:46]] For 199 I think we can vote on it. All we have to do is make a deal, we've discussed it, we've passed it, we'll vote it at 4:00. Is it accepted? I see that all factions support simply, completely everyone. After 16 hours, have you agreed? As discussed earlier. Thank you. Please, Victor Halasyuk, take your place in the hall. Dear colleagues, I have been instructed by the Apparatus to invite you now, to inform the Ukrainian people and deputies of the Supreme Council what is happening today in Kiev. He arrived now, now the head of the State Service has arrived from the extraordinary situations of Mikola Chechtkin, he is present. I want to invite him to my word. Please inform the members of the Supreme Council. There is a deputy minister who serves as Minister of Hanna Alexandrovna Vronska, who will also inform about the environmental aspect of the situation. Please, Mikola Alexandrovich, please inform.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-03-m0.u152	Dear Volodymira Borisovich, distinguished national deputies, without prejudice to the fact that the main task of the State Service in Ukraine is to protect the population from fires and to ensure rapid response to them in cities and villages, in other locations, in production and transport, today the main efforts of the service are focused on countering fires in natural ecosystems. In connection with the anomalous dry and hot weather that has been maintained for a long time in the state’s territory, there has been a significant increase in forest fires, in peatland, in agriculture, and in open areas of the area. Overall, over the summer months, the average air temperature exceeded between 15 and 40 percent of the average temperature from one and a half to three degrees Celsius, with an absolute maximum temperature of 39 to 37 degrees Celsius. According to operational data this year, the number of fires in natural ecosystems has increased 1.4 times, but the area covered by fire has decreased by 189 hectares; forest fires have increased 1.8 times, but the area of fire has decreased 2 and a half times; and the number of fires has increased almost four times in peat fires and 8.3 times their area. At this time, the State Service of Ukraine, in response to the local authorities, is using measures to extinguish the midst of the torpedo fires. Today, in Ukraine, we have 32 decaying centers in a total area of 112 hectares. In the Kyiv region, this is 16 centers, in Ivano-Frankivsky – 5, in Ravenska – 4, Volinsky – 2, Poltavski – 2, Chernigivska, Žitomirska and Vinnitskska region – 1. A total of 378 personnel and 110 technical units, including 230 personnel and 85 technical units from the State Emergency Service, were involved until the fires were extinguished. One of the causes of fires on peatlands is a significant decrease in groundwater levels, and there is a complete drying of wells and wells that monitor groundwater levels. Compared to the average perennial rate, the water level fell from 50 to 200 centimeters, or up to 2 meters [2 m]. As for the smoke in Kiev. In fact, it was observed this morning and it was probably the cause of the outbreak, it was the result of a fire that occurred yesterday at a settlement in the right-wing area near the village of Zazymya, in the area of Bilodibrovo forestry, the fire was localized yesterday at 7 p.m. But the lowering of the night’s air temperature, the increase in humidity, contributed to the formation of metrological smoke. The presence of metrological smoke has usually increased the visualization of smoke in Kiev this morning. It's a natural phenomenon that would have come up anyway, whether it was a fire or not, the only thing that would have added it was the smell of smoke. At this time, the fires continue to be completely extinguished. Like I said, I'll have a localized fire yesterday at 7:40. At this time, 150 people and 17 units of technology were involved in the elimination of fires, 80 from the Ukrainian State Service and 8 from technical units. In addition, a forest fire in the area of more than 90 acres [90 ha] in the Izáslov region of the Hmelnicka district was eliminated this morning. Thanks to the operational activities of the DDSN units, the spread of fire to the Hmelnick nuclear power plant is stopped at 19 kilometers, military warehouses and nearby fire stations are stopped at a distance of up to 35 km. Two hundred staff members and 35 technical units were involved, including 45 in the State Service and 20 technical units. The forest fire between the villages of Koblitsa and the Great Forest in the Borodian region continues to be extinguished. At 10 o'clock today, the fire is localized. We've been doing a lot of flying. I'm sorry. Which allowed the shortest time to locate the fire and prevent it from spreading to large areas. In addition, on September 2, five homes were burned in the village of Oliva, in the area of Ivankovsky, as a result of the burning of the grass. At the time the troops arrived, we were forced to remove them from the fire extinguishing in the Borodian district, with fire covering five buildings, the fire was eliminated, and there were no victims and victims. The main causes of fires in natural ecosystems are: first, this is the reckless treatment of the fire of the population, especially now that the field is finished and the population is beginning to burn the remains of the dry vegetation; it is set on fire or burned under unwary fire management and it is not properly maintained by the owners of their land. Dear National Deputies! In principle, change the firefighting situation in natural ecosystems and, in particular, in forest areas, perhaps only on one condition, the imposition of ownership of landowners and forest users for the state of fire safety in their territories, up to the removal of ownership rights, as is done in other countries of Europe. Otherwise, no resources from the State will be sufficient to extinguish such fires. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-03-m0.u153	Thank you. Mikola Alexanderovich, please tell me what's going on in the capital right now, a bunch of smoke and everything, when you're planning to finish all this, a fire extinguisher. Extinguishing.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-03-m0.u154	So that's the smoke of the day. Today, there is no more smoldering in Kiev than it was this morning, and if weather conditions are conducive to us, they will be. which are now (I'm sorry), we predict and plan to eliminate by the end of this day the total fire in the area of the area inhabited by the site of Zazimya.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-03-m0.u155	All the way. Until the end of the day. Thank you. I thank you on behalf of my fellow national MPs, you'll be able to come in later and ask all the questions you're interested in. I don't think Mikola Alexanderovich is going anywhere. Thank you. And give our gratitude to the firefighters. And I would very much ask that, not only in the capital, but in other areas, the situation be adequately controlled. I. Well, what we can do to support the MPs, we're ready to do that. DSNS, to be exact.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-03-m0.u156	We're constantly conducting aerial intelligence, and today we've been conducting, and the situation is constantly under way, and there's a constant monitoring of the fire situation.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-03-m0.u157	Thank you, Mikola Alexandrovich. Thank you. Please inform Deputy Minister Hanna Alexandrovna Vronska about the environmental consequences. Make appropriate recommendations, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-03-m0.u158	Good afternoon, fellow MPs! First of all, I wanted to point out that the radiation background in Kiev and Kiev is within the normal range of 10-11 micro X-rays per hour. At the same time, the safety of the radiation background is up to 30 micro X - rays per hour. The radiation background in the alienation zone is now an average of 24 micro X - rays per hour. With regard to atmospheric air pollution, it is estimated that at 8 a.m., according to the data given to us by the Kiev City Laboratory Centre of the Dergsanepidem service, the concentration of harmful substances, namely sulfuric anhydride, exceeds the maximum allowable standard several times, but this is not. There are different dimensions. For example, at the bank’s point, 11 is 5.4 times higher; ul. Stalingrad, 10-A, exceeds 6.2 times; Obolonsky's prospectus, 16 is greater than 5.4 times; Dniper's hero, 29 is higher than 8 times. According to the Ministry of Health, such excesses are not harmful to health. The nitrogen content, the dioxide, the carbon dioxide in the points on Banking, Mikhail, the Prospect of Heroes of Stalingrad, the Obolonian Prospect, the Heroes of Dniper does not exceed the maximum permissible standard. So the situation is within control.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-03-m0.u159	What are your recommendations for the moment? What do we have that people, you can just say in normal language, what do we do to people in this situation?
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-03-m0.u160	According to the Ministry of Nature's recommendations, it worked on the information, it's on our website, it's been published for up to 12 hours. According to the Ministry of Health’s recommendations, they recommend not to go outside, close doors, windows, and stay in places where there may be a large accumulation of air, which is a result of low natural pressure. So in fact, as the representative of the DSS pointed out, the presence of metrological smoke increased the visualization of smoke in Kiev. This was because there was a great drop in temperature at night, and the smoke dropped as a result of natural pressure. It was more of a visual effect.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-03-m0.u161	Yes, of course. But it's more of a natural phenomenon. The DNSC used to eliminate direct fire. They are now working to eliminate, extinguish, and extinguish the final phenomena of fire.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-03-m0.u162	In what period after the fire is finally extinguished will there be a period of time after the fire is extinguished?
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-03-m0.u163	We expect that during the day. But EUFOR is conducting projects, and they are published on their website. We're going to do a summary of the information, and we're going to have to look at the operative news on our website.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-03-m0.u164	Thank you. I'm asking the Council TV channels to keep this information up to date so that Ukrainian citizens can see it. But the situation, we've all heard, is controlled. Clearly, this is unpleasant, but it's not the right thing to do. But there are measures of limitation that need to be put in place now, especially for children, so that there is no such negative influence. And we hope that by the end of the day such things will be localized, and the next day the situation will be much better. Thank you. Thank you, take your place. Thank you for your work. Dear colleagues, the morning meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. after the announcement. A statement by the respective national deputy, Sergey Berezenka, that he is part of the MP's Party of Peter Poroshenko's Party of the Supreme Council of the Eighth Call. He's a member of the Solidarity Party of Peter Dustenka. Announcing is done. I announce this morning's meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine closed. At 4 p.m. I'm asking everyone to come over to continue our evening work. Thank you.
