ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-09-m0.u1	Dear colleagues! Please enter the hall, take up jobs so that we can start our work part of the session. Please come into the hall, we're taking up jobs.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-09-m0.u2	Distinguished People's Deputies! I welcome you to the Hall of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. People's deputies please take their seats. I'd like to inform you that we have very important guests today, which I'm going to introduce to the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Dear colleagues, I'd like you to turn on the council system for registration. A colleague of the National Deputies would like to take your seats. [[10:05:25]] 293 National Deputies in the Supreme Council of Ukraine At work. I declare open the morning session of the Supreme Council. The Prime Minister of Ukraine, with the full composition of the government, Arsenius Petrovich Yatzenuk, participates in the work of the Supreme Council. Dear fellow national MPs! The President of the Republic of Poland, Bronislav Komorowski and Mrs Anna Komorovska, are in Ukraine with an official visit. Highly esteemed guests and the president of Ukraine, Peter Poroshenko, are now visiting this hall. Please. I invite the President of the Republic of Poland, Bronislav Komorowski, to the floor. Please, Your Honor, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-09-m0.u3	"Polish has not died yet" is the beginning of the Polish national anthem. The words of the Ukrainian Hymn are similar to the words of the Ukrainian Anthem. The tomb of priest Mikhail Verbicki, author of music for the Ukrainian Hymn, is located in the territory of Poland in the village of Mlini, near Premysl, where he was a Greek-Catholic couple for many years. This year we celebrated the 200th anniversary of his birth. We also celebrated together as a sign of the common memory and testimony of the sympathy and solidarity that the Poles and Poland have for your people. In view of these deep ties, today’s opportunity to contact you, the representatives of the Ukrainian people at such an important time for Ukraine, I consider it a special privilege to thank you, and to prove the trust of Ukrainian friends. Ladies and gentlemen of the MPs, when the Ukrainian band Taraka sang "Give me your hand to Ukraine" in 2014, those words lay deeply in the hearts of the Poles. And here in the home of the great Ukrainian poet Taras Shevchenk, we cannot help but associate these words with his poem to the Poles, where he called out, "Give me your hand to the Cossack." Poland gives its hand to Ukraine. Poland is doing its best to have other nations present their hand to Ukraine. Poland gives its hand to Ukraine. Poland will do its utmost to have Ukraine’s hand handed over to other states and nations of the free Western world. The Polish outstretched hand is not a topical and political issue, but our understanding of the historical processes that encourage an equal and extremely important partner and neighbour in Ukraine. This isn't about the past, this is about the future of Polish-Ukrainian relations, although we feel that the vision of the common past is deeply rooted in historical experience. For over a thousand years, the fate of Ukrainians and Poles has been inseparable. All you have to do is mention the person of Prince Galicko-Volinsky Danil, enthroned by the king of Russia in the Road and buried in the city of Holm. In Holma, where he came into the world 600 years later, Mikhailo Gruszewski was born, the most famous Ukrainian historian, an icon of the Ukrainian National Movement. For centuries, our ancestors lived in one state — the Postpolithic thing — of two nations. Because of the shortsightedness of those years, there, that state did not become the Republic of the Three Equitable Nations — Polish, Lithuanian, and Russian — today. Then, we remember that we paid for this mistake, the terrible cost of losing the State in the 13th century. Then we should mention that we already had a sense, a shared sense of belonging to a larger European body, and we have repeatedly defended Europe together. These are the Cossacks of the Gehtman Peter Konashevitch-Saydach, who made a decisive contribution to the victory of the Word of the Commons over the Ottoman forces in the Battle of Hottin in 1621. And the defense of the city of Zamposta by the Red Army in 1920 was directed by the general of the troops of the Ukrainian People’s Republic of Marko Bezremko, who was buried on the Warsaw Orthodox cemetery. Today, he is also mentioned in the Memorial Table in Zameta. We are united by a common historical experience: a long period of shared statehood, the establishment of the foundations of national existence in a stateless environment, and the severe repression of foreign hegemonics. Our tongues, our customs, our clothes, our songs are close to one another. Even so, during the period of captivity by the great 19-year-old empires and Poles, and the Ukrainians succumbed to the enemy game, and their national-liberal aspirations were largely directed at one another. The tragic climax of the conflict took place during the years of World War II, when so much innocent Polish and Ukrainian blood was shed. Remember, then, that when Poles and Ukrainians opposed themselves, it was always used by someone else, someone who wanted to rob us of our independence and our freedom. Ladies and gentlemen, we hope that the current good dialogue of our nations and nations will not be affected by past disputes and disputes that Poles and Ukrainians can have a difficult discussion of the history of their conflicts and their tragic consequences. We know well that mutual forgiveness and reconciliation are the right way. In order for this not to be an empty gesture, it must be implemented through joint Polish-Ukrainian actions, it must first of all be to cherish the memory of the victims of brotherly crimes, worthy of honoring all the victims at their places of suffering and death. It is our duty to our ancestors, both in Poland and in Ukraine. Working for Poland and Ukraine is the strong and independent states, combined with seeing the future and the good neighborhood, which I think is the best way to honor our ancestors, grandparents, and those who have suffered as a result of the conflict. In this place, we need to mention the great role that young people can play in bringing our peoples closer together. That is why I especially have a strong relationship between the young generation. Let us not forget the great role played by the presence of young Poles. I think I'm going to mention that my children are also on Ukrainian playgrounds, as well as their physical spontaneous presence and desire to help Ukraine. And that is why we should be very happy that in Poland, more than 23,000 Ukrainians are studying today, including a group of Polish government fellows coming from the territory of Ukraine covered by military action. I hope that the Intergovernmental Youth Exchange Agreement will be signed in the coming weeks. This is an important step, this is an important investment in the future. We will support the contacts of young people who will build a new quality of Polish-Ukrainian relations in the future. Ladies and gentlemen, we meet when Ukraine is actually in a state of war, when the occupation of Crimea and Russian aggression in the East of Ukraine ended a joyful celebration in Poland, among other things, on the 25th anniversary of freedom in our part of Europe and throughout Central Eastern Europe. We meet at a time when Russian aggression is cruelly trying to rob Ukraine of the right to self-determination and its right to freely choose ways and means of democratic development. Our festival of freedom, the Polish festival of freedom, could not be complete or complete if people were dying in the near heart of Ukraine simply because they desired the same will that my generation fought for in Poland and wanted to give their lives for it. This very will, as expressed by the right to free, sovereign formation of its future, is a will expressed in disapproval of the return of politics based on the logic of the zones of influence to the return of the unforgivable imperial domination over the weaker. Against such an act of violence, offering the greatest sacrifice of human life, the Ukrainian people on the grounds, in the Dignity Revolution and in eastern Ukraine, defending their independence, protecting the values on which the European Union was built. So values like freedom, dignity, justice, and solidarity. Thus, Europe can never forget the sacrifices of the Heroes of the Celestial 100, the victims of the Heroes of the Celestial 100. As President of Poland, I am particularly proud of the fact that a few of them had Polish roots from the boys of Heaven. They joined the many clusters of beautiful articles in our common history, which remind us of the slogan that is important to us: "For our freedom and your freedom!".. I had many meetings with the activists of Eromaydan in Poland, with wounded during the Dignity Revolution, many of whom were admitted by Polish hospitals. The meetings with Ukrainian soldiers were especially touching. From them I heard that the inspiration for them was the words of your hymn: "We will lay down our soul and body for our freedom and show that we are brothers of the Cossack family.".. I am convinced that only the sons of the great nations speak of their sacrifice and their love for their homeland with such grand words. The opposition to violence policies today has an additional dimension. Soon we'll be celebrating the 70th anniversary of the end of World War II, and today with the new one. With the President of Ukraine, we will bow our heads to the victims of Stalin's totalitarianism in Bykovn. On the 75th anniversary of the Katinian crime, we honor the memory of Polish officers who were shot by the NCAF at Stalin's orders. But tens of thousands of Ukrainian victims of the Stalin regime since the 1930s are also a symbolic phenomenon that unites the fate of Poles and Ukrainians. The dignity revolution, which began with the protection of Ukraine’s European choice, showed that the Ukrainians clearly expressed themselves on the side of European values. Today, when Ukrainian sons die in eastern Ukraine, defending their independence, they also protect Europe, they protect it from returning to imperial thinking, from decisions that threaten all of Europe. It is not to be overlooked that there are soldiers, tanks, BTRs, sentient aggressors in Ukraine. "The world will pass with a lie, but you will not go back," says the Ukrainian proverb. Today on this lie, this whole thing. Today this lie will be overlooked only by the blind: the Western world must understand that it will only be safe if Ukraine is safe. That's why we support any action aimed at resolving this conflict, particularly the Minsk Accords. We hope that these arrangements will be kept and implemented as a means of ensuring Ukraine's territorial integrity and security. Ladies and gentlemen, our ancestors together created a nation that played an important role in the political and cultural map of Europe. The painful experience of our part of Europe tells us to look, says to leave the nonexistent third path between. He says to go to European integration. Poland takes note of this Ukrainian choice with pleasure. We look forward to this with great satisfaction, this is the solution, so that we will remember that the creator of the Polish independent state after World War I, Marshal Yusef Pilsudski, spoke with great conviction that there would be no free Poland without free Ukraine. Today we must say more together: there will be no stable safe Europe if Ukraine does not become part of it. The doors to Western world structures, especially to the European Union, must remain open, open to Ukraine. Knowing the conditions and difficult criteria to meet, Ukraine makes its own choice in these matters. But no one should limit the Ukrainian right to this choice, the right to such aspirations. Moreover, Ukrainians have proved in word and deed that they are already seeing their future in a free, democratic and secure Europe. The power that unites Ukraine is your special sense of national dignity and your love for the earth. The pro-European revolution, which we gave heroes honor on February 22nd in the Qiev Dignity March, continues. The Ukrainians made their choice. There is now a time of great work for Ukraine to build a new sovereign state and protect its territories. For all, without exception, because during the Dignity Revolution and during the war in Donbas, the political civilian people of Ukraine, united in their aspirations, were strengthened. In the following year, Ukraine will celebrate the 25th anniversary of its independence, which means that there is already one generation living in an independent state. The EU and NATO countries recognise Ukraine's territorial integrity in the 1991 borders. The changes in these borders by force, despite the will of the Ukrainian people, will never be accepted and will always be condemned. We are all aware of the challenges facing Ukraine. The main ones are the protection of their territory against the armed aggression of the Eastern neighbour, but also the implementation of deep reforms: political, social and economic, which is a very difficult task to carry out alone and for everyone. The support of Ukraine’s friends strengthens these forces many times. I am deeply convinced that we will achieve this goal together. On the part of Ukraine, a wise order is needed for reforms. On the part of the Western world, it is essential to be willing to help, as well as to be patient, to be willing to receive all the help, political, economic, and other assistance that will strengthen the Ukrainian defence system. Deputies! Poland is Ukraine's special neighbour. We want to see in our eastern neighbor a strong and effective state. In May, 25 years have passed since the first important meeting of Polish and Ukrainian deputies in Jablon under Warsaw, when an independent Poland and an independent Ukraine were born. Even before the approval of the Ukrainian Declaration of Sovereignty, they talked about a difficult past, but above all, about building a shared future. A year later, Poland, as the world’s first state, recognized Ukrainian independence. Since then, Poland has never left Ukraine, supporting its transformative European efforts and aspirations. Never. Even in difficult times, we did not run out of faith in Poland that every joint Polish-Ukrainian effort brings us closer to the common goal of living in a common European house of freedom. This applies to all important Polish political forces, all presidents and all governments. As Poles, we want our close Ukrainian people to live in prosperity and to take advantage of the civilizational achievements of the entire Western world. The path to stable freedom and prosperity always leads to difficult changes, through reforms. It therefore calls for respect for determination, with which the President of Ukraine, the Prime Minister, ministers and the Ukrainian Parliament declare the initiation of deep reforms. Reforms that have unfortunately not been carried out more quickly fall within a very difficult period of time during the war. We're aware of that. But we also remember our own experience. When the necessary reforms had to be carried out during the deep economic crisis in the 1980s and 1990s. Our Polish experience says that sometimes it is worth paying the political price for the necessary reforms that open up a better future for our own people. Because we know that Poland would not be where it is today if it hadn't carried out major reforms over 20 years ago that changed the whole idea of the functioning of the state and the relations of the state of the public. Without economic reform, social reform, reform of local self - government, in every field of Polish life. As we made our historic choice in the 89th year, we realized that on this path, there would be a lot of obstacles and problems on this road. But we realized that the goal could be achieved. The goal was to break free from the communist past. This was an opportunity to decide for yourself about the future and the welfare of every citizen. A week ago, I met in Warsaw with a group of deputies to the Supreme Council of Ukraine representing a new generation of Ukrainian deputies. I see some faces in this room today. I was very moved during this meeting because I looked at a group of young people who were serving their own homeland, as my environment once served their homeland, the Solidarity environment, which together contrasted with reality and tried to change within the service of government or parliament. I then told young Ukrainian MPs what I deeply believe, that Polish experience says clearly, that in times of greatest threat, the best, easiest or easiest thing to find is deep determination to do and to carry out reforms. Sometimes when it's safe, you just don't want to. When it's bad, when it's hard, when it's dangerous, sometimes we understand everyone who can't do otherwise, that it's our job. I wish that your sequence for change in Ukraine would continue and give concrete results. We did it. And you Ukrainians will succeed. I believe this deeply because I know the taste of success as a result of difficult risk decisions that people focused on and that were then taken for granted because they gave way to the future. There is no one example of success, and each nation must find its own way and follow it consistently. Yes, and so it will be here, in Ukraine. Not all decisions are successfully passed on to national economic and social soil. Nevertheless, I feel it is my duty to share with Ukrainian friends one important or perhaps, from a Polish point of view, the most important experience. So it was by no chance that big changes in my state were made by Solidarity, a great movement that covered people with different views and different political affections. This Solidarity was not an accident but a great camp of reforms, not only a large camp for the fight for freedom of Poland, but also a large camp for the fight for a better future, for reforms. The first reformist government of Tadeusz Mazowiecki, the first post-communist Polish prime minister, was by no chance based on a political understanding made at the round table, which also included former opponents. It wasn't easy, but it was paid for in Poland. It was an accident. We now know that without this basic political agreement at the stage of making important decisions, we would not have done anything. Agree is a condition of success. The Association Agreement with the European Union opens wide opportunities for action, allows for dynamization of cooperation with the European Union in the political, economic spheres, creates favourable conditions for the development of interpersonal contacts. The successive implementation of their provisions, in particular the execution of its economic part, I believe deeply, will change Ukraine and will inevitably lead Ukraine out of post-Soviet space into the space of the entire Western states. The gradual implementation of this phase, the issue of liberalisation, is a chance even to abolish the visa regime, Poland will fully support this. Real deep reforms, decentralization, deregulation, the fight against corruption, the strengthening of justice along with the financial support of the West will strengthen Ukraine as an independent sovereign state, as well as an attractive place on the map where people want to live and work well. Ladies and gentlemen, my visit to Ukraine takes place at a special moment: literally between Catholic Easter and Orthodox Easter. This is a special time for all of us Christians, a time of symbolic victory over evil, to win life over death. It's also a spring holiday, a holiday of hope -- a chance for a fresh start, a good start. Hope has always been a force that the words of the Ukrainian Hymn are well given: "We brothers of Ukraine will smile at fate." I deeply believe that fate will smile at us in a common European house. When Taras Shevchenko said, "Give your hand to the Cossack," he also said, "Together we will resurrect our peaceful paradise." I would like to add today: we are handing out our hands and building a European future together for us and for future generations of Poles and Ukrainians. For our freedom and your freedom! Long live free, democratic and European Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-09-m0.u4	You have a beautiful Hymn. I wish he would lead you to victory.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-09-m0.u5	Thank you, Mr. President of the Republic of Poland, Bronislav Komorowski, Mrs. Annie Komarovsky, President of Ukraine, Petr Prashenko and Ms. Marina Prashenko. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-09-m0.u6	Dear colleagues, dear colleagues, I ask you to take up your jobs. We are unusually many today, and the day is extremely difficult. We have important issues relating to national security, national memory, and long - term issues. And it is important for us to be able to quickly accept the order of the day that is foretold today. I'm asking everyone to concentrate on starting our work. In the beginning, I'm going to give Ungurian a minute from the rostrum to report the booklets that we actually received today. Please, one minute for the line. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-09-m0.u7	Dear colleagues, I think we are all extremely inspired by the statement by the President of Poland. And he reminded us that today, this week in Eastern Christian tradition, it is under the sign of the Last Week and the mention of events that took place two thousand years ago. For Christians today, a special day is the Passionous Quarter, or the Pure Quarter. And today, from our interfractional merger "For the Spirituality, Morality and Health of Ukraine," we have given all the deputies these new Covenants in the colors of our national flag or in the colors of the military form of those military who are protecting Ukraine today. May Jehovah bless you, your families. And may the Lord God bless our country! And on these festive days of the resurrection of Christ, may the Lord give peace to Ukraine! Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-09-m0.u8	Thank you so much for welcoming us, for the warm words, and for starting our work. So according to the order of the day, the first bill that we have before us, Bill 2471 of the Draft Law amending the Ukrainian Law on the State Border Service of Ukraine. There is a request from the authors that we consider the bill in short notice. I'm asking you to support this proposal. Please vote in favour of the summary procedure. Please. [[10:45:12]] For-162 Thank you very much. The report is invited by the representative of the President of Ukraine in the Supreme Council of Cuba, Stepan Ivanovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-09-m0.u9	Dear citizens, Mr. Head, colleagues! We give you an overview of the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Act on the State Border Service of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-09-m0.u10	Mr. Stepan, I'm sorry, one second. Dear colleagues! I very much ask you to stop that noise in the hall and borrow your jobs. I very much ask that we put order in the hall and ask the heads of factions to help in this. I'm sorry. Please, Mr. Stepan.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-09-m0.u11	Ukraine's draft Act amending the Ukrainian State Border Service Act, introduced by the President of Ukraine and defined as urgent. The purpose of the bill is to create legal grounds for an increase in the military service of the Ukrainian State Border Service. This will allow for the tightening of the security of the state border in its threatening directions. The State Border Service will be able to create and widely apply new mobile weapons reserves that will positively affect the state’s security. Since the beginning of the aggression against our State, the State Border Service has been directing its efforts towards the orderly and rapid movement of forces and resources to threatening areas of the state border. The involvement of special forces in this area took place through the creation of temporary combat troops from various regions of Ukraine, which in turn reduced their numbers in other parts of the state border of Ukraine. I would like to point out that the proper performance of the tasks of the Ukrainian State Border Service, which have been performing duties for more than six months in the territory of an anti-terrorist operation, is possible because of periodic changes in the individual composition. That is why the bill proposes to increase the total number of Ukrainian State Border Service by 3,000, including military personnel. This will contribute to the quality of the State’s organs.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-09-m0.u12	Thank you very much. I'm asking you to finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-09-m0.u13	Ladies and gentlemen, I ask you to support the legislative initiative of the President of Ukraine and to adopt this law as a basis and as a whole. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-09-m0.u14	Thank you. For the report, the head of the National Security and Defence Committee, Pashinsky Sergey Volodymyrovich, is invited.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-09-m0.u15	Dear colleagues, in fact, in the last year our foreigners have covered themselves with glory in the struggles for sovereignty and national independence. The regular schedule of our foreign service was set up under the task of peacetime. In fact, a full mobilization was carried out within the border forces themselves, created by the troops that are now armed in the east of Ukraine, protecting not only the state border but standing in the first line of fighting. The Border Service has requested 3,000 military personnel to increase their numbers, enabling them to launch a mechanism to rotate those fighters who have been fighting for a year. And it will give us an opportunity to strengthen other areas of the border, because unfortunately we were forced to remove parts of the Odessa region, Mikolai border. And in fact, we have another potential front line. It's from the occupied Crimea. That is why the Supreme Council Committee unanimously supported the proposal to adopt the bill as a basis and as a whole. Please vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-09-m0.u16	Thank you. Dear Society, the bill is clear. It's about increasing the number of border Ukrainian services, supporting our brothers, who were on the up front, who were the first to take a hit during Russian aggression. And I have a question: Is there a need to speak, or can I put it to the vote right away? That is why I propose to vote on the basis as a whole. You need to talk, right? Why? I propose, I put to the vote a bill amending the Ukrainian Law on the Ukrainian State Border Service (number 2471) as a basis and as a whole for the proposal of a committee. Please support, we vote, please. [[10:51:17]] For 253 Thank you so much for understanding. The less time we spend on those bills that are consolidated, in the hall, the more laws we pass today. Let's move on to the next one. Draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on the overall structure and number of the Ukrainian Security Service. There is also an offer to consider it as a reduced procedure. Colleagues, please support, we're voting in favour of a reduced procedure. [[10:51:55]] For 206 Thank you for your support. Again, the report is invited by the representative of the President of Ukraine, Stepan Ivanovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-09-m0.u17	Respectable citizens! Mr. Head! Colleagues! Here is a bill amending the Ukrainian Law on the overall structure and size of the Ukrainian Security Service (2472) introduced by the President of Ukraine as an urgent matter. During the difficult socio-economic period and the time of military aggression, it is necessary to approve at the legislative level the state resources necessary for the Ukrainian Security Service to carry out its tasks. The goal is to predict the size of the population, the Ukrainian Security Service from the time the mobilization was announced to the time of the war or until the decision to demobilize was made. Today's realities require a more specific definition and a quantification of the composition of the relevant law enforcement body, and this is what the bill introduced by the President of Ukraine is intended to do. At the moment, the Ukrainian Act on the overall structure and size of the Ukrainian Security Service establishes only the number of the Ukrainian Security Service, amounting to 31 thousand and 50. Despite the decline in the total number of the Ukrainian Security Service from 31,000 to 27,000, the bill provides for a special period of 31,000 and a period of war. In the latter case, Ukraine’s Security Service is established according to Ukraine’s mobilisation plan during a special period. Please support the bill as a whole. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-09-m0.u18	Thank you very much. The head of the National Security and Defence Committee, Pashinsky Sergey Volodymyrovich, is invited to attend. From the rostrum, right? Then please turn on the microphone on the stand.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-09-m0.u19	Dear colleagues! Unlike the previous law we passed, thank you all, this law does not actually increase the number of the Security Service. It regulates only numbers, such as peacetime, a special period, and a state of war. Today, on March 27, we have determined the number of 31 thousand and 50. In fact, it remains. But we clearly introduce three statuses into the relevant laws of the Ukrainian Security Service. I would like to emphasize and draw your attention to the fact that the Ukrainian Security Service is currently doing a colossal work on the destruction of diversified intelligence groups. More than a hundred terrorists have been detained. Two thirds of them have already shown. Their guilt is completely proved. And I want to thank the Security Service for the important work they're doing. And the committee is asking to adopt this law as a basis and as a whole. Please vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-09-m0.u20	Thank you very much. I don't think this bill is a discussion either. I propose to support both the President and the Security Service and the Committee, which I stress voted unanimously. But there is a need for discussion, is there? Then let's not include two in favour, two in favor. Let's just let those who want to speak out. The first is Yegor Sobolev. Then there'll be Capplin. Two speeches and then we vote. And Andrew Levus. Three speeches and a vote. Please, Yegor Sobolev.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-09-m0.u21	Self-help will vote in favour of this bill. But we want to say that the situation in the Security Service requires considerable consideration. In our view, the Security Service remains largely non - Ukrainian and is largely a danger service for Ukraine. The illustrative processes are stalled, starting with the Head of Service himself, who was supposed to be the first to come under the Law on the Cleaner of Power, but gave new documents that he did not graduate from the KGB School. We see the right attitude with regard to other workers who have always been considered colleagues of Vladimir Putin's KGB. If we look at the persecution of the Security Service of people who worked in the service and organized the Maydan terror, none of the seniors were caught, even though there are many signals that they continue to live in Kiev. Next. It is a terrible situation to investigate the role of people who organized the capture of the Crimea and the terror of Donbas. In our view, the situation in the Security Service requires serious consideration by the President of Ukraine, the National Security Council. Parliament is ready to help, but the situation there is very dangerous. We support the Law on the Establishing of Multiplicity, but there is no need to praise the BSS today. THE U.S.A. today has a lot to be afraid of.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-09-m0.u22	Thank you. Please, Capplin, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-09-m0.u23	Sergey Kaplin, 144 constituency, block of Peter Prashenko, strike group. Our faction will support this bill. At the same time, I would like to point out that the Ukrainian Parliament has the assistance of Ukraine's activities and the Security Service, and the Attorney General's Office, and the Ministry of Internal Affairs. As we all know, there were millions of Ukrainians who were watching live broadcasts of the two committees of immediately law enforcement and anti-corruption. A decision was taken by the Anti-Corruption Committee: recommending the Supreme Council of Ukraine to create a temporary special commission to investigate the accusations of Gordijenko, by the Gordijenko Government of Ukraine in corruption. And today, on behalf of all Ukrainian citizens, I demand not to delay, to immediately put to the vote the question of creating a temporary commission of inquiry. This will be a serious state exam today at such an extremely serious celebration, the Pure Four, we must begin the process of cleansing the government from corrupters. And in the end, find out whether the Holy Prime Minister, whether the Holy Ministers, or the Holy Ones, we have heads of state enterprises. Today, there is a threat of serious corruption in the air in Ukrainian society. corruption rematch: continuation of Janukovich, Zacharychenka, Klimenko. We have to put a dot. Put to the vote immediately what the Ukrainian people require. After the revolution, the Ukrainian people, both of them, have the right to know the answer to a question or a corrupt government? This is a requirement of deputies, a requirement of the Ukrainian people, a requirement of common sense. Do not delay until the Ukrainian people say that this Parliament is the same as the previous one, and in this Parliament, corruption has once again triumphed. I don't understand why we're all delaying this historic decision today. Twenty-three years have gone by, disgraced the country, and no one is sitting in jail. We have to get started today.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-09-m0.u24	Thank you. Please, Andrew Levus. Turn on the microphone, Andrew Levus.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-09-m0.u25	First of all, I'd like to speak to the people's deputies, especially Mr. Kaplan, so that we can now discuss an important bill. Please don't bring up an important bill here, these provocations written by Mr. Firtash and Mr. Putin. One second. Egor Sobolev spoke here about the Ukrainian Security Service. I agree that the Ukrainian Security Service needs to be reformed, especially now the People's Front faction, and the Security Service itself is working on a bill that will leave only, in the service, the fight against terrorism and counter-intelligence and all non-invasive functions will be eliminated. Yet, to criticize the Ukrainian Security Service, which daily, risking its life, and already having great losses in that it does nothing is at least immoral and unprofessional. Diverstants, agents, and Russian spies are delayed daily. To criticize the Security Service as yet the most effective.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-09-m0.u26	Please finish the dates.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-09-m0.u27	As far as the bill is concerned. This is precisely the first step towards reforming the Ukrainian Security Service, which is effectively reducing the number of workers and making more precise use of them in counter-versal work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-09-m0.u28	Thank you. Igor Lucenko. And Mosiyczuk. And that's where we're going to end up. Thank you. Igor Lucenko, please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-09-m0.u29	Dear Society, the Fatherland faction will clearly support this bill. In current historical war conditions, this decision does not leave us with any alternatives, but there are certain things that need to be noted. First of all, the level of professionalism in the Security Service is clearly increasing. In the last few months, we have seen significant progress. At the same time, I would still like to see from the Security Service more intensity in reforming myself. An example can be found here by the Department of Defense Security, which has recently taken such a decision, I believe, a historic decision on the systematic application of a polygraph in determining who is, in a way, true or falsely fulfilling his duties. So I would like to take similar steps from the Security Service. We parliamentarians are ready to provide all the support we need. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-09-m0.u30	Thank you. Igor Mosiyczuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-09-m0.u31	Igor Mosiyczuk, Radical Party. The Radical Party will clearly support the bill necessary for the development of the Ukrainian Special Service. At the same time, I would like to point out that the illustration is not fully illustrated. There are still certain positions of reprisals under the previous regime. At the same time, this does not give anyone the right to speak in general about the Security Service as some antinational authority today, since many workers have been identified in the ATO area and have contributed to the detection of many corruptions. Members of the Security Service have perished, and I would now like to honor them with a moment of silence, memory.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-09-m0.u32	Indeed, I would like to support this view that during the Russian aggression, a large number of Security Service personnel fought the aggressors, died, were, and were, many in advance, infiltrated traitors who were deliberately sent to the Ukrainian Security Service under the previous regime. They had to be cleansed, and at times the process was painful. But thousands and thousands of honest and loyal workers have gone to the front of Ukraine, and today, working for Ukraine, they are demonstrating effective and quality work. So I ask you to support this bill and I ask you to vote in favour of this bill, as proposed by the committee, on the basis of it as a whole. So the bill amending the Ukrainian Act on the overall structure and number of the Ukrainian Security Service (No.2472) is put to the vote as a basis and as a whole. Please be supportive. Please vote. [[11:05:37]] For 268. Thank you very much. And I want to emphasize and make a request to everyone. When we talk about a bill or a bill and we talk about it, I have a huge request to talk about the bill. If someone has a desire to conduct political visions, let them do it on the briefing or on the street. We have to speak professionally here every bill, or else we'll just ruin the work of our Supreme Council. And now we're going to consider the next draft of the Law on the Legal Regime of War. And there is also a request that we consider it as a reduced procedure. Please support your esteemed colleagues in reviewing the reduced procedure. Please. [[11:06:39]] For-189 Thank you for your support. And the report is invited by the representative of the President of Ukraine at the Supreme Council of Cuba, Stepan Ivanovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-09-m0.u33	Dear citizens, Mr. Head, colleagues! The Ukrainian state of law bill, 2541, introduced by the President of Ukraine as an urgent matter, is under your attention. This document is intended to implement the decision of the National Security and Defence Council of Ukraine, approved by Presidential Decree No. 139 of 12 March 2015. The purpose of the bill is to regulate the legal regime of the state of war, taking into account the circumstances resulting from external military aggression and the conduct of an antiterrorist operation in eastern Ukraine. The bill proposes to increase the number of legal measures of the military regime, such as the establishment of a special regime in the field of manufacturing and the implementation of medical devices that are made up of narcotic drugs, psychotropic substances, other powerful substances that are defined by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine; the use of additional measures to strengthen the protection of the state secret; the internment or forced settlement of citizens of a foreign state that threatens to attack or commits aggression against Ukraine; the establishment of a ban or restriction on the choice of residence or residence of citizens in the territory where the state of war is established. The bill also proposes to regulate the activity and authorization of military administrations. The provisions of the bill also provide guarantees for the activities of the central authorities under military conditions. In view of this, I ask for the legislative initiative of the President of Ukraine to adopt the Law on the Legal regime of martial law on the basis and in general. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-09-m0.u34	Thank you. Please, the head of the Pashaski Sergey Committee. The chairman of the committee, Sergei Pashinsky, please go to the rostrum and report.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-09-m0.u35	Dear colleagues. I'd like to have a moment's attention, because the law that we're currently considering, unfortunately, is very important for the security and security of our state. We got into a conflict with the Russian Federation, having a legislative array -- actually, it was a handful of old Soviet laws, it actually didn't reflect any (the array of laws, it means) any challenges that were, and we've already changed the entire legislative field of defence and security, including you and me. But there is a basic law, and I would like to pay attention to that. That this law, taking into account our bitter experience, regulates the legal regime of war. In the previous legislation, there were no actual challenges: neither the activity of Parliament nor the activities of the Cabinet of Ministers was clear as to what "military administrations" were and so forth. This law clearly spells out rights and obligations. This law clearly describes the state’s functioning in a state of war and clearly regulates its activities. For example, the law states that both the President and the Cabinet of Ministers and the Parliament cannot be revoked during the state of war. The law clearly spells out the procedure for establishing military administrations, their functioning. The law basically answers all the questions that were raised during the anti-terror operation, during our military training, during the war, during the mobilization, during the work of the national-owned complex for the needs of the army. At the same time, a great many fellow MPs, despite the fact that the Committee, by a large majority of votes, decided to vote on the basis of it yesterday and in general, were asked.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-09-m0.u36	I'm growing up to finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-09-m0.u37	ask for an opportunity to study, amend and so forth. We respect the thoughts of our colleagues. That is why I propose to vote it now on first reading and to vote on its further consideration of the shortened procedure. The regulation does not shorten the procedure – it is 2 weeks, the reduced amendment procedure is a week. I point out that next week is not a sessional week for us, so in principle, according to the regulations, we can spend two weeks on Wednesday with the committee, analyze all the amendments and Thursday, exactly two weeks from now, put it in the room and vote. I'm asking you to support this proposal.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-09-m0.u38	Thank you. As I understand from the discussion, from the MPs, is there a need to discuss the bill or not? There is a need for discussion. And so let's include two for, two for against. And I'd like you, your honors, to sign up for the speech. You sign up, and then I'll give it to you. Please write two in favour, two in the opposite. Kishkar is invited to attend. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-09-m0.u39	The law is very important, the law must be passed. But we're only going to vote for it if there's a full discussion if every detail of this law is worked out, if it becomes a logical extension of what we had before, if it really changes the status of the state of war. So "self-help" is to support this bill in the first reading. Thank you. Full-time, full-time.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-09-m0.u40	Thank you. Please, Lozo Andrew Sergiyovich, the Radical Party of Oleg Láška.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-09-m0.u41	Dear colleagues, good afternoon. This law should actually be adopted a year ago, and we strongly support the initiative to strengthen our Armed Forces, our powers and, if necessary, to settle it in the right field -- we're only in favour. But we have a lot of amendments, and we have a lot of comments. And that takes time to discuss and bring them in. So we suggest we choose, vote now on the basis and give time in full procedure for the second reading. What adjustments do we want to make, and what do we have, what observations? First of all, the standard that suggests removing all civilian weapons from the population needs to be ruled out. These are Soviet traditions that don't allow the population to have legal weapons, which during the war, when the enemy attacks the country, we remove weapons from the people. Of course, it will be easier for the enemy to occupy areas where the population is unarmed than areas where the population is armed and ready to defend itself. It was those who had their weapons at the beginning of the war, their civil legal ones, and protected them in the early days of the war. And we have to let legalize and have the legal right to arms, not remove them. So we're going to insist that we exclude this rule from this law. And in order for people to have the right to self-defence and to defend their state during military conditions. That's why we stress once again – the law is just the basis and complete second reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-09-m0.u42	Thank you. Capplin Sergey Mikolayovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-09-m0.u43	Sergey Kaplin, 144th constituency, Peter Dustenk's Block. I support the position that we are somewhat late in adopting the whole package of legislation, the changes in legislation to address those extremely relevant aspects of security in Ukraine. However, our faction will likewise support this bill. At the same time, I would like to point out that the basis of Ukraine's national security is primarily the confidence of Ukrainian citizens in state institutions of power: Parliament, government, personal prime minister, individual minister, all the team that is called upon to reform our country. And every precedent, every claim of the smallest corruption in these organs, it completely destroys the foundations of national security is the main enemy in this country. And so in order to look at the contradiction, the extremely serious conflict that has arisen today in Parliament and beyond to meet the demands of millions of Ukrainian citizens who today seem to be repeating these three main letters in the Ukrainian society of the TSC. Once again, I stress the need to listen to the position of a professional anti-corruption committee composed of combatants, young national MPs who hope to fight corruption. And to put to the vote today the key requirement of Ukrainian society, namely the creation of a temporary commission of inquiry, which should answer the question of whether there are corruption at the highest levels of Ukrainian power today, or whether there are ministers guilty of anything, heads of state bodies, state enterprises, whether there are really billions of violations in the country, do not hide your head in the sand. Today we're going to make this decision and put all the dots on the "and."
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-09-m0.u44	Thank you. Before giving the next speaker a word, I remind him that when the speaker speaks out on the subject of the law, the leader will have the right to just take the word. I warn you, Sergey Kaplin, once again during the discussion of matters of National Security, I emphasize, from National Security and Defense he's going to do a political show, I'm going to rule out the word and I think the Hall will support me. Yeah? Thank you. Pisarenko Valeriy Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-09-m0.u45	Dear colleagues! In fact, the normative framework needs to be improved today, taking into account what is happening in the country. And old-fashioned legislation needs to be corrected today. In this law there is a great deal of renunciation, according to what is happening today in Ukraine. But what we would like to point out is that there are also points that severely limit human rights. And if we are fighting today to make Ukrainians feel free in this area, we need to consider the best Western standards. I want to remind Ukraine that it has always adhered to European standards and cooperated with the Council of Europe, with the Venice Commission. We will therefore demand that this law also be directed towards the conclusion of the Venice Commission in order to take into account the position of our European partners and experts of the Council of Europe. This will help Ukraine not to make mistakes that, unfortunately, we have been doing a lot lately, taking into account the adoption of legislation that on the one hand helps to solve the problems that have accumulated over the years. But on the other hand, we're delaying our journey to Europe today. How is it that efforts are made today to postpone the validity of the Law on Public Prosecutions and other matters? So, dear fellows, let's not forget. If Euro-integration is involved, our work should also be at the heart of Euro-integration. That's the key to Parliament's work. It must take place only according to the requirements of the Rules that are in force today. And let us take a closer look at the procedures that are approved in the Rules. Including the full vote on such important bills. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-09-m0.u46	Thank you very much. Yuri Lewchenko, then Sergey Sobolev. And that's where we end the discussion.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-09-m0.u47	Leuchenko, Freedom, 223 County. I am now addressing the coalition and the leadership of Parliament. And I would like to express my total misunderstanding as to why such an important law, which is very important, is being put into the agenda with the violation of the Supreme Council of Ukraine's rules. Why is the principle of the possibility of introducing alternative bills not respected? It's been literally a few days since his registration, and you're already trying to push him. And you're not even going to enter a state of war. Although we constantly demand it, Freedom, we explain that it is necessary for the profits of the oligarchs to work in war, not in their pockets. You're not even going to bring it in. But somehow you're trying to push this impeccable bill now without a proper discussion, without the possibility of passing alternative bills. Why? It's like, you know, it's like someone just wants to fight about it. So, you know, I insist that you don't look at it at all right now, so that you don't send it for further work, but wait until people can submit alternative bills, and that the procedure is followed, not done.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-09-m0.u48	Thank you. Please, Sergey Sobolev. Turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-09-m0.u49	Sergey Sobolev, the Fatherland faction. You know our faction's consistent position on martial law regulation. Because, without looking at the peace negotiations that have actually ended today, not with peace, but with truce, we see what is happening on the eastern front. So our position is: No doubt we need to regulate the entire order of rules and positions of the War Status Act. In addition, it is very important for us and the principle that we should now regulate the Anti-Terrorism Operation Act, which we have amended with the War Status Act. That is why we support our colleagues from other factions to consider it only in the first reading and beyond, so that everyone can make amends, because this bill can be very important in the further defensive doctrines of our nation. Therefore, the "Paternity" faction supports in the first reading and asks for the possibility of a full procedure for amendments to this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-09-m0.u50	Thank you. I'm asking the people's deputies to come into the voting room. This is indeed important to the bill. And I personally do not accept the position of delay. It is vital that we be able to improve the Law on the Legal Regime of War, for this need can happen to our Ukraine every day. But I also agree that there's probably a point to having it worked out, to be amended. And so, with your permission, I'm going to put forward the first proposal that has been made by most of the speakers, to vote on it as a basis to prepare for the second reading, and then all the amendments will be considered at the time of full consideration in the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Is such a proposal supported by the chairman of the committee based? That's why I'm betting. For the full procedure. Then I put to the vote the draft Law on the Legal Regime of War (No. 2541) – on the ground. People's deputies, please. Please vote. [[11:23:46]] For 258. Thank you. One more minute for the Pashinski Committee's head, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-09-m0.u51	Dear colleagues, according to the Ukrainian Rules, the full procedure is 2 weeks, 14 days. It's going to be suggested that we ask the question now for a shorter procedure, it'll actually be those same 14 days, and we'll be able to look at it in this session room in exactly two weeks. The committee will be held in 13 days on Wednesday, and on Thursday we will submit the amendments to the Hall, which have been processed normally under the Rules. Please put to the vote the matter after a reduced procedure for considering this law.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-09-m0.u52	Dear colleagues, there is a proposal from the committee head to vote in favour of the summary procedure. Is there an agreement, Self-Help, for a reduced procedure? If you don't mind, I'll put a committee proposal to the vote, pass, pass, pass, fail, fail. The draft Law on the legal regime of martial law is therefore under review by a reduced procedure. Please vote. Please, we're on our way. Vote. [[11:25:08]] For 178. Regrettably, the proposal did not receive the required number of votes, so the procedure as provided for in the Rules will be complete. All right. Let us turn to our next bill. The draft Law on Amendments to Certain Ukrainian Laws on Improving the Order of Military Equipment (No. 2551) is also a request from the authors that we consider it as a reduced procedure. Please be supportive. For a reduced procedure, we vote. [[11:25:56]] For-198 Thank you for your understanding and for inviting me to the report of Deputy Defence Minister Gusev Jurija Venijanovitch, please come to the rostrum.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-09-m0.u53	Ladies and gentlemen, this bill is being proposed for your consideration, which was designed to harmonize the military uniforms of the Ukrainian Armed Forces and other military uniforms and to bring formal clothing to the requirements of modern times. In the proper order of military uniforms, the rules of wear are drawn up by the Ministry of Defence, other central authorities of the executive branch, and approved by a decision of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. Such a mechanism does not allow them to respond at the right time to the needs that arise during a special period. It is proposed that the Ministry of Defence of Ukraine be empowered to design and approve military uniforms, shoes, and equipment for military personnel, and to provide individual protection for all military formations. These samples will be approved in accordance with the Ukrainian Military and Military Service Act by order of the Ukrainian Defence Minister. The implementation of the law does not provide for additional expenditure from the budget. Please be supportive. And thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-09-m0.u54	Thank you. The head of the National Security and Defence Committee, Pashinsky Sergey Volodymyrovich, is invited to attend.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-09-m0.u55	Dear colleagues, yesterday the committee of profile has carefully considered the bill. In fact, there are enormous problems in our security sphere, including, unfortunately, material security problems, material and technical security problems. I want to point out that the rules of supply, the food security standards -- they've all been approved a few years ago on a different course, and for today, of course, all of this needs to be modernized. At the same time, this law cannot be passed solely for the Ministry of Defence, we have the Nacguardia, we have the border guards, there are other paramilitary structures, we need to study their needs carefully. That's why the committee unanimously decided in this case to recommend, taking into account the importance of this law, in the first reading, then to carefully develop and put into the hall a document that would answer all the questions that were asked by me and the members of our committee. So please support in the first reading and work on this law until the second reading. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-09-m0.u56	Thank you. Dear colleagues, the law is extremely important, but it is specialized, which concerns a very important chain of ours. Armed Forces, but still insisting on Kishkar's discussion, let's give it a minute and get to the vote. Please, Kishkar, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-09-m0.u57	I'm actually a colleague, with great respect for Mr. Gusev, but the real changes in the matter of collateral, except that they removed the patents of forms, I didn't see in this bill. That's a good point, but the name of the law should be, and it should be, about canceling the patent procedure for clothing samples. There's nothing else in this bill. We haven't found any improvement. Therefore, it really is worth taking as a basis and continuing to work on it and actually putting it in. Yuri Viniamovich, Yuri Viniamovich, look, this is your bill -- well, not interesting, well, thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-09-m0.u58	Thank you very much. That was the logic of the committee to take as a basis. Then make the necessary adjustments during the consideration. One more minute, Oksana Korczynska, and we're going to vote. Please, Oksana Korchinska.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-09-m0.u59	Good day to you all! The Radical Party faction, Oksana Korchinska. First of all, I'd like to welcome the first Deputy Secretary of the Volunteer Air Force. This is a very productive team that works at the Ministry of Defense, and I welcome Mr. Yuri. And I would like to support this bill, because it really optimizes the decision and the speed of the change of clothes, because the armory in the Ukrainian Armed Forces was not in shape at this point either. We need to make all the decisions quickly. And so please support this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-09-m0.u60	Thank you very much. So I'm voting on a bill amending some of Ukraine's laws to improve the order of the provision of military personnel (number 2551) as a basis. Please support this bill. Vote, please. [[11:31:22]] For 271 Thank you for your support. I think the committee will be able to take a full look at it, there's no need to vote in favour of the shorter procedure. And here's what we're going to do: draft Act amending some of Ukraine's legislation on the organization of the special composition of the Ukrainian Armed Forces. Again, the deputy minister of defense, Yury Venyaminovich, is the reporter. And I invite him back to the rostrum for an interview.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-09-m0.u61	Ladies and gentlemen, for your consideration, a draft law is being proposed by the Ministry of Defense in a proactive manner with a view to making appropriate changes to the Code of Masters to ensure quality food for military personnel. Today, military property is transferred exclusively on lease terms. The food service provider is chosen by the "lowest price" criteria, and the renter becomes the subject who offers the highest price for the lease. It is proposed that the mechanism for the transfer of the property needed for food in fixed and field conditions be put in place free of charge on loan to the winners of the purchases without additional leases for the lease of the property and its return upon completion of the contract for the purchase of food services. The adoption of the bill will allow the Ministry of Defence to approve standard contracts for loans of appropriate movable and immovable property, to increase the efficiency of using budgetary resources on the basis of the redistribution of expenses of food service providers, and to make direct contracts for the provision of utilities and energy services. And the implementation of the bill does not require additional costs from the budget. I'd like to support you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-09-m0.u62	Thank you. Head of Economic Policy Committee Ivanchuk Andry Volodymyrovich Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-09-m0.u63	Ladies and gentlemen, the Committee on Economic Policy yesterday at its meeting reviewed the bill and decided to ask the Supreme Council of Ukraine to adopt the bill as a basis and as a whole. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-09-m0.u64	Thank you. Respectable Society! Once again, these are important bills, although they are very specialized. Many of the difficulties that we faced at the beginning of the ATO were, in fact, the disorder of Ukrainian security legislation. And so I ask you to support in this case both the President's initiative and the request of our Armed Forces. And as the committee supports, I propose to vote on the basis as a whole. If there is no objection, I am voting on the draft Act amending some of the Ukrainian legislation on the organisation of the feeding of the special composition of the Ukrainian Armed Forces (number 2595) as a basis and as a whole. Please be supportive. Vote. [[11:34:45]] For 281 Thank you. Welcome to the draft law. And let's move on to the next one. Draft Act amending article 39 of the Ukrainian Law on State Procurement. And there's an offer to be considered by a reduced procedure. I ask the National Deputies to support the consideration of the reduced procedure. Please. [[11:35:23]] For 177 Thank you. The reporter, Ukrainian national deputy Mamchur Yuri Valeriyovich, is invited to the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-09-m0.u65	Dear Chairman! Dear National Deputies! For your consideration, a draft Ukrainian Act amending article 39 of the Ukrainian Law on State Procurement is proposed. The purpose of the adoption of this law is to provide local government administrations with adequate facilities for timely purchases, works, and construction of engineering facilities to strengthen the security of our nation. It is suggested that article 39 be supplemented by a new paragraph 3, paragraph 1, which applies the negotiating procedure of public purchases as an exception in case of urgent need, in the case of purchases, in the event of special circumstances. There is no secret that in order to preserve the lives of our military personnel in the eastern part of the country, powerful fortification buildings must be built. To that end, the country’s government has allocated 850 million dollars, which need to be implemented in time. The aggressor won't let us make it if we don't accept these changes. Therefore, I propose to adopt the law as a basis and as a whole. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-09-m0.u66	Thank you. And I invite you to speak to the head of the Economic Policy Committee, Ivanchuk Andry Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-09-m0.u67	Ladies and gentlemen, you are being reviewed by Bill 2596, which simplifies the procedure of state purchases for the construction of fortification and engineering structures on the collision line. The Economic Policy Committee considered the bill at its meeting and decided to ask the Supreme Council to support the bill on a basis and as a whole. I would like to say, honourable national MPs, that this bill is only temporary until August 1st this year. That's why it's not in violation of the State Procurement Act, it's a special bill so that we can build all the necessary engineering buildings on a collision line in the east of Ukraine in time. I very much ask all factions to support this bill on the basis and in general. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-09-m0.u68	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I ask you to support the committee's proposal and vote on the basis as a whole. But there's a need for discussion, and that's why we're including a 2-for system, 2-against. And I'm asking you to help yourself so actively not to press on the headmaster. Let's do 2 for, 2 for, 2 for, please log in. Jeremeyev Igor Mironovich. Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-09-m0.u69	Dear head, distinguished national MPs! We know how vital it is to build fortifications on the collision line today. We know very often today about the news coming out of the ATO area that sometimes the fighting on the side of terrorists and separatists is activated. In our opinion, the "will of the people" faction, this law should be adopted as a basis and as a whole. And take it as soon as possible. Why? Because the tendering process is so formalized today, it is so prolonged that it takes months to build fortifications. This is necessary today. Each such fortification saves the lives of our fighters, who today stand at the brink of collision. Our faction today calls for a decision on this bill as a basis and as a whole. If there is any need for further work, then try to adopt this bill in a simplified manner. I want every national MP in the room today to feel responsible. As we enter the system of demagogies today, there is someone who sacrifices his life on the line of collision every day, protecting Ukraine and the Ukrainian people from terrorists and separatists. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-09-m0.u70	Thank you. Yuri Vasilovich Chizmar, Radical Party Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-09-m0.u71	I give the word to Lozo Andrew.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-09-m0.u72	Andrew Lozova, Radical Party of Lazka. Dear colleagues, objectively to this law, the question is: What is the urgent need, as defined by the mechanism, and so on. But we need to understand clearly that in a situation of war, in a situation where the enemy can attack every day, in a situation where, in fact, every day, despite the so - called truce, our heroes die, we must forget about these issues and support the entire hall of this bill. Here the colleagues of Mosiyczuk and Skuratowski just returned from Artem. When they help build fortification buildings there, there are officials, there are law enforcement officers who ask, where did you get it and how you build it? So we have to support this bill to all the halls, despite all the questions to him, for the sake of our victory. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-09-m0.u73	Heroic glory! Kishkar Pavel Mikolaiovich. Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-09-m0.u74	Please hand over Victoria the Bird.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-09-m0.u75	Victoria Birds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-09-m0.u76	Dear colleagues! The Self-Help Association understands the need to adopt this bill, because we hope that the authors of the bill actually had the goal of strengthening the power of our state. But at the same time, we would like to propose to vote on this bill only on the basis that there is a question before this bill and, in particular, it needs to be clarified the term "special circumstances" in which the negotiation procedure and the procurement of the negotiating procedure will be carried out and when it will be paid to the local level, or to the local government. So let's now vote for the basis. Then, understanding the urgency and necessity of adopting the bill, we will vote in favour of its further consideration of the reduced procedure and in seven days we will adopt a normal bill without a variety of ambiguous terms that could allow local government administrations to abuse by purchasing, choosing with whom to contract negotiated procedures at local levels. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-09-m0.u77	Thank you. Please, Rybczyn Alexei Mihajlovich, "The Fatherland" faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-09-m0.u78	Please give the floor to the respectable Alexander Volodymyrny Kugel.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-09-m0.u79	Please, Mrs. Kugel.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-09-m0.u80	The Fatherland faction fully supports the self-help faction's position, because this bill has to be adopted as a basis. Because we think that we can complement now and help the Ministry of Health in part, for example, by buying a drug like Cryon that makes one producer, and we already know on Monday there was a conference of kids who are dying of mucapitosis. And so by a reduced procedure, prepare it for second reading and vote in general. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-09-m0.u81	Thank you. Another minute is Yuri Lewchenko. And you haven't taken it yet? Okay. And another word for "Peter Dusty Block."
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-09-m0.u82	Leuchenko, Freedom, 223 County. You know, of course, it's very important during the war to strengthen the sovereignty of the state. But it is unlikely that the uncontrolled spending of the budget, completely uncontrollable, will strengthen the state’s security. You know what the problem is? That's how often you do a very, very respectable coalition that you're essentially right about the laws so that they have a mass of corruption flaws. This law specifically states that certain procedures for public procurement may be circumvented in the event of "necessary needs or special circumstances". There is no definition in this law that is "necessary needs" or "special circumstances." And this, of course, gives, unfortunately, the construction of the necessary structures to steal tens of millions of dollars from the state. So you have to insert these definitions. And as long as they are not in this law, they cannot be accepted as a whole.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-09-m0.u83	Thank you. Another word, please, from someone from Peter Dusty's Block. Which one of you is going to perform? Come on, maybe the author of Antonistak's law? Will everyone agree? Then I will give Antonisztak my word, the drafter of the bill of Peter Dustenk's Block. Please. Antonisztak, please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-09-m0.u84	Respectable Society! I would like this bill to be accepted as a whole. Because the whole point of this bill is that the idea itself arose after the events in Debalcevo. When we lost every day. Now we don't have any loss, now we don't have the right to a roach, for a week, for two. This bill is very narrow. And it's about very limited funds. And temporary. Please read the bill again. Please, my friends, support as a whole. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-09-m0.u85	Thank you. Please, more. Please give me a minute, Sergey Pashinsky.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-09-m0.u86	Dear colleagues, I want everyone to listen very carefully. The government found 900 million dollars, allocated for the construction of the first line and the second defense. The president authorized the district government, along with Genstab, they each received a specific number of fortifications, specific ones, each with its own sector of responsibility. But we do have legislation. If we go to law enforcement, we'll build it at best in July. Maybe someone with Putin has a deal that there won't be an advance by July? Well, then let's run it in a big circle. Friends, we took the committee's decision. And from next week, we're going to take the first line of defense, and we're going to personally help, monitor and promote this project. This project has strategic significance. Let's leave our demagogies and populism to other laws. And here we have to vote on the basis as a whole. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-09-m0.u87	Thank you. Now, just a second. Society, let's not go into endless discussion. I'm going to say it again. Guys, listen to me. These are already being carried out in our country in defense of our country, and they are on their way. And by not adopting this bill, we will stop the work of building the European Wall against the Russian aggressor. Let us be responsible in matters of national security, society. In this case, it is a temporary act of this bill, until August 1st of this year, for a very short period of time. Let's put the national security issue first. And I'm going to put the first proposal to vote on a committee proposal as a basis and as a whole. And he has a huge request for all deputies to support this proposal. Please. There will only be one amendment to the text of the bill (under the transcript) that reads: "in the Donetsk, Luhansk and Herson areas" because it refers to the whole line of separation from the Russian aggressor. So I'm voting on the draft law. [[B in m in s a l in]] That's how I gave "self-help." The draft Law on Amendments to Article 39 of the Ukrainian Law on State Procurement (No. 2596), I ask to vote on the basis as a whole. Please vote. [[11:48:55]] For 249 Thank you. Thank you to the drafters for the bill's timely and important bill. To whom I have not given my word, Mr. Borislav, I will certainly put it in the next question for discussion. So our next question is the draft Law amending the Law on Humanitarian Aid (for the operationality of decision-making). And there is a request from the drafters of the bill to consider it in a simplified procedure. I would like your fellow Members of Parliament to support this proposal. We're voting for a reduced procedure. [[11:49:43]] For-200 Thank you very much. And the word is given to the Minister of Social Policy, Rosenka Paul Valeriovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-09-m0.u88	Last but not least, the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine has taken very serious steps to strengthen and improve the situation with the necessary humanitarian assistance procedures. And, of course, I wouldn't want to idealize the situation, but for today, I don't think any of you can remember how it used to be, that humanitarian aid for 3-4 months is on the border and can't enter Ukraine for formal reasons. Today, of course, there are problems, but the basic humanitarian burdens still get their licenses within 7-8 to 10 days. And those goods and those humanitarian goods that are delivered directly by military personnel who are involved in an anti-terror operation, we put on this task, they get the necessary permits literally in 1-2 days. But, along with the fact that the humanitarian situation in countries is, unfortunately, far from being improved, we suggest that we take some steps today to deal with these issues more quickly. We also want to go through decentralization, including responsibilities and responsibilities in providing this humanitarian aid. That's why we're proposing to district administrations, district authorities to hand over a number of permits that will simplify humanitarian aid mechanisms, first of all, for people with disabilities, and to grant permission to get disabled cars. You know that today in Ukraine’s state budget, unfortunately, there is no provision for the provision of disabled cars, so a humanitarian car.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-09-m0.u89	Please give me 20 seconds to finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-09-m0.u90	And that's why we're proposing today that it's the clearance and clearance procedure for such cars for humanitarian aid be granted by the district authorities.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-09-m0.u91	Ten more seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-09-m0.u92	Give me a chance. Also, other humanitarian loads of up to 2 tons are proposed to be delivered to the district level. Please support the bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-09-m0.u93	Thank you. I beg you, very briefly, the head of the Committee of Alexander Tretlyakow. Is there a need for a report? So there's the committee's decision to support it. There is a requirement for a voting room. But a brief replica of Trelyakow.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-09-m0.u94	The Committee fully supports this law and requests that it be voted on as a basis.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-09-m0.u95	And the whole thing? Based on the base. [[B in m in s a l in]] No, on the ground. So I'm voting on the draft Law amending the Law on Humanitarian Aid (for the operationality of decision-making) (2532) as a basis. Can I have your back, please? [[11:53:49]] For the 250. And there is a request that we vote in favour of a reduced procedure for preparing for the second reading. No objections? Then we vote in favour of the shortened procedure for preparing for the second reading. Please support. [[11:54:13]] For 212 Unfortunately, the required number of votes was not reached. So let's move on to the next question. So we're looking at the draft Act amending section III, paragraph 3, of the Final Positions Act of Ukraine on amending certain Ukrainian legislation on pension insurance (No.2577). And there is also a request from the authors to consider it in a simplified way. Please support the consideration of the reduced procedure. Vote, please. [[11:55:01]] For-182 Thank you. The report invites the deputy head of the Committee on Social Policy, Employment and Pensions of Kunicin Sergei Volodymyrovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-09-m0.u96	Ladies and gentlemen, before we report on this law, I would like to thank the Afghan Veterans' Association as head of the All-U.S. Association for thanking the Ukrainian Parliament for the fact that, when we passed this law, you and I have stood by the participants in the fighting, the disabled of war, the participants in the Anti-Terrorism Operation. But when we passed this law, we have some categories -- people who are now working in power structures and working to protect our nation are out. Therefore, with a view to preserving positions prepared for the implementation of defence and mobilization measures by experienced highly qualified professionals, the bill is intended to extend the non-application of salary restrictions and pensions to those employed by the General Staff, other military authorities of the Armed Forces, military commissions, or to ensure the exercise of national security and defence powers by the President of Ukraine. We looked at this bill on the committee yesterday and supported it. There's a list of the structures that we're proposing for these people to have their pension insurance. There is also a request to add the State Service to the affairs of veterans, disabled persons, and antiterrorists. And to uphold this law.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-09-m0.u97	Please let me finish. Have you finished? Thank you. Is there a need for discussion? Yes. Quiet, quiet! Please include: two for, two against, for discussion. Kiral Sergey Ivanovich, but he gives Kishkar the word. Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-09-m0.u98	Perhaps today the good laws have ended. You know, I'm glad I was taught to read in my rural school. And in the October law, there's something that we're sorry to suggest for the sake of normal content. Because it is clearly written here, I quote, "a month-long life-long financial maintenance -- on restrictions, removal of restrictions -- of the monthly life-long financial support assigned to persons in appropriate positions in the structural units of the Ukrainian Presidential Administration, which ensure the exercise by the President of Ukraine of powers in the area of national security and defence of the state." Excuse me, ladies and gentlemen! Go to the front and prove your ability to be a patriot. And now I'm reading the lies of Mr. Paris. April 7th. He concluded on Bill 2577. "When we included all the issues of the agenda, I didn't call this draft law, it's a draft law on military pension issues for those who are fighting in the ATO." No questions, Mr. Parobius. We add the words "to those who directly carried out (i.e. the employees of the President's Administration) who received it.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-09-m0.u99	Why are you messing with me?Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-09-m0.u100	"not less than 90 days were in direct contact with a Russian aggressor." No questions! And as we fought for 980 bracelets, let the entire administration gather and fight like we did for 980 bracelets a month. That's why it's over.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-09-m0.u101	To the finish, please apologize to me for misinformation.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-09-m0.u102	I gave you a copy of that. I gave you a copy of the transcript. So I don't have to apologize. And I won't apologize for that. To conclude with this report, the Kharkiv District Council of 99 voted in favour of the decision to recognize the Russian Federation as an aggressor country, with which I welcome all of you. That's it.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-09-m0.u103	Please make the next statement. Ivan Grigorovich Kirilenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-09-m0.u104	Please pass the word to Igor Lucenka.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-09-m0.u105	Dear friends! It's a very simple position in our faction. It is necessary to clearly separate those who are actually fighting, and it is not really for material gain. It is clear that what we are now assigning a pension is, above all, a moral recognition of their authority. We're against officials from any high-level institution being compared to those who've been actually protecting our country for months with guns in their hands. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-09-m0.u106	Dove Vladislav Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-09-m0.u107	Vladislav Golub, Petra Poshenko's Block, 197th constituency, Cherkaščina. In support of previous speakers, please pass the word to my colleague Dmitri Dobrodomov.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-09-m0.u108	Please, Welcome.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-09-m0.u109	I'd like to support this because on March 2, the Council voted to take out working pensioners, yes, the same tenants, the tractorists, 15 percent. And who do we see here? We see the employees of the Presidential Administration working here, we see the territorial authorities of the militia here, we see the military units here. I would like to remind you that we have received a letter of confirmation that the Ukrainian State Service for War veterans and anti-terrorists has granted, for example, three employees of the President's Administration the status of ATO and these workers are no longer working there at all. So let's go consistently, and we have to give pensions for those who are actually fighting in the ATO area, and not for all the other officials who, at some point in high, I stress, with high wages that are several times higher than the salaries of ordinary working pensioners get. We want them back now. So I propose not to vote in favour of this law or to elaborate it on this amendment, which is only for those in the ATO zone who are involved in direct combat. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-09-m0.u110	Thank you. Please, Royal Natalia, Opposition Block.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-09-m0.u111	Dear colleagues, the Opposition Block will not support the bill. Just as we don't support Parliament's anti-constitutional decisions when you've taxed pensions, veteran pensions, Chernobyl pensions. When today the social worker who works in the village and today has all the work on his shoulders with the movers, the grants, the low-income families, and the social worker, if he is retired, are taking a pension. When today the entire scientific community wrote an application for dismissal, when today employees of local administrations, district administrations, are people who receive salaries, if you don't know, respected people's deputies, 1,000 and 200 bracelets. And that's where a woman goes to work to at least feed her family. And she's giving people her pension today. So you get these people out of work today, and you drive them out of the street because you've cut their pension payments today. So you'll see, even here in the Supreme Council, how much work is being done in the administrations of the people who retire. But those who bear the institutional memory of our State. You've lost their pensions today. We therefore advocate that the anti-constitutional decision taken in this Parliament be lifted. In no country civilized in the world, pensions are taxed. No civilized country in the world is paying a pension of less than $40 today. We therefore insist that social standards be raised to stop violating the Constitution and give people the opportunity to work on pensions. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-09-m0.u112	Thank you. Please, in a minute. Jeremeyev, Igor Moseschuk. Is there such a need? Okay. And from Peter Dustock's Block, okay.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-09-m0.u113	Dear Ukrainian people, distinguished national MPs! The issue of pensions is urgent today. You know how these laws were passed, how the 2015 budget was adopted. And how those laws were repealed, which essentially provide indexation for pensions. We, the "will of the people" faction, clearly have to go back to that question. What is proposed in the bill today is probably right. But you can't cancel pensions first, and then selectively pick them up or leave them. This is wrong in relation to people. And even on the condition that this is true of those who work for the Ministry of Defense. If we're talking about a pension raise, it's only those who directly participate in the combat in the ATO zone and only those people. This cannot apply to the people who are now at the Ministry of Defense, headquarters in Kiev, with all due respect for these people. But the "will of the people" faction insists that we definitely return to the question of indexing.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-09-m0.u114	Thank you. Moses, and then
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-09-m0.u115	Igor Mosiyczuk, "Radical Party." By introducing similar laws, the hall is being provoked and it is possible for any Jeremiah and royal, thieving block on this pyariate. There is no law that removes pension restrictions for employees of the President's Administration who have been in the forward or general of the General Staff for two days, whose trial is to be carried out as soon as possible. These generals have been very hard on the floor and have been very hard on the floor, and they did not deserve to be removed from their pensions. So the law proposes to reject completely, completely reject this position of the Radical Party.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-09-m0.u116	Dear colleagues, look. I just have that idea. This one-stop shop is under this law, just explain to me maybe I don't understand something. Why do we have 5 or 7 minutes left, just to say the same thing to everyone, to say the same thing. That's why there's a bill, there's a committee proposal, and everyone can express their position by voting. So I'm voting on the draft Act amending the paragraph in section 3, in section 3 of the final position of the Ukrainian Act on Amendments to certain Ukrainian legislation on pension insurance for non-application of pension restrictions to individual categories of citizens, number 2577. The committee's request, on the ground. Each shall be determined by a vote. Please vote. [[12:07:48]] For-22. Thank you. The bill did not get the required number of votes. He asks for a word to be said by Kunicin Sergey Volodymyrovich. Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-09-m0.u117	Dear friends! I know what I'm saying. It looks like it's all over the place. If Igor Stasenko works in the Presidential Administration, three orders for Afghanistan, two serious injuries. If the ATO Veterans and Disabled Persons Service is headed by Arthur Derevianco, 4 Orders for Afghanistan. He took all the caravans. [[B in m in s a l in]] Don't! Listen, so, they're all, what, they're all like that? We can't mix with each other! And there are problems. So let's work together, they're not all the same! Were they not protecting the Family?
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-09-m0.u118	Thank you. Dear company, I'd like to consult you. We completed our consideration of the bill. We'll have judges in the hall at 12.30. Yeah? I understand that at 12:30 there will be judges? So I'm going to give another line to the Radical Party. And we're calling it a break, but it's not a 30-minute break, but it's a 20-minute break until 12:30, so we can get together in time. And they were able to start our work by assigning judges. Please, a replica.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-09-m0.u119	Dear colleagues! I would very much like you to listen carefully. As soon as you heard, it was as cynical a lie as it could possibly be in this room. We have just heard of the heroism of the so - called Arthur the Woodcock that he may have a large pension. So I wanted to inform you, who doesn't know! My colleagues: Igor Mosiyczuk, Igor Lucenk, Boris Filatov, Oksana Korczynski, Alexi Lensky, Dmitr Link went to the village to ask why our heroes, armed with guns, risking every day life, health, and freedom, refused to be bribed by those who participated in the ATO! We asked him how many doctors he had formed as participants in the ATO. Two, two! This is because at least 18 doctors have died in this war! Instead, he arranges for prosecutors to go to Kramatorsk in the south when there are no fights! He's setting up the officers of the President's Administration! He arranges for anyone who buys this status for money or arranges to take advantage of the position of service. And in a normal country, never so much as a villager who is profiting from the holy, our heroes, when the handsless, the legsless, the mutilated are returning from war, and they are not.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-09-m0.u120	Thank you. A break under the Regulation is announced by 12.30 p.m. At 12:30 p.m., we meet in the hall.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-09-m0.u121	Dear colleagues! 12:30. Please come into the hall to continue our work. The time given by the Break Rules is exhausted, and I ask everyone to come in and take their jobs. It's time for a judge's hearing. Dear colleagues! I ask you to come into the hall, leave the towers, the buffets, go into the hall to continue our work. The judges are waiting at the appointed time. I especially ask Ruslan Knazevitch, the reporter, to return to the hall. Please don't rally in the hall, there's no Ruslan Knazevitch, and we're all waiting for Ruslan Knazevitch in the band, he's a reporter on the subject. We can. Please don't rally the opposition block in the hall. Ruslan Knazevitch, head of the committee, entered the hall, which is an important event and unlocks the beginning of our work. So, dear colleagues, the break is over. A draft Decree (registration number 2451) on the selection of judges is under consideration. And the report invites the head of the Committee on Legal Policy and Justice, Knyazevich Ruslan Petrovich. Please. As long as you talk, there'll be voices. And I'd like the deputies to come into the hall and take up jobs.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-09-m0.u122	Thank you. Dear Lord Chairman, dear colleagues! If you could, I'd still like to take a more active seat, because it's now too much for us to vote effectively for that draft of the decree that you have previously given up on your hands. The point is that today, for the first time in our office of the Supreme Council, the Supreme Council of the Eighth Call, in accordance with the Constitution of Ukraine, has presented a draft decree of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the selection of judges on an indefinite basis. I think there is no point in predicting the constitutional order that provides that such a type of right to be converted into termless terms only those judges who have worked more than a five - year term and meet all the constitutional requirements, as well as all the qualifications provided for in this matter. I must tell you that after the recently passed law on the right to a fair trial was passed by the Supreme Council, there has been some change in the procedure for dealing with this issue in general in the walls of the session hall, in the Committee on Legal Policy and Justice and in the Parliament's session. If you recall, the procedure had previously foreseen the following steps. From the High Qualifying Commission of Judges, appropriate submissions were submitted to the Supreme Council. The Parliament’s leadership then referred them to the relevant committee of profile, the subject of which is the question of judiciality. And the committee was empowered by law with respect to every judge recommended to be elected without delay by decision of the Supreme Council, and the committee had to conclude that the matter had to be submitted and added to the material of the case. The judges were invited to a committee meeting, for each judge his personal case, for all those complaints if they came, and the committee had the opportunity to make an all-inclusive assessment of a judge. After that, such a draft decision, along with the added conclusions of the committee, was considered in the session hall and the project. More specifically, the law stipulated that the session hall should have been decided directly by that time until it voted in favour of selecting the judge on an open-ended basis. Now, after the Justice Court Act was fully implemented, it happened from 27 places in the past -- something changed. Now the committee's mandate is that we're just preparing a draft order and proposing a session hall to determine whether or not a judge is involved. In addition, I point out that if national MPs have objections to certain judges, the changes to the Supreme Council Rules give us a variety of options regarding the possibility of dealing with each staff. I will, with your permission, read out that list of judges who, according to the draft ruling, are recommended for selection on an open-ended basis. In case any of the national deputies have any warnings about the personnel, he may raise his hand or take the floor and ask them to remove it from the list, from the general voting list, and recommend it, for example, to vote separately. The only difference between the election of judges on an untimely basis, which was before the adoption of the law and now, is that in that case, if the judge is not given a suitable number of votes, he will not be elected on an untimely basis, which means that the Supreme Council of Justice is obliged to submit an appropriate application to the Supreme Council for the release of such a judge from office. I think that this is an essential difference that must be taken into account in making a perfectly conscious legal decision. If there is no objection, Your Honor Chairman, then I will go to the list of judges in accordance with the envisaged project. And if anyone has a warning as I speak, he may immediately interrupt my speech and take the floor to make a warning. May I?
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-09-m0.u123	Yes, please. Let's just consult, Mr. Chairman of the Committee: will you read the names and then the deputies tell you what warnings or when you speak?
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-09-m0.u124	I'd recommend that we do it right away so we don't get confused.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-09-m0.u125	All right, you got it. Then, please, start, but then slowly make the count so that the MPs will be able to make the warning.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-09-m0.u126	Okay. Ladies and gentlemen, may I have your attention? [[B in m in s a l in]] All the judges in the draft decrees personally participate in the meeting of the Supreme Council. And if you have a desire and need to ask a particular judge a question, you have that right under the Rules. And in the bed on the balcony, and there's an appropriately free microphone in here so that the judge can answer the questions of the parliamentarians. Let me start then.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-09-m0.u127	Please read it.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-09-m0.u128	The Supreme Council of Ukraine decrees to elect judges on an indefinite basis. In accordance with article 85, part one, paragraph 27, of the Constitution of Ukraine, the Supreme Council of Ukraine decides: select judges on an open-ended basis. As the chairman suggested, it was very slow, and it was clear which courts were involved. The Court of Appeal of the Dnipropetrov district of Rogovo Natalija Mikolayovna; Heisinsky District Court of the Vinnitsk Region; Kivertskie District Court of Volinsky District, Victoria Vitaliyevna; Koveli District Court of Volin district of Boychuk Petr Yuhimovich; The Lutsky District Court of Wallinsk, Artislav Danilovich, Plachti Innu Borisovna, Cherniak Vladislav Valeriyovich; The Novovolin City Court of the Volin Region of Usakow Mikolaiovich; Nicolel City Court of Dnipropetrov, Runcheva Olen Viktorovna; Petropavlovsky District Court of the Dnipropetrov region of Misurkaterina Volodymyrna; Amur-Loweredniprovsky District Court of Dnipropetrovska Lysenka Vadima Alexandrovich; The Long-Term District Court of the Horn of Kreeb Dnipropetrovsk district of Paparigu Barvar Anatoliyevna; The Ingulatsky District Court of the city of Krywog Dnipropetrovsk district of Popov Vitali Valeriyovich; Andrushew District Court of the Zitomir district of Chub Inna Anatoliyevna; The Berdichov District Court of the Žitomir Region of Tetjana Mikolayevna; The Malin district court of the Jítomir district of Jarmolenko Volodymyr Viktorovich; The Novograd-Volinsky District Court of the Žitomir Region of Litwin Olga Alexiyevna and Mozgov Vladimir Borisovich; Ovrutsky District Court of the district of Žitomir, Kulinic Jaroslav Valeriyovich; The Poplinian District Court of the Žitomir district of Rudnik Mikol Ivanovich; Ruzynski District Court of the District of Žitomir, Mitjuk Olesyu Vasilovna; Bologna District Court of the city of Žitomir Kostenko Sophia Mikhailnovna; The Mukatov District Court of Zakarpatsk, Nosov Volodymyr Volodymyrovich; The Provincial District Court of the Zakarpat district of Čepurnov Vadim Aleksandrović; Uzhgorod District Court of Zacarpathia [[B in m in s a l in]] On Cherpurnov? [[B in m in s a l in]] Let me read it. The U.S. District Court of Zacarpathy, Malik Vitali Miroslavovich. Any warning? Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-09-m0.u129	There's a warning. Then please give the floor to Deputy Levchenk. I'm asking for a replete word from Yuri Lewchenk. Turn on the microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-09-m0.u130	Leuchenko, Freedom, 223 County. I would like to point out that I have been approached by the activists of Maidan and by public activists in general from Zakarpatja and reported that the judge in question has repeatedly made decisions that are notoriously wrong about the alleged resistance of the militia of activists during public protests. These people, who will be involved in public protests about illegal forgetfulness, about actions, illegal actions by regional authorities at Zakarpatta. And these decisions were canceled by appeal agencies. I think we need to get this person off this list. Please remove it from the list. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-09-m0.u131	Thank you. Just a minute. Dear Society, let me reexplain the rules so that we can properly organize our work. There's a list of judges on whom there's a warning to any of the deputies that raises his hand -- he says "there's a warning" and this person is excluded from the vote, and then he's going to be considered separately. Let's not take the word now, because then there will be a separate consideration of it. Then in the first phase, we remove, and then, after each of them, we have a discussion. Do you have a deal? That's what we're gonna do. Please, Ruslan.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-09-m0.u132	The Hustian District Court of the Zakarpat district of Sidei Jaroslav Jaroslavovich; The Grand Belozer District Court of the Provincial Region of Rogoz Anna Yuriovna; Melitopol District Court of Zaporozhye Region Gorbachev Yuli Viktorovna Orikhov District Court of Zaporozhye District of Pleščištevo Oksana Valentinovna; Priazova District Court of Zaporozhye district of Vasiltsov Hanna Anatoliyovna; Tokmatsky District Court of Zaporozhye district of Novikov Natalya Valeriyovna; Zaporozhye Sinietnik Ruslan Vasilovic, Industrial District Court of Zaporozhye; The Commune District Court of Zaporozhye Kulik, Victoria Borisovna and Nautical Irina Josephovna; The Lenin district court of Zaporozhye Kozlov Natalia Yuriyovna; There's a denial of colleagues. Alexander Kugel has a objection.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-09-m0.u133	I'm fixing every warning, then there'll be a discussion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-09-m0.u134	Since there is a warning from Alexandra Kugel, our colleague, we remove Kozlova from the list. Johno-Frankow City Court of Ivano-Frankow District of Kovaljuk Ivan Petrovna; The Svetan district court of Ivano-Frankiv district of Kalinovsk Mikhail Mikhailovich; Bilocerkow Regional Court of Kiev, Dubanovsk Irina Dmitrovna; Vasilkov District Court of Kiev Kravchenko Lesy Mikolayevna; The Supreme District Court of Kyiv district of Ruduk Aleksija Dmitrovic; Preslav-Hmalnicki District Court of Kyiv District of Krequez Jaroslav Igorovna; The Fastev District Court of Kyiv, Subotin Andrija Valeriyovich; The New Archangel District Court of Kirovograd, Krasnopolsk Ludmila Petrovna; The Novomirgorod District Court of the Kirovograd Region of Orendovsk Vladimir Anatoliyovich; Kirovsky District Court of Kirovgrad Antitype Irina Leonidivna, Mohonko Vitalina Volodymyrovna; The Bus District Court of the district of Lviv district of Shendrickova Hanna Alexandrovna; The Drodobian District Court of the Lviv Region of Kurus Ruslan Ivanovna, Paul of Zoryana Stepanovna; The Bridge District Court of Lviv district of Jalu Sergija Yuriovich. There's a warning from Sidorovich's colleagues after Jalli. Jalu Sergija Yuriovich is still on the list. The Pashtomitov district court of the district of Lviv district of Kipčar Mikola Alexiyovich; The Sokal district court of Lviv district of Farin Lidiya Yuryevna; The railway district court of Lvova Hedz Bogdan Mikhaylovna; Lichakovsky District Court of Lvov Marmash Volodymira Jaroslavovich, Strepk Nazar Lubomirovich; Sikhov District Court of Lvova Timchenko Olen Valerievna The Kazankov District Court of the Mikolai district of Ishchenko Christian Valerievna; The Central District Court of the City of Mikolayeva, Gretchen Svetlana Ivanovna; Bilgorod-Dnistrovsk City Court of the Odessa Region of Zaverju Valentina Alexiyovich; The Bologna District Court of the Odessa Region of Rac Vladimir Anatoliyovich; Ivanów District Court of the Odessa Region of Pogorjelov Igor Viktorovich and Timchuk Ruslan Mikolaiovich; Ishmael City Court of Odessa, Bannikov Natalya Volodymyrna; The Killia District Court of the Odessa Region of Masleników Alexander Akimovitch; The Cominternov district court of the Odessa district of Viennese Natalia All-involved; Tarutin District Court of Odessa, Tonchev Natal Mikolayevna; Malinovo District Court of Odessa Séged Olen Mikhaylovna; The Grebinkov District Court of the Tatishtevo District of Poltava, Jan Viktorovna; Kuznetsov City Court of the district of Rivna district of Malkva Valerija Volodymyrovich; The Ravenna City Court of the Orechovsk district of Orechovské Kristina Eduardovna; Suma District Court of the Suma District of the Black Oksana Mikolayevna; The engaged district court of Suma Sidorenko Alla Petrovna; There's a warning about Sidorenko. Sidorenko's being delayed. The district court of Ternopil district of Levkov Andrija Ivanovich and Oleschuk Bogdan Tarasovich; Lanovecki District Court of Ternopil District of Radoszuk Andrija Vasilovich; Ternopil's Regional Court of Ternopil, Basan Lubomir Theodorovitch, Bratasuk Viktor Mikolaiovich, Djubanovski Yuri Igorovich, Kuncio Sergio Volodymirovich; Walkow District Court of Kharkiv District, Tokmakow Alla Petrovna; The Dergachev District Court of Kharkiv district of Nechiporenko Inna Mikolayevna; Kegichov District Court of Kharkiv District, Kust Natalija Mikolayovna; Chuguyiv City Court of Kharkiv District of Obolen Svetlana Anatoliyevna; Kharkiv Fandu Oksana Anatoliyevna, District Court of Command; The Grand Duchy of the Herson District Court of Haponenk Roman Vasilovich; The High-Paul district court of the Hersonian district of Goodylin Julius Yuriovna; The Hellenic District Court of the Berlimov district of Berlimov Julius Hennadian; Kolchuk Olen Valerievna, District Court of the Hersonian District; The Novochakov City Court of the Hersonian Region of Dmitry Valeriyovich; There's a warning from Red. Mr. Chairman, we're removing him. Skadov district court in Klimchenk Maksim Igorvic district There's a warning on Klimchenk, too. We're removing it. The Komsomol District Court of Herson Gucaluk Alexander Volodymirovich; The Suvorov District Court of Herson Gontar Dmitr Aleksandrovitch; The City District Court of the Hmelni district of Fedoruk Innu Mikolayevna; Kamyanec-Podil Regional Court of Hmeljna district of Durres Ivan Volodymirovich; The hops of the Regional Court of Hmelnicka District of Pindrak Alexander Alexandrovich; The Chemerovetsk District Court of the Hmelnick district of Borsuk Valerija Alexiyovich; Watutin City Court of Cherkas Region Hail Valery Andryovich; The Catherinapil District Court of the Cherkas region of Baranov Oleg Ivanovich; The Cherka district court of the Cherka district of Sokoshin Forest Bogdanovna; The Transnistrian District Court of Cerkasa Kondratsky Natalija Mikolayovna, Stepanenko Alexandr Mihajlovich; The Zastavnovsky District Court of the Czernovec Region of Puharev Olen Vasilovna; The Kitzman District Court of the Chernovets region of Masyuk Ludmila Orestovna; The Novoseltsky District Court of the Czernovetsk Region, Gennady Alexandrovich; The first-level district court of the town of Chernivci of Galican Oleg Ivanovich, Stocko Larissa Anatoliyevna, Skulak Igor Anatoliyovich, Fedin Alina Vasilovna; The Bahmach district court of the district of Chernigiv district of Parhomenek Pavel Ivanovich; Bobrovicki District Court of Chernigiv County, Boyko Valentine Ivanovna; Ichnyan district court of Chernigiv district of Ovcharik Vasil Mikolaiovich; The Coropian District Court of Chernigiv district of Balabu Oksana Anatoliyevna; The District Court of Chernigiv County of Kovalenka Anatolia Vasilovich; Semenov district court of the district of Chernigiv district of Smag Sergija Valeriyovich; The Sosnic District Court of Chernigiv district of Stelmah Andrija Petrovich; Talalaiiv District Court of the Chernigiv district of Tishchenko Ludmila Viktorovna; Righteous District Court of Czernigov Grigoriev Ruslan Hennadiyovich and Samus Ludmila Volodymyrovna; Dniprost District Court of Kyiv Astakhov Aleksandr Alexandrovna, Kuril Andrija Vitaliyovich; Obolon District Court of Kiev Majboženko Anna Mikolayovna; The Solomonese District Court of Kiev, Shevchenko, Lilia Victorovna; Shevchenkov District Court of Kyiv Kwashu Antonin Valerievna Wynnick County Administrative Court of Vilchinsk Alexander Vanadijovich, Chernuk Allu Jurijovna; Volin County Administrative Court of Waldiner Felix Arnoldovich; The Dnipropetrov District Administrative Court of Vron Olen Vitaliyevna, Yukhno Irina Valeriyevna; Žitomir District Administrative Court Lip Vladimir Anatoliyovich, Nagorniak Mikola Fedorovich, Chernov Han Valerijovna, Chernjahovich Irina Eduardo; The Zacarpathian District Administrative Court of Lutsovic Mikhail Mikhailovich; Private District Administrative Court Lazarenko Maksim Sergiyovich, Prasov Aleksandra Alexandrovich, Tatarinova Dmitra Viktorovic; Ivano-Frankiv District Administrative Court of Panicar Igor Viktorovich; Kirovgrad District Administrative Court Hilko Love Ivanovna, Chernish Olga Anatoliyevna, Chubar Nadia Viktorovna; Lviv County Administrative Court Kachur Roxolana Petrovna, Chamber Alexander Igorovich, Kravczuk Volodymyr Mikolaiovich, Krutecko [[B in m in s a l in]] Which one? Olena Vasilovna? Olena Vasilovna is removed from the list. The moon of Zoryan Ivanovna and Mrica Natalia Ivanovna; Mikolayev County Administrative Court of Bionosenko Vladimir Viktorovich, Gordijenko Tetjana Alexandrovna, Melnik Aleksandra Mikolaiovich, Moroz Andrija Alexandrovich, Bird of Veronika Volodymyrovna, Ustinova Igora Anatoliyovich. There are warnings from Melnik, Frost, Bird, and Ustinov. I understand, by four warnings? Yeah, yeah, I did, I did. Odessa District Administrative Court: Boyko Oksana Jaroslavna, Butenka Andrija Volodymyrovich, Vidou Leonid Ivanovich, Samyluk Hanna Ivanovna, Dancer Catherine Alexievna, Tarashina Oksana Mikolayovna, Yuhtenko Ludmila Romanovna; Poltava District Administrative Court: Slobodanuk Natalija Ivanovna; Ravenna District Administrative Court: Druzenko Natalia Vasilovna, Zosula
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-09-m0.u135	There are warnings about Druzenko Natalia Vasilovni, right? Isn't there a Dmitri Petrovich in Zozula? Zosula Dmitry Petrovich is the Ravenna District Administrative Court. Sumskih District Administrative Court: Svetlana Mikhailovna Heletu, Kunec Olen Mikolayovna, Pavlicek Victoria Alexandrovna, Prilipchuk Aleksandra Anatoliyovich; Kharkiv District Administrative Court Kuhar Marina Dmitrovna
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-09-m0.u136	There's a warning from the cook. Remove from the list. Sledenko Andriy Viktorovich, Shevchenko Alexander Volodymyrovich; Herson County Administrative Court: Vasilaku Dmitra Kostinović, Kovbei Olen Vasilovna; The Hellenic District Administrative Court of Master Polycarp Mihajlovich, Saluk Petar Ivanovich, Shevchuk Alexander Petrovich; Cerkas District Administrative Court of Gabrielus Vasil Aleksandrovitch, Timoshenko Valentine Petrovna; The Montenegrin District Administrative Court: Bodnaruk Oleg Vasilovich, Dembatski Pavel Dmitrović, Kovtuk Vitalina Alexandrovna; Chernigiv County Administrative Court: Borodawkin Svetlana Volodymyrovna, Cereal of Larissa Alexandrovna, Padei Valentine Vasilovna; District Administrative Court of Kiev: Vasilchenko Irina Petrovna There's a warning for Vasilchenko. Vekua Nana Gurielevna. There's a warning. Grigorovich Pavel Alexanderovich? There is also a warning. Klimenchuk Natalija Mikolayevna, Pashtenka Kostunica Sergiyovich, Smolija Igor Volodymyrovich, Fedorchuk Andrija Bogdanović, Sheikh Tetjan Ivanovna, Freak Olasia Mikolayevna MPs "The People's Front" are asking to be removed outside this Order. Do I get it right? We're taking it out. The Lord's Court of the Dnipropetrov region of Bondarev Edouard Mikolaiovich, Nazarenko Natalija Grigorovna, Sukhovarov Artem Volodymirovich; The court-martial of Zitomir district Kravec Svetlana Georgievna, Predno Oksan Vasilovna, Solova Ludmila Anatolyevna, Schnit Alona Vasilovna; the Commercial Court of Johno-Frankiv district of Valeev Talia Emirinowna, Tkachenko Irina Viktorovna; The owner of the court of the Kyiv district of Bacuzu Vitali Mihajlovich, Gorbasenek Pavel Volodymirovich, Sokurenko Larissa Vitaliyovna, Trilyakov Oksana.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-09-m0.u137	Attention, there is a warning!
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-09-m0.u138	There is a warning from a colleague of Osukhovsky in Batsuka. Three-year-old Oksana Olegnowna; the Economic Court of Lviv district of Fartushka Taras Bogdanović; the Economic Court of the Odessa Region of Nafleisch Vladimir Davidovich; The House Court of Kharkiv district of Dobral Natal Sergiyevna, Pogorlova Olen Vadimovna and Sujarko Tetjana Dmitrovna. Do you have them? By whom? And by whom? Take the word then. The Lord's Court of the Hersonian District of Sulimovsky Marina Bogdanovna; the Economic Court of the Cherkas region of Kucherenko Oksana Ivanovna; the Chamber of Commerce of the Czernovetsk Region, Tink Alexander Sergiyyovich; Irina Alexandrovna (sorry), Kurdelchuk Igor Danilović, Provalova Artem Igorovich, is the county’s county court of Kiev. We're done.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-09-m0.u139	Thank you for the thorough report. Now, a reverend society. [[B in m in s a l in]] I was approached by representatives of various factions and told them that factions had worked out the list of judges and had collected their lists. And that's why I'm going to put on every faction of Parliament to give their list of those they propose to remove? Only I have a great request to the factions: to give, not by category, but to give clearly by name, so that all names are fixed and removed from the ruling. Mr. Chairman of the Committee, does this form of work take place?
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-09-m0.u140	I am. Andry Volodymyrovich, do I understand you that we're going to remove anyone else from this list?
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-09-m0.u141	Yes.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-09-m0.u142	Then we need to make a sound if there are no warnings.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-09-m0.u143	Please. That's why I said, not categories. And the specific names for this to be fixed by both the committee head and the faction secretariat. Let's maybe I'll start giving without writing. First, the faction of Peter Dustenk. Andrew Antonishtak, please come and tell him what the suggestions are, but slowly, and together you will hear these suggestions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-09-m0.u144	Please turn the microphone on.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-09-m0.u145	Yes. The Bus District Court of the district of Lviv district of Shendrick Hanna Alexandrovna; The Drodobic City Court of the Lviv Region of Kurus Ruslan Ivanovna, Paul Zoriana Stepanovna; Bridge District Court of Lviv Region
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-09-m0.u146	Attention! He can't make it, he can't make it to the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-09-m0.u147	The Bridge District Court of Lviv County, Jal Sergey Yuriovich; The Pashtomitov District Court of the district of Lviv, Cyprus Mikola Alexiyovich; The Socal district court of the Lviv district of Farin Lydia Yuryovna; The railway district court of Lvova Hedz Bogdan Mikhailovna; Lichakovsky District Court of Lvova Marmasha Volodymir Jaroslavovich and Strepka Nazar Lubomirovitch; Sikhov District Court of Lvova Timchenko Olena Valerievna One minute, there's a sequel. Lviv County Administrative Court Kachur Roxolana Petrovna, Chamber Alexander Igorovich, Kravčuk Vladimir Mikolaiovich, Krutenko Olena Vasilovna, Luna Zorjana Ivanovna, Msičko Natalija Ivanovna. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-09-m0.u148	Thank you. Please bring these suggestions in writing and place them on the committee’s head so that it can record them.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-09-m0.u149	Mr. Head, look, I don't want us to be right now, because I'm gonna have to read the whole list again. As soon as the deputy removed all the judges in the Lviv region, he was simply from Lviv. I take it he's in such a position. Now there's going to be an MP from Mikolaiivsk, Odessa, Kirovogradsk, and then there's no point in even further looking at it. [[B in m in s a l in]] It's your own judgment. [[B in m in s a l in]] Ladies and gentlemen, let's do this. We've passed the list. Individual judges determined the position. As for them, we can continue the discussion. If there's a need for a new one, let me start a new one now.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-09-m0.u150	Mr. Ruslan Knazevitch, the factions are speaking. So the next one is the People's Front. [[B in m in s a l in]] I will give my word to all who wish to speak and have something to say. From the People's Front, who will be speaking? The People's Front is Yemen. Please give Leonid Hamtsu a word. There's no Yemeni. From the Radical Party? Loz, please, from the Radical Party.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-09-m0.u151	The Bible prophet Ecclesiast wrote: "And I saw a place for judgment under the sun, and there was one lawlessness." We urge the removal of the following candidates in court: the Kirovgrad District Administration – Chernish Olga Anatoliyevna, Chubaru Nadija Viktorovna. The archangelic district court of Kirovograd County is Krasnopolska Ludmila. The Kirov district court of Kirovgrad is Irina Leonidivna, better known in legal circles as Deaf because she can't hear without money, she can't see anything. Next. Khuhar Marina Dmitrovna, Rilova Viktoro Viacheslavna, is the master’s court in Kharkiv district. Kharkiv District Administrative Court is Sledenko Andri Viktorovich. The Montenegrin District Administrative Court is Bondaruk Oleg Vasilovich. I want to inform you that today he has addressed to the head of the U.S.S.A. about the corruption of this judge. The District Administrative Court of Kiev is Vasilchenko Irina Petrovna. Klimchenko Maksim Igorović, Skadov District Court of the Hersonian Region Fedoruk Irina Mikolayevna, Hrodecko District Court of Hmelnicke District Olena Vasilovna, Lviv District Administrative Court Melnika Alexander Mihajlovich, Mikolaiyev District Administrative Court Wilchinsky Alexander Hennadyovich, Wynnicki District Administration. Slobodan Natalia Ivanovna, Poltava District Administrative Court Zosula Dmitry Petrovich, Ravenna District Administrative Court Shevchenko Alexander Volodymyrovich, Kharkiv District Administrative Court. Grandpa Sergey Mikolaiovich, Heisen District Court of the Vinnitsk Region Czerniak Vladislav Valeriyovich, Lutsky District Court of Volinsk. Widower of Tetjana Mikolayevna, Berdichiv County Court of the Žitomir Region Kostenko Sophia Mikhailovna, Bologna District Court of the city of Žitomir Pavlik Zoryan Stepanovna, Drogobic District Court of Lviv. Kipčarska Mikola Alexiyovich, Pistomitov District Court of Lviv Region Zubanski Yuri Igorovich, Ternopil District Court of Ternopil. Fanda Oksana Anatoliyevna, Cominternov District Court of Kharkova Buzaluk Alexander Volodymyrovich, Komsomol District Court of Kharkova Masuk Ludmila Orestovna, Kitzman District Court of Cherniewec Region Vrona Helen Vitaliyevna, Dnipropetrovsky District Administration. Panicker Igor Viktorovich, Ivano-Frankow County Administrative Court. Yukhtenko Ludmila Romanovna, Odessa District Administrative Court Cowby Helen Vasilovna, Herson District Administrative Court. The tailor of Svetlana Georgievna, the courts of the Gitomir region. Solovy Ludmila Anatolyevna, the court-martial of the district of Žitomir Kucherenko Oksana Ivanovna, court-martial of the Cherkas region Tinka Alexander Sergiyyovich, court-martial of the Chernieweck region Honcharov Roman Vasilovich, Primorski District Court of Odessa Husac Alexander Mikolaiovich, Kremenchuk Automated District Court Kosik Ludmila Grigorovna, Kieveva’s Shrine Reissance Lunachenko Alexander Anatoliyovich, Primorski District Court of Odessa Belova Olga Valentinovna, Kharkiv District Administrative Court. Glasco Sergey Mihajlovich, Sumskie District Administration. Kalenjuk Janna Vasilovna, Volin County Administrative Court The Archdiocese of Svetlana Viktorovna, Kharkiv District Administration I apologize, according to the Archdiocese judge, I was wrong. We're on the committee and we're sending them to the CDC for tests. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-09-m0.u152	Attention, company! I very much ask everyone in the hall to calm down first of all, calm down first of all. He's about to make his proposal to the head of the committee. Because it's actually supposed to be on the committee, not in the session room. So I would very much ask the committee head to give us an offer in the hall as to how we should proceed. Because I see that the question is not ready to be considered in the hall. Please, Ruslan Knazevich.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-09-m0.u153	Dear Lord Chairman, dear colleagues! I am deeply hurt and ashamed that just with such a lengthy report, the secretary of the committee on legal policy and justice, on which we returned a third of the judges, and he had no reservations about these. And his visa stands on the draft decree that he does not object to it! Andrew Sergiyovich, I don't know what happened, but I regret, frankly, that we've been looking at your offer of every judge for three months and holding these judges! They don't do justice, they get paid! And instead of paying people's wages, you pay them to judges who don't do anything! And then Parliament has no moral right to say that there is no political court. The pressure on the judges. We must change the Constitution and deprive ourselves of these powers! That will be fair!
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-09-m0.u154	Mr. Ruslan Knyazevich, I asked you to give us an offer on how to proceed.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-09-m0.u155	If there are no votes and there is no vote, I ask you to move this question to another term. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-09-m0.u156	Dear colleagues! Attention, company! Listen to me, please. Listen to me, please, association. We have a huge number of important issues ahead of us today. We can do the same thing for half an hour now. But if the committee head's proposal to move this question is accepted, I think it'll be right if we move and start working on the following issues. Is the offer different from this one? Is everyone in agreement with the position? Then I ask that we vote on the proposal. How can we cope? [[B in m in s a l in]] So, society, there's a proposal for the committee head to transfer the bill to the next quarter. There is a proposal that the committee's work should be as transparent as possible, that there should be public discussion so that this process can take place as publicly as possible. And I'm sure then we'll be able to work productively here in the hall, and I'm sorry not to make the clean Thursdays of the battalions we had today. I'm asking the committees to bring into the room those questions that are ready, that will not take up our time and that we will be able to maintain together. Did I make your proposal correctly, Mr. Ruslan? Please give the head of the committee a minute to speak.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-09-m0.u157	Andrew Volodymyrovich, you got it right. I'm the only one who'd really like to be right. The point is that the committee is deprived of the authority you're talking about. We don't have the legal capacity to test and rule out any judge right now. We can only automatically propose to Parliament what we have received from the Higher Qualifications Commission of Judges. If you have any warnings or questions we can ask the CDC again to consider the relevant submissions and all. On the other hand, if this question is to be referred, I would like to apologize to those tens of judges who are looking at the disgrace that is taking place in the walls of Parliament and ask them to come back to this matter once more.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-09-m0.u158	Thank you. So there is a proposal to postpone the consideration of the matter and we vote in favour of the transfer. I understand the committee head's proposal correctly, do we vote in favour of moving the matter forward? Yes, Ruslan? Ruslan? It doesn't need a vote. You don't have to. There's a proposal by the committee head and at the suggestion of the committee head, we're moving the matter forward and moving on to other issues of the agenda. I want to apologize to the judge that this question was not ready for consideration today, and I am sure that next time we will be able to prepare the question in a transparent, professional way. I'm sorry. Thank you. Let us now consider the following questions. We have a request for a recess to require two factions from the opposition bloc and the people's will. Do you need a break or enough talk? Please report three minutes from the rostrum. Please report Boyko from the rostrum and consider the following questions.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-09-m0.u159	Mr. Chairman, honourable national MPs, I am confident that the Parliament of the Eighth Assembly will enter the history of Ukraine as a unique one. Parliament's uniqueness is not that from the first, work began to violate all the laws and regulations adopted by Parliament itself. The uniqueness is not even that some of our colleagues, who voluntarily accepted the obligation of the prosecutor and judge and began to render judgment directly in this sessionary chamber to the same national deputies as they did. The uniqueness of Parliament is that no day since the beginning of Parliament's work, the ruling coalition, which was formed, has worked for its electorate and for the people. And today’s events are a powerful testimony to this. Because when we saw the agenda, where there is no question that really concerns people, the issue of peace, the issue of economic stability, and only political declarations, we concluded that this Parliament is really unique and it doesn't work for people. So the political party and the opposition block faction leave behind the right not to vote in favour of the draft laws proposed at today's session, because they do not reflect what people and voters need.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-09-m0.u160	So let's move on to the next question of the order of the day. The draft Law on Legal Status and Respect for Members of the 20th century (Nos. 2538 and 2538-1) is under discussion. We have a whole block of questions on national memory, and we have been asked by the drafters to consider a simplified procedure. Please support the consideration of the reduced procedure. Please vote. [[13:20:42]] For 172 Thank you. The report invites the head of the Ukrainian Institute of National Memory, Viátrović Vladimir Mihajlovich. Please go to the rostrum.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-09-m0.u161	Good afternoon, fellow MPs! I'm very glad that this bill has come to order, not just today, but finally in 23 years of independence. I am convinced that Ukraine has been waiting a long time for this kind of bill, and it's good that we're finally going to be looking at it. This is a series of bills: four bills that we called a decommunization package, which is extremely important. And the first of these projects is the bill on the legal status of honouring the memory of the participants in the struggle for Ukraine’s independence in the twentieth century. What does this bill propose? With this bill, we finally pay our respects to the fighters for Ukraine's freedom, we repay our moral debt. This bill finally evaluates Russian aggression, admits the Russian aggression of Bolshevik Russia against Ukraine. We are talking about the need to recognize those who fought for independence in the twentieth century. We say that independence was restored in 1991 after it was lost in the early 20th century. I am convinced that this law is now extremely important, considering that today Ukrainians are once again defending their independence. And those who are now in the East, in Donbas, protecting Ukraine, should understand that the state they are protecting respects those who are fighting for its independence. I am very pleased that Yuri Suhevich, who is the son of the commander-in-chief of the Ukrainian rebel army, was directly involved in the drafting of this bill, a man who is himself an active participant in the Ukrainian Liberation Movement. And I urge you to support this bill. to support, not even a simple majority, but a constitutional one, because it really deserves to be recognized by the fighters for their independence. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-09-m0.u162	Thank you, Mr. Vladimir. And a statement is made by the deputy head of the Committee in the matters of veterans, participants in hostilities, participants in the anti-terrorist operation and people with disabilities, Yuri Bogdan Romanovich. Please turn on the microphone on on the stand. Welcome, Yuri Bogdanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-09-m0.u163	Dear Lord Chairman! Ladies and gentlemen! It happened that, in fact, I was with the committee. Sorry, the Institute of Memory produced this bill. But what happened was that the institute's insistent government project was registered, and then I had to register my own. Maybe in a bit of a hurry, because they haven't been polished yet, but he's registered and passed the profile committee, the committee recommended him to you for review. Ladies and gentlemen, the right of every nation to create its own state is sacred. Thus, the Ukrainian people had this right and their struggle for their will and independence was legitimate and legitimate. And the bill perpetuates the memory of all those who fought for that nation for its freedom. A nation that was to rise up after the destruction, after oppression by foreign invaders. All persons, according to the law, who took part in armed, paramilitar, underground, political, and individual acts, in the struggle for freedom.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-09-m0.u164	I'm asking you to give me two more minutes, Yuri Suhevich.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-09-m0.u165	I apologize as the author of the bill, as well as from the committee I have the right to speak, Mr. Andrey. Thus, all those who took part in this fight in armed, paramilitar, political, and personal structures are recognized as fighters for Ukraine’s will and independence. We take all: and the Union for the Liberation of Ukraine before World War I and political parties such as RUP and others. We take the Ukrainian legion, the Ukrainian retinal archers, the Central Council and all of it. the active army of the U.N.R. and the Armed Forces of the Ukrainian State, the Gethtmanatu, the guerrilla and insurgent forces of Nadnipriščina, the Carpathian Sich, the Ukrainian rebel army, as well as the political, I have already said. It refers to structures such as the Organization of Ukrainian Nationalists, such as the Soym and the Carpathian Party of Ukraine. They were created after World War II, and they were numerous, truly numerous large and small, such as the Ukrainian National Front, the Ukrainian National Committee, and others. They were created and they fought. And thanks to this fight today, we have a Ukrainian state. We take all those who fought.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-09-m0.u166	Please finish for another 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-09-m0.u167	From the beginning of the century until the day of the declaration of independence on August 24, 1991. The bill lists it. I told you, the whole list is impossible. And so it is stated in the law that the Cabinet of Ministers has the right to complete this list after the study, once all archives are classified.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-09-m0.u168	More, please. 30 seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-09-m0.u169	We are obliged to recognize all these people. This is necessary, however, whether those who are fighting in eastern Ukraine, as has already been said, will also be recognized as those who now defend this Ukrainian state. We did not specifically focus on any badges, any privileges.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-09-m0.u170	Ten seconds to complete. Mr. Yuri, if I may, is finished.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-09-m0.u171	Because a difficult economic situation does not allow today. And most of those fighters for the will of Ukraine have gone on forever. But.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-09-m0.u172	Please finish Mr. Yuri. Turn on the microphone until Mr. Yuri is finished. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-09-m0.u173	The committee accepted, considered, accepted and recommended that the Supreme Council accept as a basis. And for the second reading, any amendments and observations can be made to the committee because our committee is open to such work. Thank you for your attention and ask everyone to support this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-09-m0.u174	Thank you very much. Thank you for the report. Dear society, you know, we've been going to this bill for a long time. And rightly said Mr. Yuri Suhevich, our war is a century-old war. A hundred years ago, in October 14th, our first volunteers on Mount Key took up a fight with Russian invaders. For a hundred years we have fought against Russian imperialism, against Russian occupation. The time has come for all those with the blue and yellow flag and the trident to fight for the Ukrainian state to be honored by the Ukrainian state. And I think we need to think about the mechanism during the discussion. Perhaps we can amend the bill now and accept it as a whole. So let's write two in favour, two in the opposite. And during the discussion, we'll find a mechanism so that maybe we don't delay adopting the bill, but we'll adopt it here and now as a basis and as a whole. And that's why I'm asking you to sign up with honorary colleagues two for, two against. Please sign up. Gabrieluk Mikhailo Vitaliyovich, People's Front. Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-09-m0.u175	I want to give the word to Oleg the Medusa.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-09-m0.u176	Didn't I hear who?
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-09-m0.u177	Oleg Medunica, People's Front faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-09-m0.u178	Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-09-m0.u179	Ladies and gentlemen, today it is imperative to adopt this law in order to establish justice in relation to those who gave their lives in the fight for Ukraine so that those who are currently fighting for Ukraine can be sure that future generations of Ukrainians will remember them. Regrettably, in the previous government, there was a policy of glamour, and we were constantly subject to foreign historical standards. Remember, let's remember that disgraceful decision when Stephen Andrievich Bandera was deprived of the name Hero of Ukraine. In fact, we tried to cast Russian rings to occupy us ideologically and then occupy the territory. We're seeing territorial occupation by Russia right now. Therefore, today’s decision by the Ukrainian Parliament must be epochal. Today, all Ukraine will see who has not voted in favour of this law, because those who do not vote in favour of this law are clearly enemies of Ukraine, are the deputies who work for the Russian aggressor who live by foreign Ukrainian standards of ideology. The People's Front faction will unanimously support this bill and thinks that everyone today is a faction of the Ukrainian, indeed, Ukrainian Parliament should also vote in favour.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-09-m0.u180	Thank you. Please, Krulko Ivan Ivanovich, the All-Ukrainian Union of Fatherland.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-09-m0.u181	Ivan Krulko, "The Fatherland" faction. The Fatherland faction will unanimously vote in favour of this important bill. We are now witnessing the restoration of historical justice when Ukrainian and Ukrainian freedom and independence fighters are finally recognized. Of course, this bill was to be adopted in 1991 immediately after the restoration of Ukraine’s state independence. It took 24 years for Ukraine to see those who chose Ukraine’s independence honored and recognized by such a Ukrainian state. Clearly, then, before the memory of those millions who are no longer alive and before the memory of those who have left, we are restoring historical justice to them today. The "Fatherland" faction has registered the 2515 regulation on this issue. But today there is no situation for us to say who the author is. It's important that we do this very necessary thing, a matter that will actually consolidate the Ukrainian state. The thing that will show today is that Ukraine is eventually cutting the cord with the Kremlin and Moscow, which is occupying Ukraine and which is now making aggression against our nation. Ukrainians who are real heroes should be respected. And the next step is to extend to these veterans who are still alive, the Law on the Status of War Veterans. In order for them to receive appropriate help from the State. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-09-m0.u182	Lensky gives the word Igor Mosiychuku. Turn the microphone on in the stands.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-09-m0.u183	Igor Mosiyczuk, Radical Party. The truth is now a historic moment, a moment of truth. The moment when, indeed, the Ukrainian Parliament not only restores historical justice but demonstrates the gravity of the Ukrainian State from the time of the UN, from the time of the restoration of the Ukrainian state in Lviv on June 30, 1941 to today. It's not just about celebrating and honoring. It's about recognition at the state level, recognition of soldiers, retinal archers, soldiers of the Cold Yar, rebels, soldiers of the Ukrainian Insurgency Army. Those who are now, namely, their followers in the eastern part of the country now defend the territorial integrity of our Fatherland. Now in this room, the spirit of Semin Petlura, the spirit of Gehtman Paul Krapatsky, the spirit of Chief Eugene Konovaltz, the spirit of Stephen Bandera and Roman Shuhevich. With our voices now in the hall, we address them. And once today we must honor not only those who are still alive but also those who have died, so I ask the Assembly to honor the memory of all the heroes who have put their heads in Ukraine and Ukrainian statehood. The glory of the nation!
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-09-m0.u184	Thank you. He's got a word. Beresuk or Hani Gopko? Let's have Berezuk, please, word, and then prepare the Head.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-09-m0.u185	Ladies and gentlemen of parliament, two things that I would like to stress, I believe that the bill introduced by Yuri Shuhevich is not just a symbol, it is a double symbol, and that is why we must support this double symbol. It's a reproduction of historical continuity and justice, a symbolic thing that needs to be supported. The second thing is, we don't do anything special to you, it's not heroism, it's nothing to boast about. We're doing what was supposed to be done 24 years ago, but because of certain social and historical conditions, it couldn't be done. We quietly, quietly vote on these laws, and we will be proud of Yuri Shuhevich and the people who have brought us these laws. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-09-m0.u186	Thank you. Please, Head.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-09-m0.u187	Mikhail Golovko, the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union. Dear fellow MPs! We are really considering today the historical question that is important to our nation, for it is not just historical justice, but national justice, the restoration of it. I want to say that the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union has been raising this question for over 10 years, and many of us have been condemning us before, saying that this is how we break up Ukrainian society and work for the Kremlin painting. And I'm glad that the government has finally listened to our initiatives, and this bill will finally be voted today. I'm sorry we haven't done this before. And many of the deputies who did not then vote will immediately vote. And what I'm saying is that this was supposed to happen a long time ago. So, society, today we're doing a fair mission: we're getting rid of Moscow's bonds, we're finally honoring our heroes. And this is our sacred duty. And I urge all factions to vote unanimously -- and to correct their guilt against Ukrainian heroes. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-09-m0.u188	From Peter Prashenko’s Block, Yuri Vitaliyovich Lucenko. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-09-m0.u189	Dear colleagues, for the first time, I would like to address not only the hall but also our electorate. I remember when I came to the Lviv area, and I said that only because we have Galicina, Ukraine can gain freedom during the Dignity Revolution; only because the UPA army has sown a bloody sacrifice that has now come down the steps of the Self-Defense Forces, and now the voluntary battalions in the East, there is a chance in this country. You can treat Bandera differently, as they say in the east or the west, but you can't help but recognize the Ukrainian's right to defend his freedoms, to the fullest extent, and justly, and legally use all the Ukrainian soldiers: from the Sichi shooters to the present-day volunteer battalions in the Ukrainian liberation war. I would like today’s law to be our little crumb of memory for the bloody sacrifices offered to the real Ukrainians, for our right to live in a free country and to adopt laws that honor their memory.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-09-m0.u190	Thank you. Dear colleagues, from the People's Front there was already a performance by Medunica. Now I have a request for the last speech, Anna Hopko, who can make a proposal so that we can vote on the law as a whole. So come on, this is the last performance, we're going to give her our word and she's for the transcript, I'm asking the secretariat to support this, I want it. Please give me a call. Mr. Yuri believes that today, as a drafter of the bill, we should only take the basis of the project. We are proposing in general, and perhaps we together will convince Mr. Yuri that we voted in general, with an amendment to that bill. Mr. Yuri, do you agree that we and the amendment can vote on the bill as a whole? If possible, turn on the microphone, if there is a microphone, for replication. We ask you very much not to delay this process so that we can vote on your bill today. Please, Yuri Suhevich.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-09-m0.u191	Mr. Chairman, Your Honor, I don't mind at all, but I don't think it's appropriate to stick together in such a hurry. As we really want to polish up, we've been waiting for this law for 24 years. So if you can't wait two weeks or two weeks now, or take 2538-1 and that's it. And if you want to enter, make one out of two, you only have to do the first reading. For he is, well, unagreed, unglued, nothing good will come of him.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-09-m0.u192	Please repeat Yuri Lucenka.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-09-m0.u193	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that the PSC has proposed the adoption of Law 2538-1, the law of Mr. Shuhevich. I think it's going to be right from the historical point of view and from the parliamentary point of view. Let's put 2538-1 on the ground and vote for it as a whole. And that'll be fair.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-09-m0.u194	Respectable Society! With respect and respect to Mr. Yuri, I am also convinced that we should not postpone the adoption of this bill, and so I will ask the House for a proposal that you support me so that we can vote on the basis of Mr. Yuri Shuhevich's bill, 2538-1, and in general, and all the necessary amendments can then be made by means of the legislative initiative of each MP. Is there support for such a position? [[B in m in s a l in]] And, dear colleagues, I ask you to come into the hall and prepare for the vote. We have no right to delay the adoption of such important laws. So the draft law on legal status and respect for the memory of the participants in the struggle for Ukraine's independence in the twentieth century (2538-1) is put to the vote as a basis and as a whole. Please support this historic decision. Vote. Please. [[13:45:18]] For 271 Thank you, Your Honor. [[B in m in s a l in]] Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-09-m0.u195	Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-09-m0.u196	Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-09-m0.u197	Thank you to the author of the bill, a legendary person who. We have the honor of working with her, Yuri Suhevich. And let's go over the bill. The draft law on the perpetuation of victory over Nazism in World War II. There's a proposal from the authors, too, that we might be able to adopt this bill. Please support the consideration of the reduced procedure. Please. [[13:46:26]] For-200 Thank you. So I invite you to report to the head of the Ukrainian Institute of National Memory, Váterović Vladimir Mikhajlovich. And I'm reporting immediately that I'm at the head's right hand for 15 minutes and I'm continuing our work. And it's important for us to be able to adopt two more important bills at that time. Therefore, it is only desirable to speak and take the floor when there are very clear proposals for a bill. Mr. Vladimir, please go to the rostrum. Turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-09-m0.u198	Good afternoon, fellow MPs, again. Thank you again for supporting the previous bill. The second bill is also extremely important. It's called "the perpetuation of victory over Nazism in World War II." Since this year, on the occasion of the 70th anniversary of the end of World War II, the 70th anniversary of the victory over Nazism has said a lot about this war. Unfortunately, we see the myths of this war, the Soviet myths of this war are being used by the Russian Federation and its propaganda to fight against the present Ukraine. And it's very important that we get rid of these myths. Furthermore, we know that Ukraine was one of the main arenas of World War II and suffered terrible losses to 10 million people killed. We know that victory over Nazism has become possible only through the participation of Ukrainians, those millions of Ukrainians who fought in the Red Army, those hundreds of thousands of Ukrainians who fought in the Ukrainian rebel army, those hundreds of thousands who fought in the ranks of the Allied Army. That's why our job is to bring back the real memory of years of war and get rid of Soviet clichés. What does this bill propose? The fastening of the term "World War II" and the removal of the Soviet-propaganda term "Great Fatherland War" he proposes to introduce the Day of Memory and Reconciliation on May 8th with the aim of perpetuating all the victims of World War II. He suggests May 9th that we call the Day of Victory over Nazism in World War II. It is vital that this law provides for the abolition of the use of Soviet symbolism in honoring all who have fallen into World War II. I urge you to support this bill at the right level, and in the end, to honor the heroes and victims of this war this year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-09-m0.u199	Thank you. The chairman of the Committee of Trelyaków, Alexander Yuriovich, is invited to attend. If you'll excuse me for a moment. Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-09-m0.u200	The Committee considered it at its meeting and suggested that it should be adopted as a basis and as a whole at once. There's nothing to discuss. Vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-09-m0.u201	Thank you very much. I also think I understand the situation. There is agreement that we should vote on the basis as a whole. Yes. Then I put to the vote a bill on the perpetuation of victory over Nazism in World War II 1939-1945 (No. 2539), on the basis of and in general. If you'll excuse me, I'd like to vote. [[13:49:39]] For 261 Thank you. This was also an important decision. And thank you, Volodymyr Váterovich. And let us consider the next draft of the Law on Access to Archives of Repressive Organs of the Communist Totalitarian Regime of 1917 - 1991 (No. 2540). And the report invites the head of the Ukrainian Institute of National Memory, Viátrović Vladimir Mihajlovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-09-m0.u202	Ladies and gentlemen of the MPs! One of the most important laws in this documentation package is proposed for you to have access to the archives of the repressive organs of the communist totalitarian regime for 17-91 years. The main task of this archive is to make this law open the archives that tell us about crimes and mass violations of human rights that have taken place in the Soviet Union. Similar laws have been passed in 12 countries in the post-communist countries of Eastern Europe. Recommendations for the creation of these laws are made by various international European structures, which are considered necessary by the separation of historical documents that describe the repression against their own people, from documents owned by modern intelligence. So what the bill is proposing. Open access. All archives of Soviet reprisals are opened. This law will also move these materials to become available, especially through their mass digitization. The obligation to digitize documents is established to preserve and make them available. A single archive of documents of repressive organs is being formed, which will eventually be independent of the political will of modern intelligence or modern forces. The European principle of access is introduced. The law limits access to information rather than to a document. Self-censorship is lifted. The responsibility for the dissemination of information now lies not with the archivist but with the person who will distribute it. After all, what's extremely important is that this law will mean, among other things, the decommunization of the current special forces and the militia that will be rid of these documents will be rid of the disgraceful legacy of the Soviet period. I urge you to support this bill, which is extremely important for us to give a proper assessment of our past.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-09-m0.u203	Thank you. The co - report invites the head of the Committee on Culture and Spirituality, Princely Nikola Leonidovich. Request: Short and fast.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-09-m0.u204	I'll be brief. The bill is historic, allowing the Institute of National Memory to work fully and give every citizen information about his past, his family’s past. A bill that causes a lot of complaints. Because many of the people who were KGB agents in Soviet and Stalinal times or their relatives are concerned that they will be exposed. A bill that raises criticism because archivists, some of them, do not want the archives to be opened and transferred to the Institute of National Memory. At the same time, the SBA archive and other archives, part of the archives, support this idea. Our committee discussed this bill. During the discussion of the bill, members of the committee unreservedly supported the philosophy of the bill on the need to ensure the openness of the archival information of the repressive authorities of the communist totalitarian regime of 1897-1991, as well as the need to transfer these documents to electronic media. At the same time, observations were made regarding the imperfections of the mechanism for the direct transfer of these archives to the new archive. The committee therefore recommended that the Supreme Council decide on this project on access to the archives of the repressive bodies of the Communist totalitarian regime. The People's Front faction supports and requests that it be accepted on the first reading as a basis. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-09-m0.u205	Wouldn't the committee deny it if we voted on the basis as a whole?
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-09-m0.u206	I'm speaking from both the faction and the committee. The faction supports, vote in general. The committee made a decision on the decision of the hall.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-09-m0.u207	To the decision of the hall. I understand there's a proposal: to vote on the basis as a whole. [[B in m in s a l in]] Is there a warning? Please, Berezuk, for the show, for the lineup.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-09-m0.u208	Hall will determine, the law is absolutely necessary for everyone. I'm the only one who has one warning, I've got to hand over the archives of the USSR KGB and all the IMF, all the others, the Institute of Memory. I just want to ask you: Is it written down physically and on the way from Lviv to Kiev to lose things? I know that we need to get out of dangerous areas where the archives may be lost or have long since been lost. But there's one question: are we going to centralize this so that it gets lost along the way, or are we opening branches in every archive where workers work and expose it in safe, quality historical environments? This is an important question for me, colleagues, because sometimes during transformations many things are lost.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-09-m0.u209	Thank you. I'm asking for a replica of Vladi Vátrovitch.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-09-m0.u210	Sometimes that law is not yet in place.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-09-m0.u211	Please, Lord Vjetrović, a brief lineup and proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-09-m0.u212	Thank you, Mr. Oleg. Indeed, the law provides for the transmission of these documents. How this will be done – obviously should be detailed in the regulations and a special program will be adopted to determine how documents will be transmitted, that is first. Second, do you want to leave the documents in Kiev, or do you want them in place? I think we can base the Polish model on the central archive of the National Memory Institute in Warsaw. But at the same time, each of the voivodships has the same district representations of this archive, so it can be completely taken into account.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-09-m0.u213	Thank you. Respectful association, therefore, will be a foundation for me as a whole. If it doesn't work out, then I'll put it on the ground. [[B in m in s a l in]] If it doesn't go as a basis and as a whole, we vote as a basis. [[B in m in s a l in]] Okay, first of all, based on the base. The draft Law on Access to Archives of Repressive Organs of the Communist Totalitarian Regime 1917-1991 (No. 2540) is requested to vote on the basis. Please determine the vote, please. [[13:56:25]] For 271 Thank you. During the discussion, a proposal was made to vote in general. And the committee allows for such a mechanism. So I'm putting the draft Law on Access to Repressive Organ Archives of the Communist Totalitarian Regime of 1917 - 1991 (No. 2540) to vote in general. Whoever supports this proposal, please vote. Please support. [[13:57:00]] For 261 Thank you for your support. Thank you to the government, Volodymyr Váterovich, for the bills prepared. And thank Mr. Volodymyr. But at the same time, we have two more bills from the same block: a block of national memory. And I would like to discuss the draft Law on the Prohibition of Communist and National Socialist (Nazi) Totalitarian regimes in Ukraine and the prohibition of promoting their symbolism. There's an offer, with a reduced procedure. And I ask everyone to vote and support this proposal. For the summary procedure, please vote. [[13:57:50]] For 201 Thank you. I'm reminding you, I already lasted 15 minutes, 10 minutes ago. The National Deputy of Ukraine, Lásko Oleg Valeriyovich, is now invited to the report. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-09-m0.u214	Honorable citizens of Ukraine, distinguished colleagues of national MPs! Today is a truly historic day: in the Clean Thursday, finally in the 24th year of independence, the Ukrainian Parliament is making those decisions that you and I were supposed to make 24 years ago, after the collapse of the Soviet Union. That's why it's killing our country today, because we didn't immediately cut off this bud of totalitarianism, communism, Stalinism, that took the lives of millions of Ukrainian citizens. Today, our decisions, the restoration of historical justice, not only of the living but also of the souls of millions of innocently murdered children are viewed by famine, repression, war, persecution, gulags. We are looking at history, and the Ukrainian people are looking at us. And what the Ukrainian Parliament is doing today is the historic decisions that the whole country has been waiting for many, many years. I'm sure after these historic decisions our country will be a new country, our country will actually become a democratic and European country. Condemning communism, condemning Nazism is our duty. These two systems: Nazi and Communist -- they killed hundreds of millions of people. Communism and Nazism in Ukraine should never exist again. Glory to Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-09-m0.u215	The chairman of the Knyazevich Committee is invited to attend. And then, if there's any need for discussion, there's going to be a discussion. Please, Prince Ruslan Petrovich. From the ground or from the rostrum? Out of place, please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-09-m0.u216	The honourable national deputies, the honourable chairman, the Committee on Legal Policy and Justice at its session, reviewed the proposed draft Law on Registration Number 2558, the subject of which is the right of the legislative initiative of which a number of our colleagues are Lyashko, Sümar, Gopko, Sobolev, Kožemjakin, Lozová, Chizmar, Lucenko, Musijczuk, Skuratovsky, Vuk, Shukhevich, Berezuk and other national deputies. And he unanimously decided to support the bill and recommend it to the Supreme Council of Ukraine to consider it at a session, to support it on the basis and in general. Please support, Your Honor, this kind of conclusion of the committee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-09-m0.u217	Thank you. So, the committee's proposal, repeat how to vote. In general, right? Before the vote, however, who thinks it's necessary to speak, I will give my word. Yuri Vitaliovich? Please turn on the microphone from the rostrum.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-09-m0.u218	Dear Mr. Head, dear colleagues! I didn't take the floor to advocate a vote. Obviously, we support this bill. I took the floor to explain to our electorate and to undo the myths that dissolve. This bill does not prohibit ideology, because it is unacceptable for any democratic country. This bill prohibits the totalitarian regime under which it is not painted. Under Communist, under Fascist, under any other. The totalitarian regime is banned and condemned by Ukraine. So we're fighting not ideas, not philosophers, not scientists, but cannibals, cannibals, who were killing the country. And more of that in Ukraine, we can't let that happen while there's democracy. Please support this important, in fact, historic bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-09-m0.u219	Thank you. Indeed, today is an important historic day. I propose that we vote as a whole without much discussion. Let us cleanse ourselves of a clean Thursday of Communist plague and plague! And I ask the National Deputies to vote in favour of the draft Law on the Conviction of Communist and National Socialist (Nazi) Totalitarian Regimes in Ukraine and the Prohibition of the Propaganda of Their Symbol No. 2558 on the Basis and Overall. Please be supportive. Vote. [[2:02:55]] For 254 Thank you for your support. I welcome all of us to make this important historic decision. We have literally a few more minutes. And that's why I'm still looking at the draft Law on Nationalization of Property in Ukraine of the Aggressor State and its Residents. And I also ask that this bill be considered in a simplified procedure. If there is support, please vote in favour of the reduced procedure. [[14:03:33]] For-170. Thank you. Is there a common position to vote on the basis as a whole? If there is a common position between both the authors of the bill and the committee, I put to the vote the draft Law on the Nationalization of Property in Ukraine of the Aggressor State and its Residents (No. 2497) as a basis and as a whole. Please be supportive. Vote. [[14:04:11]] For 190 Thank you. Society, I think. [[B in m in s a l in]] Society. I'd like to clarify the position on this bill. Should we discuss whether we have just been able to vote? [[B in m in s a l in]] Please, the bill's author, one minute, a statement from the rostrum.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-09-m0.u220	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. My esteemed colleague, Yuri Lucenko, proposes that the law be passed for further processing. So this law, venerable Yuri Vitaliyovich, was to be passed a year ago when Russia occupied our Crimea, when Russia seized our property, our private persons, our public figures, and all other Ukrainian property. And that's why we have to vote on this law. If we don't have the votes to adopt the law as a whole, let's adopt the law in the first reading, work on it, and adopt it as a whole. But it's nonsense when the aggressor country makes billions in Ukraine and this money goes to finance the war against Ukraine. We still have Russian banks, Russian gas stations, Russian insurance companies, Russian lotteries -- everything in the world is Russian. How we're going to win, if they're making money from us, fools, money and our money are fighting us, killing our people. Vote!
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-09-m0.u221	Thank you. Please, the word of Yuri Vitaliovich. Turn on the microphone from the rostrum.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-09-m0.u222	Dear colleagues! In addition to sincere patriotic feelings, lawmakers still need to think about laws. Thus, we should read the conclusion of the Executive Board to see that the law today does not reach its noble goal. We have an adopted sanction law that's simply not being implemented. And to enforce it, not to enact another law, but to demand compliance with existing legislation, including. [[B in m in s a l in]] Including. But to write in a law that should pass a law that will ever be passed, which may eventually impose sanctions, our faction does not vote in favour of legally unprepared laws. The maximum we can do is work.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-09-m0.u223	Thank you. Dear colleagues! Please, Yuri Lewchenko, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-09-m0.u224	Leuchenko, Freedom, 223 County. Well, it's very good that although a coalition is proposing similar laws, it's certainly absurd that Ukraine is at war with the Russian Federation, but at the same time property in the Russian Federation and profiled legal persons is calmly feeling in Ukraine and making colossal money for its owners, in fact, for Russia itself. It's a marasm. I'll tell you what, it's a nightmare, it's a joke, which, by the way, we don't get help from the West. And we're going to vote in favour of this bill and we're going to propose that everyone else vote. There's one thing I'd like to notice. That, unfortunately, this bill has a responsible norm, so he proposes to introduce another bill. Instead, Freedom registered a direct act on 27 November last year, where we clearly prescribed in several paragraphs that because Russia confiscated our property in Crimea, stole it, we have the right to take all our property immediately. And we registered this law to take it away immediately. Sadly, he has not even been put into the daytime routine.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-09-m0.u225	Thank you. Please, from the People's Front, Andrew Levus. Turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-09-m0.u226	Dear friends! First of all, I want to address Mr. Yuri Lucenk and the faction of Peter Dustenk. On January 25, the National Security and Defence Council held a series of sensational decisions. So far, the president of Ukraine, Peter Poshenko, has not signed or decreed these decisions. So let us not translate from a sick person’s head into a healthy one. There's a normal bill. A bill that awaits all of Ukraine. A bill that won't let our money kill our boys. Vote it at least in the first reading. You don't have to mess with me right now. And once again, I call on the President of Ukraine to immediately implement the decision of the RNB on the application of sanctions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-09-m0.u227	The replica of Yuri Lucenk.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-09-m0.u228	Dear colleagues, once again. Open the law that is now being voted on. He's not introducing a sanction mechanism. He simply promises to accept one day the Law by which they can be introduced. Let's write a literate law, and all BPs will be. And voting for the slogan that will eventually be used is simply politically wrong, legally worthless.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-09-m0.u229	Thank you. So let's stop the discussion. The factions have spoken. There was a proposal by the author of the bill on the basis of the proposal. I think it's the right thing to do if we try to vote for the basis right now. And work out if there are any shortcomings in the bill. That's why I'm betting on the voting project. To return to consideration, yes, I suppose so. This will be the case under the Rules. Let's go back to the first vote on this bill. And let's all vote in favour of going back to the debate. I would like to vote back on Bill 2497. Please support me, please vote. [[14:10:32]] For 177 We couldn't go back to the study. I'll put it to the vote again. But we can see that there are no votes. But come on, some deputies are here. This will be the last vote for the break. Once again, who is in favour of coming back to this bill, please vote. Please vote. [[14:11:08]] For 175 There are no votes needed. Dear colleagues, according to the Rules, I announce a recess until 4:00 p.m. But I'm asking everyone to come in discipline at four o'clock. We're going to be looking at the gas market bill -- one of the most important drafts of today. So I ask everyone without delay, disciplined at 4: 00 p.m. to meet in the hall. At that morning session, I declare the session closed. Thank you.
