ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-16-m1.u1	Dear colleagues, the break time is over. I'm asking you to come into the hall and take your jobs. I ask the secretariat of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to inform the deputies of the start of our meeting, and the heads of the factions, to mobilize deputies to continue our work. Dear colleagues, once again I invite all those who are in the towers, especially those who are in the dining room, to leave the food, to ascend to the Supreme Council Hall of Ukraine to continue our work. I'm asking you to take up jobs, get ready for registration. Please. Dear colleagues, please prepare for registration, please take your jobs. Please, let's start the registration. Dear colleagues, please register. Please, the "Race" system, please register, sign up, please. [[16:04:43]] There are 324 deputies registered in the hall, that's a success, that's a success. I declare the evening session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine open. And according to the agenda, we are moving on to the next bill, the bill amending the Ukrainian Budget Code on the settlement of the Assembly to compulsory state pension insurance for jewellery products, number 1911. I ask the MPs to support the proposal to consider this issue in a simplified manner. Please support, please vote. The chairman, the chairman, asks. [[16:05:39]] Z-87 There are not enough votes. Society, tell me, are we voting again? Do we have any potential? Dear fellow MPs, I'm asking you to come into the hall, please take your jobs. If there's no need for a reduced number of votes, we're going to be looking at it in full procedure, as we've already done. Dear colleagues, please come into the hall. Dear colleagues, it's been seven minutes since we were supposed to start working. I'm asking you to come into the hall, take your jobs. Dear colleagues, we can vote. Please come to your workplace. Now, once again, we're going to make a proposal for a reduced procedure, if the proposal doesn't go through, we're going to start looking at the full procedure. Please come into the hall and prepare for the vote. I repeat my proposal to review the simplified procedure for the draft Law on Amendments to the Ukrainian Budget Code, 1911, under a reduced procedure. Please support me. And I'd like you to include a summary vote. Please vote. [[16:09:44]] For-129 They're telling me they haven't made it. I'll do it one more time, but this is the last time I'm going to set up a reduced procedure. Please be a member of parliament. A group of deputies just left. In particular, and Olga Cervakov, who has an important bill today, we just can't get to it. I know, but if we don't short-circuit the procedure, we have to discuss it completely. So I'm going to put it again, third time, on a reduced procedure. And please, my fellow Members, who support the proposal for a brief procedure for the draft Law on Amendments to the Ukrainian Budget Code, No. 1911. Please proceed to your posts and vote. Please support the reduced procedure. [[16:10:54]] For-144 They show me that a few deputies have not arrived. Please don't come out of the hall, Deputy Puckaan, but come in. I ask you to vote again in favour of the summary procedure. Please support the reduced procedure. Please. Please be supportive. Vote. [[4:11:49]] For-151 Thank you. The report invites Ukrainian national deputy Kugel Alexander Volodymyrna. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-16-m1.u2	Dear National Deputies! It is this bill (1911) that relates to the bill (1910) that we voted with you in the first reading and which the Committee on Tax Policy is now practically ready for the second reading. What are these bills? This is the result of the adoption of amendments to the Tax Code on December 25, 14. This is when our Minfin really wanted to defraud all of us with two sets of taxes, and now we've got a branch collapse. Three author Oksana Prodan, Alexander Kugel and Mr. Xenbug of the People's Front, we were at a convention of Ukrainian jewelers. What did we get from this tax? They have increased to 10 percent of the government, Minfin, in this case, to pay to the Pension Fund for jewelry, but not after implementation, as before the adoption of the bill, but at the time of the stigma. What we have today. Of the 8,000 market participants for today, 764 remain. I thank you all for supporting the changes to the Tax Code. But the law that I report to the authors today is a binding bill that should be adopted in the first reading. He received support from both the Committee on Budgets and the Committee on Social Policy. Make changes: Not from the income to the Pension Fund, but from the income from the real estate and the value of the services provided. What does the adoption of this bill do? First of all, it's going to be extended to payers. Dear colleagues, I am so surprised, but in December diamonds fell out, and diamonds were not subject to this tax. So the biggest jewelry companies were not equal.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-16-m1.u3	Please, 20 seconds, finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-16-m1.u4	Not on an equal footing with a small business. It is estimated that the income portion of the budget will be doubled from 221 million to 437. Please support the adoption of this bill as a basis and, together with 1910, accept it when they are considered with committee changes, with.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-16-m1.u5	Ten seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-16-m1.u6	I'm calling the chairman. I'm asking you to hold a vote. If not, take the vote tomorrow morning, because it's very important to the economy of Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-16-m1.u7	Thank you. The co-report invites the head of the Committee’s Committee on Budget Affairs, Ischeikin Kostin Evgenovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-16-m1.u8	Dear Chairman, distinguished national MPs! The Budget Committee at its meeting on June 3, considered a bill amending the Budget Code on the settlement of the Assembly to compulsory government pension insurance for jewellery under number 1911. This bill is derived from another bill amending the Law number 1910, which proposes to change the system of congregation management and has already been adopted by the Supreme Council as a basis. However, with a view to ensuring that the law is harmonized, the final decision on Bill 1911 is to be taken as a result of the adoption of the entire Bill 1910. The Ministry of Finance does not support the specified bill and notes that its implementation will reduce the general budget's income by about 100 million dollars per year. Furthermore, the bill's due date of entry into force does not comply with article 27 of the Budget Code on the introduction of laws that affect budgetary indicators. In general, the committee had a very broad discussion on the assessment of the impact of the legislative initiative on the budget and on the possible impact on the domestic jewelry sector. However, in view of the above, the Committee on Budget Issues adopted the following decision: recommending Bill 1911 to the Supreme Council on the basis of a first reading review, by entrusting the Committee on Budget Issues to finalize it and submit it for consideration by the Supreme Council on the second reading following the adoption of the bill as a whole in 1910. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-16-m1.u9	Thank you. Please sign up for two, two for the other. Please record. Says Vlasenko - Alexander Kugel from the rostrum.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-16-m1.u10	Unfortunately, there is such a profession as Mr. Umanski's deputy minister, who, at the committee meeting, gave completely unprofessional assessments and therefore today, the Ministry of Finance is denying Mr. Umanski's objection. What does it mean? He did not answer: Why is it not paid for diamonds today and why does he not pay for the silver that accounts for 66 percent of the jewelry market and why did the rings come out? Many wedding rings have fallen out, do not fall under taxation. And so let's check, we're saying with the market together, there's 7,000 Ukrainian entrepreneurs on these scales that have become 800 all over Ukraine, and that's what Mr. Umanski said, your vote allows you to preserve the entire branch in Ukraine. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-16-m1.u11	Thank you. Please, Kishkar Pavel Mikolaiovich, Self-help.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-16-m1.u12	The self-help faction of yesterday's session has reviewed this bill and will support it, and insists on a 1910 vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-16-m1.u13	Thank you. Dusk's Alexander, Opposition Block.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-16-m1.u14	Thank you. Dear Chairman, dear colleagues! The substance of the bill, as was the 1910 bill associated with it, relates to the change in the base of the congregation’s administration to state pension insurance. But unfortunately, here the MPs are calling for support from 1911 together with 1910. I would like to point out that if 1911 is proposed to draw a congregation to a state pension income insurance derived from the implementation of precious stones products from precious metals, 1910, during the second reading, was proposed to draw the congregation to a state pension insurance right from the cost of service. This will lead to a real decline. And that's why we don't agree with this principle, and so we suggest we get the author back to work. But of course, the faction "Opposition Block" strongly advocates the laying of the corresponding congregation not only of precious metals, but also of all products that have been made using both precious metals and precious stones. Because at the presentation of the preceding speakers, there is indeed a situation that is not very good, a situation according to which precious stones are not the object of the work of the congregation. But with the principle laid down in this bill, we don't agree either, because lowering the rate and lowering, narrowing the base of the relevant congregation, actually leads to lobbying the interests of manufacturers of precious metals.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-16-m1.u15	Thank you. Dear colleagues! We've had a discussion now that there's going to be a vote, so I'm very much asking the people's deputies who are in the towers to go into the hall and prepare for the vote. Please take your jobs, Ola Červakova, I very much ask you to take your job. The reporter, Alexander Kugel, offered to hold a signal vote. Where's Mrs. Alexander? So we're taking up jobs, me. There's a caller's proposal for us to make a signal vote. So I ask you to participate in the signal vote on support for the bill amending the Ukraine Budget Code No. 1911. Signal vote, please take part in the vote. [[16:21:58]] For 176 We have to finish our consideration of the question, let's exchange our thoughts on that. Please, Igor Shurma, how do we proceed for one minute?
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-16-m1.u16	Igor Shurma, Opposition Block. The chairman is such an offer, however many times you put the vote in short motion, none of this will happen. We've been sitting and watching, and it's a great pleasure that we've decided to vote in favour of the reduced procedure together, and the result is not the same if we look at the issue in full procedure. I have such an offer for you, there must always be a precedent, so if there are no votes to make a decision in the hall on Friday, Thursday afternoon – close the session of the evening session and publish all those people who are not in the room today and do not vote. And because they don't go to work today after lunch, the speaker is going to pry about the fact that we have to work all summer. If you don't pick them up now, you'll never pick them up in the summer.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-16-m1.u17	And in the summer, we're ready to work if people go to work.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-16-m1.u18	Alexander Kugel, please, a minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-16-m1.u19	Before the report began, the honourable chairman, I made a request, understanding the number of national deputies in the hall, to place it tomorrow morning as a vote on the earlier question. Because today this bill is related to Bill 1910 and this increases the income portion of the budget and the misunderstanding is, has serious consequences for the destruction of the Ukrainian jewelry industry and this is the responsibility of deputies.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-16-m1.u20	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I have heard the offer of Alexandra Kugel. But I would like to say that, according to the Rules, we cannot interrupt the consideration of the bill. And that's why I'm asking all the deputies to come into the hall, all the people in the towers, to go into the hall and get ready to vote. We will vote on the committee's proposal. If she doesn't get the required number of votes, we'll go to other bills. So, dear colleagues, I ask you not to leave the hall, but to enter the hall. And please prepare for the vote. Everybody in the hall? So I put to the vote the draft Law amending the Ukrainian Budget Code (registration of the congregation for compulsory government pension insurance from jewellery) (number 1911) as a basis. Whoever supports this, please vote on the basis. Please vote. [[16:25:32]] For a hundred and Thank you. The proposal did not receive the required number of votes. My next suggestion is to return the subject to the right of the legislative initiative for further development. So I propose that the subject of the legislative initiative be returned to the draft Law amending the Code of Budgets of Ukraine (No.1911). Anyone who supports it, please vote. [[16:26:08]] For 216 [[B in m in s a l in]] There's a potential, they say in the "Fatherland" faction. Give it to me again. Shall we go back to the vote? Are you insisting? Please, let's try to get back to the vote. And I'm asking you to support, MPs, go back to voting on this proposal. Anyone who supports it, please vote. To return to the vote. [[16:26:50]] For 212 Regrettably, there is no necessary number of votes. The decision is not taken. Let's move on to the next law of the day. Draft Act amending section VI, paragraph 3, of the Budget Code on State Roads (No. 2940). And there is a proposal to vote in favour of a reduced procedure. Dear colleagues, please support the proposal for a reduced procedure. Please vote. [[16:27:36]] For 168 Thank you. The report invites Ukrainian national deputy Matvienko Anatoly Sergiyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-16-m1.u21	Dear Chairman, dear colleagues. First. I would like to take this opportunity to thank you for your support at the previous plenary session of Laws 2874, 2875 on co-financing and on road repair and construction in Ukraine. I want to turn your weight to the bill that is under consideration today and give you a few ways to think about it. We cut off the road fund, which was the source of road construction in Ukraine. We are an excise assembly, which includes fuel-oil materials that are formed by car owners, today have been transferred to the general fund. There is virtually no number in Ukraine, no line for road construction, repair, and reconstruction. As a result of this policy, I want to give you one argument. There is no copy in the 2015 budget for the reconstruction, construction and repair of roads, 0. Say, please, how can we develop a country if we're in such a terrible state of communication today, first of all on the road, and how can we think about the growth of the economy? We are told that this law should not be supported because it guarantees from the return budget. We have 2 ways6 or we develop infrastructure and we grow the economy, and we have the opportunity to repay, including our debts, or we don't develop infrastructure, the economy dies and we don't return anything. So we ask you to support this return to what's already happened, we're not inventing anything new, and now we have no attempts at budgeting in the 15th year, and even in the 16th year, we're giving.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-16-m1.u22	Please finish 20 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-16-m1.u23	We give the government an opportunity, if there are cheap loans and there's a convenient offer, then the government can take advantage of that. This is what 100 countries in the world use. I've done the analysis, and I think we should think about the future in this situation. And I would ask you to support this bill. Thank you. In the first reading and in general.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-16-m1.u24	Thank you. The co-report invites the head of the Committee on Budget Affairs of Gordjeev Andrija Anatoliyovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-16-m1.u25	Dear colleagues! The Budget Committee at its meeting on 3 June considered a bill amending the budget code number 2940. The Committee, with the participation of the Ministry of Finance, had a constructive discussion on the adequacy of State guarantees in terms of debt security and economic development. According to the general conclusion of the Chief Scientific and Scientific Administration, the bill can be adopted on the basis of the conclusions of the government. In general, Minfin noted that the bill could be considered at a meeting of the Supreme Council. In view of the need to develop the road sector, the Committee on Budget Affairs concluded: recommending Bill 2940 to the Supreme Council as a basis and as a whole as a law. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-16-m1.u26	Thank you. Please sign up for the discussion: two for, two against. Please. From Fatherland, Ivchenko Vadim Evgenovich. Eutushka, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-16-m1.u27	Please pass the word Eutuska.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-16-m1.u28	Sergey Eutuszek, Equinox, Fatherland. Dear Lord Chairman, distinguished national deputies, all those who are now watching and listening to us! I want to recall the story of five years ago. Since 2010, there has been a transport tax, but by the end of the year this transportation tax by the authorities of our country has been abolished. Reproduced, a new formula and a new model for maintaining both public roads and public roads came in. What I'm saying is that the subsidy provided for in this formula came every year even this year, and in today's, I want to support the drafters of the bill, it was a zero subsidy, it came down less and less every year. And you're talking about, literally in May, our Supreme Council gave local communities the opportunity to invest their own funds to repair public roads within a populated area, but we're not talking about repairing roads that are between populated locations. The bill therefore envisions a mechanism for financing capital rehabilitation and reconstruction of roads with joint initiatives from the International Financial Institutions. The roads of national importance of the population, which are among the settlements of today, are not defined by the source of funding and will be maintained and repaired. We also need to enable international institutions to give national guarantees and to establish that the provisions of part 4 of article 17 of the Budget Code will not be applied in the provision of state guarantees for loans that ensure the implementation of an international project, as well as in the implementation of projects for the development of public roads.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-16-m1.u29	Thank you. Ribak Ivan Petrovich, Block of Petra Dustenka.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-16-m1.u30	202 constituency, Cherniewec district, Rybak Ivan Petrovich. After the state fund was eliminated, since the excise assembly was directed to the state budget general fund, no repairs were carried out on Ukraine’s roads at all at the expense of the state budget. This bill will be very serious in helping to deal with the problem, and it will solve the problem of road repair in Ukraine. Today, in Western Ukraine, we have a catastrophic road problem, the Ivano-Frankiv region, the Chernobyl area, it's a hole about half a meter in Carpathian that knows, does not allow this road and develop a tourist destination, recreation in these regions. So let's give the government today the opportunity to include state guarantees in international financial institutions, to repair roads, and maybe the economic situation will improve. Let us vote on the bill in the first reading and in general.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-16-m1.u31	Storm Igor Mikhailovich, Opposition Block.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-16-m1.u32	Igor Shurma, Opposition Block. In principle, when considering this bill in large numbers, we can conclude that in the end it is a noble goal, both for the development of the industry and for the creation of new jobs. But the form of borrowing raises doubts. Today, we have listened to talks by the Ministry of Finance and Perspectives in 2015 and 16 years. You can borrow money, but you can't understand how they're going to pay it back. And I want to ask the chairman one more question. Mr. Andrey, judging by the moods in the room, there will be great problems with the positive outcome. This bill is important, judging from the author’s speech, and it should be beneficial. But if, literally, five minutes ago, the jewelry industry collapsed, I'd like to say that the problem is not in the text of the bill, but the problem is different. The president of Ukraine, speaking here in the session room, said that the responsibility for government activity and decision in the Supreme Council was a coalition. So if we put emphasis on who's collapsed the jewelry industry, we should mention the President's words, who's responsible. This bill cannot be voted on as a whole, but you must understand and make a decision. I'm talking to the chairman. If this bill doesn't get a vote, I'm asking you to close the evening session and not make a mockery of the Supreme Council. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-16-m1.u33	Thank you. Victor Pinzenik and the closing word then Anatoly Matvienko. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-16-m1.u34	Dear Chairman! Dear National Deputies! This law is not about roads, and I'm not going to talk about them, this debt law. Two types of debt have a bearing on government debt. The first debt is a direct government debt that takes over the government and closes down the government. And there is a so-called indirect or guaranteed debt. This is a debt owed to other entities and guaranteed by the government. But it's not the government that's returning, it's the entity that's taking credit. The law that you are offered to accept provides that the loan is taken by the owner or another institution and that the government will return. It's nonsense, because it's a direct sovereign debt. I'm talking about it, not the roads. And if you want to build roads, don't come up with different kinds of schemes, but just predict these costs in the budget. Because in Ukrainian history there was the only government that used similar practices, the government of Azarov was the government.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-16-m1.u35	Thank you. Before giving the closing statement, I very much ask the deputies to come into the hall. There will be a vote. I'm asking you to come into the hall and take your jobs. And one minute, Anatoly Matvienko, the author of the bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-16-m1.u36	As the author, I want to polize with Victor Mikhailovich. The fact is, for his deputy prime minister and minister of finance, there was such a guarantee and such guarantees were issued. And that's why we don't do any know-how. Moreover, only state enterprises created by the State and which are guaranteed by the State alone on the grounds that they can take such a loan under guarantee. No other subject, and the more private one, is foreseen. And the third. It's the government's right. No one has given anyone any guarantees yet, but if such a possibility arises and it is convenient. In Switzerland today, the depositor also pays. Today there's cheap money 1-2 percent, and we can involve it. And the third. Tell me how to repay the debt if the economy goes down. Without roads, the economy will not grow. And so if we want and fight for debt, we have to support and give that opportunity today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-16-m1.u37	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I'm once again inviting MPs into the voting room. Please enter the voting room. There's a proposal for a committee to take as a basis, and in general, can I put a motion for a vote like that, no objection? Then I put to the vote the draft Law amending section VI, paragraph 3, of the Code of Budgets for the Development of State Roads (heading 2940) as a basis and as a whole. Please vote. [[16:41:00]] For 212 Thank you. Dear colleagues, I have only a request, by the faction, that the day before the vote invite people into the hall, because each of the bills that it is is important and when the people are meeting quickly and the other people are going. There's no "foreign" or "its drafts." And I'm very much asking you to come into the hall again, and I'm going to suggest that a few deputies go back to voting for this bill. So please go into the hall and prepare for the vote, and please support the return to the vote for Bill 2940. Please vote, please support. [[16:42:06]] For 212 Then I put the next proposal on the basis given by the bill in that order, and if it does not pass, we will go back to the subject of the legislative initiative. The next proposal to vote on the draft Amendment Act is put forward. I already asked for the Opposition Block: Don't shout, there won't be any money. There is now a vote, please, on the draft Law amending section VI, paragraph 3, of the Code of Budgets for Ukraine 2940 as a basis. Anyone who supports this proposal, please vote on the basis, please. [[16:43:03]] For 233 Thank you. Obviously, there was simply no political will to adopt the law in general, based on the law adopted, the decision taken, and we move on to the next bill. There is a proposal from the author for a reduced procedure to a second reading. Let's support it. So there is a request to support the simplified procedure for the second reading of Bill 2940. Please support me. Vote. [[16:43:41]] For 202 There is no such political will. The decision is not taken. And we're going to consider the next bill, 2591. Draft Act amending some Ukrainian legislation on increasing the transparency of extractive industries in Ukraine, Law No. 2591. There is an offer to consider it by a reduced procedure. Please support this proposal. Please vote in favour of the summary procedure. [[16:44:22]] For-182 Thank you. The report invites Ukrainian national deputy Bilkova Olga Valentinovna. Please turn on the microphone on on the stand.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-16-m1.u38	Dear voters, dear colleagues, it is my great honor and pleasure to report to you today on bill 2591 on amending some of the Ukrainian legislation on increasing transparency in manufacturing industries in Ukraine. As early as 2009, Ukraine joined the Transparency Initiative on Extractive Industries. This is an international reporting standard for mining companies and governments that shows how much money the people of Ukraine receive from using the natural resources they own. This standard is recognized and supported by the World Bank, the International Monetary Fund, the European Union. Ukraine should publish its first report in October 2015. Sadly, though, it is difficult to do so today, for in fact we rely on the voluntary publication of information. The bill amends the Nadra Code, Ukraine's Oil and Gas Act, which requires users to disclose information about public and local taxes and congregations, other payments, and economic activity. The bill also obliges government authorities to publish information on the state of geological research, use and protection of nadrs, and on payments resulting from mining activities. Why is this bill important? Because only the rent from the mining sector in the 2015 budget is about 30 billion dollars. The transparency of payments in the mining sector will serve the administrations and the society to assess the real impact of this area on the welfare of the Ukrainians. Implementation of the Transparency Initiative is one of the agreements defined by the Coalition. This will help resolve the discussion between mining companies and the government on taxation policies, namely, rent payments. That'll make it better.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-16-m1.u39	Please let me finish, 20 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-16-m1.u40	This will improve the investment climate in the field – it will reduce the tension in places, it will reduce the level of corruption. The Transparency Initiative requires the country to publish this report every year, and I very much ask your support to adopt this bill as a basis and as a whole today so that we can show the world that we can keep our commitments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-16-m1.u41	Thank you. The report invites the head of the Committee on Social Policy. I apologize, and I invite the head of the Committee on Environmental Policy to address the consequences of the Chernobyl disaster, Tomenko Mikola Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-16-m1.u42	Dear colleagues, may I have your attention? This morning there was a controversy: Who steals the most money on the Ukrainian summits is the bill. So I wanted us to mobilize and be careful, because in our country we will soon celebrate 25 years of modern independence, the presidents change, the prime ministers change, the deputies change, and the owners of nadr remain the same. Soon we will be putting in store for those who have been able to make arrangements with all existing local and central authorities. Therefore, the idea of the bill is very simple, meaning to fully disclose the way in which they are implemented, decisions are made to provide a state of geological study, use, protection, and accordingly all information on the general government's local taxes and congregations and productive economic activity in this area. According to the authors, this will give us an opportunity to see a battle picture, see what's going on in the decision-making and use system, I'd say, the abuse of Ukrainian nadrama. And that's going to be a hint for a normal government and a hint for normal structures how to fix the situation. We had a serious discussion on the committee, and now I would like to propose, Mr. Chairman, a compromise decision on how we can come to a final decision. The point is that the law had been going on for several months before the first reading and, in principle, our committee's observation applied only to one phrase. If we are from the text of part two of article 24, where paragraph 4.1 is added, we take the word "other information". I'll finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-16-m1.u43	Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-16-m1.u44	Yeah. "that other information" and so on.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-16-m1.u45	Give me a chance, 20 seconds to finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-16-m1.u46	And that's the same way that this paragraph repeats itself. I'm going to read it so you can understand what it sounds like: "Suppliing and publishing information about public and local taxes and congregations, other payments, as well as manufacturing economic activity.".. We say, "and other information," because it's ambiguous. It's going to take away the text: "necessary to increase transparency, extractive gases." And so on. In such an editorial without the words "and another," we propose to vote in the first and in general. To avoid delaying time, I would like to support and vote in the first and in general. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-16-m1.u47	Thank you. The report is invited. Now I'm asking you to sign in: two for, two against. Please two for, two for against. Rybchin Alexei Mikhailovich, "The Fatherland" faction. It's from the rostrum.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-16-m1.u48	Comrades, good afternoon! Alexei Rybchin, Fatherland, Donetsk. Colleagues, this bill, if we're going to take it as a basis and as a whole, is one of those bills that you're going to be proud of. That's why you're going to tell your voters, report on television screens, and tell your Western colleagues that you're fighting corruption, you're going to be transparent in the field, you're going to be involved in investment. That's why the Fatherland faction will vote both on the basis and on the whole. And we call on coalition and non-fractional colleagues to support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-16-m1.u49	Thank you. Peter Prashenko's Block, Musak Alexei Petrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-16-m1.u50	Dear colleagues! Today. We will now consider an extremely important bill. There are at least two reasons to support him. First. In the interview, Mrs. Olga Belkovy, today is her birthday. And I think all of us, especially men, will give her a beautiful gift. And the other one. As we know, the nadar of Ukraine is the acquisition of the people of Ukraine. And the people of Ukraine have the right to know who owns them, how much taxes are paid, what conditions they were given, and how long have they been licensed? This will add transparency. This will add efficiency. And this will increase the income of Ukraine's budget, which will solve many of the harsh social issues. I'd like to support you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-16-m1.u51	Thank you. Danchenko Alexander Ivanovich, Self-help.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-16-m1.u52	Please tell Alona Babak.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-16-m1.u53	Alona Babak, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-16-m1.u54	Honourable National MPs, no doubt the bill that relates to the disclosure and publication of information on state taxes, on local taxes, is important information. But at the same time, for example, I have a question about the question of publishing information about production, in parentheses, (economic) activities needed to increase transparency. Dear colleagues, this is an overly broad formulation – a manufacturing (household) activity. In principle, worldwide, there is a measure of protection for information subjects who are subject to publicity. We're talking about, in fact, any information about manufacturing and economic activity can be publicized. I think it's important to vote in the first reading, and to make it clear in the second, which aspects of productive (economic) activity may still be publicized, because we have to be sufficient, and then simply after a brief procedure, prepare the bill for the second reading, specifying the indicators of economic activity that are subject to or may be subject to publication. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-16-m1.u55	Thank you. Please, Monsieur Igor Volodymyrovich, Radical Party.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-16-m1.u56	The Honourable Chief, Honorable Fellow, Honorable Ukrainian People, the Radical Party of Oleg Laska will support this bill in the first reading, with the aim of furthering it to the second. I, a native of Poltavščina, am a land where gas, oil, and other natural fossils are produced today. So I'm more interested than anyone in adopting this bill, because the Poltans ask who owns the wells that are producing gas and oil. Poltanics wonder how Nestor Ivanovich has a bearing on these wells or not? How much is paid to the budget that people who work on private wells get. Moreover, what I'm saying is that the local authority, which in 2010 knows how it came to power, including in Poltavščina, rents land under these wells of Nestor Ivanovich and other masters of kindness under the contracts of the servitude. And communities get a penny for that. So the bill is extremely important. The crowd should see that, who, in what quantity, is preying. And we urge you to support this bill in the first reading.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-16-m1.u57	Thank you. Change Front, Katzer-Buchkowska. Katzer-Buchowska, are you coming out of the rostrum? Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-16-m1.u58	Natalia Katser-Buchkovsky, People's Front. Dear colleagues, this bill is extremely important in the context of what the Ukrainian Parliament is currently doing. We're trying to make the mining industries more transparent. This standard will allow us to understand how much taxes are paid by gas companies. And in the future, who owns the nadrs, which are pervasive, which are not. This standard allows to make the sector more transparent. This, in turn, will allow for more investment, create new jobs, and make this sector a sector that meets international standards. Therefore, we ask you very much for your support. It's a good initiative, it's the right one to make the Ukrainian economy more competitive, investment attractive. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-16-m1.u59	Thank you. Please, Andrew Illenko, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-16-m1.u60	Andrew Illenko, the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union. Dear colleagues, you know, it's no longer worth repeating everything that's been said here. In fact, this sector of mine is probably one of the darkest and most corrupt holes in the Ukrainian economy, and I don't think there's going to be too much transparency here. And if we're talking about the need to clarify some nuances before the second reading, and that the state there doesn't require too much information from those who extract gas, oil or other natural resources, I don't think we should do that here. I think I should vote on the basis right now and in general so that the second reading doesn't turn out so that then there's a whole law about something else. We've already voted today, by the way, just in the first reading, to know who is the real owner of electronic media. I think it's just as important a topic and finally transparency should go completely into all of the dark corners of our lives. So I think we should vote both on the basis and on the whole. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-16-m1.u61	Thank you. We will conclude the discussion only with your permission or with the author of the bill, so that he can properly formulate his proposals, as he spoke at the beginning of the talk. Please, Mikola Tomenko, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-16-m1.u62	Dear colleagues, I'm with the committee responsible for this bill. Let me rephrase that. There was one point that was taken as a basis that we could not vote in general. Friends, look, we're taking this frenzy away, and we're saying, and other information, when we're talking about manufacturing and economic activity, it's defined in the order of the approved Cabinet of Ministers, so it's not going to be defined by anyone, this is the Ministry of Energy, which is represented here by the Deputy, that you can specify it, along with the companies, that will determine that list of information on manufacturing and economic activity that will be approved at the Cabinet of Ministers meeting and the order is published. It's perfectly clear, it makes sense, we're not going to ask, well, the authors of the law, to ask some secondary information. That's why there's no other comment. So once again, on behalf of the authors and the committee, I stress our request in the first and in general. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-16-m1.u63	Thank you. Dear colleagues, please come into the hall and take your jobs. While the MPs are meeting in the hall, the faction of the Fatherland has yet to speak. Please, Sergey Sobolev. And I'd like you to come into the hall and take your jobs. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-16-m1.u64	Thank you. Sobolev, the Fatherland faction. I'm talking to Mikola Volodymyrovich Tomenka, and I think if we just rule out the words "and other information" it won't be subject to the financial reports of these companies and much more. Maybe let's just keep that "other information" approved by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. Whatever it is, you see, then the situation where they refuse to provide such information. And if it is approved by the Cabinet of Ministers, all owners of these gas, oil and other fossils will be obliged to provide such information.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-16-m1.u65	Thank you. Papiev, Opposition Block, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-16-m1.u66	Thank you. Dear Ukrainian National Deputies, the Opposition Block supports what has to be made transparent in the use of the nadr. In addition, I would like to remind the Ukrainian national deputies of article 13 of the Constitution of Ukraine, which clearly and clearly provides that the earth, the nadra, the atmospheric air, the water are the property of the Ukrainian people. So the transparency of the use of nadr is the transparency of the use of property of the Ukrainian people. We support this bill and we will vote on the basis. But in general, I would like not to put to the vote today and deny the vote in general, because the Supreme Council of Ukraine has to clearly lay down rules for the provision of information. Not even to give it as a ransom to the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine or to anyone else who will solve their political entanglements. We have to set requirements there for the information to be provided by the users. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-16-m1.u67	Thank you. We've concluded our discussions, dear colleagues. From all the factions of thought, from a few factions, there was only a proposal on the ground, and so let's go in that sequence so that we don't collapse first, in accordance with the Rules, we vote on the basis that this is the committee's proposal. Dear colleagues! I'm asking you to take up jobs. And I'm voting on the draft Act on Amendments to some Ukrainian legislation on increasing transparency of mining in Ukraine (No.2591) as a basis. Can I have your back, please? [[17:02:53]] For 280 The proposal received a sufficient number of votes. Now I'm going to propose to Mikola Tomenka to vote on the draft Act amending some of Ukraine's legislative acts (2591), as amended by Mikola Tomenko during his speech as a whole. Please support me. And Sergei Sobolev, Tomenko and Sobolev. In general. [[17:03:32]] For 238. Thank you. Decision taken. Let's move on to the next bill of order of the day. Draft Law on Amendments to Certain Legislative Acts (to ensure the functioning of local self-government) (No.2639). The author of the Burbak Bill, Maksim Yuriovich, asked to be considered on a reduced basis. Please support Burbak Maxim Yuriovich. Please vote in favour of the summary procedure. Please be supportive. [[17:04:15]] For 177 Maxim Yuriovich, your proposal is supported. And I ask for a report from the Ukrainian national deputy Burbak Maxim Yuriovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-16-m1.u68	Good afternoon, dear colleagues, dear Head. For your consideration, it is proposed to amend some of the legislative acts (for the provision of local self-government) (registered on April 10, 2015 at number 2639), which cancels the temporary ban on the payment of pensions to local self-government officials working in elected offices until they have been appointed after the holding of the local elections in 2015. As it is known, the Supreme Council of Ukraine adopted the Ukrainian Act of 2 March 2015 on amending certain Ukrainian legislation on pension insurance, under which from 1 April 2015 to 31 December 2015 it is prohibited to pay pensions during the period of service to persons in posts that grant entitlement to pensions, or to provide monthly life support. Today, however, the application of this standard to local self - government officials in elected positions has brought with it a number of problems and adversely affected the work of local authorities. Yes, in recent times a large number of heads of rural, rural, city councils have submitted applications for separation from service in connection with retirement, and worst of all, this trend continues. Thus, the community loses its legally elected head, the local councils lose their heads, causing political resonance, and, above all, the process of voluntary unification of the territorial communities, that is, no head of the community, and this process becomes unchallenged. Taking into account the above, the fact that the local elections are scheduled to take place in the current year is a pressing need for them to be held in order to prevent local councils from leaving without heads to abolish the ban on pension payments to retired workers in elected positions in local self - government bodies. The adoption of the bill will make it impossible to block the work of local governments.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-16-m1.u69	Dates completed, 20 seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-16-m1.u70	Thank you. This is the abandonment of rural, rural, urban councils without heads until the 2015 local elections are held. Please support this bill, and I know that the next bill is my colleagues from the Fatherland faction, and we agreed with them that they went along with the co-authors of the bill and that's the question after.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-16-m1.u71	Thank you. The co - report invites the head of the State Building, Regional Policy, and Local Self - Rule Subcommittee, Scrum Alona Ivanovna. I'm sorry, Dennis, yes, I'm sorry. Head of the Committee on Social Policy of Denisov Ludmila Leontiyevna Excuse me, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-16-m1.u72	Dear colleagues, the Committee on Social Policy, Employment and Retirement, discussed the bill at its April 22nd meeting. Members of the committee fully support the legislative proposal proposed not to apply the limitation on pension payments, introduced temporarily for the period from 1 April to 1 December 2015. This is the position regarding the non-remuneration of pensions for pensioners who work in election positions in local self-governance authorities to complete their mandates after the holding of the local elections in 2015. This will enable those who have elected positions in local self - government and receive a low level of wage, especially in villages, villages, and small towns, to work and receive a full pension. And most importantly, don't stand up for the choice, go out of office and get a pension or stay working, and support the community that chose them. Today we have a complex situation that needs an urgent solution. In view of the determination of the rules on the termination of pensions, many persons were forced to leave their positions in local self - government and the community was virtually devoid of authority. It has been said that there is no one in the villages to even sign a death certificate for a person to be buried or to have no secretary or village head. In view of the above, the committee asks for the support of the people’s deputies and to vote in favour of the bill as a basis and as a whole. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-16-m1.u73	Thank you. Please sign in, two for, two against, please. Gorvat Robert Ivanovich, Block of Petra Dustenka.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-16-m1.u74	Please pass the word to Ribak Ivan Petrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-16-m1.u75	Ribak Ivan Petrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-16-m1.u76	202 constituency, Cherniewec district, Rybak Ivan Petrovich. There is such a small story in a small town on the Keeper’s Bouquet. Karlíuk Mikolayovich, an experienced city head who enjoys mad respect in the community, was forced to write an application and retire. I think by supporting this bill, today's Hall will provide an opportunity for really effective people who have authority in the community to work for the benefit and benefit of this community. There is also a need to supplement the bill with a standard that would allow all those who have already retired to work in their posts to return. Please be supportive. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-16-m1.u77	Thank you. Yvchenko, from the Fatherland faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-16-m1.u78	Vadim Yvchenko, "The Fatherland" faction. Dear colleagues! Really, a very important bill, I know that the "Paternity" faction has proposed exactly the same is what it stands for. I am very grateful to the deputies who have also co-sponsored other bills, including Kirilenko "The Fatherland" and Derivyanko "The Will". As Fatherland, we want to cancel our pension tax at all, this 15 percent tax. With regard to the bill, it's a very important question, because we don't run statistics, but communities lose their heads because the village head decides to stay, get a pension. We sort of compared the basic level when we canceled the pensions to working government officials to the people who were prosecutors who were in charge of the ministries, the authorities, and this is a simple village head, and we compared the basic level to the civil servant, and we canceled their pensions. We have communities where even pensioners' secretaries are writing statements. They're inventing all kinds of things, counselors, whether vacations are going on for the third or fourth month and so on. Colleagues, I have constant communication with local authorities, and they keep calling and asking, when will you accept this bill? And I'm very happy that, along with our partners, with the People's Front and the Coalition, we support this bill as a foundation and as a whole. And we can tell these elected people that they're working to decentralization, that they're directly gathering information and bringing to the territorial communities all these things that we're offering today: decentralization of services, decentralization of powers and, of course, active information and awareness-raising work. Thank you. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-16-m1.u79	Thank you. Papiev Mikhailo Mikolaiovich, "The Opposition Block."
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-16-m1.u80	Thank you. Honorable National Deputies of Ukraine, respected TV viewers watching this broadcast. I want to briefly explain what's going on right now in the sessional room in Ukraine. The thing is, strange things are happening. On December 28, the Ukrainian government initiated a bill restricting pensions for local government officials. We are definitely against this law. We suggest that the pension limit should not be allowed on April 1. Today, the Ukrainian national deputy from the government faction is proposing this bill to change the position of the government. So when were you sincere? When we took those restrictions and we told you it was unconstitutional, were you today, when you smelled the election, and you wanted to be liked by the leaders of local self-government? Dear colleagues, if you want to be honest, then I suggest that you add it to this law, because you want to vote it today and in general so that those employees of the local self-government bodies who have been subject to pension restrictions since April 1st, now not only have the pensions they had returned, but they have also been compensated for the pension losses you took from them since April 1st, 2015. That is, for April, for May and for June. Then it'll be clear, and then it'll be the right position. Moreover, if article 2 of the Constitution of Ukraine is to be read, the anticonstitutional restriction should then be lifted to all categories of pensioners. Then you will be the people who are now on the foundations of the Constitution, the basic law of Ukraine. If the vote is in general, I ask that my amendment be taken into account. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-16-m1.u81	Kishkar Pavel Mikolaiovich, Self-help faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-16-m1.u82	Please tell Alona Babak.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-16-m1.u83	Dear National Deputies! Of course, we would like to see all the standards that were shameful today that you and I have accepted regarding the abolition of pensions for working civil servants. But whether we can and whether we have the moral right today to make exceptions for one another and not to make these exceptions and cancel it for the other. Why today's elected office, this is we're talking about direct text, this is the head of the village or village council, or the city head will have the right to receive a pension, and any performer in the service will not receive this pension. Please tell me where justice is. And if we have now accepted this shameful norm, let's talk about why we accepted it. Because there's no money in the State Budget. Suddenly, they appear. Let's be honest and say that this standard is very similar to the political corruption that we are now creating here. So the Self-Help faction will abstain from voting for this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-16-m1.u84	Thank you. Oleg Lazko, Radical Party.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-16-m1.u85	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. It is necessary, fellow officials, to distinguish government officials from local government officials -- elected by the people, authorized by the people to take office. These are slightly different categories of citizens. Moreover, I believe that the pension tax experiment has shown all its inadequacy and failure, because the result for the Pension Fund is zero, the pension budget deficit for today is over 2 billion by the end of the year, plus 9 billion of the pension fund's deficit is rising. And the income from pension taxes is 180 million dollars. I mean, I think it's time to ask the general question about abolishing this rule on the taxation of pensions of working retirees. 15 percent of the pensions that are now being removed from working pensioners should be returned to them because the result for the Pension Fund is no one-size-fits-all social injustice.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-16-m1.u86	Thank you. Please, Andrew Illenko, one minute. Society, we're running out of records. Andrew Illenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-16-m1.u87	Andrew Illenko, the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union. Dear colleagues, well, I just don't really understand what's going on right now. First, 15 percent of all working pensioners are taken, antisocial decisions are made first, and then exclusions are made only for people in rural positions, urban heads, and so on. I think it's totally unfair. All people who have been deprived of the right retirements must be paid back to the full. And if we're talking about this moment, we need to understand that soon local elections, and we need to get the right rural heads, the city heads, they're loyal, and we need them to get some compensation right now. And we have to mention that, yes, I don't want to mix everyone in one pile, obviously there are a lot of decent, honest people who have authority in the community, but in 2010, there were probably the dirtiest elections in the history of Ukraine, local, and among these people just as many representatives of the former Party of Regions and so on. So all these points need to be taken into account.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-16-m1.u88	Thank you. Yuri Derevyanko
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-16-m1.u89	Dear colleagues, this bill is very important, so I urge you all to pay attention to this bill now and to support it. The point is that this bill cancels the taxation of pensions for voters. For the sake of justice, I would like to say and draw the attention of the Chairman to the fact that we, namely, John Melniczuk, Yuri Derevyanko, Irina Suslova, were introduced on April 1st by an alternative bill, the first draft. This bill should be an alternative, but we don't have it right now. We believe and insist that all our citizens are equal under the Constitution and have equal rights and duties and dignity. So we insist that all, all taxes on working pensioners, be abolished. Thank you for your attention. Please support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-16-m1.u90	Thank you. Respectable association. I ask you, I will give Max Burbak in the end, but since there are ambiguities of discussions, I will give Nasalika one minute from the local self - government, and we will conclude the discussion, the association. All factions have already had the opportunity to speak. Thank you. Nasalik.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-16-m1.u91	Thank you. As a person who has worked in the city’s self - government for eight years, I may have the right to express my opinion on this matter. We take a lot in the hall, and then we cancel. And remember when the Act on Working Pensioners was passed, how everyone was oppressed? I didn't vote. Today we're canceling this rule. Remember when we adopted the Rent-A-Price Act, they said it was a fight against oligarchs? There is now a law on the cancellation of this rent and the arrival of completely different things. We were talking about 213 amendments -- the fight against fraud. It turns out she's put an extra burden on the population. With regard to taxation: if a rural head is ready to leave the community four months before the election because of his pension, then I'm going to punch him out of the bubble, not the pension, and not the extra security.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-16-m1.u92	Thank you. Final word, Maxim Burbak, one minute. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-16-m1.u93	I would like to appeal to the deputies again and invite them to the vote. And to support this bill, because it is impeccable in the conduct and decentralization of power and in the process of voluntary unification of citizens. And what about the ex-dispositions that have transformed into today's opposition, as if when they have oppressed our people, I would like to tell them right away that the parties that are part of the coalition in the Supreme Council are a new generation of politicians who are responsible. And if we made mistakes, we recognize them and we have to eliminate them. Thank you all.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-16-m1.u94	Dear colleagues, I ask you to enter the voting room. Whoever's in the towers right now, I'm asking you to come into the hall and take your jobs. Now we're going to the vote. So first, there's going to be a supply as a base. I propose to vote on the draft Law on Amendments to Certain Legislative Acts (to ensure the functioning of local self - government). Number 2639, based on. Please support me. [[17:22:30.]] For-174 Thank you. The proposal did not receive the required number of votes. The author, are we voting for the return? Let's, society, there are requests, not all of us from the People's Front have been able to vote. Therefore, there is a request to return to the vote on Bill 2639. I ask you to enter the hall, which is in the towers, and I ask you to vote in favour of the return to debate 2639. Please vote for the return. [[17:23:19]] For-170. There are no votes needed. And so I'm going to make the next proposal, and I'm going to return the subject to the right of the legislative initiative. Thus, the proposal to return the subject to the right of legislative initiative for redrafting, the draft Law amending certain legislative acts, 2639, is put to the vote. Please vote. [[17:23:55]] For 196 Thank you. Nor does the proposal yield the required number of votes. The decision is not made. Let us now consider the next draft of the Law on Amendments to Certain Laws of Ukraine, 2554. Rapporteur, National Deputy Ivchenko Vadim Evgenovich. But there is a request to support the consideration of the reduced procedure. Please support the reduced procedure. [[17:24:39]] For-162 Thank you. Please, Vadim Evgenovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-16-m1.u95	Dear colleagues! I want to ask each of you again, we're reforming decentralization today, we're doing an information-explanatory work. Well, today we have to rely on the base level. If the basic level is sabotaged today, no reform will take place. Can you not see how the outlook is confirmed? Who's putting pressure on these district deputies? Colleagues, we're talking about the next thing today, let's give you the opportunity, of course, to maximize the cost and cancel the pension tax, this 15 percent tax. And the "Fatherland" party has already registered a number of drafts. This bill also foresees what our colleagues at the People's Front said today, this is a renewal of the pension provision for the electives who were elected. So I understand that a lot of them are getting away, but believe me, through the State Building Committee, they're already writing statements, and in a week, 30 heads of local government, it's almost 120 communities a month without leadership. Colleagues! Come on, I'm asking you to vote on this bill at least. It also provides for changes to Part 21 of the Law on Service in Local Self-Government. By the way, the changes to article 21 and the changes to 24 have already been voted with you. We've returned pensions to working scientists, we've returned them as a basis, and in general, it's the Lazko, Galasjuk and Greenevich bill. Colleagues, I ask you once again to vote for this bill, not to break up so that we can look really decent. Because we're going to the majors, and I'm going back to the county. I'm sure everyone will now know who gave him his pension insurance, a.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-16-m1.u96	Please finish, 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-16-m1.u97	Dear colleagues! Once again, this bill provides for a change in section 21 of the Ukrainian Law on Service in Local Self-Government and Amendment 24, Science and Technology. But the scientific and technical work, the issue solved by our colleagues, remains to be resolved with regard to the renewal of pension insurance for the selected persons. Please vote and support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-16-m1.u98	Thank you. I invite the head of the Committee on State Building, Regional Policy and Local Self-Government (Skrum Alon Ivanovna) to report.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-16-m1.u99	Dear colleagues, distinguished national MPs! The Committee on State Building, Self - Government and Regional Policy considered on April 24 at its meeting this bill, submitted by MEPs Yvchenk and Kirilenko, on the renewal of pension guarantees for elected local self - government and scientific workers. We had a rather broad discussion on this issue on the committee. And according to this discussion, the committee supported the need to solve the problem in the bill, because we really came to the conclusion that a large number of elderly people work in elected positions in local governments. And the low level of their pay and the inability to receive pensions today during their service in such positions makes them often cease their duties and retire. And we're running out of important footage for local self-government. It has also been noted by the committee that the absence of local self-government officials makes it impossible to implement the provisions of the Ukrainian Law on Voluntary Unions of Territorial Communities, which we all talk about very much and about which we should act more decisively. In view of the above - mentioned committee, I approved recommending to the Supreme Council the outcome of the first reading of the draft bill. And I'm asking you to support him, colleagues. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-16-m1.u100	Thank you. I'd like you to sign up for two, two for the other two for the discussion. Here's to Kirichenko Alexia Mikolaiovich, the Radical Party of Oleg Laska. Oleg Lazko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-16-m1.u101	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. I would like to extend my sincere thanks to the colleagues of the Ukrainian people's deputies from all the factions who two months ago supported the bill for the authorship of my colleague Victor Halasyuk, Victor Vuk, who was returned to the scientific workers. Fortunately, the President of Ukraine has signed this law, which has been fairly unexpected for us, we thank the President for signing this law and it was absolutely right to decide, because taking away from scientists the possibility of getting pensions is killing science. And science is what's driving society, it's what's driving development. That's why we have to support the scientists and the law that he gave back to the pensioners -- that was our law that the Supreme Council voted. Now we're going back to the issue of retirement, not just to the employees of local self-government, but to all pensioners working. We believe that all working pensioners, with the exception of government officials, should receive a pension. Because when you work your whole life, you get a penny, there's a million and a half dollars of pension, and you still take 15 percent, and you get a cash salary -- it's totally unfair. The Radical Party faction always stands in the interest of workers, those who earn hard money, and we therefore demand that Parliament review the bill immediately, and return 15 percent of the pensions that they take from them to working pensioners. We demand that the government step up to Parliament and immediately vote on the Wages and Pensions Act, which will enable us to raise the income of our Ukrainian citizens. Vote!
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-16-m1.u102	Thank you. Alexander Abdullin, the "Fatherland" faction, tells John Kirilenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-16-m1.u103	Ivan Kirilenko, "Fatherland" faction. Dear Chairman, dear colleagues, once we have not supported our colleague Burbak's bill, it is a similar normative act. The price of his questions, the price of questions, friends, a few thousand elections in Ukraine where people are forced to retire now: rural, rural heads, measures of small cities -- this is going to be much more expensive than today's return of little social justice and allowing them to work out properly by October 26. That's one question. The second problem is that decentralization has already done much in a clear order. Many functions have already been assigned to local self - government, and responsibility has been placed. Look at how much we've stressed, the already clear order is really decentralization. Don't forget that the message on the front is the same village head. We're here to paralyze local self-government in this part right now. Let's vote, let's restore this justice, let's support these people, who are now on the front. I would like to point out that we voted in favour of the previous bill, we did not vote in favour of the rule that led to that. And also, I have to support Oleg Laska, who has just called for the inclusion in the agenda of the 2698 bill, where there is no such thing as abolishing this shameful practice, taxing the pension, anywhere in the world. Guys, let's not be embarrassed! But it's not even in the agenda yet. So let's at least sectorally decide what we can decide today. I propose to immediately vote on this bill in the first and second readings, and in general. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-16-m1.u104	Tomenko Mikola Volodymyrovich, Block of Petra Prashenka.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-16-m1.u105	Dear colleagues, I'll say some unpleasant things. So when the pension bill was voted on, the government told us how they would make the Ukrainian state happy and what social justice would be. I'm not saying there isn't any government officials here, those who reported it. I think that the government's pensionous anti-reform had to end with them coming here, repenting to the pensioners, telling us that they made a mistake and started correcting the mistake they made. And this is what the situation looks like, and I didn't vote that we're sitting here for six months to correct the government's mistakes, and the government comes in on Friday to fight, x-ha, ha-ha, anecdotes will talk and continue to work against people. Friends, it takes responsibility to be in the hands of the government. So I don't think we're going the right way. So we need to go all the way to this pseudo-pensive reform and say, what about my neighborhoods that come to me every day, what makes them worse than the heads of city councils? I'm sorry, Ivan Grigorovitch, it's not a small town that's all cities, and Kernes, including the poor, and everyone else. Why simple pensioners, what we bring to the situation, we have social stratification in the countryside, and we want to do so, we only speak rural councils, because they are great leaders and pensioners sit there. The Minister of Economics came, said the money would not be from April 1st for pensioners. So I'm a proponent of completely reviewing this decision, we subtracted 15 percent back, we returned normal pensions for those people as needed. So we need a systemic solution, not a sigmentary one, we don't make decisions about what to say in the districts. Guys, I'm sorry, but what to say in the districts is that the government is a criminal, so say it. Therefore, the full review of pension reform will be fair.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-16-m1.u106	Thanks for the show. I just want to remind the speaker that you, like me, are members of the ruling coalition, we have formed a government and we have a shared responsibility. And that's just my total. On that point, and I'm handing over the word to Dudenkov Alexander Valeriyovich, "The Opposition Block."
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-16-m1.u107	Good afternoon, fellow citizens of Ukraine! It's a very interesting situation here to discuss the elimination of benefits when it comes to providing pensions for a particular category of citizens, or if they work, they retire at an age, they have certain benefits because they, for example, have spent a very large amount of time teaching. I want to point out that the Opposition Block faction has definitely opposed the removal of benefits for the assignment of pensions and science workers and the representatives of the metallurgical sphere, and miners, workers who have been involved in jobs with particularly difficult working conditions, with difficult and difficult working conditions, which are listed as number one, number two. In fact, the proposed legislative initiative has a very complex nature, and it actually contributes to, is a sign of political corruption. Because certain, like previous reporters, so-called coalition representatives, who, in fact, voted very many of them in December, depriving the benefits of the corresponding categories of citizens when we insisted on not doing so, because of the low level of income. They say that it is a bribe of certain chosen ones. Yes, of course, they are no better than those to whom pensions have been granted. That's why we insist that we restore adequate benefits to both scientific and other workers who, in an anti-constitutional way, have been unlawfully deprived of the appropriate level of pension insurance, as described in the Constitution, as well as the minimum guaranteed, which guarantees the country at least the standard of living of the corresponding socially vulnerable population category. So the Opposition Block faction will support this legislative initiative and insist on eliminating all restrictions on the right pensioner.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-16-m1.u108	Thank you. Please, Yuri Lewchenko, and this is the last performance in the discussion.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-16-m1.u109	Lewchenko, Freedom, 223rd District, Kiev. What's happening in this room right now is the quintension of the work of this poor coalition. First they break wood, first they abuse the whole country, every pensioner, every socially vulnerable person. by a person, and then they try to give separate types of the population of the political bribe. Because what we have is just an elementary political bribe. I wonder if he's talking about the village, and what's more important than a peasant's head coming back to his pension without a peasant coming back? What is more important than the average citizen who returns his pension and the teachers, the doctors, the other people who have taken 15 pensions do not return his pension? What kind of social, paws, justice? Are you continuing, in fact, the government of Jacinyuk's government's action on social injustice is total? I understand it's today's government program, actually. For such things we cannot vote, it is simply a continuation of the spread of our society and the introduction of social injustice.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-16-m1.u110	So the honourable colleagues, the discussion was over, it's over. And I'm asking the deputies to come into the hall and take their seats and prepare for the vote. The draft Law amending certain laws of Ukraine (renewal of pension guarantees to elected local self-government and scientific workers) (No.2554) is put to the vote on the basis of the vote. Please vote. Please be supportive. Please. [[17:40:34]] For-170. The proposal did not receive the required number of votes, so I am proposing that the subject of the legislative initiative should be returned to the draft Law amending certain laws of Ukraine (No. 2554). So please vote back on the subject’s right to adopt legislation. Please vote. [[17:41:11]] For 199 The decision is not taken. Now, dear fellows, I, with your permission, have a few minutes. We have until the end of our business day of 20 minutes. I'll be able to proceed to the chairman's right for 15 minutes. We have three important bills: 1174, 1630 (an important bill to protect the professional activities of journalists) and 2,406 (protection of military personnel on the front.) I would very much ask that we look at these bills in a dynamic way so that we can look at them by the end of the day. Of course, I will not be able to deprive anyone of their right to vote, but I ask you to speak when there are, in fact, amendments, warnings, remarks to those bills. And according to the Rules, I'm moving on to the next issue of agenda 1174. Draft Act amending the Criminal Code of Ukraine on the establishment of responsibility for crimes against members of the State Border Service, the Armed Forces, the National Guard, the Security Service, the External Intelligence Service, the Ukrainian State Protection Authority. Reporter Friz Irina Vasilovna. There is a request to support the consideration of the bill by means of a reduced procedure. Please support me. [[17:42:47]] For 175 Thank you. And I invite you to the report Frez Irina Vasilovna. Please. I ask for those half-hours to mobilize, be in the hall and take an active part in the work of the session.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-16-m1.u111	Mr. Chairman, Your Honor, you have before you a draft of Act 1174 amending the Criminal Code of Ukraine on responsibility for crimes against the Ukrainian Armed Forces, the Ukrainian Security Service, the National Guard, the Foreign Intelligence Service, and the State Border Service. It was developed along with the head of the Committee on Legal Protection of Mr. Andrey Kozemyakin, with the aim of protecting members of the military and their immediate relatives from illegal activities by foreign intelligence groups, terrorist groups, illegal military or armed forces, and extremist elements. I'm going to give you an example right now that lets you understand the urgency of such a bill. Recently, one of the terrorist groups distributed a list of special forces in the ATO area. After that, several soldiers, Ukrainian military personnel, became the primary target of gang formation. After a recent publication, particularly yesterday, the so-called Berkut cyborg listed more than one and a half thousand members of the Idar battalion with passports and coordinates, including close relatives, calling for pressure and terrorizing fighters and their families. Today, there are 3 articles of the Criminal Code that protect law enforcement officials — 347, 348, 349. The bill provides for the distribution of these articles to the Ukrainian Armed Forces, the Ukrainian Security Service, the Ukrainian National Guard, the Foreign Intelligence Service and the Ukrainian State Border Service, who are currently performing tasks in the ATO area, risking their lives. The commission of crimes against them or their family members may be used to influence them in order to induce criminal activity, desertion, treachery, or improper service.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-16-m1.u112	Please finish 20 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-16-m1.u113	I am convinced that the nation’s first priority is to ensure the protection of Ukrainian military personnel and their close relatives. The adoption of the law will allow our ATO fighters to be confident of the inevitability and severity of the punishment of anyone who takes a breath of life or property and their close relatives in connection with their service obligations.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-16-m1.u114	Ten more seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-16-m1.u115	I urge all of you to restore justice. Because the threat of punishment is the best prevention of crime. Please support this bill and our military personnel. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-16-m1.u116	Thank you. Andrew Anatoliyovich Kožemjakin, head of the committee, is invited to the report.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-16-m1.u117	Dear Chairman, dear colleagues! The Ukrainian Supreme Council Committee on Law Enforcement has considered a draft law amending the Ukrainian Criminal Code on the establishment of responsibility for crimes against members of the State Border Service, the Armed Forces, the National Guard, the Ukrainian Security Service, the Foreign Intelligence Service, the State Security Service. The bill proposes to amend the articles just described by Mrs. Irina Fries — 347, 348, 349 of the Criminal Code. Predicting criminal responsibility for such criminal acts as intentional destruction or damage to property, assault and hostage-taking not only by a law enforcement officer but also by a military officer of the State Border Service, the Ukrainian Armed Forces, the Ukrainian National Guard, the Security Service, the Foreign Intelligence Service, the State Security Service and their close relatives. The adoption of this bill will strengthen the protection of members of the military and their immediate relatives from unlawful acts by foreign intelligence groups, terrorist groups, illegal military or armed forces and extremist elements. The main scientific and expert office is saying, as I'm always not clear about the idea of rejecting it, but the Ministry of Defence is supporting both hands and the committee is also asking for support on the basis of the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-16-m1.u118	Thank you. Dear colleagues, is there a need to discuss? None. Then I put to the vote a draft Act amending the Criminal Code of Ukraine on the establishment of responsibility for crimes against military personnel, number 1174, on the basis. Please be supportive. Please vote. Please. [[17:48:06]] For 223 We didn't make it. I'm asking the people's deputies to come into the hall. I repeat, I don't think 20 minutes is much. I'm asking you to mobilize and work in the hall for 20 minutes. I ask you to enter the hall of those who are in the towers and take up jobs. This is an important national security bill. I ask the People's Deputies to return to the vote for Bill 1174. Please support the proposal to return to consideration. Please vote. [[17:49:01]] For 231 Thank you. Now I'm re-composing. I'm asking the people's deputies not to leave the hall, but to enter the hall. I emphasize again, it's irresponsible and criminal. The law that applies to national security is left uninterrupted by dealing with personal matters in their working hours for which people have chosen us to make decisions here in the hall and elsewhere outside the hall. I ask to vote and put to the vote the draft Act amending the Criminal Code of Ukraine on the establishment of responsibility for crimes against military personnel, No. 1174, on the basis of this. Please support me. [[17:50:05]] For 236 Thank you. I can stop the session if it pleases you. Thank you. There's a committee proposal on the ground, and I'm putting in a committee proposal. As I understand it, there were warnings on the committee before the second reading, so I will not put the second reading. Let's move on to the next bill of order of the day. The draft Act on Amendments to the Criminal Code of Ukraine (to improve the protection of professional activity of journalists) is an important law that has been transposed several times. I invite you to the report of the Ukrainian National MP Condratiuk Olena Konstantinovna. And while she's going I'm asking you to back up on that. discuss this bill in a simplified manner. Please support the reduced procedure. Vote. [[17:51:10]] For 184 Please, Condratuk Olena Konstantinovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-16-m1.u119	Dear colleagues, thank you for the opportunity to tell us the essence of the bill. It's a shame we didn't look at it the day before Journalist Day. Because not only are we able to determine the professional level of work of journalists, but, above all, improve the legislative mechanism, ensure the proper level of professional protection and professional activity of journalists. Thus, the bill provides criminal responsibility for the illegal removal of collected, processed, produced by journalists of materials and technical means used by journalists in connection with their professional activities. It is also suggested that responsibility be placed for breaking the secret of correspondence, telephone conversations, and another journalist’s mail. In addition, since our amendment to Law 0924 was signed by Parliament in May on the introduction of a note to the Criminal Code clarifying the concept of "professional activity of a journalist" and the concept of "status of a journalist" we propose appropriate technical changes to article 171 of the Criminal Code. I hope that such a set of changes will make it impossible for the court and law enforcement authorities to determine which media personnel are journalists or are a news reporter who is a professional journalist or who is damaged or removed, for example, devices that hinder journalists' activities. The drafters are grateful to the Committee on Law Enforcement for supporting our initiatives to improve the legal arrangements for professional activity of journalists. Thank you. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-16-m1.u120	Thank you. The co - report invites the head of the Committee, Kožemiakin Andriy Anatoliyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-16-m1.u121	The honourable presiding, honourable colleagues, the Committee of the Supreme Council considered, on the issue of law enforcement, a draft of Ukrainian Law No. 1630 on the amendment of Ukraine’s Criminal Code (to improve the protection of the professional activities of journalists) on 20 May of this year. The bill proposes a new edition of article 163 of the Ukrainian Criminal Code, which establishes criminal responsibility for such activities as lettering, telephone, telegraph, or other correspondence that are transmitted by means of communication or a computer that is done with a journalist. There is also a new edition of article 171 of the Criminal Code on Disruption of Legal Professional Activities of Journalists, which criminalizes such acts as: unlawful removal of collected, processed, prepared by journalists of materials and technical means used by journalists in connection with their professional activities. I want to remind you that we have already adopted a bill on 14 May and have completed a new article in Criminal Code 345-1 where threats or violence against journalists are common. And we've defined it clearly, we've defined the professional activity of a journalist. Unfortunately, then, we cannot ask today the question of adopting it as a whole, but only on the basis that there will be no conflict, and after the adoption of the two laws with the same definition. So, please, on the basis of a simplified procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-16-m1.u122	Dear colleagues, let us be responsible, may we vote? Then I ask you to prepare for the vote. The draft Law amending the Criminal Code for the Improvement of the Protection of Professional Activity of Journalists (No. 1630) is put to the vote. Please come into the hall and prepare, please support this bill on the basis of a vote. [[17:55:42]] For 230 Thank you for your support. It's a really important, principled decision. Yesterday, by the way, when our colleague Tetjana Blackwall was attacked by a journalist, that would be a criminal responsibility. I ask you now to support the proposal for a reduced procedure for the second reading. Dear colleagues, I would like to support the proposal: a reduced procedure for second reading, Bill 1630. Please vote, please support. [[17:56:23]] For 214 I ask you to return to your workplace, your outgoing honourable colleagues, please prepare for the vote, and I will put this motion to the vote again. Ready? We are voting on the draft Act amending the Criminal Code of Ukraine (1630) for consideration, for a reduced procedure for second reading, please vote. [[17:57:00]] For 212 Unfortunately, the proposal did not get the required number of votes, but the decision on the bill is taken. And respected colleagues, there is a great request. We have the next bill to raise the level of social protection of military personnel and their families. It's five to seven minutes. I'm asking you to take responsibility for the boys on the front, not to break up, not to run away from the hall. I'm looking at the draft Act amending some of the laws of Ukraine 2406, and I'm asking you to support the proposal, consider it as a reduced procedure. Please vote. [[17:57:55]] For a hundred and Thank you. I invite you to report to Bogdan Matkowski. Please give a brief and clear account of the essence of the law. Please. I'm going to keep working for 15 minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-16-m1.u123	Dear colleagues, your opinion is proposed by the draft Act amending certain laws of Ukraine to increase the level of social protection of military personnel and members of their families. The project is proposed by increasing the interest rate on living minimum by 50 percent to increase the level of disposable cash assistance in the event of loss, disability, or partial loss of employment without disability in the performance of the above categories of military personnel. One payment is made for the amount of 913,000,500 dollars in the event of death, 456 thousand, 750 dollars in the event of the establishment of a first group member of the military, 365,400 dollars in the case of the establishment of a second group member of the military and 274,000, 50 dollars in the case of the establishment of a third group of disabled military personnel. Please support me on the basis, if the position of the Supreme Council is reduced. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-16-m1.u124	Thank you. Is there a need, a brief report to the head of the National Security and Defence Committee? Pashinsky Sergey Volodymyrovich, please take the seat of the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-16-m1.u125	No doubt we have to adopt this law, the law is very simple -- it's an increase in cash payments in the event of death, injury, disability and so on. But I want to go to all my colleagues, and we need to work on the second reading of this law, because this law requires the implementation of volunteers, volunteers who have also died, who have been disabled. That's why I'm asking you to support it in the first reading, we're ready to work and we're ready to go out with a bill that's going to provide all the categories of our soldiers, all the categories of volunteers that died protecting our homeland. Thank you for your attention and for your support in the first reading.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-16-m1.u126	Thank you. Can we get to the vote? Yes, very good. I therefore put to the vote the draft Act amending certain Ukrainian laws to increase the level of social protection of military personnel and their families number 2406 as a basis. Please support me on the basis of this. [[18:01:06]] For 239. Dear colleagues! Decision taken. Thank you so much for your support. Today was an important day, and we were able to adopt a number of very important bills. On this day of our work, I declare the evening session closed. Tomorrow at 10 a.m., without delay, we meet in the session room to continue our work. Thank you, good-bye.
