ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-11-m0.u1	Good morning, distinguished national MPs! Please take your seats in the session room. Please turn on the "Council" system to register the national MPs. [[10:06:40]] 297 national deputies registered. I declare the morning plenary session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine open. Ladies and gentlemen, I'd like your attention. It's too bad, but there's another terrorist attack yesterday in Kramatorsk. You know the town of Kramatorsky was under fire. And we have a very sad report that 15 people were killed and 63 Ukrainian citizens were seriously injured. I want to announce a minute of silence for the dead. [[A Minute of Silence]] Ladies and gentlemen, before giving the word to Irina Heraszczenko to inform the national deputies of what is going on in Kramatorsk today. You know there was a president there yesterday. There's some fresh information that you're going to get from her right now. I want to inform you that there was a motion yesterday for a non-personal vote. I forwarded the application to the regulatory committee. The Regulatory Committee will report on the issue of the agenda, informing about the status of consideration of this statement, which decisions may be taken on this issue in order to settle the matter. I want to emphasize that I always demonstrate a sufficiently constructive relationship with the MPs. And I would like all the issues raised to be resolved within the framework of the Rules of Procedure of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. So I think that yesterday we're going to understand and find the solutions that are necessary for the issue to be settled. As for our next actions, I will now give the floor to Irina Heratchenko with the information. And then we're going to do that, because today, Wednesday, we're going to have a recording of the National Deputies' registration for the speech from the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Thank you. Please, Irina Heratschenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-11-m0.u2	Thank you. Dear colleagues, from the ATO leadership, we will receive updated information regarding the victim of a terrorist act in Kramatorsky. As the speaker pointed out for this minute, 16 people were killed, a figure that unites the civilian population and the military. And yesterday we called the number - four military, unfortunately, it grew. And according to accurate information, after the 65 injuries were solved, there were serious injuries, very many children. Last night, the President of Ukraine visited Kramatorsk, where, first of all, he held an operational meeting with the management of the ATO headquarters and set out the following tasks that our Armed Forces and all the forces must do their utmost not only to protect Ukraine's territorial integrity, but now to help civilian populations, and not to give any chance of panic in this place. And secondly, the President visited the Kramator City Hospital, which is now working as a hospital. There are absolutely terrible cases there. A three-year-old boy, doctors are fighting to save his pen. Mother closed her body, and the child does not yet know that Mother died saving his life. The President of Ukraine yesterday had a number of conversations with his foreign counterparts, and led both the American side and the European side about the criminal acts of terrorists that had essentially declared war on the civilian population of Ukraine, and it was obviously not done by accident before today's consultations in Minsk. There's already a certain pattern, you can see for yourself that before every important international meeting at the highest level, terrorists are trying to stage a terrorist attack to break meetings. Instead, I want to inform you that the Ukrainian authorities, the President of Ukraine, are set up to see the Minsk meeting in Normandy today. And it will first discuss the return to the Minsk Protocol, which is to be implemented by all parties. Dear colleagues, I also have to inform you that the President of Ukraine will ask the necessary urgent release of all hostages held as political prisoners in the Russian Federation. And it's Nadia Savchenko, our colleague, who's just a heroine, showed the world yesterday that she won't break, and Ukraine won't break. And frankly, for all of us, dear colleagues, it is a great honor to be colleagues of the Savichenko Hope, and I urge that we take an example from it. And the President will also ask questions about the release of Mr. Shadows, Oleg Shadows, and all other political prisoners. We wish the President and we wish the Ukrainian delegation success in the Minsk negotiations. Thank you for being able to provide information.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-11-m0.u3	Thank you for your information. Please, fellow Members, we have 30 minutes in accordance with the Rules to make proposals, statements and messages. National deputies of Ukraine please sign up for the speech. Please sign up with your respectable colleagues. Dear National Deputies! The National Deputies have duly signed up for the speech and before I invite you to speak, I would like to inform you that in one and a half hours there will be a meeting of the Government, an extended meeting of the Government, with the participation of the President in which I am participating and from Parliament. That's why I'm going to hand over the session to the First Deputy Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, Andrija Volodymyrovich Parubia. Please welcome to the People's Front, Bondar Mikhailo Leontijovich. Please, Mikhailo Leontijovich, People's Front.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-11-m0.u4	Please give the voice to Yuri Timoshenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-11-m0.u5	Yuri. Please give me your word. Again.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-11-m0.u6	Please hand over Yuri Timoshenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-11-m0.u7	Yuri Timoshenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-11-m0.u8	Good morning, dear friends, I would like to draw your attention once again to Law 1768, which is the logical extension of Law 1317 adopted by all of us at a recent meeting. We all know that the vast majority of TV channels and the media in our country actually belong to the oligarchs, the Janukovich concubines and the pro-Russian wastes. In the event of the slightest threat to their existence, they immediately unite their efforts and all together, using their sales woe journalists, in a bunch of such traitors MPs, begin to mistreat the government, parliament and the best MPs, using the dirtiest technologies of mind manipulation. That's why, for the third week in a row, this bill can't be considered by the Supreme Council, and it's constantly delayed for unknown reasons and explanations. Instead, some well - known, truly national MPs speak out loud about banning only Russian channels, while Ukrainians say they do not need to touch anything. Friends, but can a channel like "Inter" be called Ukrainian? It's more pro-Russian, even as some Russian, like the Rain Channel. Why? Channels like "Inter", "112", "Ukraine" TRK, and so on, are hurting the souls of our children, causing us despair, apathy, hopelessness and hopelessness, arguing that it would not be good for the government and the Supreme Council, and that it would be worse and worse, leading them blindly to the only conclusion that they would change government and the Supreme Council as soon as possible, hoping to restore their positions in the state. So I call upon all honest deputies in this room to unite our friendly efforts to combat these anti - Ukrainian channels and to get an immediate review of the 1768 bill, to vote in a friendly manner and to continue to focus our efforts on the fight against the pro-Russian forces in our country. Thank you for your attention. The meeting is chaired by the First Deputy Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-11-m0.u9	Thank you. The Bible book of George Vasilovich, the Poltava region, is welcome. He's giving the word to Andrew Illenka. I have a request to the people's deputies, so if you want to pass on the word, or if you want to pass it on to a microphone, or a note to the bureau, so that we can properly call someone who gives the word. Thank you. Please give the word to Andrew Illenka.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-11-m0.u10	Andrew Illenko, the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union. Dear Ukrainians! More than eight months in the east of Ukraine have been waged in a bloody war with the Moscow invader. For most Ukrainians during this period, which was time and victory and loss became evident, the only way to defeat the enemy is if all policies of real power, economic, humanitarian, informational, human resources meet the requirements of time. However, the Ukrainians observe the actions of the authorities that strongly deny the ideals of the Dignity Revolution and run counter to the main goal of today’s victory over the enemy. As long as our fellow citizens give their lives on the frontlines, stopping the road rage, Russian business and its Ukrainian counterparts seem to have failed, they make money in Ukraine. And Ukrainian leadership claims that Russian business will continue to be allowed to work in Ukraine without hindrance, and these are not simple statements. During the war, the authorities trade with the occupying state, and Ukrainian state enterprises still take credit in Russian banks. Recently, mines located in the so - called DNR areas purchased equipment at the expense of the Ukrainian government. That is, while Ukrainian heroes are at war with the invader, for some in power the geheft is above all. "Freedom" requires: first, to stop any business and financial relationship with an aggressor state. Second, change the personnel policy of the current government, which clearly does not meet the requirements of time, since the more confident are returning to the senior positions of the Janukovic regime, which were to fall under the illustration, and today, by the way, all attempts are being made to abolish and discredit this illustration. Third, to make radical changes in Ukraine’s information policy, to overcome the information occupation and artificial ruse of Ukrainians, to stop Russian television channels from increasing, and to stop so - called Russian stars, particularly those who approve of the bloody actions of Russia in eastern Ukraine. The government has not yet affected the situation around separatist and Russian TV channels, which still plague the east of Ukraine with Moscow propaganda and not just the east of Ukraine, free and unhindered brainwashing for Ukrainians. Double standards demonstrated by the authorities lead to social tension in society, especially during wartime. The All-Ukrainian Union "Freedom" requires the authorities to stop living a double life before the threat of the loss of statehood: one in the zone of combat and the other in the rest of the territory. Only a qualitative upgrade of Ukrainian society will give the nation the strength to help it fight Russia — a historical enemy from which it will not be able to redeem itself with minor concessions and which is intended to destroy Ukraine. That's the only way we're gonna win. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-11-m0.u11	Pressman Alexander Semenovich gives the word Shipk Andrija Fedorovich. Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-11-m0.u12	Shipko Andry, Dnipropetrovština, 35th constituency, the city of Nicopol, Ordjonikidze, Nicopolsky district. Dear national MPs, dear voters, adopted under pressure and in the middle of the night, the 2015 budget is a blow to our people's necks. Social benefits are cancelled and reduced, taxes are increased, bracelet devaluation is 300 percent, and living minimum is expected to increase by 13 and the end of the year. The same thing about raising the minimum wage, from December 1st it's going to be a thousand 378 dollars, today it's $50? What's that going to be in a month? Why don't Mrs. Gottarieva tell us about it here? Colleagues, who will be responsible for the lives of those who will not be able to live until the next fiscal year? Because hemodialysis and oncology costs are low. And who will be responsible for the strokes and heart attacks that will result from the difference in the cost of medicines for hypertension? And who will explain to people today: In the 20th century, in the center of Europe, in 2015, they have to draw buckets from artificial wells, for the cost of construction of water stations is no longer anticipated? Dear government officials, where have you been taught to increase taxes rather than jobs? Tax the real estate of citizens when they have a minimum of 1 000 dollars per month, and they pay the highest in Europe, 20 percent, for food purchased for a minimum pension. By the way, we, the members of the Economic Development Group, have developed a number of social justice bills, including Bill 2038, which reduces the European level of food taxes. This corresponds to 112 EU Directive and is already registered in Parliament. I also point out that on Friday, the last day of making proposals for changes to the 2015 State Budget is the last day. And I demand that the Cabinet of Ministers take into account all the proposals concerning the health and social protection of our people and report here, from this rostrum, next week. Let them see who is personally responsible for the poverty of our Ukrainian people. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-11-m0.u13	Thank you. Solowy Yuri Igorovich, "Peter Dustenka's Block" is invited to the floor.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-11-m0.u14	Yuri Solovay, MP's strike group, Peter Prashenko's block. Dear Ukrainian people, the honorable leadership of Parliament! I would like to mention that on Friday last week, the Ukrainian government reported to us for economic sanctions against the Russian Federation. And let us be honest with ourselves before each other that, despite Mariupol, Volnouch, last night’s Kramatorski, Ukraine continues to trade fully with the Russian Federation, through Ukraine they continue to serve and transport Russian goods in full transit, and to the fullest extent maintained economic relations with the Russian Federation. I believe that the government and the PNB have completely removed their functions of applying economic sanctions to the Russian Federation. That's why it's about the Ukrainian Parliament. And so today there is a very harsh first bill in the Ukrainian Parliament on the application of economic sanctions, which seriously restricts trade with the Russian Federation and severely restricts the transit of Russian goods into Ukraine. I want to point out that these are the first of the four penal bills that were drafted, first of all, by the MP's strike group, and I'm sure that all the factions of the coalition are supporting these four bills in the future. That is why I am calling on Parliament's leadership to immediately, immediately for the next week, put these bills into the order of the day and the Ukrainian Parliament to vote. Because to my profound conviction only when Ukraine first applies economic sanctions in relation to the Russian Federation, only when we turn to the international European society to support us in this way will we be able to stop the aggression of the Russian Federation in Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-11-m0.u15	Longenkov Alexander Valeriovich, Party of the Opposition Block, is invited to attend. I'm gonna say it again. Please pass the word or message by message.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-11-m0.u16	The word is rendered Vilukulu.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-11-m0.u17	Please include the word "Vilkulu" from the rostrum.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-11-m0.u18	Dear people of Ukraine! Ladies and gentlemen of the people! On 9 February, the Minister of Economy of Ukraine, citizen Abromanovicus, made an epochal statement, which turns out to be a downturn, a devaluation of the national currency is very good for the national economy; that investors will come to us, all will buy, all will have cheap costs, even re-exports, he said. If this is the goal of this power to make everyone cheap and low wages, then I want to ask you a question, and how about a UN resolution that pays less than $510, the average is already below the poverty line. We'll probably have that kind of power. This level of salary is 100 years from now. I wanted to give a concrete example: the space sector of Ukraine is now being destroyed and is at particular risk. Thus, at Ukraine's key space industry, people have not been paid a salary for 8 months, they were virtually expelled on vacation until 3 March, which is more than 10,000 people, that is a lot. Banks with tens of thousands of employees. These are jobs for thousands of students who are learning in the hope that they will work in the South and create the space power of our State. Ukraine is one of seven space countries. I have initiated the establishment of a parliamentary commission and have referred all factions of Parliament to consideration, so I ask my distinguished colleagues, the factions' leaders to give their candidates to this commission. Still, who's going to be the author of the Opposition Block or any other faction, we're willing to work together. First. To see if this is an artificial consequence of bankruptcy, because there are hundreds of hectares of land in the center of Dnepropetrovska and tens of thousands of tons of scrap metal, and to develop a specific law on supporting the space industry with the allocation of money, so that there are benefits, but for Ukraine to be a space Power. I would also like to refer to the distinguished leaders of the factions of the Provincial majority in Parliament, this is to put the people on the committee, the interim investigative commission to investigate the events of 2 May in Odessa. People's MP Skorik and I have proposed the establishment of an investigative commission because, until today, neither the orders for burning people nor the performers have been named, and I think it will be interesting for Ukraine as a whole. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-11-m0.u19	Thank you. Please, Martinjak conveys the word of Lithuania to Volodymyr Mikhailovich. Please turn on the microphone. From the rostrum, right? Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-11-m0.u20	Dear Chairman, dear colleagues! If we asked such a question: What would happen in Ukraine, and what would happen to Ukraine if it were not in a state of war? I think the answer is yes. Today’s authorities would be completely gone, people would just take it. Because economically and socially, it is impossible to survive. But today, the slogan is, "War. We need to be patient and patient. And cut, cut social benefits, the economic guarantees of the state." At the same time, there is the impression that there is a great deal of interest in war so that we can act uncontrollably and profit from it. We keep "touching" with calls for splintering and all about our patriotism and making chaotic decisions. If you look today at the work plan of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Wednesday, there are several decisions that also apply to the security sphere. But the question is, why won't the executive branch, along with the security and defence sectors, determine the solution and action to be taken by the Supreme Council? And why will the Supreme Council not make these exhaustive decisions? The next moment. These are our hopes for Minsk, which will reach agreements that will protect Ukraine from further victims and allow Ukraine to be preserved as a nation and Ukrainians as a nation. But at the same time, I can see that if questions aren't asked key questions and there's no clear solution to these questions, we're not going to get any results. The first of these questions. What is Ukraine’s place in the world? Will it now be an area where global players will continue to determine their relationship? Will Ukraine be sheltered by one political power or another in the form of a global state or the formation of global powers? I think if there's any attempt to hold Ukraine and adapt it, the war is assured. The other one. What is Ukraine’s security status? What is the status of the Budapest Memorandum? Why should a world so concerned with Ukraine not make a decision to make this document legally binding? Obviously, the question should be put in such a plane and not shaken again about the status of Donbass and so forth? It's all going to be derivative. [[B in m in s a l in]] Please, please, calm down.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-11-m0.u21	Ten seconds. Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-11-m0.u22	Honorable colleagues tend to be the first to scream at someone who wants to say nothing and who wants to get the blame on others. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-11-m0.u23	Thank you. Abdullin gives the word to John Krulko. Please, John Krulk to the podium. Please turn on the microphone on the stand.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-11-m0.u24	Ivan Krulko, "The Fatherland" faction. Honorable National Deputies, reverend Ukrainian people! Yesterday, there was an alternate court in Moscow over Nadia Savchenko, where the question of choosing a precautionary measure was resolved. A group of National Deputies and former National Deputies from Fatherland were present in this courtroom. I would like to say, in this regard, a few important thesis. First, it is the condition of hope’s health. The first thing that comes to mind is the extreme exhaustion of our fighter, the Ukrainian national deputy of the Savachenko Hope. She's holding on to the last of her strengths. Of course, the power of the spirit that is present in the Saucenco Hope gives it the ability to hold this fight, but it must be understood that the potential of the human body is boundless. And 61 days of hunger, that's just within human power. The mother said very correctly that her daughter, Nadia, had actually been turned into a mummy. It is the fight of hope for Ukraine. Hope made it clear during the trial yesterday that it would not stop starving. And when this was going on in a totally ridiculous and illegal courtroom, Nadia drew a drawing where the Ukraine was painted and it said, "I was born in Ukraine, I'm going to die in Ukraine." Dear colleagues, we have to do all possible and impossible work, or we have to get Nadia Savchenko out of there. Because she made a decision for herself. And certainly, the negotiations that are taking place in Minsk today should be one of the key themes of liberation, the unconditional release of the Saucenco Hope, or at least a change in the measure of precautionary action to put an end to hunger. But also the release of all other political prisoners held by the Kremlin. You know, the sadistic regime of Putin actually goes to the toughest tortures that can be imagined, it goes beyond human dignity. And yesterday, during the break, there was a very unpleasant incident when the convoy manager said to Nadia Savchenko, "why are you using this chuban language?" It's already, you know, going across whatever line it is, it's a manifestation of extreme Russian nationalism. It's an outbreak of national hostility, and it's an expression of intolerance. And we need the Supreme Council of Ukraine to draw the world's attention once again to what's really going on in Russia with human rights. The lawyers all filed.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-11-m0.u25	Dates completed, 20 seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-11-m0.u26	Lawyers have brought all the necessary evidence to justice, the Embassy has given assurances that a precautionary measure of detention can be changed, not in custody, but in house arrest at the Embassy of Ukraine. But Judge Karpov, who is included in the Magnetic List against which the United States sanctions are issued.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-11-m0.u27	Please finish the dates, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-11-m0.u28	The Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe was, in fact, inexorable -- such judges are appointed by the Kremlin, who have nothing to lose. Because the key to solving this is directly in Putin. But we must not completely diminish our main goal: to free Nadia Saucenko, to bring her back to Ukraine, and to conquer Putin. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-11-m0.u29	Thank you. Here's to Chicken Maxim. Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-11-m0.u30	Honorable National Deputies of Ukraine! Chicken Maxim, town of Dnipropetrovsk, 25th constituency. Ukraine's missile-space sector has brought together the patriotic forces of the Ukrainian Parliament around the national interests of the state. There's no need to talk about what the Southman is for the Ukrainian military and industrial complex, the space industry, the image and the glory of our state. But today, when our heroes on the front need new weapons, this giant is on the verge of survival. In fact, the Ukrainian GDP flag was excluded during the war, the total payout debt was 90 million dollars in 7 months, workers were sacked massively, and by March, the Southmash had stopped its work. In recent times, the pro - Russian agency has been trying to shake things up, and the paid - out toll agents have been provoking the factory’s workers to protest the picture on Russian television channels. To save the factory and the industry as a whole, we have. First. Asking the Prime Minister of Ukraine to come up with an opportunity to settle the issue of pay-out debt will stabilize the situation and give people strength and confidence. The other one. The factory can launch modern grenade launchers and shells. This weapon has already been tested and has gained high marks of our military, an enterprise capable of launching a line of bullets. There are possibilities for producing other types of weapons and ammunition, for which the enterprises have appropriate capacities, especially the golden hands and the diamond heads of its workers, the factory waits for orders, people wait for work. Both the main and the last and the third. We need to start working on creating a modern-day tactical missile, which will be the best argument in forcing the peace of a flimsy aggressor. We've got almost everything, we've got the "Southern", we've got the Pavlovgrad chemical plant, and we've got the right work, we've got scientists, we've got designers, we've got engineers, we've got everything, but we're missing something. Are we lacking the political will to give our military a national modern, high - precision weapon, or will we just expect the support of our Western partners? Within the framework of a defense order that was recently approved by the government, the funds were originally earmarked for scientific research and engineering. And today I am addressing our colleagues from the National Defence Committee and personally to his head, Mr. Sergio Pashinsky, with a request, at an accelerated procedure, to consider these issues, to make appropriate adjustments to the defense order, to give the Southern Man and his partners the opportunity to work. I'm sure we'll save the Southmass, win the war, win the war, stand back for Ukraine. Glory to Ukraine? Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-11-m0.u31	Thank you. Sobolev Sergio from the rostrum, please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-11-m0.u32	Dear colleagues, I would like to draw your attention to the bill that we discussed yesterday, which is in the order of the day, which concerns shareholders. I think it's not a very simple question, and we need to get this straight. And I took the floor to literally point out how this bill could be approved. What exactly is being proposed? It is proposed, apart from the general norm, to reduce to 50 plus one share of shareholders' congregations, that you and I have considered here, that there is an absolute norm that corresponds to the spirit of the present, corresponds to European documents, in fact, to introduce a new order of consideration of issues that are being considered in general shareholders' meetings. What is it? There is a rule that can be found in a court hearing that will be held in any part of Ukraine at the place of legal, factual residence of a person, which means that you will never find in which court of Ukraine this case is to be dealt with. Because of a court order that cannot be appealed, during three days a decision on the arrest of property should be passed on to the shareholders ’ congregations. Our faction continues to insist that we can't hide under the overall excellent rate of 50 percent reduction plus one share, holding stockholders' meetings, standards that will cause the terrible consequences that we had six years ago with regard to raiding the country. That's why our faction insists on addressing this issue, to clear all the rules that apply to the rules of judicial review in any judicial institution -- this should be considered exclusively as it is in legislation, that we changed six years ago exclusively in courts that can be identified and always determine where the issue is being considered. And the second question is, if we want to take dividends that have been counted but not paid, in that case these standards should clearly apply to such issues. In this case, this bill has the right to life and I think we're dealing with two key issues: State control over stockholder societies where the state has 50 plus one share. And second, where dividends are not paid, the state will be able to return these dividends to the state budget. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-11-m0.u33	Thank you. Kodola's final speech, Alexander Mikhailovich, passes to Oleg Medunica, People's Front, please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-11-m0.u34	Dear Chairman, distinguished MPs! Very often, when we communicate with our constituents, Ukrainian citizens reproach us for the lack of reform in the state. Today we have a great moment to prove together with the Presidential and Governmental branches that we are actually conducting these reforms. Today, we have the Public Funding Open Service Act. This law is no longer in the first place, it is introduced into this room, but it does not reach its turn. This is an extremely important law if we adopt it, you will certainly not be ashamed of it in front of your constituents. What does this law do? First of all, we're opening up to journalists, public activists the full cost of budgets at all levels, we're opening up the cost of utilities, it's opening up the costs of government insurance funds and the Ukrainian Pension Fund, we're opening up funds for public control of the National Bank of Ukraine, which is now extremely important. It's not the Law of the People's Front, it's co-authors from different factions. He, by the way, was also in the past summoning and the machine is now translated into the eighth summons. If we adopt this law, we will be able to say clearly that we have undertaken a serious reform in opening up the budget. Because now the Law on Access to Public Information does not allow for the control of the use to a full extent of the cost of utilities, because, for example, the cost of utilities is their own. They don't fall under this law, the National Bank's funds don't allow control. So in the case of the adoption of this law, by the way, there are very proper amendments between the first and the second readings, I think we should take them into account today. So I ask the chairman to make this law a vote today. And I call on the Ukrainian National Deputies to support this law in a unanimous manner. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-11-m0.u35	Thank you. I'd like to emphasize. There is a problem not only in the Presidency but in that we work effectively. We really have a number of important issues today, among them 0949, about the openness of using public funds. In order to be able to consider all the laws, we will have an important and effective work in the hall. But before we go into the agenda, I would like to make some announcements made by the Ukrainian National Deputies. First. Announcement: I'm reporting on the creation of the Eighth Call of the Odessa Interfractional MPs in the Supreme Council of Ukraine. The co-ordinator of the interfractional "Odessa" MP is the national deputy of Ukraine Kiwalov Sergio Vasilovich. I'm reporting on the creation in the Supreme Council of Ukraine of the eighth vocation of the interfractional parliamentary association "Or really helping people -- or disbanding." The head of the interfractional MP 'Or really help people - or dissolve' was elected the National Deputy of Ukraine, Rabbinovich Vadim Zinovovich. I'm reporting on the creation in the Supreme Council of Ukraine of the eighth vocation of the interfractional MPs' union, "Let's Protect the Coal Branch." The leader of the interfractional MP was Musia Oleg Stepanović, a national deputy. Hello! According to the statement, I am reporting the departure of Ukrainian National Deputy Katsuba Volodymyr Mihajlovich from the MP group "The Will of the People". Let's welcome the MP! I'm reporting on the election of the deputy head of the deputy faction "Block of Peter Prashenko" of the national deputy of Ukraine, Honcharenko Alexiyyovich. Let us welcome Alexia with our election! And the last message. Ladies and gentlemen, I have been approached by the National Deputy of the Republic of South Carolina, Nina Petrovne, to take into account the amendments that we considered yesterday when we passed the law in general to amend paragraph 2 of the Final Provisions of the Ukrainian Law on Amendments to the Ukrainian Tax Code on Exemption from Taxation of Defence Assignment (registration No. 1817). So, according to this reference to the protocol, I stress that we have adopted draft Law No.1817, which takes into account the amendments of the People's Deputies of the South, and therefore gives the task to the Committee of Profiles, together with the Legal Authority, to introduce technical and editorial regulations into this law. So let's move on to the agenda. The first bill we have is a draft decree amending the Supreme Council of Ukraine decree on the election of heads, first deputies, deputy heads, secretaries, members of the Committees of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the eighth call.".. Bill 2041. And there's an offer to consider it by a reduced procedure. And I ask the MPs to support this proposal unanimously. So I would like to vote in favour of the reduced procedure. [[10:50:04]] For-167 Thank you very much. The report invites the first deputy head of the Committee on Rules of Procedure and Organization of Work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, Pinzenik Pavlovic. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-11-m0.u36	Dear Chairman! Dear colleagues! On February 4, 2015, the Committee reviewed the statements made by the National Deputies of Stóžko Dmitr Anatoliyovich, a member of the MP's National Front Party on the election of his member of the Committee on Legal Policy and Justice by exempting him from the duties of a member of the Committee on Tax and Customs Policy; and members of the deputy faction of the Party "Blok Petra Prashenko" of Revega Alejandro Vasilovich from the election of his member of the Committee on Construction, Urban Affairs, Housing and Lucenko Irina Stepanovna to elect her as a member of the Committee on Foreign Affairs. The fine principle in making changes in committee composition has been respected. Taking into account the accounting quotas, it is proposed to support the statements made by the National Deputies and to adopt the draft Supreme Council Regulation, registration number 2041.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-11-m0.u37	Thank you very much. Dear National Deputies! Look, we can go into the discussion system right now, but this is actually a question that just determines which committee the deputies go to. Is there a need for discussion? Let's give one word, Oleg Valeriovich, with a proposal and a vote. Please turn on Oleg Lachak's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-11-m0.u38	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. We support the draft Order, but we ask that we include in our proposal the decision to release Melniczuk Sergio, elected by the Radical Party faction as deputy head of the Defence Committee, to release him from his post as deputy head of the Defence Committee and to release him from that committee. So that we can have our quota, our faction, choose another representative of our faction. Because Melniczuk was expelled from the Radical Party faction for acts that are incompatible with the status of the Ukrainian National Deputy and discredit the oath of the National MP. Therefore, we ask the Hall to support the proposal to relieve Melniczuk of his duties as deputy head of the Committee on Security and Defence and a member of the committee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-11-m0.u39	I ask the committee representative to respond to this proposal.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-11-m0.u40	Dear colleagues, the proposal was not considered by the committee. Can be counted when processing a project. Position on the signature. The only thing I wanted to do was clarify. This is about, first, the resignation of a deputy head, second, the dismissal of a member of the Committee on Defence of the Supreme Council of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-11-m0.u41	What's the proposal from the committee?
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-11-m0.u42	There can be no committee proposal, he didn't consider it. Let the hall determine.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-11-m0.u43	I think so. Committee, Oleg Valeriyovich has given a comprehensive answer, there is no objection, but we must go through all necessary procedures on the matter.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-11-m0.u44	Of course, but it has to go through the committee procedure.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-11-m0.u45	But in this case, the committee representative said that this could not be done without consideration on the committee. Is that correct?
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-11-m0.u46	So there's an offer from Oleg's faction, the Radical Party, from Oleg Layashk. So let's put Oleg Lacha to the vote first. And then it's all over. Depending on how this proposal goes. People's deputies are asked to determine how to vote on the amendment made by the leader of the Radical Party, Oleg Lášk. Please vote. [[10:55:30.]] For-144 Thank you. Now I'm betting on the vote. Yes, I'm sorry. So I now ask that we vote for the bill as a whole. And I'm asking the National Deputies to back up the proposal from the committee. Please vote. [[10:56:12]] For-179 Ladies and gentlemen, there's been news that not all deputies have understood what the vote is about. So first of all, I ask everyone to return to their jobs. If we start our work day like this, it will be very difficult for us to pass important laws on. This decree is technicalally simply about the statements made by the national MPs regarding their participation in a bill or other bill. And so I will now ask that we return to the vote on the draft decree amending the Supreme Council of Ukraine decree on the election of heads, first deputies, deputy heads, secretaries, members of the Committees of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the eighth call." Draft decision 2041. Please vote in favour of the return to the vote in favour of this draft decree. Please vote. [[10:57:36]] For 214 Please, let's talk about this, because we have a very misunderstanding and strange situation in the hall. Please, in a minute. Please, Oleg Valeriyovich, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-11-m0.u47	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. I'm talking to colleagues from the Dust Block who obviously didn't hear my proposal. I ask Parliamentary colleagues to support our proposal: to exclude from the membership of the Committee on Safety and Defence and to relieve the deputy head of the committee, Sergio Melniczuk, who has been delegated to this office by our faction, is our quota. Therefore, we ask our colleagues to support us, and we adequately support quotas for the election of your deputies. It is the right of each faction to delegate its representatives. I suggest we go back to the draft decision, vote on it, taking into account our proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-11-m0.u48	Who's going to be speaking from Peter Dusty's Block? Please, to the Chamber. Please turn on the microphone. Turn on the Puckan microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-11-m0.u49	Dear colleagues, I ask you to support the decision. This is a technical decision that leads to the work of our members, our fellow national deputies. It's not a matter of budget or distribution of any position. It's our colleagues who have to get to work. What's the problem, let's all get to work and start voting instead of sitting in the session room. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-11-m0.u50	Thus, factions expressed their position. And with your permission, I'm going to re-set this draft order to the vote, and I'm going to make an amendment. If they don't go through both the revisions and the draft resolution, we just move on and wait for this really technical question to come out of the room. So once again, I'm putting to the vote the amendment that. [[B in m in s a l in]] Honourable deputies, according to the Rules, do not need a return. Human resources don't need a comeback. The lawyers explained, and I put to the vote first the amendment that Oleg Lazko made. Anyone who supports this amendment, please vote. Please include the vote. [[11:00:51]] For-200 The amendment did not go away, so attention was paid. Ladies and gentlemen, please concentrate. Now we're voting as a basis and as a whole. Drafted by the Committee for the consideration of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, the draft decision on the amendment of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Decision on the election of heads, first deputies, deputy heads, secretaries, members of the Committees of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the eighth vocation and election of the Head of the Special Supervisory Commission of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on matters of privatization. Project number Set 2041. Please vote and support the decision. Please include the vote. [[11:01:45]] For 207 The decree did not get the required number of votes. So we move on to the next decision. The next draft of the Resolution is 2042, amending the Order of the Supreme Council of Ukraine "On the Election of Heads, First Deputys, Representatives of Heads, Secretaries, Members of the Committees of the Supreme Council of Ukraine". There is also an offer to consider this provision in a simplified procedure. Please support this proposal. [[11:02:26]] For 201 Thank you! The report invites the first deputy head of the Committee on Rules of Procedure and Organization of Work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, Pinzenik Pavlovic.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-11-m0.u51	Dear Chief, distinguished colleagues! At its February 4th meeting, the Committee considered the issue of the formation of a personal composition of the Special Supervisory Commission of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on privatization issues. This commission was formed in accordance with the Supreme Council Regulation of 4 December 2014 on the basis of article 10 of the Ukrainian Act on Privatisation of Property of State Enterprises. According to the profile, the number of members of the commission should be 15 national deputies. Taking into account the principle of proportional representation by the MPs and groups, it was proposed to select from the Commission of People's Deputies: Kornac, Rizanenka, Cekita, Dubinina from the “Peter Prashenko Block”, Usova, Secretary of the Commission from the “Peter Prashenka Block”, Lapina, First Deputy of the Committee Head, Unguriana, Deputy of the Committee Head, and Donez, from the “National Front” faction, Nechayeva from the “Opposition Block” faction, Vojcitsicko from the “Samopomich” faction, Kirickenko from the Radical Party faction, Lucenka from the “Bate of the Fathers” faction, from the “Will of the People”, Kisse from the Economic Development Group. The committee decided to support the proposals made by MPs and groups regarding the composition of the commission. In addition, the committee proposes to change the name of the regulation, taking into account that when the commission was formed, it was only about choosing the head, and now it's about the personal composition, it's a technical amendment. Thus, we propose to support the draft regulation 2042, which contains agreed proposals from MP factions and groups regarding the personal composition of the privatization commission. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-11-m0.u52	Thank you. I mean, that's why the discussion of this issue was given a lot of time, a consultation between factions. And I want to ask, is there a need for discussion? Let's make proposals two, if there is, we're not going to "against," we're going to include, but we're going to give two deputies an offer. Please, first, Oleg Easy, then Andrew Illenko. Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-11-m0.u53	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. Once again, I appeal to my fellow MPs to support our amendment, we vote in favour of this draft decree, which is currently under consideration, taking into account my proposal to exclude Melniczuk from the membership of the Committee on Safety and Defence, and to release him from the duties of deputy head of this committee. I'm asking Parliament to support our proposal, because it's the Radical Party fraction's quota that this person was elected to office. Today, he is excluded from the Radical Party faction in connection with actions that discredit the name of a national MP. In fact, Melniczuk is today the first carcase in the Ukrainian Parliament to betray voters who betrayed the Ukrainian army betrayed the oath of a national MP. And we call on our colleagues to support us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-11-m0.u54	Oleg Valeriyovich, I would like to point out to you that we are already considering Decree 2042, 2041 has not passed, and we are now considering Decree 2042. And so I ask you to give the floor to this decision, Andrew Illenck. Please
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-11-m0.u55	Thank you, Your Honor Chairman, I would like to address the Chamber of Deputies and those who are now listening and watching. It will soon be three months before the Supreme Council of this calling. The second session of the Supreme Council is already under way, but we still have an absolutely abnormal situation, in my opinion, where there is no key committee in Parliament, in my opinion, the Committee of the Supreme Council, the Committee on Rules and Deputy Ethics. This is absolutely wrong, not a natural situation, and there is no public explanation, for in principle it cannot be. I'm addressing, first of all, representatives of the ruling coalition now. Let's close this gap at last, because the only candidate for this position was Yuri Lewchenko, a representative of the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union. There are no questions about him and he can perform these functions, but for some reason the question is not accepted, it is explained. We see that there are now technical decisions coming from the Regulatory Committee, but this question is somehow not being considered and there is no movement on it. Let's just step away from the culinary, move away from all these shadowy arrangements and talk frankly. If you have any other candidates for the chairmanship of the Regulatory Committee, please make this plain. If you don't have it, then tell me what you're not up to, because this situation right now, it's totally insane when Parliament is working for three months without the head of the Regulatory Committee, and violations of the Rules, the buttons and many other things, unfortunately, continue to happen and there is no administration. So I'm asking you to pay attention to that and make the right decisions. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-11-m0.u56	Thank you. But I would like to point out that the second speech and the second speech are not by decree. We're looking at this question and I'd like us to finish it quickly. Do I give the last word or not? Let's vote better. I propose a question that has been discussed for a long time, which is agreed upon by all factions, so that we can support it to all the halls and be able to continue our consideration of our issues. So I put to the vote a draft decree amending the Supreme Council of Ukraine decree on the election of the heads, the first deputies, the deputy heads, the secretaries, the members of the committees of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the eighth convocation (Decision No. 2042). Please return to your seats and vote. Please be supportive. [[11:09:11]] For 218. Ladies and gentlemen, I ask you to return to the Chamber of Deputies. Perhaps not everyone has heard, for I have not heard any warnings about this decision from the deputies. And I'm going to use my right as a leader that you can ask personnel questions without a return, and I'm going to put the draft decision to the vote again. But I ask the factions to ask the deputies to take their seats, please enter all the national deputies in the voting room. So I am revoting the draft Amendment Order to the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the election of heads, first deputies, deputy heads, secretaries, members of the Committees of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the Eighth Call (Decision No. 2042). I ask the deputies to support and vote. Please vote. [[B in m in s a l in]] [[11:10:37]] For 213 Please activate by factions. Please. Peter Poshenko's Block – 82, People's Front – 68, Opposition Block – 0, Self-help – 21, Radical Party – 17, Father's Party – 14, Will of the People – 1, and Economic Development – 4. I'll give you a minute to speak to Boris Filatov.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-11-m0.u57	Dear colleagues! Boris Filatov, Chairman of the Special Monitoring Commission of the Supreme Council. For the first time in eight sessions of the Supreme Council, we had the opportunity to comply with the law and to have 15 members of the Commission. All faction leaders agreed on a quota principle. The Poshenko Block gave a third of the commission – five people – and failed to vote for the commission. You must be ashamed, you're paralyzing Parliamentary work. And you, Yuri Vitalevich, are personally responsible for this. You put a signature under this. So once again, let's vote. You've put in a vacchanal in Parliament. You've all put forward your nominations, each one here, and failed the vote. You must be ashamed!
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-11-m0.u58	Thank you. Please give Yuri Vitaliovich Lucenka a minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-11-m0.u59	First of all, Mr. Head of the Philate Special Commission, I would ask you very much to stop giving credit to everyone, forgetting my part of the job. I would ask you not to be more holy than the Pope of Rome, or even the days of the Roman Empire. The other one. Our faction has decided to vote in favour, but there is one overlap. The faction applied for the first deputy. You served as secretary at the faction committee. Sadly, some differences have now arisen. Now we're going to take a look, and we're going to vote in time for this decision. Thank you. Let's work.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-11-m0.u60	Society! Please, tell Filatov, and then we'll finish the discussion, the consideration of the question. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-11-m0.u61	I will not say who is more holy than the Pope of Rome, or the Pope of the "Conditioner", I have a personal signed document by Jury Vitalievich Lucenko, where he removed Mr. Rizanenko from his first post and introduced Mr. Usov as Secretary. Get it right inside your faction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-11-m0.u62	Dear National Deputies! I want to tell you that on two issues that are really harmonized and technical, we've been having this discussion for almost 40 minutes. So it's going to be hard for us to look at the entire agenda. And so let me put this bill back on the vote. If it doesn't work, we're going to look at the following questions. [[B in m in s a l in]] Yuri Vitaliyovich, so I'm voting once again on the draft decree amending the Supreme Council of Ukraine decree on the election of heads, first intercessors, deputy heads, secretaries, members of the Supreme Council of Ukraine's eighth convocation. (Decision number 2042). Please determine how to vote. Please be supportive. [[11:14:50]] For 203 Thank you. There are no votes in the room for this ruling, so we are going to consider the next draft of the Luhansk Region Administrative and Territorial Change Order, amending and establishing the boundaries of the Pásnian and Slovenian Serb regions of the Luhansk region (No. 1601). And I'm asking that we also consider the decree in short notice. Please support the simplified procedure. [[11:15:38]] For 214 Thank you. The report invites Ukrainian national deputy Artemenko Andriy Viktorovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-11-m0.u63	Ladies and gentlemen, I count and beg that our question will not be dealt with in the same way as discussed first and second. It's about the bill. You and I have adopted the Ukrainian Act on Changes in the Administrative and Territorial System of the Luhansk Region. In particular, the area of the Pápasnian region of the Lugansk region has been approved with a total area of 146 thousand ha and the territory of the Slavanoserby region of the Lugansk region with a total area of 82 thousand. So today, changes in the installation require the Pápasnian and Slavanoserby regions of the Lugansk region in connection with the need to join the 51 thousand ha village of Zórobok in the village council to the Pásnian district of Lugansk. These changes will ensure a normal life, a normal job under the conditions of the Anti-Terrorism Operation. Ladies and gentlemen, I ask you to support this bill and vote in favour, because this is really what our people who live in the ATO zone need. I have a special request to our Opposition Block, which states that it supports all the things that are happening in the Luhansk region. Please support the bill and we will help people. Please be supportive. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-11-m0.u64	Thank you. The co - report invites the head of the Committee on the Law Enforcement of Law Enforcement Activities, Kožemjakin Andrija Anatoliyovich. So I'm sorry. Head of the Subcommittee on State Building, Regional Policy and Local Self-Government, Fedoruk Mikola Trochymovich. Let's get to the show. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-11-m0.u65	Dear National Deputies! The Committee on State Building, Regional Policy and Local Self-Government, at its meeting on 12 January this year, reviewed the draft Supreme Council Regulation on changes in the administrative and territorial structure of the Lugansk region, by changing the boundaries of the Pošasnian and Slavano-Serbian regions of the Lugansk region, introduced by the National Deputy of Ukraine, Artemenko. As a result of the general discussion, the determination of the positions of the people's deputies, the members of the committee invited to the meetings, supporting the desire to address the most painful problems of life in the Luhansk region, ensuring their fundamental rights, freedoms and interests, decided unanimously to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine, in accordance with the first and second parts of article 114 of the Supreme Council Regulation of Ukraine, a draft of the Supreme Council Regulation on changes in the administrative and territorial system of the Lugansk region, the change and establishment of the boundaries of the Páznań and the Slovenian Serb regions of the Lugansk region, resulting from the first reading, to be accepted as a basis and as a whole.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-11-m0.u66	Ladies and gentlemen, is there a need to speak up on the matter? Then I will ask that we be able to vote, thereby supporting our administrative bodies in the East. I'm asking MPs to take their jobs, go into the hall that's in the towers. This is an important issue that needs a legislative settlement. Please prepare for the vote. We are voting for a draft regulation on changes in the administrative and territorial structure of the Lugansk region, the amendment and establishment of the boundaries of the Pásnian and Slovenian Serb regions of Lugansk Region No. 1601. Please vote and support this decision as a whole. [[11:20:01]] For 268. Thank you for your support. We are moving on to the draft Change Order of the Supreme Council of Ukraine No. 77/98-PL of 4 February 1998 on the Advisory Council on Informatics at the Supreme Council of Ukraine, 1814 – number of the draft regulation. And there's also a suggestion that we look at it in a simplified way. Please support the MPs with the proposal. [[11:20:47]] For-200 Thank you for your support. The report invites the head of the Committee on Information and Communications, Danchenko Alexander Ivanovich. Please turn on the microphone from the rostrum.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-11-m0.u67	Good afternoon, Mr. Chairman. Good afternoon, gentlemen of the MPs. The Advisory Council on Informatics at the Supreme Council of Ukraine was established in 1998. But the last meeting was held almost three years ago. And in the seventh call of the Supreme Council, it was never held at all. Right now, we believe it is necessary to modernize the work of this advisory board, which, as a collective advisory body, should form the basis for the involvement of representatives, institutions, public society and the market to organize the regulatory framework in the field of information, telecommunications, communications, cybersecurity, etc. The main aim of the Advisory Council is to assist the Supreme Council of Ukraine in the development of information society policies, high technology, in the preparation and approval of the National Information Programme tasks and in the preparation and adoption of Ukrainian laws in these areas, taking into account the latest developments and technological solutions. Therefore, we consider it necessary: First. Authorize the Advisory Board in accordance with the new functions of the committee. The committee has an additional function in the field of telecommunications and communication. The other one. More broadly involve representatives of the public, the state, and the market in the legislative processes in the Supreme Council in the field of information society. Third. To complement the functions of the Council with new tasks, in accordance with the Association Agreement with the EU. Four. Introduce paperless technologies in the Supreme Council. Fifth. Do the tasks defined by the Basic Principles for the Development of Information Society Act. We would like to propose: first, to clarify the list of areas of social and technological activity in which this advisory body at the Supreme Council provides its advice and conclusions; second, to put the organizational provision of this advisory body on the information and communication committee, as provided for by its subjects; third, to make it available to this advisory body.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-11-m0.u68	Please give us the opportunity to finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-11-m0.u69	The third is to change the term of the Advisory Board to "information issues" to "information society development." The Committee on Information and Communications agreed on the draft decision without any notice. Please support and vote as a basis and as a whole. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-11-m0.u70	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, is there a need to discuss the matter? If there's no need, I'd like to put it to a vote. But before that, I'm going to ask the people's deputies to get closer to their jobs, to go from the towers to the hall, to prepare for the vote. So I'm voting on a draft decree amending the Supreme Council of Ukraine Decree No. 7798-PL of 4 February 1998 on the Advisory Council on Informatics at the Supreme Council of Ukraine, Decree No. 1814. Please vote and support this decision as a whole. [[11:24:39]] For 238. Thank you so much for your support. The hall finally entered the working rhythm. And now the next draft of Law 1839, which we have to consider. Before we consider it, we must go back to its consideration. Yesterday, when we looked at him, not everyone was able to express their position in the hall. After that, there was a consultation and a joint agreement on a return to the government bill. So first, I'm going to ask the Ukrainian national deputies to vote in favour of returning to the previously unsupported issue. I ask the National Deputies to vote in favour of the return to the review of the draft Act amending some Ukrainian legislation on the protection of shareholders' property rights, 1839. Please determine how to vote. Please be supportive. [[11:25:57]] For 172 Unfortunately, there is no political will in the room to go back to the government issue on which both the People's Front and the government insisted. The next bill is 1793. This bill, the authors ask him to move it to the next day for further work. Is there any objection in the hall that we can move it? There is no objection, so we are transferring it to the next plenary. And now we are going through a draft Act amending some of Ukraine's legislative acts (about regulating the activities of chaplains in organs and institutions within the administration of Ukraine's State Penitentiary Service). (No. 1154) There is also a suggestion that we consider it as a simplified procedure. I ask the deputies to support the consideration of the reduced procedure by voting, please vote. [[11:27:11]] For 193 Thank you for your support. And the report invites the Ukrainian National Deputy, head of the Committee on Legislative Security and Law Protection Activities, Kožemjakin Andriy Anatoliyovich. We'll give you three minutes to report, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-11-m0.u71	Dear Chief, distinguished colleagues! Draft Ukrainian Act amending some Ukrainian legislation on regulating the activities of chaplains in the authorities and institutions within the administration of the State Penitentiary Service of Ukraine. The author is Miroshchenko Yuri Romanovich. Directed to the legislative settlement of matters of implementation by convicted persons who are serving sentences in institutions for the execution of sentences and persons taken into custody at places of prior imprisonment, their constitutional right to freedom of worship, their religious needs, and the provision of pastoral care by priests. For this purpose, it is proposed. First. To supplement the Ukrainian Code of Criminal Enforcement with article 128, bearing the badge 1: "Organization of Dupastrian Care of Convicted Persons". The other one. Allowing those who have been taken into custody to be cared for by the pastoral care provided in the new article 9. Third. To supplement article 23 of the Ukrainian Law on the State Criminal Enforcement Service with a provision "for the promotion of heads of organs and institutions of the State Criminal Enforcement Service of Ukraine to carry out the activities of the pastoral services with the staff". The chief scientific and expert administration of the Supreme Council's apparatus, generally supporting the idea, is proposing to reject the bill. But the All - Ukrainian Council of Churches and Religious Organizations fully supports this bill. In the event of the adoption of the 1154 project by the Supreme Council, the first reading seems appropriate to its further legal argument, the actual state of implementation, of persons imprisoned for their religious rights. In particular, it is appropriate to supplement in the text of the draft provisions of part one, article 128 of the Criminal Code of Ukraine with standards for the performance of pastoral work by priests, in chaplains, in the principles of respect for freedom of worship, and in the voluntary participation of those condemned in religious activities. It also seems appropriate to exclude from the body the draft position of relying on the Ukrainian State Penitentiary Service to create an advisory body to include employees of interested religious centres and offices. Since, according to article 22 of the Ukrainian Law on the Central Executive Authority, the creation of such organs is referred to as the head of the central executive authority. I mean, in the proposed project, this is the head of the State Penitentiary Service of Ukraine, who is here. Given the relevance of the bill, the committee adopted a decision to recommend project 1154 to the Supreme Council of Ukraine, based on its first reading, as a basis. I'd like you to support my colleague. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-11-m0.u72	Thank you. Is there a need to discuss the matter? There's a need. Then please sign in, two for, two against. The word is Yelensky, the People's Front. Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-11-m0.u73	Dear National Deputies! Ensuring freedom of conscience at places of deprivation is a very important principle of a democratic state. This law, a more faithful bill that is proposed, is not revolutionary. Prisoners usually have good conditions to meet their religious needs, but at the same time, the proposed bill contains three important things. First of all, he allows access to the priest not only to all prisoners, but also to those who are only in custody. Secondly, it guarantees the integrity of the right to confession and the confidentiality of confession. Thirdly, it guarantees access to presuppression not only by prisoners but also by staff, by staff of places of deprivation, which, as you know, is in sufficiently difficult conditions and requires as much of a pastoral attention as is needed by prisoners. And I also want to say that I wouldn't want to remove from my body the law on counseling. Ukraine’s religious organizations and churches have found a very high level of interaction and ability to resolve complex issues. And I think they're up to the power of solving and alternating, and the continuity of participating in this process, in the process of strangling in places where they're deprived of their will. I call on the MPs to support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-11-m0.u74	Thank you. Here's the invitation to the Barezuk Oleg Romanovich, Self-Help faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-11-m0.u75	A very important bill, he has no doubt taken care of these groups of people mentioned by the predecessor. But another group of people who defend themselves in this bill are the chaplains. Work in prisons is difficult and dangerous both for life and for health. Thus, the guarantee of aid to these people will allow for increased numbers of chaplains at places of deprivation, enabling them to improve conditions for both prisoners, workers, and chaplains themselves. The project needs a number of additions, but in the second reading, we're all working on it together. There's a proposal: to support this project.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-11-m0.u76	Thank you. Barna Stepanovich, "Peter Prashenka's Block" is invited to the floor.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-11-m0.u77	Please pass the word to Ungurian Paul.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-11-m0.u78	Please, Paul Ungurian. Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-11-m0.u79	Dear colleagues, I think this bill will now be supported in the first reading and taken as a basis. And this will show the willingness of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to contribute to the real rehabilitation of those condemned who are in places of deprivation. Of course, there are some questions that we will be able to correct in preparation for the second reading. I would like to point out that in the State Penitentiary Service of Ukraine, the Council of Spiritual Work has long existed. And the chaplains have been visiting colonies, prisons for a long time since the independence of Ukraine. And that gives a very and very positive result, and this law actually legalizes the great work that churches do in these institutions of education and punishment. The bill is also a continuation of the government’s initiative. The Ukrainian government has recently introduced a system of chaplainism in the Ukrainian Armed Forces, and this is also very important -- support, spiritual support for our soldiers, who defend Ukraine's territorial integrity. So I propose that we all support and show an example today of when we can vote on the bills, regardless of who their author is, in the first reading and work together on the second reading. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-11-m0.u80	Thank you. From the Radical Party, the word is given to Igor Mosiychuk. Please turn on the microphone. Oh, they're on. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-11-m0.u81	Dear colleagues, over the past two weeks, I have personally visited virtually all the institutions of willlessness in the territory of Kiev and Kiev. I consider the bill to be very important, as in the light of that corruption, anti - health care, and disgrace that we have in the institutions of deprivation of liberty, it is vital that we give the prisoners hope for faith, for faith in the future. And with God’s help, we will be able to clean up, not only to rearm the prisoners, but also to clean up the august stables of this criminal system that grinds the bones of the people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-11-m0.u82	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I see there's a consolidating thought in the hall to support this bill as a basis. So I'm going to ask the people's deputies to come into the hall and prepare for the vote. And it's about voting a bill amending some of Ukraine's legislative acts (about regulating the activities of chaplains in organs and institutions that are part of the administration of the Ukrainian State Penitentiary Service). Bill No. 1154. Please vote on the basis. Yes, on the ground. Please make up your mind. [[11:37:53]] For 215 Didn't everyone vote? Not all responded to the call to enter the hall and failed to reach their jobs. And so I'm going to ask the people's deputies to come back to the hall again, from the towers to go into the hall, please. Each faction, the heads of the factions, please invite deputies to your workplace. That's not what we talked about when we went to the polls about our work! Please come into the hall! And I suggest you come back. As they enter the hall, Andrew Cosemyakina is a replica. Short. Please include Andrea Cosemiakin’s short line.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-11-m0.u83	Dear Chairman! Dear colleagues! I'm speaking to my coalition colleagues, a colleague from the Peter Dusty Block. I want to. There were also questions on the committee. I want to answer the main question: it needs financial security for this bill or it doesn't need it. I'll tell you what. All the churches, all the priests -- they'll work without money, voluntarily. And more than that, I want to say that every person condemned will have an unlimited opportunity if they have to meet a priest. This is important for the person who is now in the way of correction. In order, indeed, to have faith. She did not lose faith in the fact that justice can indeed be found if a person convicted may be illegally. I'm asking you to back me up. It's important. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-11-m0.u84	Thank you. I therefore vote in favour of the return to the vote of the draft Law on Amendments to Certain Legislative Acts of Ukraine (No. 1154). I would like to vote in favour of the return to the vote. Please. [[11:40:09]] For 242 Thank you. We have returned to the vote, and I am now asking for the support of the draft Act amending certain legislative acts of Ukraine (No. 1154) as a basis. May I have your support, national deputies? [[11:40:40]] For 229 [[Applause]] Thank you very much. They took it as a foundation. The military's warnings that may be will be discussed between the first and the second readings, and I'm confident that all the controversial issues will be removed from the bill, and I want to thank the MPs for their support. Next draft of the ruling. I would like to review the draft Ordinance on Parliamentary Hearings on "The Prospects for the Implementation of the European Union's visa-free regime for Ukrainian citizens", number 2066, and ask the Chamber to also vote in favour of this issue under a reduced procedure. Please support and vote in favour of the reduced procedure. [[11:41:39]] For the 220. Thank you for your support. The report on this issue invites the head of the European Integration Committee Heratchenko Irina Volodymyrna. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-11-m0.u85	Dear Chairman, dear colleagues! We now ask the Chamber to support the initiative of the committee, which was put forward by all members of the committee, representatives of all factions of Parliament, to hold such parliamentary hearings in April, 15 April, before the Risk Summit, which will take place from 21 to 22 May in Riga. Latvia is now head of the European Union and the Ukrainian side hopes to receive positive signals about the introduction of a visa-free regime between Ukraine and the European Union. But it is clear that there are still many aspects of the homework that Ukraine has to do in order to make it a reality. And that's why we're just suggesting that in April, we do this monitoring that's done. The government was heard, public organizations were heard to monitor the process. And so that we have a certain deadline for those tasks that are before Parliament, including improving our legislation to meet the conditions, to introduce a visa-free regime, to be able to do so. There are also a lot of questions, as you know, as Ukraine has already introduced biometric passports, but there are questions as to how they work, whether the European Union embassies are already working there with these passports, whether there are still some braking procedures. So it's important that we hear this and make a decision together. Please support the hall in conducting these hearings and join everyone in the active, if possible, work during them. Because this is important for all Ukrainian citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-11-m0.u86	Thank you so much for the report, Mrs. Irina. And please tell me, is there a need to talk and take time? There's no need. And so there is a proposal that we now vote in favour of the draft Ordinance on Parliamentary Hearings on "The Prospects for a European Union visa-free regime for Ukrainian citizens", bill number 2066, on the basis of and in general. Please vote and please support, national MPs. [[11:44:16]] For 262 Thank you for your support. The draft Law on Amendments to Article 186-1 of the Ukrainian Land Code (to simplify the consent procedure for the project) No. 1025 is now under consideration. And there's also a suggestion that we look at it as a simplified procedure. Please support the proposal to consider the simplified procedure. Please vote. [[11:45.]] For 211 Thank you for your support. And the report is invited by the National Deputy of Ukraine, Spenov Dmitry Yuriovich. You're from the rostrum, aren't you? Please turn on the microphone on the stand.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-11-m0.u87	Dear Chairman! Ladies and gentlemen of the people! This bill is primarily not a political one and has no corruption whatsoever. The subject of the legislative initiative on this issue was made by the citizens of my district in the first place. This is the Apostolic, Sofiyevsky, Krivorozhy regions, which came directly to the reception and talked about the corruption that is present. The bill is very simple and proposes amendments. In order to allow the executive authorities to agree on a land-removal project if refused, a comprehensive list of the shortcomings of land-use projects will be provided. If a person has addressed all these shortcomings, he can no longer be denied the agreement of the land administration project. I want to give you examples like one of the last to come directly to me as a treatment. For example, one resident in the village of Yellow Sofiyev region did not agree on a land project because of the lack of land calculation. They corrected, then indicated that the land administration project did not meet the requirements of the legislation, amended the project again, and then refused again because of lack of agrochemical passport. And so, to infinity, these processes go. Dear colleagues, it doesn't matter, I also want to tell you that an alternative bill has been passed by my colleague, including the Mayor, who is in fact identical. No matter which of these laws will be supported. The main thing is that the main corruption component that is now in land resources will be removed, and this will help citizens. It's also a proposal. I know that the proposal is to vote only on first reading. I have a proposal to support this bill as a whole. Thank you very much for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-11-m0.u88	Thank you. The report invites Ukrainian national deputy Nichiporenko Valentin Mikolaiovich. To the rostrum, yes. Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-11-m0.u89	Dear colleagues, you know, really, these two laws are almost the same. I'd like to explain why that happened. I voted in favour of this law in the past calling. He didn't make it. It was served by my colleague Dmitri. When I came to the county, people said, Valentina Mikolaiovich, great law, why he passed, pass it again. I didn't know that Dmitri passed that law. That's why I gave the same. This law, when a person comes and is told that he has a note, show all the observations immediately. Not that one of them showed me, I've been removing it for two months. I'm coming, I'm the second, I'm the fifth. And I run like this until I make a deal. I'm supposed to make all the remarks, I've done them, and the second time I'm not allowed to give them. That's why I'm here. It doesn't matter what law we vote for, they're absolutely identical. So it happened, I didn't know that Dmitri passed that law. The idea of the former calling belonged to him. This law has not passed. I gave it to him in the past. Please also support him immediately. It doesn't matter whether it's 25 or 25-1, and on the whole. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-11-m0.u90	Thank you. The chairman of the Committee on Agricultural Policy and Land Relations, Kotowa Taras Viktorovich, is invited to attend. Angular Taras Viktorovich, and we're waiting on a committee of professional voting recommendations, please. Yvchenko instead of Kutov will represent the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-11-m0.u91	Dear colleagues, the committee at its meeting on December 23, reviewed these two bills (registration number 1025) from 27.11.2014, prepared by Deputy Spanov, and (registration number 1025-1) from 08.12.2014, submitted by the National MP Neciporenko. As a result of the consideration of the bill, the committee noted the following. Both bills are identical in content and substance. Bills are proposed to supplement Article 186 of the Earth Code with a new part and to establish that the conclusion that the project would not agree with the land administration on the removal of the land by the executive authorities who would agree to it should provide a comprehensive list of the shortcomings of the project with a reasonable deadline for addressing these shortcomings. It is also suggested that these authorities be prohibited from renouncing such bills if all the comments made in their previous findings have been removed. However, it is suggested that further comments should not be made to the project if such comments were made in the previous conclusion. In this way, the bill proposes to oblige these authorities to also verify the project’s compliance with the requirements of legislation, standards, standards, and regulations on land. In doing so, it should be noted that it is the task of the executive authorities that agree to the draft land-use scheme in accordance with the existing provisions of part five and sixth of this article and to analyse the compliance of the draft with the requirements of laws and regulations adopted pursuant to them, land-use documentation, or city-based documentation in dealing with issues relating to the removal of land for specific purposes. Refusal to accept an arrangement should contain mandatory references to laws and accepted compliance with the legal provisions governing relations in this area. As a result of the discussion, the committee decided.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-11-m0.u92	Ten seconds to complete, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-11-m0.u93	decided to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine project 1025 to reject and project 1025-1 to accept as a basis. Thank you for your attention!
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-11-m0.u94	Thank you so much! The committee's position is clear. Dear colleagues, is there a need to discuss the matter? Is that right? Part of people need to discuss and we cannot ignore their desire. So I'd like you to include a system of two for, two for against. Yes, please welcome to the floor in the discussion of the national MP, Horvath.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-11-m0.u95	Good afternoon! Deputy Robert Gorvath. I give the word to Solovius Igorevich.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-11-m0.u96	Yuri Solovay, MP's strike group, Peter Prashenko's block. Dear colleagues! An extremely important bill, since it greatly simplifies the process of deposing land, it also takes away one of the most important and serious corruption elements of the local government today. Because today, without an explanation of any reason, in the case of any enterprise entity or just a physical person buying an object of real estate and turning to the city council about the transformation of the land area, they're refusing it. And only after a person, if you'll excuse me, are the authorities of local self-government allowing this land to be removed. So I'm asking all my colleagues to support this bill, because it seriously destroys the corruption in local self-government. Thank you!
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-11-m0.u97	Thank you. Lucenko Igor Viktorovich, the All-Ukrainian Union of Fatherland, is invited to attend. Turn on the microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-11-m0.u98	Please pass it on to Kirilenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-11-m0.u99	Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-11-m0.u100	Ivan Kirilenko, "Fatherland" faction. Dear colleagues, when looking at the title of the bill that is proposed to be considered on one day, my friends, note the simplification of the agreement procedure for the project. Every day we simplify, and every day we clean up colossal bays, which are piled up with enormous machinery. And absolutely right colleagues when they say that this huge machine and all this colossal harmony is a huge loophole for corruption, which is what's really going on. Tomorrow we're going to be looking at about 10 bills that also simplify, that delegate, that decentralize, that liberalize all of these things. I ask all colleagues, when we see where simplification is, we should vote with certainty, because when consent lasts longer than the construction of this state is doomed, we have accepted it for years. Who will come to this country, what investments? So I suggest that, colleagues, unanimously vote an alternative bill, they're similar, but the alternative one, more broadly reveals the powers that need to be regulated. Vote in both the first and the second at the same time, and put immediately to the signature. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-11-m0.u101	Thank you. May I have the floor, Fedoruk Mikola Trohimovich, People's Front. Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-11-m0.u102	Fedoruk, People's Front, Chernivci. The People's Front faction will support this bill 1025-1 and invite everyone to vote for it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-11-m0.u103	Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, from the Radical Party, Oleg Valeriyovich Ljashko.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-11-m0.u104	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. The problem of land formation, especially in rural areas, is simply a disaster. When a person in a village who has lived all his life has been forced for years to form a dowry, an area under his own house, to pay huge sums of money, months, years to travel to land departments, and other departments where consent is required. So I think we need to not just simplify the land treatment process in the country, but make it free at all. There was such an initiative in 2009 by the then government of Timoshenko when, and personally, I handed over thousands of free land acts to the earth. There are these possibilities in the state, it's just that officials in the land offices have to steal less, make less money, and direct these funds to give people free acts on the ground. And the Radical Party initiates and asks the government.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-11-m0.u105	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, there is full agreement on these bills. Why should we take our time? So I want to remind you what is the proposal of the committee and the deputies who made the presentation. Since the bills are almost identical, 1025 are selected first, 1025 are not supported by the committee, and 1025-1 is supported. And that's why I'm going to put them in this sequence, according to the Rules. I'll be the first to draft the bill that the committee proposed not to support. So I'm voting on the draft Act amending Article 186. 1 Ukraine’s Code of Land (1025). Please decide how to vote. Don't support it. [[11:57:26]] For-49 Thank you. This is what we do, according to the committee's recommendation, the committee proposed that the bill be rejected and that the bill (1025-1) be supported. And so now I'm asking everyone to come into the hall. Wait, everyone, please come into the hall. Thank you so much for coming. Everyone, please get closer to your jobs, your cards, and get ready to vote. Sergei Volodymyrovich, please. And so I put to the vote the draft Law amending Article 186. 1 of Ukraine's Earth Code (1025-1) as a basis and as a whole. Please be supportive. [[11:58:26]] For 296 [[Applause]] Thank you very much. This is some kind of incredible unification of the hall, but it is a warning. Thank you for supporting the bill. And now we're going to get there, and I'm going to continue for 15 minutes, and we're going to go to the draft Parliamentary Hearing Regulation on "The state and legislative provision for the development of science and technology in the state," (number 2039). There's an offer: go through all the regulatory procedures. First. Are we voting immediately on the basis and in general, society?
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-11-m0.u106	Vote. Come on, this is a revolutionary proposition, no report. Is there a need to report? Is that right? There is a need to report. So please, first of all, vote in favour of the shortened procedure. Please support the consideration of the reduced procedure. Please. [[11:59:31]] For the 220. So I invite the head of the Committee on Science and Education, Greenevich Lilia Mikhailovna, to the report on this question.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-11-m0.u107	Ladies and gentlemen, I think we need to discuss this issue because it is of extraordinary social importance. Today, in 20 years of independence, Ukraine has actually lost its role as a state of science and technology, and this poses another real threat to Ukraine's national security. So these developments in science are perfectly consistent with the position of the coalition agreement, where we decided to change the legislation on science in this particular call. Science has been torn away from the economic and social needs of the state. We don't know or lose the opportunity, and we don't have a legislative platform to effectively convert the results of scientific research into innovation. Today we have an unprecedented flow of intelligence from the country. So just to be clear, I'm going to get a bunch of numbers. If the proportion of scientists in the employment structure of the population of Ukraine at the beginning of independence was almost half a percent, 0.5 percent, now this proportion of scientists has dropped three and a half times. For comparison: in countries like Finland, Denmark, the share of scientists in the structure of the population is three to three and a half percent. We have an unprecedentedly low level of funding for science today. Today’s ideas of these recommendations of parliamentary hearings should be the basis for new legislation. These are mechanisms for funding science to increase grant funding, not basic funding. It's not about funding institutions, it's about the research that should be the priority. It's a change in science management and an approach to integrated governance. This is a call to the attention of the authorities and the leadership of the country to the role of science.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-11-m0.u108	Please finish the dates.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-11-m0.u109	the factor that really creates the country's competitiveness. By the way, the development of science to develop the defence complex in the country is extremely important. Recent data: in those countries that have the right level of defence, 20 percent at least is the scientific capacity. So I urge you to vote for these recommendations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-11-m0.u110	Thank you. I think we've heard Mrs. Greenevich's call and we're going to vote without discussing it as a basis and as a whole. Am I in the right mood? That's right. Please take your seats and prepare for the vote. They're all here. And I'm voting on the draft Law on Parliamentary Hearing Recommendations on the Status and Legislative Provision for the Development of Science and Technology of the State (No. 2039) as a Foundation and Overall. Please vote and support. Please. [[12:03:16]] For 270. Thank you so much for your support. I would also like to read the announcement. "To the head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Dear Volodymyr Borisovich! In accordance with article 60 of the Ukrainian Act on the Rules of Procedure of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, and according to the minutes of the general assembly of the political faction of the Self-Help Party of 10 February 2015 No17, we report the exclusion of the political party 'Unification of Self-Help' from the parliamentary faction of Suslovna Irina Mikolayovna. With respect, the head of the Oleg Beresuk faction." Also now, according to the Rules, I announce a half hour break. But I would like to point out that after the break there will be an extremely important bill 0949. I'm asking everyone to come in on time. At 12.35 we continue our work, I ask everyone to be on the scene and be responsible for discussing and adopting drafts. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-11-m0.u111	Dear National Deputies! The deadline for the lunch break is over, and therefore I ask the Ukrainian national deputies to enter the hall to continue our difficult but necessary work. I'm asking the deputies to come into the hall and take their jobs to continue our work. Once again, I ask the faction secretariat to report on the beginning of our work, the heads of the faction, please invite the deputies to the hall. Now we're going to be looking at a very important bill, 0949, a draft law on opening up the use of public funds. Dear national MPs, we can talk about the fight against corruption in many ways, and we can take steps to carry out clear and concrete actions that will help us to eliminate one of the greatest scourges in our country: corruption. And the bill itself is called upon to take an important step towards opening up the use of public funds, which will be a huge safeguard for the unclean at the hands of officials. And what will be an important step in the fight against corruption in our country. That's why I'm asking the National Deputies to start a review of the draft Law on the Open Use of Public Funds No. 0949. And I would like to support the proposal that we consider the bill as a reduced procedure. Are MPs ready to vote, distinguished national MPs? Then I'll put it to a vote. So the MPs are coming into the hall. Since this is the second reading, it does not need a reduced procedure. I announce the beginning of the debate on draft Law No. 0949 on the openness of the use of public funds and invite the head of the Committee on Freedom of Speech and Information Policy of Sumar Victoria Petrovna to report. And please turn on the microphone in the rostrum of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-11-m0.u112	Dear colleagues! The public funds opening bill No. 0949 was prepared by a group of national deputies of the previous call, such as Lesei Orobec, Andrey Pishny, Victor Chumak, Oksana Kaletnik. And he was accepted in the first reading as the former Supreme Council. In the process of working on the draft law for second reading. The bill was considered by the Committee on Freedom of Speech and Information Policy. The committee decided to adopt the bill in a second reading and in general. An extremely progressive legislative act that actually allows the use of public finances to be made transparent. In fact, it's really a system reform, and it's a state-of-the-art, and it's actually a fiscal resource for taxpayers.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-11-m0.u113	It's all over now, isn't it?
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-11-m0.u114	I'm very short now and I'm done. You've been given a table on the rights that came to the committee. It was handed out last night. And the committee decided to support the adoption of this bill in second reading and in general, taking into account the amendments that were made and which are in the table.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-11-m0.u115	Thank you very much. Dear colleagues, everyone has a table with the amendments that have come. If it's not on your hands, it's electronic. The secretariat sends out a tablet electronically. And we have a number of amendments, a lot of them have been accepted by the committee, some of the amendments have been rejected by the committee during the consideration. According to the Rules, I have to follow these amendments. And if the authors of the amendments insist on voting, after every amendment that has been rejected, we will vote. The amendments will be able to justify their amendment, and the committee head will be able to explain why the committee rejected them. Does this form of work take place? Roger that. So 1 amendment is included. 2 readjustments included. 3rd and 4th count. Not included in the 5th Amendment of Anointed One. Does the author insist on an amendment to the vote? The amendment does not insist on voting, so we move on to.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-11-m0.u116	[[Unheard]]
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-11-m0.u117	Ms. Alexander, after all the amendments have been completed, we will be able to give each amendment a minute from the factions in order to exchange our thoughts. 8th Amendment, Anointed One. Declined by the committee. Does the amendment insist on voting? The amendment does not require a vote. 10 Amendments, again, Anointed One. She's been rejected by the committee. Is the amendment insisting? He doesn't insist either. 11 amendment of the author of Amazanova. Declined by the committee. Does the author insist on an amendment to the vote? The amendment does not require an amendment to the vote. The next amendment that wasn't supported by the committee, 21st. She's been rejected by the committee. Again, the national deputy of Amazanov. Does he insist on voting for this amendment? He insists. Thank you, colleagues. Don't insist. 24 amendments. Same story. I understand he doesn't insist. 26 repairs, Opanasenko. Declined. He insists on voting, and so please give the floor to justify the amendment to the national MP Opanasenkov, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-11-m0.u118	Dear colleagues, in the final version of the bill is the date that the law takes effect as of 1 January 2015. I insist on the amendment that it takes effect six months from the date of publication. Along with the End Positions, there will be an additional three months, i.e. a total of nine months for the executive to prepare everything necessary for this law to work by the end of this year. Thank you. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-11-m0.u119	Please turn on the microphone to the head of the Victoria Sumar Committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-11-m0.u120	Look at the logic in the context of this correction. The point is that the bill envisions the creation of a new website. This requires funds that are not budgeted today. And so if the bill, if approved, were to be used as of 1 January 2016, the resources actually found to create this site could have been used. At the same time, the amendment is completely logical, and it may also have such an approach, so please identify the room by voting.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-11-m0.u121	Thank you very much. We heard the amendment's opinion, we heard the committee head's opinion, and I'm putting it to a vote. So whoever supports the amendment of the 26th Opanasenka People's Deputies, please vote in favour. Ladies and gentlemen, please vote. [[12:46:53]] For-174 The amendment did not receive the required number of votes. The next amendment, which was rejected by the committee, is amendment No. 27 of the People's Deputies of Amazanova. Does he insist on voting? He does not insist on voting. Same story with the 28th. Does the Anointed People’s MP insist on voting? Don't insist. The following amendment, which was rejected by the committee, number 31, author of the national MP Opanasenko. Does he insist on voting? He doesn't insist on voting. The next 33th amendment of the People's Deputy of Amazanova, which was rejected by the Committee, does he insist on voting? Don't insist. 34th Amendment of Opanasenka People's Deputy. Is the National MP insisting on voting? Don't insist. Very good. The next amendment rejected by the Committee, number 36, is again made by the national deputy of Amazanov. Does he insist on voting? Don't insist. We're doing very well and we're doing very well. And the 37th amendment, the author of the national MP Opanasenko. Is the National MP insisting on voting? Don't insist. 38th Opanasenko, repair. Don't insist. 39th. Don't insist. So we've gone through all the amendments to this bill. And for the final word, I ask you to turn on the microphone for the head of the Victoria Sumar Committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-11-m0.u122	Fellows, we're going to have to regulate here, because in the text of the law it comes into force as a back number in fact. We need to settle this issue, add when the law has to come into force. So we either go back to the amendment of Opanasenka's deputy, I would very much ask the chairman to do that, that the law comes into force six months after its approval, so it actually sounded, or to vote on 1 January 2016. So two proposals put to the vote again. Because without this issue being settled, the law can't actually work, it's going to be nonsense.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-11-m0.u123	Thank you. Now we're exchanging thoughts, I just want to say the important thing is that this bill, it's not going to go into effect very quickly anyway. Because then, in March/June, there's going to be a sublegal base with Kabmin, and in March/June, you can essentially get knocked out, and there's a previous promise by the World Bank to allocate a tranche of 400,000 euros to create that site. Then there will be a tender, and in fact, if we start work literally from today, from the adoption of this bill, it will ideally start working at the end of this year, early next year. So the excessive delay in adopting it is actually going to be a long time ago. And so I would recommend that, by adopting a date, if there are faction recommendations, we come back, we define not six months from now, but that it should take effect, this law, immediately after its adoption in the session room. I'll ask the factions one minute at a time for replication. We'll give it to the Peter Dust Block of Mikola Tomenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-11-m0.u124	Please pass the word to Sergio Melnik.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-11-m0.u125	Please, the word of Melnik.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-11-m0.u126	Dear colleagues, I propose a technical legal amendment to make this law work faster. 95 percent of that information is now contained in forms established by Ukrainian legislation. In order for the Cabinet of Ministers not to approve new forms, I propose in article 3 that the words "according to the forms approved by the Cabinet of Ministers" be replaced by "by the forms established by the legislation of Ukraine". This will allow us to use the forms that the State Department approves today, Minfin, and the additional information that the consumer needs will be forced to add to their forms. This is how this law works faster. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-11-m0.u127	Thank you. From the People's Front, Oleg Medunica, first raised his hand, you identify yourself. Please, Oleg Medunica.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-11-m0.u128	Thank you. Dear colleagues! The People's Front faction unanimously supports the draft of this law -- this is a real reform that we can vote on today. Of course, I would like this law to come into force earlier and the amendment of my colleague's "self-help" is completely without common sense. I'm sorry we didn't vote it out. If we can go back to this amendment, let's go back. If not, let's all generally support this law with the exact correct amendment of my colleague Melnik.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-11-m0.u129	Thank you very much. From Fatherland, please, Alexander Kugel. Mrs. Alexander, you are given a solemn word. Please express your opinion.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-11-m0.u130	Dear Lord Chairman! The question is that a bill that we have, which is given to us, and we compare now with what is on the site, they don't answer to each other. It's different. 72 positions where the authors amended the State Procurement Act of 5 million and 10 are changed by 2.5 and 5, and once again there's an amendment by Mrs. Sumar, which changes not those figures given by the authors, but goes from one million to 2.5. We've seen that this is an increase -- these are contracts for businesses that take money from Ukraine's budget and why this amendment wasn't written is not included in the first reading. An amendment is made to a completely different chapter, and only it goes to the right part of the bill. And so I'm asking very, very carefully, before we vote on this bill, it's still not legal and it's not legal.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-11-m0.u131	Thank you. From the Radical Party, the word is given to Oleg Laszko. Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-11-m0.u132	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. The Radical Party faction supports this bill on opening up the use of public funds and we will vote for it. This is a very important bill that will enable the public to control the use of budget funds. Because it is in tender procedures that billions come out in shadow, translate into cash, pay bribes, and whatever else. Therefore, Ukrainian citizens have the right to know the value of contracts, the price of services, the amount of approved and actual funding, the volume of payments, the quantity of goods purchased, the use of them, that is, all that will make public procurement procedures transparent. And this is about, I understand, not just the state budget, but the local budget. This is a very important bill that will really enable transparent use of budget funds. This is a real fight against corruption.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-11-m0.u133	Thank you for your position. From the Self-Help faction, the word is given to Yegor Sobolev. Please turn on the microphone. I urge Jehora Sobolje to turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-11-m0.u134	Excuse me, colleagues. Self-help will vote in favour of every law that gives taxpayers more information about how their money is spent. All our votes are yes.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-11-m0.u135	Thank you very much. And please give the floor to the representative of the "Resistance Block" Yuri Pavlenko for an alternative position. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-11-m0.u136	Dear Chairman, dear colleagues! The Opposition Block supports the bill. We think it's important and it can save billions of money that will go to the social needs of our citizens. I would also like to point out that it appears that bills can be considered in the second reading in accordance with the Rules Act and in accordance with the procedure. I would like to thank the committee for its quality in preparing for the second reading. With regard to this amendment, our position was that this law would come from the day of publication. And let the Cabinet of Ministers quickly do the site and bring the relevant normative documents into line with this law. At the same time, with the understanding that the Cabinet of Ministers today can't work fast and can't work fast and quality, we're ready to support any amendment to the entry into force of this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-11-m0.u137	Thank you. I want to ask Mrs. Kugel a question. That this rule was brought into line with the new legislation. The Law was written in 2013, and the new Law on Procurement with New Figures was passed in 2014. There is simply order and alignment in line with legislation. But please explain and resolve the amendments that have been made in the hall, and I would like to give the floor to the head of the committee of Victoria Sumar.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-11-m0.u138	Dear colleagues, it is important that we now examine the issue of the entry into force of the law. Because in the text it's January 1, 2015, it obviously can't be that way. So I'm asking you very much to go back now to the vote for Alexander Opanasenka's amendment, which provides for the entry into force of the law immediately after its publication. Let's vote for that.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-11-m0.u139	Thank you so much for the offer. Please comment on Mrs. Kugel's proposal. The committee head, please comment on Mrs. Kugel's proposal. Then let's go on our way. First. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-11-m0.u140	The 35th amendment was about bringing, in fact, in line with the active one. with the new Law on the Specialities of Purchasing in Certain Areas of Economic Activity. We can ask for confirmation, no questions asked. I don't see any problems.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-11-m0.u141	Roger that. Now we organize the work in this way. So the national deputies of Ukraine. The first thing we need to do, and this is the consolidated position of all those who spoke during the discussion, is to go back to the amendment of the 26th Opanasenka National MP and support it. The author of the amendment – did I make the right point? I'm going to ask the hall to concentrate now, and I'm going to vote in favour of returning to the 26th Amendment of the Opanasenka People's Deputies. Please vote for confirmation. Please include the vote. [[12:59:50]] For 233
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-11-m0.u142	Thank you, colleagues. Accordingly, the proposal of Alexandra Kugel, the 35th amendment approved by the committee. I would like to point out that in the current Ukrainian Law on the Specialities of Purchasing in Certain Economic Activities, part three of article 2 of the 2014 edition, which was new, has undergone significant changes since 24.05.2012. And this amendment, in fact, corresponds to the new State Procurement Act, was agreed with the experts.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-11-m0.u143	During the discussion, we do not practice replication. But in this case, please have a replica of this amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-11-m0.u144	It's a big question because it's going to be hard to issue this bill. On the left-hand side, please look, Mrs. Sumar, is with a completely different part of the article. You have only applied your application to the part of article 2, where private property companies are concerned. And you're increasing their need for a threshold for public funds. Now we've called, in the current bill for private firms, there's only one million left, and so I'm very much asking you to carefully review this rule, vote, but in the shorthand, it should be written: the left hand side should be about reducing the threshold for state and municipal enterprises, opening public funds to reduce, as in the first reading, and for private enterprises to leave in the part that works today.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-11-m0.u145	Thank you. But. We're going to vote now. I'm just going to remind the people's deputies that we're back to the 26th amendment, we have to confirm it first, and then we're going to move on to the 35th. Agreed. So now we're voting for confirmation of the 26th amendment, and I'm asking the deputies to confirm and support the Opanasenka People's Deputies and the amendment. Please vote and please support. Please. [[13:02:08]] For 261 Thank you. And now I'm asking you to finally make a proposal for the 35th amendment of the head of the Victoria Sumar Committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-11-m0.u146	Well, I take it there's an offer from the people's deputy Kugel to leave one million dollars. Right? First reading. Let's do it, yeah. Let's put it on. Offer to the chairman.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-11-m0.u147	For confirmation.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-11-m0.u148	place an amendment to the hall if it is not confirmed.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-11-m0.u149	Roger that. So now we're putting the 35th amendment on confirmation. Whoever supports the approval and introduction of this amendment to the body, please vote. Please. [[13:03:13]] For-60 Thank you. The amendment didn't get the right number of votes and so we can put it.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-11-m0.u150	Yeah. The first line is left. I totally agree with you. I mean, in principle, you can see that. And that's an absolute compromise. We still have, I'm sorry, the amendment of the people's MP Melnik, who was voted out. And I would also ask the chairman, although she didn't come to the committee in time and wasn't considered by the committee, now I'm asking the chairman to put it to a vote, and I'm asking the chair to support the amendment to article 3: by the forms established by Ukraine's legislation.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-11-m0.u151	Thank you. For the sake of explanation, please speak to Yuri Vitaliovich Lucenk.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-11-m0.u152	Dear colleagues! Request to make an exception and support this amendment, which is really late for one reason. Statistics set out, and the law sets out the data to be given. To prevent God from giving children’s gardens, schools, other small businesses from inventing new forms of reporting, we ask that we simply write what this refers to, established by legislation, forms of reporting. In order for the public to produce no new and new tables. Period.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-11-m0.u153	Thank you for your position. We will put to the vote the amendment that was read and, according to the transcript, the apparatus can incorporate it into the body of the law. But ultimately, they have to be MPs. So I'm putting to the vote the amendment that was announced from the place by the national MP Melnik. Whoever supports this amendment, please vote. Please be sure. [[13:05:04]] For 252 The amendment is supported by most of the hall. Thanks for the offer. And before we go to the final vote, once again, she insists on asking for the word of Mrs. Alexander Cugel. And we'll give her another word for it. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-11-m0.u154	I ask you once again, my fellow Members, attention. In part three of the bill in force, "two and a half million" has been changed to "one million." If we're not in the transcript right now, that "two and a half million" is going to be "a million" as in the current edition of the purchase, not the other way around, then there's going to be "two and a half million." I'm asking that the transcript says that we're changing the digits 5 and 10 into an active edition of 1.5 million dollars. Not 2.5 for physical, but 1.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-11-m0.u155	Please, the head of the Replica Committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-11-m0.u156	Let's count for the stenographer. We totally agree.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-11-m0.u157	Thank you. Dear national deputies, dear colleagues, we have been able to accept all the amendments that have been made. There's still an offer. The Society, I emphasize, was a long and tiny piece of work on the bill. Making changes from place is an exceptional thing. And we've already made it with Melnik. But there's another suggestion, I'll hope, is the last one we ask to hear from the place. Repeat, please turn on the microphone. Gordon, turn on the microphone. Please turn on the microphone, Apparatus. Gordyev.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-11-m0.u158	Dear colleagues, good afternoon. I have a request. You all remember that we had a Chamber of Tenders like this. I remember clearly how Julia Volodymyrna, this Tender House, in her own time, was eliminated and fought against. It was taking money out of all the so-called "public funds." So there's a request, a proposal that, in the Final Positions, where the mandate goes to the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, the text, the words "take a decision on the determination of a subject authorized to administer a single web portal for the use of public funds" should be replaced by the words "to determine on the competitive principles of a subject authorized to administer a single web portal for the use of public funds."
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-11-m0.u159	Thank you. Please, head of the committee. The replica.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-11-m0.u160	It was supposed to be the Ministry of Economics. So let's not be, we have to work. This law went completely through all the procedures: it was introduced, worked on for a very long time, the committee was working on it exactly in accordance with the Rules. We've now counted all the right suggestions. Come on. There is no limit to perfection. This is a real reform. Thanks to all the factions for their support. We are like the faction and Prime Minister, the People's Front also supports the course of openness of the Ukrainian government. Let's support him now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-11-m0.u161	Thank you. I support the head of the committee, what's going on, professional system work on every bill. In a voice, when we accept amendments, it can just change the essence of the bill itself. Therefore, I ask that we continue to be active not only in the hall but in the course of the consideration of the bill. And now I'd like you all to prepare for the vote for the bill. And I propose that we vote on the basis and in general with the amendments that were voted on in the hall. Yes, in the second reading and in general. So I put to the vote the draft Law on the Open Use of Public Funds 0949 in the second reading and in general, taking into account the room-supported amendments. Ladies and gentlemen, let us take a step to combat corruption. Please support me, please vote. [[13:09:29]] For 289 Thank you so much for your wide support. With such support, corruption has no chance in this country. Thank you. And let's go to the 1752 bill. Draft Resolution on Memorial Dates and Jubilee in 2015. This is also a second reading. And I invite you to report to the head of the Committee on Culture and Spirituality of the Princess Nikola Leonidovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-11-m0.u162	Thank you. As you can see, in a situation where our country is in the actual state of war, it is extremely important for us to treat our past properly, to look to our future correctly, which is impossible without the past. I'm not going to take a long time just to say that in preparing this draft decree, we were guided by an order from the President of Ukraine that said that the memorable dates of historical events, the Jubilee of Enterprises, Institutions and Organizations were first celebrated in the 50th anniversary, the Jubilee and the celebration of prominent people on the 50th birthday. The following observances of memorable dates and historical events, jubilees of enterprises, institutions and organizations take place not earlier than 25 years later, Jubilee and the observance of the memory of prominent people 10 years ago — this does not rule out that enterprises that do not fall within the specified criteria in agreement with the central and local executive authorities can participate in celebrating these dates according to subordination. We've been working on this bill for a long time, as you can remember, we've moved away from voting every single day separately, we've set time before the second reading on the committee on Friday, 10 o'clock, this time has been reported to all factions, to make proposals. Sadly, the proposals came and later, as a committee, we make commitments to those proposals that came later, to take into account, to prepare a corresponding decision. In the ruling that you are voting now, we have included all your proposals, there are some exclusions from the criteria. Especially when it comes to 95 years since the birth of Amet Han Sultan, the famous Crimecat fighter pilot, we think it's very important to support the Crimean Tatar people. I would suggest, contrary to perhaps even the committee's decision, that I support a few more exceptions that, in my view, have a national significance and in the view of the committee members as well. This is 14 people's MP Moseschuk's 110th anniversary amendment since the release of the first Ukrainian-speaking newspaper in Transnistrian, "Clibob," and I would suggest that I support it. And I'd like to support, too, amendment number 19 of the national deputy of Chizmar 90 years from the date of the founding of the Ukrainian Youth Association. As well as the amendment of National Deputy Mikolio Tomenka, number 29, add the following paragraph: "May 2, 175 years from the birth of Mark Kropivnicko". I think it's pretty important. And another date that's actually added to us right now, I'm asking for a voice like my amendment to support it -- it's a 75-year-old, it meets the criteria of the State Higher Education Institute of the Prycarpathian National University of Stephanie. I'd like to propose.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-11-m0.u163	Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-11-m0.u164	We've included everything we can, and what we haven't included, like I said, we're going to hold committee meetings, meetings, and we're going to try to include. I'd like you to support me as a whole.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-11-m0.u165	Thank you, Mikola Leonidovich! We'll take every amendment into account, and during the discussion, you'll be able to say the position of the committee, and we'll vote. That's why I'm here. Under the Rules, we begin consideration of amendments that have been rejected. So, amendment number two of the people's deputy of Wozniak. Does the author insist on an amendment to the vote? Don't insist. Similarly, it was rejected by the 7th Amendment Committee of the People’s Deputy Wozniak. Does he insist on voting? Don't insist. Amendment 11, People’s Deputy Burbak, was rejected by the committee. Does Mr. Burbak insist on voting? He insists. Very good. I will ask for the support of my amendment to pass on the word to Maxim Burbak. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-11-m0.u166	Good afternoon! I still insist on voting on this amendment because 140 years from the date of the founding of a classic university like the University of Chernobyl, I think it fits the essence of this bill. Please put her to the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-11-m0.u167	Please comment on the committee head.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-11-m0.u168	The committee rejected this amendment as one that did not meet the criteria, because we still want to put some order in this and the multiple of the institutions, it's a multiple of 25. But it's a really important establishment, so as head of the committee, I'm asking you to support the Burbak amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-11-m0.u169	Thus, the amendment of the 11 people’s representative of Burbak is put to the vote. People's deputies would like to support this amendment, please put it to the vote. Please. [[13:15:20]] For-163 Welcome to the People's Deputies. Correction supported. What about 163? Correction not supported, I'm sorry. I didn't look at the board. Not supported. The next amendment, number 13, National Deputy Wozniak, was rejected by the committee. Does he insist on voting? Don't insist. Amendment 12, rejected by the committee. People's deputy Kurilo. Please give the floor to reason on your amendment. Please turn on the microphone of the Kurilo People's Deputy.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-11-m0.u170	Dear colleagues! The same is suggested to support the celebration 130 years after the founding of the National Technical University of Kharkiv, Ukraine's oldest political university. But maybe it doesn't fit this criterion for 25 years, but there are dates on this list that don't match either. If we're talking about a general trend, then let's all put 25 and 10 years. But we put some, we don't put others, I don't think that's right. So I insist, and I ask my colleagues to support this higher education facility.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-11-m0.u171	Thank you. Please explain to the committee head.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-11-m0.u172	Thank you. As I told you, we were guided by clear criteria at the suggestion of the Institute of National Memory sometimes deviated from these criteria. I do not personally support this practice, usually by excluding situations that really matter or that are exclusive. If we honor the first hero of the Crimean Tatar people, there's an exception in this situation, or if we want to honor the first Ukrainian newspaper, it's an exception. As far as higher education is concerned, we should be guided by an equal approach for all, so the committee did not support it.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-11-m0.u173	Thank you. We put it to a vote, we're going to vote now, we're going to be able to determine by vote. That's how we're going to vote. All right, please, Oleg Lazko's line. Oleg Lakota, please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-11-m0.u174	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. Dear fellow MPs, I ask you to support my colleague Kurilo's proposal to celebrate the anniversary of the establishment of the Kharkiv Political Institute. I, by the way, my first education is the Kharkiv Teachers' University of Skovoroda, the oldest educational institution in Ukraine. And I believe that given the political situation in the country, in view of the patriotic sentiments of the people of Kharkiv, in view of the unification of the country, we must support and vote on the amendment of our countrymen. Please be aware. To Kharkiv! To Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-11-m0.u175	Thank you. The MPs were able to express their thoughts on the amendment. I'm putting her to the vote. So I would like to vote in favour of Amendment 12 tabled by the People's Deputy Kurilo. Please vote. [[13:19:21]] For a hundred and Thank you. The amendment did not get the required number of votes. We are moving on to 14 amendments to the National MP of Ukraine, Igor Mosiyczuk. As I understand it, he insists that we consider it. Do I get it right? Please give the floor to the national MP, Igor Mosiyczuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-11-m0.u176	I insist on my amendment because at the time of Russian aggression, the honor of the first Ukrainian-speaking newspaper in the Russian Empire, which was banned by the royal regime, is extremely important. If we don't have the Ministry of Information, let's at least show the Supreme Council that we need to promote Ukrainian values, Ukrainian press, Ukrainian idea. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-11-m0.u177	Thank you. The committee's head for the lineup.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-11-m0.u178	Ladies and gentlemen, this amendment doesn't follow certain criteria either, but I would like to ask you all to jointly support the amendment of Mosiyczuk, because to support the Ukrainian word that was then in the occupied territories -- that is, to support the Ukrainian word that is now in the occupied territories. So please support this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-11-m0.u179	I also have a request to support this amendment so that we can all get together to support it. The last time, to a large extent, this amendment led to a debate on the bill. So I'm asking the people's deputies to their jobs, to prepare for the vote. And so there's an amendment to the 14th People's Deputy of Moseschuk. Please be supportive. Please. [[13:21:18]] For 211 As I understand it, not everyone was able to vote. Is that what I'm saying? And that's why I'm asking the people's deputies in the towers to come to their places of work so that we can vote effectively and effectively. And I will now propose to return to the vote for this amendment. Please prepare for the vote. We now vote in favour of returning to the consideration of Amendment 14 of the People's Deputies of Mosiyczuk. Please vote in favour of the return to Amendment 14. Please. [[13:22:17]] For 219 Please repeat the committee's head.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-11-m0.u180	I want to say, as chairman of the committee, that we were guided by the work that had been in the traditions of the Supreme Council before and guided by the President's decrees. I see we're going to have to change these criteria a little bit and prepare for the next decision after we vote this one. And I think we're going to find a way to celebrate these remarkable dates. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-11-m0.u181	Thank you very much. I'm also counting on us to settle this issue. And now we're going to consider Amendment 17. National deputy Wozniak. Does he insist on voting for this amendment? Don't insist. The next amendment is 19, National Deputy Wozniak. Is it insisting? Don't insist. The next amendment, which was rejected by the committee, is amendment No. 20 of the Burbak People's Deputy. Maxim Burbak insists on considering this amendment, so I ask him to give his word for argument. Please, Maxim Burbak.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-11-m0.u182	Ladies and gentlemen, I ask you to support this amendment, because 75 years from the date of the creation of the Montenegrin region, it is very important to note this year, because we are all now fighting for the one and only country of Ukraine. Such events should be marked. In the 40th year, she became part of Ukraine, and that's something to be noted. It's not a regional event, it's, I'm sure, a state-level event. Thank you. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-11-m0.u183	Thank you. Please tell the committee's head.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-11-m0.u184	Well, the committee didn't have the practice of celebrating the anniversary of districts, districts, cities and villages, because we only take into account the events of state importance. Of course, this is an extremely important event, but there were no Jubilee areas in those criteria that we guided, which we developed in conjunction with the Institute of National Memory.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-11-m0.u185	Thank you. Members are requested to determine how to vote. An amendment to the 20th People's Deputy of Burbak is put to the vote. Whoever supports this amendment, please vote in favour. And please put it to the vote. Please. [[13:24:53]] For 176 Sadly, the amendment did not get the required number of votes. Next Amendment No.21. National deputy Wozniak. Is it insisting? Don't insist. Very good. Ah, another 22nd amendment. National deputy Wozniak. And he doesn't insist either. 23rd Amendment. National deputy Wozniak insists or not? Don't insist. That's very good. This allows us to move faster. 24th Amendment, People's Deputy Wozniak. Don't insist. And the 25th amendment (national deputy Demczak) was rejected by the committee. Is the amendment insisting? Don't insist. Very good. Again, the 26th amendment. National MP Burbak, the amendment is rejected. Is the amendment insisting? Do not insist on the author of the amendment. So let's move on to the 27th amendment, the author of which is the People's Demczak MP, which is rejected by the committee. Is the author insisting? He doesn't insist. Not much, just a few more amendments. The 28th Amendment of the People's Deputy Batenka, he doesn't insist, he warned me about it in advance. And the 29th amendment of the People's Deputy Tomenko, he insists on considering this amendment, and please give the floor to Mikola Tomenkov for the speech. Mikola Tomenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-11-m0.u186	Dear colleagues! I support the committee's approach. I want to be clear, we don't have to vote on this. Mikola Leonidovich said he supported the idea of the 75th anniversary of the University of Prikarpat, which was formed as the Stanislav Teacher Institute. This is my 18th amendment, it's supported, fortunately, so it doesn't have to be voted on. But despite the fact that there are few people, I would still like to ask what. How's it going here? The President's decree by the letter of the decree is correct and, in principle, wrong, because what I'm proposing is 75 years from Mark Kropivnick's birthday, it's a date larger than 10 years. So the logic of the President's decree was what? Every 25th, 50th, 75th, 100th, and 10th is a minimum. So when it's 25, it's a higher rate of Jubilee than 10. Considering that this is the founder of the modern Ukrainian theater and the prominent public figure Marko Kropivnitsky, he would like to mobilize and try to make this amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-11-m0.u187	Please, the head of the committee is for replication.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-11-m0.u188	I would also like to support this amendment. As I said before, we will now clarify, based on our experience, the rules that we will be guided by in determining significant dates for this to be regulated not only by the President's decree but also by the Supreme Council, so that in the future we don't have a case. I now request your support for the amendment of the People's Deputy Tomenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-11-m0.u189	Thank you. Does she need a vote? Because the amendment said she didn't need a vote. He needs a vote. Yeah? So I'm asking you to get ready for the vote because we don't have enough deputies in the room, and I'm putting to the vote the amendment of 29 people's deputies, Tomenka, and I'm asking you to support this amendment. Please vote. [[13:28:27]] For 196 The amendment did not get enough votes. We'll call the deputies and we'll be right back. It's actually an amendment. I'm asking the people's deputies who are in the towers to return to the hall. And I also want to look at the heads of factions, raise the level of discipline in factions, ask the MPs from the towers, return from the buffet to the voting room. Because in this case, we fail to amend just because MPs don't perform their direct duties in the workplace. No, we're going to vote now. Now we're going to ask the question again. And I would like to vote in favour of returning to the consideration of Amendment No. 29, tabled by the People's Deputy Tomenko. And I'd like to ask the people's deputies to vote. [[13:29:45]] For 211 The amendment did not get the required number of votes. Now let's see, let's look at the last amendment, and then we'll exchange thoughts from factions, okay? So the last amendment to be considered is Amendment No. 33, which was rejected by the committee, an amendment by the national deputy Kurilo. Does it insist on its consideration? It's insisting, isn't it? That's why I'm asking you to give my word to the National Deputy Kuril. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-11-m0.u190	Dear colleagues, it is proposed to celebrate the 160th anniversary of the birth of John Paulovich Osipov. This is the rector of the Kharkiv Political Institute. And I don't understand why the committee refused. After all, 160 years corresponds to a ten - year term. He's a great man, a professor of honor, a scientist, a chemist. So please concentrate and support this date.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-11-m0.u191	Thank you very much. Please, a report from the head of the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-11-m0.u192	The committee did not support this amendment, because during the entire period of existence of this higher educational institution, it had dozens of directors, and we had no practice of celebrating. In general, the rectors are prominent scientists in all higher education institutions. And we didn't have that practice -- to celebrate every jubilee of all the rectors of the higher education institutions. And the Institute of National Memory did not say that it was this Rector who had outstanding merit compared to other reputable directors of this higher educational institution.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-11-m0.u193	Thank you so much for explaining. And I'm betting. It's an amendment, isn't it? I'm asking you to give another word for this amendment to Lily Greenevich. Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-11-m0.u194	Dear colleagues, we hear that the amendments that are not supported have a lot of questions about higher education institutions, as well as about individuals who have been involved in science or education. Sadly, these questions were not addressed through the Committee on Education and Science. Perhaps we have given sufficient arguments to the Committee on Culture and Spirituality about the need for their decision. So I have a constructive offer. If even now these amendments are not supported by the hall, so that we can still go to another decision that we and the Committee on Education and Science are going to submit to the Committee on Culture and Spirituality.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-11-m0.u195	Thank you for your opinion. However, every amendment that the MP insists should be put to the vote. And that's why I'm voting on Amendment No.33 of the People's MP Kuril. Please determine how to vote. [[13:32:50]] For a hundred and Thank you. The amendment did not get the required number of votes. National deputies, we are critically few in the hall. Do we still need to exchange ideas, or will we try to vote in general? Then I'm going to ask all the people's deputies to come into the hall right now, because there's a risk of voting on an important bill. So I'm going to have to go from the towers, from the buffets, and invite the deputies to the voting room. And the final word of the bill to the head of the committee of Mr. Knieżick.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-11-m0.u196	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, I think it is very important that we now support a list of important dates for honoring our worthy people, thanking the workers of Ukrainian institutions and organizations that have been creating our country's history for decades. It seems to me that the list we are proposing to support is not exclusive. Now we realize that there are many other proposals, the criteria are not always clear. We in the Committee on Culture and Spirituality will develop these criteria, work together, offer you support, and propose another solution. I would now like to support this decision in general, since part of the educational institutions, state institutions, will simply pass away from giving them their celebrations, so that people can observe their Jubilee properly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-11-m0.u197	Thank you to the committee for its professional and quality work. Thank you for the professional discussion. And now I am voting on the draft Order on Commemorative Dates and Jubilee in 2015 on second reading and in general. People's deputies please determine how to vote and support this decree, 1752, please. [[13:35:04]] For 223 Not all national deputies were able to return to the hall. A card didn't work for a couple of deputies. So I would like to ask you to concentrate, take a responsible approach to the adoption of laws, directly to my duties. Please, who has not yet arrived at the workplace, get ready for the vote. We'll wait, Mr. Igoru, you're getting closer. Mr. Faction Head, please take your place. I would like everyone to concentrate, prepare, and vote on the question of the return to the vote for Bill 1752, the draft Order on Commemorative Dates and Jubilee. I would like to vote in favour of the return to the vote, please. [[13:36:10]] For 223 Please, let's exchange our thoughts in a minute. Please, Sergey Sobolev.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-11-m0.u198	Sobolje, Fatherland. Dear colleagues! What are we doing? Now we're going to insult the Harkowians, the blacks, the university representatives, whoever they are. Let's take, by tomorrow, the committee will be working on, including the amendments that have been made, and tomorrow we will vote on the whole text. Why are we doing this? And tomorrow we'll ask one of the first questions, and there won't be any problems. Every question is voted out, everyone is looking at it, someone thinks that his proposal has not been taken into account -- it's not just the author of the amendment, it's the whole group. Take a look and get it right, and tomorrow we'll vote it all out. What kind of questions is this?
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-11-m0.u199	Thank you. Please give the floor to the People's Deputy Kaplan, please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-11-m0.u200	Dear voters in the Ukrainian National Deputies Hall! I beg you very much, each of you separately, I know you have the phones of those deputies. If it doesn't go to the Chief, we have the faction leaders, even though you pull them out of the street, out of the cafeteria, out of the towers to secure the vote, that's the first. The second question is, it's not even scary. There's gonna be a $28, a gasoline 20 sitting in the hall, and they're not going to be in these discussions, but they're going to be calling from the cameras and from the media as they're worried about the national currency exchange rate. Ladies and gentlemen, please bring your deputies here.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-11-m0.u201	Thank you. I just want to stress that the discipline of the national MPs is not a commitment of the chairman or of the presidency, but of the political parties that have taken responsibility by going to the elections that say that many MPs do not walk, and in our political power there will never be such a thing. So I ask the factions to bring them to the discipline of their deputies, to make them go to work, and to carry out their direct duties. Now, a word for Oleg Lazko.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-11-m0.u202	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. I want to inform Ukrainian citizens that the Radical Party faction is fully engaged in the work of the Supreme Council. We find it absolutely irresponsible when, in times of war, parliament cannot make important decisions because MPs do not exercise responsibility and political consciousness. What's more, the next thing we're going to do is we're going to be looking at a bill, and we're going to be overcoming the President's veto on the law on housing in foreign exchange borrowers. A vital law that awaits an enormous number of people in Ukraine. So I urge you to vote now on the decree to mark the memorable dates, to go to the President's veto, to protect Ukrainian citizens. Those MPs who can't work in the hall, please go to the front, they're waiting for you on the front if you can't work in the hall.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-11-m0.u203	Thank you. And the last word for Borislav Bereza. Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-11-m0.u204	Ladies and gentlemen, the Skrop Group in full stock, all those who are now in the living and healthy room, exclusively for one person who is now wounded, because she was on the front, will vote in favour of this bill and vote on it. We work and see, we don't join your coalition majority, we support those laws that we think they're trying to make a difference in this society. We will be very grateful if the coalition can unite around very important laws. And we will be grateful if the coalition does not break the laws as they failed our colleague's privatisation commission today. And let's vote because this is our job. And those who don't really want to go to the front, they need more plates. If you can't work here, work there. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-11-m0.u205	Thank you. Another word is given to the head of the committee, Mikola Knieżicki, please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-11-m0.u206	Thank you. I don't think it's some sort of principled moment that should divide the hall, I think it's a fundamental moment that needs to be brought together. What I'm saying is, we're going to look at the proposals of other people's deputies, and we're going to prepare the next decision fast enough, because right now, I don't have a personal card working in front of me in the Presidium, and there are deputies here. I would ask, however, to go back to voting and give us the earliest opportunity to prepare a normal decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-11-m0.u207	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, we can really make these decisions every two or three weeks. We can't slow down the decision because one of the proposals didn't fit into the body of the bill. And so I'm going to put it back, and I'm going to ask the MPs to reject their personal ambitions, if their proposals weren't taken into account, the committee will consider and make the next decision. And now I'm going to ask that we be able to go back to voting and adopt the law as a whole. So I put to the vote the decision to return to the vote for the draft Order on Commemorative Dates, the Jubilee in 2015, number 1752. Please vote. [[13:42:18]] For 235 Thank you for your support. And now, a respected society to vote in favour of the draft Order on Commemorative Dates and Jubilee in 2015, number 1752, as amended, which was supported and adopted in the second reading and in general. Dear colleagues, I ask you to support this bill and vote. [[13:43:09]] For 241 [[Applause]] Thank you for your support. Thank you to the head of the committee and to the entire committee for their professional and quality work. We are now moving on to the last question today, the Ukrainian Law on Amendments to the Ukrainian Law on the Moratorium on Securing the Property of Ukrainian Citizens, which is provided as collateral for loans in foreign currency, on strengthening the protection of the rights of borrowers, with proposals from the President of Ukraine (number 1610). The report invites the Head of the National Bank of Ukraine, Pottery Valery Alexiyevna. Please go to the rostrum. Turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-11-m0.u208	Honourable Head, Ukrainian National Deputies, the President of Ukraine, applies the veto rights to the Ukrainian Law on the Moratorium on the Acquisition of Ukrainian Citizens' Property, issued as collateral for loans in foreign currency (for strengthening the protection of the rights of borrowers), adopted by the Supreme Council of Ukraine on 28 December 2014. The decision of the President of Ukraine to apply the veto to this law is explained by the fact that, instead of a comprehensive solution to problems related to the enforcement of foreign currency loans, the law merely changes the basic law. This law of June last year established a ban on the acquisition of property by persons with foreign currency loans, effectively denying creditors the right to meet their legal requirements at the expense of the borrower’s assets. The established moratorium is an unacceptable interference in economic activity, poses significant real threats to the insolvency of banks, and deprives them of the ability to meet their obligations to investors. It also discriminates against borrowers who conscientiously carry out their obligations to banking institutions. This approach is inconvenient, because it only lasts for an indefinite period of time to solve the problems of the borrowers, leaving them alone with an increasing debt. Given that the existing moratorium on the acquisition of property is a temporary and necessary measure, we believe that the efforts of all public authorities should be directed towards solving essentially the problems of monetary lenders that caused such a moratorium, not the improvement of the mechanism for the implementation of the moratorium. This improvement can result in a timeless existence of this restriction. In view of this, the President of Ukraine is proposing a law amending the Law on the Moratorium on the Acquisition of Citizens' Property Provided for Foreign Exchange Loans (on strengthening the protection of rights) to be rejected. The next logical step is the repeal of the Law on the Moratorium for the Reacquiring of Citizens' Property Provided for Foreign Exchange Loans, while resolving the issue of monetary lenders in essence. At the same time, I would like to point out that the terms of the Memorandum with the International Monetary Fund provide that the National Bank supports a voluntary dialogue between lenders and banking institutions regarding the conversion and restructuring of foreign exchange loans. The National Bank does not aim to intervene in bilateral relations between the bank and the borrower; rather, it does its best to ensure fair compromise between them. Ladies and gentlemen, the National Bank is clearly aware of the complexity of the situation in which all domestic economic entities have been exposed: both banks and lenders, in connection with the realisation of foreign exchange risks that have accumulated over the years. We inform you that today the National Bank is actively working on creating mechanisms for the restructuring of monetary loans based on the principles of freedom of contract. The long-standing reconciliation process resulted in the development of a Memorandum on Managing the Restructuring of Consumer Loans in a Foreign Currency. Banks that hold more than 90 percent of the total amount of mortgage loans in foreign currency have been active participants in this memorandum. If you remember, the Kniazewicz bill was adopted in the summer, which unfortunately became obsolete because the market course is no longer the same as it was in the summer. Then there was a memorandum that was also consistent with banks with the public council and the National Bank. Sadly, though, this was not voted on either. So I want to say what are the key positions of the memorandum now being considered by banks and the National Bank. First of all, it is possible to restructure the foreign currency debt provided by the mortgage, the bulk of which was not more than 2.5 million dollars on 1 January 2015 and to transfer it to the money at the rate of the restructuring day. Also, the credit criterion should be the absence of unliquidated debt at the end. for early 2014. The loan was received by the borrower for the purchase of housing, which is the only residence of the borrower. There is also a proposal to forgive the difference between the exchange rate on the day of restructuring and the contract rate. A 50 - percent forgiveness for housing is offered. It is considered to be the only home of a natural person whose total area does not exceed 60 square feet [60 sq m] for apartments and 120 square feet [120 sq m] for residential homes. Other loans require banks to forgive at least 25 percent of the debt. Also, the restructured loan that was created as a result of the loss of the currency exchange rate, this loan in proportion to the repayment by the borrower of the debt, will be cancelled. Fixing a three-year interest rate on a loan in a bracelet at a level that. not higher than the foreign currency credit agreement. Also, the bank’s default was due to the borrower’s independent performance. And the main thing is to limit the liability of the borrower to just the subject of the mortgage. The memorandum has already been signed by 12 banks that have the largest foreign currency loan portfolio. The National Bank is actively working with other banks on voluntary accession to this memorandum. Banks that have acceded to the memorandum will ensure that credit agreements with borrowers are amended and that consumer contracts are restructured in foreign currency as defined in the memorandum. At the same time, the terms of entry into force of the memorandum are amended by the Ukrainian Tax Code, which will allow banks painlessly, inter alia, without creating additional tax obligations to mitigate the conditions for creditors to comply with contracts, to forgive debts or part of them, and to compensate for hopeless debt on the basis of established insurance reserves. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that banks have voluntarily agreed to take on some of the damage caused by the depreciation of the fee in 2014 and 15 years. Only the direct costs of banks with the largest portfolio of foreign loans for the forgiveness of part of the restructured loan amount to about 15 billion dollars or 40 percent of the total amount of such loans that are subject to restructuring according to the terms of this memorandum. Another negative effect for banks is the increase in demand for foreign currency, which will be necessary for them to enter the open currency limit when they convert currency credits into bracelets. The restructuring of foreign exchange loans under the terms of the memorandum will also lead to violations by the largest lending banks of economic standards. However, banks are consciously willing to go to all these costs in order to maintain balance in society and in the financial market at this difficult time for the country. And the National Bank is willing to support them in this. In view of the above, with a view to resolving the underlying problems of foreign exchange loans, creating conditions to increase the interest of creditor banks, joining the memorandum initiated by the National Bank and implementing Ukraine's international obligations, we invite Parliament to consider in the shortest possible time the draft Ukrainian Law amending the Ukrainian Tax Code on the Restructuring of Foreign Currency Liabilities into the bracelet is the number of Bill 0939. And to support its acceptance, and also to recognize that it has become invalid, the Ukrainian law on the moratorium on the acquisition of property of citizens provided as collateral to secure loans in foreign currency. So let's sum this up. I propose to you, honourable national deputies, to support the proposal of the President of Ukraine and to reject the Ukrainian Act on Amendments to the Ukrainian Law on the Moratorium on the Acquisition of Citizens' Property Provided as Foreign Currency Loans for Strengthening the Protection of the Rights of Borrowers. And the possibility of cancelling an active moratorium on the acquisition of the property of the citizens provided. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-11-m0.u209	Thank you very much. Before giving the floor to the co-rapporteur, I would like to inform you about the rules of procedure for the subject. We can't consider it as a reduced procedure. We'll listen to the co-rapporteur, then we'll have 10 minutes for questions and answers. And so I ask the factions who want to ask questions to focus on being from every fraction of the question. Then it's the final word for the reporter. And we vote. Expressions from fractions by order, read carefully, and the question is not included. And we're working until we're done with the question. And I would like to invite the head of the Committee on Financial Policy and Banking of the Fisherman, Sergio Viktorovich. And there's probably no need to run out of time. You'll be given up to five minutes, up to five minutes. Three minutes? Please, three minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-11-m0.u210	Dear Mr. Head! Dear colleagues! At the end of last year, you and I, by almost constitutional majority, passed a law that complemented an active moratorium on the alienation of foreign exchange housing. We planned to close the holes in this Law on the Moratorium. It's valid from last summer, and it only applies to one apartment, and it's limited to the area. These people really need help. Members of the profile committee from different factions suggest that Parliament overcome the Presidential veto. And I would like to emphasize that if we leave everything as it is, let's show you how to get past a valid moratorium, it'll increase the social tension that is mentioned in the comments. So that you can understand people's desperation better, I'll give you an example of a huge number of appeals to the committee. Sergei Sijenko, pensioner, Chernobyl, the disabled second group took credit in dollars, then it was 325,000 dollars, and then 8 months later. Eight years of payments he owes the bank almost 564 thousand dollars. And now the bank wants to take his apartment through court. We must give these people a chance and keep the roof above their heads. I want to address all the factions by voting in favour, you're just going to confirm your own principle position, which you were going to confirm twice during the consideration of this bill. I want to go to the majors, please support this bill, and you won't be ashamed to look people in the eye. The dollar rate is growing. So on behalf of the Radical Party faction, on behalf of the profile committee and the lenders, please support this law. It is up to each of you to see whether these people will be left homeless in the winter. Thank you for your attention. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-11-m0.u211	Thank you for the report. And now we're going to be able to ask the question of the Pottery Valery of Alexyevni. I'm asking the national deputies to sign up for questions. Please. I mean, Valeria Alexiyevna, your seat is equipped with the microphone you need to answer. And I'd like to give you the floor to Mrs. Kugel for a question.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-11-m0.u212	Madam Head of the National Bank, you know that there is a bill that we, the Parliament of the past, have banned from alienating apartments from court decisions. This bill prohibits the notary from selling housing to banks that, according to our commission, you have to control activities, sell to collectors using notaries. Then I have a question. When you stated here from the rostrum that you would not intervene in this matter, why did you impose a veto on the President and leave people with frauds in the form of collectors and banks that you allow to go bankrupt today? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-11-m0.u213	Please turn on the microphone to answer.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-11-m0.u214	We have to solve matters essentially. So unfortunately, a moratorium isn't really the solution. Once again, I urge you to resolve the matter in substance.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-11-m0.u215	Thank you for the solid answer. The word is given to Illenck Andrew Yuriovich for a question.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-11-m0.u216	Please pass the word to Michael Golovk.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-11-m0.u217	Michael Golovka, please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-11-m0.u218	Mikhail Golovko, the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union. Valeria Alexiyevna, I have a question to ask you why such a system has always been built to rob ordinary Ukrainians once again and never go to a meeting with them. Because we see you're giving refinancing to large banks, including banks with Russian capital. A guy like Broccoli Bank went bankrupt in the first place, and you've given him a refund before. Who should be responsible for this? In the end, no one gives in to the common Ukrainians. Why we do not have the Bankruptcy Act today. They're taking their property now, and then they're forced to pay for the rest of their lives? When will this stop? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-11-m0.u219	Thank you. Please turn on the microphone to answer.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-11-m0.u220	Once again, the most important thing in my report was that the criterion of the memorandum that is currently being considered by banks and the National Bank is the limitation of the liability of borrowers only on the subject of mortgage. If you can't pay, give the bank this apartment. That's right. But what about the banking system?
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-11-m0.u221	Thank you. Please give the floor to Alexander Abdullin. Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-11-m0.u222	Please pass the word to Sergio Sobolev.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-11-m0.u223	Sergey Sobolev, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-11-m0.u224	Sergei Sobolev, Fatherland. Valery Alexiyevna, I have a very, very specific question that everyone is asking. In view of the dollar’s growth, the parliament adopted a decision to protect such investors. Because not only did he give up his apartment, for example, but he paid off his debt. You know, he gave up his apartment, and he didn't pay off his debt, because the bank is still charging him interest and he's paying for his life. So tell me, what choice do you propose to get out of this situation? For this law we have offered not only to the courts but also to the notary not to alienate the property of citizens and this is natural. Until a law is drawn up that protects citizens from this regime, tomorrow will be the law, everything will work, no questions asked. So our proposal is not to fail this bill today, but to allow citizens at least for a time to restructure their debt and that.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-11-m0.u225	Once again, I wasn't heard, first of all, because we don't solve this issue essentially. If you remember, the Knazevitch bill was voted in the first reading in the summer, and then the course was 11.7. So you have to decide essentially, I basically told you this, essentially this is the restructuring of these loans, which is consistent with the banks. And with regard to responsibility, once again, I emphasize that the limitation of liability only on the subject of a mortgage, nothing more can be demanded by the bank.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-11-m0.u226	Thank you. And please turn on Borislava Berezi's microphone for a question, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-11-m0.u227	Mr. Parubius, please, Mr. Sergey, I give you my word.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-11-m0.u228	Please, Sergey Mishchenko, a questionable word.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-11-m0.u229	Thank you! Sergei Mishchenko, Kyivshina, 98th District. I don't have a question for the Head of the National Bank, because if a person proposes to throw people out on the street, I don't have any questions about that. I have an appeal to my colleagues, because if we are going to overthrow this law now, if we don't get through the veto now, or if we don't vote for it to be sent back to work. And we have the possibility in Rule 226 of the Rules, Article 135 of the Rules, to ask the third question to be sent to the committee for work, to work out a new law, to shorten from 30 to 14 days of consideration of the bill and to put it in the hall. The only way out is now to answer our citizens, what do they do? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-11-m0.u230	Please have a response, an answer. If not, then the word is given for the question of Schlemku Dmitry Vasilovich, the All-Ukrainian Union of Fatherland.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-11-m0.u231	Please give the floor to National Deputy Kugel Alexander Volodymyrny.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-11-m0.u232	Dear colleagues, I'm asking all national deputies to listen to me carefully. A bill is in place that prevents banks from taking property through the courts. You know, they took the apartment at market price, not considering that it was completely mortgaged on credit, they then, the people were again indebted. This bill did not stop the sale of apartments for the collectors and it only works until the Cabinet of Ministers with the National Bank develops an offer to regulate the legal order of protection of people. Unfortunately, neither the National Bank (as Mrs. Gotarev said, "we will not intervene") nor the government is drafting this bill, and people are coming to the Supreme Council. This is the only bill that will allow us to take power and take responsibility.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-11-m0.u233	We're done, all right. I understand it was a speech, not a question, and it doesn't need an answer. Therefore, I invite you to ask the question of Dustenka Alexia Petrovich. Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-11-m0.u234	Please give the floor to the People's Deputy Dombrowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-11-m0.u235	Please turn on the microphone to the national MP Dombrowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-11-m0.u236	Alexander Dombrowski, 11th constituency, Winnitsa Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to say that the National Bank will not be able to move away from the issue of monetary loans. Because in addition to the legal and physical persons that we are debating, there is a very serious currency problem in Ukraine that concerns cities, towns, villages, these are the city councils that have taken currency credits to reform their thermal networks, water channels, roads from international institutions, from the World Bank, from the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development. Today at this rate, neither the budget nor the tariffs will allow them to pay back, they will not be able to repay these loans. The question is whether the National Bank understands this problem and how it can help cities and villages solve this problem. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-11-m0.u237	Thank you. Please answer.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-11-m0.u238	Can I answer that? I already told you that the National Bank is very actively working with banks, that we have developed this memorandum, that this memorandum is on voluntary principles. Because it's exclusive, it's called the International Monetary Fund. We can't interfere, it can't be like a bill. But it's all done, I've already told you, under what conditions, of course, this is social housing, 50 percent will be restructuring and forgiveness. I told you all of this in my speech.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-11-m0.u239	Thank you. Last question from the Radical Party, Oleg Laska.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-11-m0.u240	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. Mrs. Gottarieva! You've come to the head of the National Bank, the rate was 8 dollars per dollar, today as a result of your disgraceful activity we have 26 to 30 dollars in the black market. I've been addressing the President, and I'm taking this opportunity to request the Supreme Council to file a motion for your release from office as head of the National Bank. [[Applause]] Your job in this office has ruined the Ukrainian economy, as a result of your actions, you have led to the poverty of millions of Ukrainian citizens, you have underestimated their savings, you have forfeited their wages and pensions. You're sitting there when people get kicked out of their apartments because they can't pay $30 in debt for a dollar, and you're sitting in Parliament smiling because you're having fun because you weren't in the skin of these borrowers. And when you pretend that it's none of your business, if it's none of your business, get out of office, let him come.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-11-m0.u241	Please provide an opportunity to complete the report. Ten seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-11-m0.u242	This position will be taken by millions of Ukrainian citizens as their own, who will use the tools of the National Bank to stimulate economic development, to create jobs.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-11-m0.u243	Thank you. You have the ability, Valery Aleksyevna, to answer the question, and the closing word immediately, we can unite. Please turn on the microphone. You can come out of the room, you can come out of the rostrum as comfortable as you like. If there is a microphone, please turn it on.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-11-m0.u244	Last word. [[B in m in s a l in]] I heard the same thing about Mr. Light two months ago, three months ago. [[B in m in s a l in]] So I think I'm going to report on the substance of the case, and if someone is doing this circus here, well, what can I do? In fact, it's a matter of fact. Once again, this is a question that needs to be addressed comprehensively and essentially. The point, once again, is a voluntary memorandum that most Ukrainian banks will sign. We've already signed 12 banks. Now we're discussing this with banks that have 90 percent of the portfolio of these loans. I'm sure we'll sign this memo. Yes, it only involves 50 percent of the write-off of this housing debt that we've defined as social debt. This is the help of the banking system to our borrowers. If someone took credit, not for a single home, not for housing, but for speculative operations, it could also come under this memorandum, but it wouldn't be 50 percent. That's what the banking system can afford. That's 15 billion dollars of damage to the banking system. I've already told you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-11-m0.u245	Thank you very much. Now I want to tell you what kind of order we're going to have. But one last thing, because we don't have anyone from the People's Front, and I'd like to ask you one last, a speech by the Germans. Please turn on the microphone and then we'll start voting. First the President's offer, then the veto. Therefore, I ask the Yemeni people to prepare themselves for the vote. Come into the Chamber of Deputies.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-11-m0.u246	Thank you. Dear colleagues! Mrs. Gottarieva! The head of the National Bank, please listen to what you have. Please be distracted for a second. Madam Head of the National Bank, please, I just want to give you two quotes. The first is the National Bank Act, article 6, which reads as the main function of the National Bank, so the main function of the National Bank is to ensure the stability of Ukraine's monetary unit is the first quote. And the second is your quote that came out a few weeks ago: a dollar of 20 bracelets, as an option we don't consider or expect. Then please tell the citizens of Ukraine who have something to count on and consider, especially for those who have foreign exchange loans, what is the price of Ukrainian currency to be counted for at the end of this week? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-11-m0.u247	Thank you. [[Applause]] People's deputies, please come into the hall so that we can have a successful vote. [[Noise Nodes]] Please. The factions' heads are required. Ladies and gentlemen, we have a question to consider if national MPs don't come to the workplace, it's not a matter for the chairman, it's a matter for the heads of factions. On the subject. I beg you not to scream! We run the Supreme Council of Ukraine, not the bazaar! If there is a need to speak, let us consider it. I mean, society, the first proposal we're going to have is an offer to support the President's proposal, and it's going to be a signal. She'll be a signal. We'll put two proposals to the vote. The first is to support the President's proposals to reject the bill. And the second is the proposal to overcome the veto. We can't. [[B in m in s a l in]] We cannot interrupt the consideration of the matter, and we cannot postpone the consideration to tomorrow of an issue that is not yet concluded today. [[B in m in s a l in]] Then we'll vote on another decision if none of these go away. If none of these fail, we will discuss how we can proceed. But we must now vote on two proposals. The first is to support the President's proposals. And so please be careful in this vote, it's resonant. Please take your seats and prepare for the vote. The first is the proposal to vote on a proposal by the Committee for Support of the Ukrainian Law on Amendments to the Ukrainian Law on the Moratorium on the Acquisition of Property of Ukrainian Citizens, which is provided as collateral for loans in foreign currency, to support the President's proposal to reject Law 1610. Whoever supports the President's proposal, please vote. [[B in m in s a l in]] Attention! Break! Take it off, take it off. I'll rephrase it to make it clear. First of all, we're voting on a proposal from the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-11-m0.u248	Yes, we're formulating the President's proposal for deviation. This is our first vote, be careful. That is our first vote in favour of the President's proposals. Is everyone clear in the hall? Is it clear what we're voting for? Please prepare for the vote and vote on those who support the President's proposal. [[B in m in s a l in]] Yes. Igor, please vote in favour of the President's proposals. Please vote. [[14:15:10]] For -14 Thank you. The next question we have to ask under the Rules is the issue of overcoming the veto of the President of Ukraine. [[B in m in s a l in]] Society, let's take a break and consult. We're discussing the issue, according to the Rules, we can't interrupt the question, there aren't enough people in the room, give us a minute from the factions, give us suggestions on how to act. Please give your suggestions and your thoughts. Peter powder block, please, Peter powder block, what are your suggestions? To fight, right? A proposal from the All-Ukrainian Union of Fatherland? Sergey Sobolev.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-11-m0.u249	Dear colleagues! If you do not know what to do, you must act on the Rules. Now 16 minutes, since we didn't continue the morning session, there's good reason to close this session. The committee is invited to gather and make proposals on this bill. [[Applause]] Then, according to the Constitution, according to the Rules, we will vote on a new bill and the question will be deleted; we have no other options. We can't vote now, 2 hours 16 minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-11-m0.u250	Thank you! I just want to remind you that I have continued the meetings until the issue is concluded, according to the Rules. Please, Oleg Lazko.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-11-m0.u251	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. I want Ukrainian citizens who are now watching the broadcast of the Supreme Council to watch closely what's going on in the hall: in order not to vote for this extremely resonant and important issue for millions of Ukrainian families, a large number of MPs simply pulled cards and "slipped" out of the hall, were afraid to take responsibility for the decision. We can see that there are no 300 votes in favour of breaking the veto, but the Chairman rightly says that we cannot interrupt the consideration of the issue. That's why I have a proposal: we're now putting the veto on the table, obviously this proposal won't find support, and then we're going to make a decision to send the bill to the committee to prepare for the new edition and to move it to the hall -- that's right and that's in line with the rules of the Rules.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-11-m0.u252	Thank you for offering Oleg! Please take the last word from the Opposition Block. Who will act? Papiev. Please give me a speech.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-11-m0.u253	Thank you. The country's honourable national deputies, I have been asked to abide by the Rules, because we have already come to a vote on this issue, and we must finish in accordance with the Rules. We consider it appropriate to refer to the committee for a new edition. And it would be great not to repeat the story of Bill 1317, which voted February 5th and the decision that cannot be considered acceptable. And we insist that Law 1317 be repealed as one that has been adopted in violation of the Rules. That is why this law is very important to people, that the Rules should not be violated, and that people’s interests should be defended.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-11-m0.u254	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, I ask that we do not engage in the game of words and manipulation. Under the Rules, the review of the law must be completed, then the Supreme Council of Ukraine, which has political will, can take any decision. In this case, I support Oleg Laska's statement, which he rightly pointed out, we act exclusively and clearly, according to the Rules. That is why every MP has the right to express his opinion by vote, every national MP, every faction has the right to consolidate its deputies for the vote, but we cannot violate the Rules. That is why I am now putting to the vote the issue of overcoming the veto of the President of Ukraine. All right, one more word, because you guys can't calm down. Ivan Krulko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-11-m0.u255	Dear colleagues, in order for there to be no complaints about whether there are people in the hall or not, I propose that the Head conduct an additional registration of deputies in the session room. If we see that we don't even have 226 votes, how can we make decisions? The session needs to be closed because the meeting is not in charge of making any decision. Please take this regulatory action.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-11-m0.u256	Thanks for the offer. So once again, I'm putting to the vote the issue of overcoming the veto of the President of Ukraine. Anyone who supports the veto, please vote, please determine by vote, please. [[14:20:34]] For-129 The offer was not accepted. The proposal did not get the required number of votes, and now let us consult. We can send this question to the committee, but again, there aren't enough votes now. Then, at this I close the morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. I'm calling it closed and we'll meet tomorrow at 10 a.m. to continue our work. Thank you.
