ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-08-m0.u1	Please meet the President of Ukraine, Peter Alexiyovich Prashenko. [[Applause]] Good morning! Dear National Deputies! Guests of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, ladies and gentlemen! For the first time in Ukraine's history, according to the Presidential Decree of 8 and 9 May 2015, there are measures dedicated to the 70th anniversary of the victory over Nazism in Europe, the Day of Memory and Reconciliation, which will be celebrated every May 8th. A highly respected guest of the United Nations Secretary -General, Mr. Guy Moon, attends the High Council of Ukraine. Hello. [[Applause]] The veterans of World War II. [[Applause]] National deputies of Ukraine. Prime Minister of Ukraine Arseny Petrovich Yacenuk and members of the government, heads of central executive bodies. [[Applause]] Presidents of Ukraine: Leonid Makarovich Kravchuk, Leonid Danilovich Kuchma, Viktor Andryovich Yushchenko [[Applause]] Former Supreme Council Heads, former prime ministers of Ukraine, heads and members of the Constitutional Court of Ukraine, heads of the Supreme Court of Ukraine and heads of the higher specialized courts, the Attorney-General of Ukraine, the head of the National Bank of Ukraine, the Secretary of the National Security and Defence Council of Ukraine, the Kiev City Head, the leaders of churches and religious associations of Ukraine. [[Applause]] Representatives of foreign parliaments and diplomatic corps, representatives of public organizations and the media are present at the ceremony. Honourable National Deputies of Ukraine, guests of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, ladies and gentlemen! The event of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, dedicated to the 70th anniversary of the victory over Nazism in Europe, the place and role of the Ukrainian people in World War II, I declare open.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-08-m0.u2	Heroic glory!
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-08-m0.u3	The Ukrainian National Deputys of Ukraine, guests of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, began World War II for the Ukrainians in March 1939, when Ukrainians began fighting for the Zacarpathian Ukraine with Hitler’s allies and in September 1939, when Wehrmacht’s planes began to bomb Galicina and Volin when the enemy came to our land on the fronts of World War II from the Atlantic to the Pacific from Norway to Egypt, Ukraine fought against Hitler and his allies in the armies of Poland, Canada, France, the United States of America, Great Britain and Czechoslovakia. But most of the more than 6 million Ukrainians fought in the Red Army. And their contribution to winning is hard to overestimate. More than a hundred thousand Ukrainians were fighting in the Ukrainian rebel army, and this was the only formation that fought under the Ukrainian National Flag. The contribution of Ukrainians to the great victory of mankind’s salvation is difficult to overestimate. Ukrainian Michael Strank is one of the six United States Marines who raised the flag of victory over Yodim, an unapproachable restion of Imperial Japan. Ukrainian Eugene Brezniak is the Hero of Ukraine. Saved the Cracow from total destruction. Ukrainian Alexei Berest is the Hero of Ukraine. One of the three fighters who set the flag of victory over the German Reichstag in 1945 But Ukraine also paid the highest price for defeating Nazism. The total loss of Ukrainians in this bloody war is more than eight million human lives. A terrible price, but remember, on the fronts of World War II, the Ukrainians not only protected their lives but also their own land. We were protecting the very foundations of human civilization, fundamental common human values. Likewise today, in war with the Russian aggressor who came to our land, defending Ukraine, we defend the eternal values of freedom, dignity and justice. We Ukrainians are the victorious people. And I'm sure, like 70 years ago in 1945, today, we're going to beat the aggressor. Ukraine will win. () [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-08-m0.u4	Honorable National Deputies of Ukraine! Guests of the Supreme Council of Ukraine! The word is given to the President of Ukraine, Peter Alexiyovich Prashenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-08-m0.u5	Dear Ukrainian people! Holy Fathers! Dear veterans and dear warriors! Dear National Deputies! Dear members of the government! Remarkable foreign guests! Dear Mr. General Secretary of the United Nations! The footage we've just seen is a very simple story of the simple family of John the Borrower, his grandson John the Hutnik, and his daughter, Galina the Merchant. It is impossible to hold back emotions by feeling the pain of this family, the grief of losing it, as well as the loss of thousands of Ukrainian families. Twenty - three - year - old Lieutenant John Handsome, saving his companions, died last August under Amurosian on Donetsk. Such a grandson rewarded by the Order for his courage was brought up by a 96-year-old hero, John the Elder, who went through the war, fought for Stalingrad, and completed his front path in August 1945 with the liberation of Korea. And today, during his morning meeting with the Secretary -General of the United Nations, he was shown a medal for the liberation of Korea, where the latest shots of World War II broke out. And today he's among us in this room. Let's give him a round of applause. [[Applause]] Dear Ivan Anikeevich, the whole of Ukraine is now thanking you for your grandson-patriot and your daughter Galina Ivanovni's low grace for his son as well as all the mothers of all Ukrainian heroes. Let me worship in your person all veterans for the war feat, for the liberation, for the salvation of Ukraine and all of Europe! [[Applause]] So can you, dear Ukrainians, find a more convincing history than the history of the Hostiles? The answer to the question why we are so celebrating the Day of Remembrance and the Day of Victory over Nazism: because such great feats are not forgotten, and in Ukraine's history, they are gold-lettered; because our country against which military aggression is being carried out, more than any other, appreciates the peace that lasted almost 70 years; because, as Alexander Long has said, Ukraine is once again on fire; because the parallels between events in Europe at the end of the 1930s and now are too obvious; and because Ukraine, which was not an independent state of de facto, became a member of the Anti-Hitlerian coalition, and we, the Ukrainian people, became a conquering nation. Although the end of World War II had, unfortunately, not made Ukraine free. And our final release from the durman of Soviet-Russian imperial propaganda greatly expands the horizon of historical knowledge. And the celebrations of these days allow us more than ever to grasp the past, to appreciate its impact on the present and to make the right conclusions for the future; to analyze those events exclusively in our Ukrainian coordinate system. For us Ukrainians, the first shots were fired at Zakarpat in March 1939. The brief appearance and death of the Carpathian Ukraine were the echoes of Munich in 1938 and the collapse of the notorious policy of dying and admiring the aggressor. We have learned these hard lessons of history very well. We don't need to explain what the occupation of the Czechoslovak Sudets is, because we have in part two areas: Donetsk and Luhansk. We don't need to remind ourselves of what anarchy of Austria is. We learned this very well from the annexation of Crimea. I will allow myself to read a short verse, and everyone who hears will decide when it is actually written, whether in June 1943 or June 2014. "There lies the earth, solid, roasted, The rain is waiting for him to drink. Word in front of the storm, Doñecina He is silent in the sense of battle. Standing Under Houses and Clowns In straw are tanks and thrusters, and only with distant echoes The cars are racing at night. The portents have longed for glory, They're waiting for the fight to be fought. ♪ And dreamt of a boy with a Poltava ♪ Under Lysichansky, on the Donka." Dear fellow countrymen, history does not know the conditional way, but historically, as biology leaves no doubt about the planetary catastrophe that World War II has become. If we didn't hide our heads in the sand. If we didn't count on every new batch of human blood to feed an aggressor predator. If they hadn't been happy with the illusions, they'd have missed us. A fatal result of a series of immoral calculations and strategic calculations was World War II, which took place in the lives of Ukrainians almost two years before June 22. In September 1939, along with the Poles — and I literally at dawn today, only the sun was rising — returned with the Secretary-General of the United Nations, Mr. Guy Moon of Gdansk. The Ukrainians first experienced the consequences of a plot of two totalitarian regimes — Communist and Nazi. And the price of this Parliament is absolutely fair to adopt a law that legally compares the crime of Nazi and communist hateful ideologies and bloody practices. [[Applause]] Very timely and very correct, and I thank the National Deputies for that. But the fact remains. For almost two years, from the fall of 39th to June 41st, the Stalin Soviet Union was an ally of Nazi Hitlerian Germany. The joint Soviet-Nazi parade in Brest on September 17th, 39th, was a eloquent symbol of this cooperation. But this did not save the Soviet Union from aggression, but the National Soviet Union did not have to pay for its human life for Stalin’s friendship with Hitler. These sly maniacs, who were tempted to divide the world into two, and in sum, almost every second person killed in World War II was a citizen of the Soviet Union. You and I are very proud of the contribution of our grandparents to the fight against Nazism. And Ukraine, along with Belarus and the European part of Russia, found itself in the epicenter of war. To be honest, it's not just in the epicenter, it's in hell itself. And death with its sorrowful hair knocked on the door of almost every Ukrainian house. Ukraine has lost between 8 million and 10 million people, according to various estimates. More than 2 million Ukrainian girls and boys were forced to work in the Third Reich. More than half of the total number of Nazi divisions fought on the eastern front. By the way, they were crushed right here on the eastern front. Almost half of the strategic operations of the German-Radians war were conducted in Ukraine. In Ukrainian fields and villages, the fate of mankind is determined by fire and flames. I'm going to rescind Alexander Long. For this great Ukrainian, the words of American journalist Edgar Snow, recorded in January 45, echo. They sound like this: "This whole titanium battle, which some tend to view as the glory of Russia, was in fact in many ways a battle, a fierce war of Ukraine, which cost her many painful losses. And no other country in Europe has ever experienced such destruction of cities, industry, agriculture, the death of so many people." According to historians, more than 6 million Ukrainians fought in the lava of the Red Army. Among them were both my grandfathers, John and Sergey's grandfather, and my wife's grandfather, who died unconscious under Odessa, and my mother's brothers. And I'm proud to tell the glory of my grandfathers to my children and my grandchildren. And the exploits of the Ukrainians in that terrible war can be talked about for hours. I'll take the lead. 2072 Ukrainians became heroes of the Soviet Union. The legendary pilot John Kožedub, who shot down 64 fascist planes, became three times the Hero. The 4 Red Army operational-strategic mergers, created in the 43rd year, were called the Ukrainian fronts. Andrew Parubius had already said that Alexa Berest, along with Jehorov and Cantaria, had raised the flag of victory over the Reichstag. The recognition of our colossal contribution to the victory over Nazism was Ukraine's accession to the United Nations founding countries circle in 1945. Once again, I am pleased to welcome Mr. Guy Moon, Secretary - General of the United Nations, on this solemn day. [[Applause]] A few years ago, it was a shock to most Ukrainians to have a sadly well - known statement, offensive and disrespectful to our veterans and not just to them, to all Ukrainians. Russia would have won this war without Ukraine! Such words are abusing the memory of the fallen warriors and abusing the feelings of the living veterans. We would not have won this war without Ukraine and the Ukrainians! [[Applause]] And there's nothing to argue about. By the way, if the Kremlin didn't sign the Molotov-Ribbentrop Pact, we could discuss it. Because it is this pact that has revealed those locks that have stopped the war. Nobody, I emphasize, has the right to monopolise the victory over Nazism, and even more so to use this victory to apologisate their imperial policies. This victory is our common gain, of all progressive mankind, of the entire Anti - Hitler coalition and of the peoples of the Soviet Union! And now, on behalf of the Ukrainian people, I would like to welcome all the nations of the world with the 70th anniversary of the Great Victory. [[Applause]] But first of all, I want to go back to our famous grandparents. In the lava of the Red Army and the Soviet guerrilla armies, in the lava of the Ukrainian Insurgency Army, in the military alliances of the countries of the Antigitlerian Coalition, you saved this world in European resistance movements. Thank you so much for that. [[Applause]] You have reflected aggression against Ukraine from the West. You're low on it. But it is not true that even in your fearful dreams, dear ones, you could not have imagined that after 70 years of peace in the lives of your grandchildren and lawyers, war would come from the East. Thank God, it's not the scale of it that's in the world, but the motives are the same: the borders are pressing on someone like little boots, imperial ambitions, the dream of returning "original lands," gross disregard for international law, and it's like fighting for the rights of their fellow speakers. A similar "turbot" in paws has proved to be a real tragedy that Moscow has brought primarily to Russian-speaking citizens of Donbass, most of whom live on Donbass. Our neighbor’s aggressive policies have already cost nearly 7,000 Ukrainian citizens. By the way, this is from the United Nations. More than a thousand have disappeared. Hundreds of thousands of people as a result of the so-called "Russian Spring" became refugees and had to be rescued throughout Ukraine. And for the first time in 70 years, with weapons in our hands, we once again defend our country, sovereignty, territorial integrity, the independence of our state. The noble glory of their heroic ancestors led the Ukrainians to defend the Fatherland by carrying out a sacred duty in the ranks of the Ukrainian Armed Forces and other military formations. Twenty - one have been awarded the high title Hero of Ukraine. The country needs to know its heroes. And let's give you and me a round of applause for every last name. Hope of Savichenko. [[Applause]] Igor Gerasimenko. [[Applause]] Igor Gordijchuk. [[Applause]] Vladimir Greenyuk, he's about to perform in this room. Your applause, Volodymyr. [[Applause]] Mikhail Zabrodsky. [[Applause]] Thank you very much. Vasil Zubanich. [[Applause]] Alexander Petryakovsky. [[Applause]] Alexander Porchun. [[Applause]] Sergei Sobko. [[Applause]] Colonel Special Ops Alexander Tripak. [[Applause]] Commander of the 128th Mountain and Infantry Brigade, Colonel Sergey Shaptala. [[Applause]] Ten of the soldiers were given the title of heroes, sadly, after death. Alexander Oneshchenko. [[Applause]] Bogdan Zawad. [[Applause]] Eugene Zelensky. [[Applause]] Yuri Kovalenko. [[Applause]] Sergey Krivonosov. [[Applause]] Sergey Kulczycki. [[Applause]] Ruslan Luzevski. [[Applause]] Dmitri Maybeard. [[Applause]] Constantine Mowilko. [[Applause]] Taras Sinyuk. [[Applause]] Praise the heroes. In total, 1,675 Ukrainian soldiers gave their lives for the country, for your victory, for the inevitable, for good always triumphs over evil. And I ask the entire country, the entire Ukrainian people, to pay tribute to the memory of the dead both during World War II and in our country's war of independence in 2014-2015. Their eternal memory. [[A Minute of Silence]] Thank you. "There would be no war." One of us who is a little older reminds us that this phrase has often been heard in postwar times. "There would be no war," they said, and they kept saying, "no war, we'll survive everything else." And usually in the news there are battles and truces, massacres and injuries, refugees and captives. This is all happening a few hundred miles from here in Donbassa. And when you don't hear canonadas under the window, really, it's pretty hard to realize that this hybrid war is the one that has a definite impact on all aspects of our lives. For everyone without exception, for currency, for prices, for wages, for pensions, for the whole of Ukraine and for every family in particular. We've increased the cost of defense. And today they're making up almost 90 billion dollars, and incomes have fallen because part of the economy has been physically destroyed. Dozens of large factories don't work, stand. Dozens of factories in the occupied area are equipped, dismantled, and exported to the Russian Federation. Dozens of factories are physically destroyed and destroyed, and hundreds more are loaded by 30 to 40 percent. Thus, in the past year, the industry in Luhansk decreased by 31 percent, and the industry in Donetsk decreased by 42 percent. The rest of the industry has influenced this reduction in technology chains, and these chains cover not only Donbas, but the whole of Ukraine. It's a domino effect. And it's not about specific numbers, it's about the mechanism of impact on the economy. And there is no such precedent in world history that in a country against which aggression is solved and war - torn, there is an economic boom, and rivers of milk flow along the copper shores. And unfortunately, we did not become an exception. But my optimistic forecast is this: when we choose peace the following year, the first results of the reforms will be to restore economic growth and restore people's standard of living. And so the issues of war and peace are more acute and relevant than ever, of course, those who try and demand the authority of the cavalry attack today to bring the spirit somewhere near the Far East. On the other pole, pacifists who demand reconciliation at all costs are responsible realists. Realists who clearly appreciate our military potential are soberingly appreciating the international environment, the internal situation, which they firmly know can only solve problems in a combined way, which combines: defence and military efforts with political and diplomatic efforts. And this way of peace is fixed in the Minsk Treaties, which are recognized as the foundation of the whole world. And as much as I'm not being criticized for my peace plan, I'm not going to take my course, because I feel a huge, tremendous responsibility for the country and a tremendous responsibility for the people who entrusted me with power. This course is the only, possible and correct, non-alternative course because it allows us to preserve and multiply our forces, to increase our resilience with you. Yes, Ukraine is unfailingly implementing all the arrangements reached in Minsk during a summit in Normandy format. This allowed for a certain descaled conflict and every day, if we don't have any dead, it's like a holiday for me. But we will only be able to move forward once our enemy has completely stopped the fire and we have to coordinate the efforts of all countries, our partners, the efforts of the OSCE, the efforts of the United Nations to bring our enemy to a complete halt, even from the weapons of fire, in order to bring back all the heavy assembly, heavy technology, artillery abroad, into the Russian-Ukrainian Federation, those locations of its position must be known to the OSCE, the OSCE must be granted the right to carry out its control mission when there is complete liberation of the Ukrainian prisoners held hostage by the Russian militants. But the more successful the fight for peace, the stronger the defense. And in March of last year, at the beginning of the aggression against Ukraine, there were only eight battalion tactical groups ready to perform the tasks, yes, and with difficulty. At that time, the budget of the Ministry of Defence did not even provide the minimum requirements of the army. Thanks to the Ukrainian people, thanks to the massive volunteer movement that destroyed the Hutorian myth of the Ukrainian house, which from the country created the new Armed Forces of Ukraine, created by Nazgardia, created other powerful structures that in a fierce struggle freed most of Donbass and localized the borders of its separate areas of the military conflict that the Russian Federation had planned to ignite throughout Ukraine without exception, that is exactly what they needed. Yes, there are still many things wrong in our army, and unfortunately the media and social media are full of stories about it. But a year ago there was almost no army, and now it is. And for today we can make sure that it is strong, combative, with a high level of trust, the highest level of trust in society. The Ukrainian army is believed by the Ukrainian people. We appreciate that very much. [[Applause]] And yesterday at the Security Council meeting, we adopted the National Security Strategy. Based on the fact that the Russian threat is long-term and considering the aggressive position and policy of the Russian Federation as a major threat to security, the project aims to achieve full compatibility between the security and defence sectors of Ukraine and the relevant structures of NATO countries. [[Applause]] This should ensure that the future prospects for membership for effective guarantees of sovereignty, territorial integrity and independence of Ukraine can be achieved. Dear compatriots! Above all, the enemy was willing to protect the country’s home land, the integrity of our spirit, and patriotism, not in words, but in action. The enemy wanted to set us up and oppose each other, and it turned out exactly the opposite. The difficult trials, one for all and the same joys, failures and victories -- they all finally brought us together into the Ukrainian-European political nation, a nation based on a solid foundation of common and strong citizenship and patriotism. I congratulate you on this, Ukraine! [[Applause]] And I'd like to do it one more time and one more time. Russian-speaking Ukrainian citizens love their Ukrainian Fatherland no less than Ukrainian-speaking, and prove it not only in language, not only in words, but then in blood, war feats and sometimes in life itself. At least every second soldier in the ATO is Russian - speaking. [[Applause]] and proves that he loves Ukraine in Russian no less than we love it in Ukrainian. [[Applause]] Dear friends, I have no doubt that we will win. After all, we are protecting our homeland. We're going to win how our famous grandparents won 70 years ago. Glory to the victorious warriors of World War II! [[Applause]] Praise be to the officers and soldiers who fought in the Red Army! [[Applause]] Glory to the veterans of the Ukrainian rebel army! [[Applause]] Praise to the participants of the Ukrainian National Liberation Movement who are not present for the first time at such a high-level ceremony! We welcome you! [[Applause]] Praise to the fighters of the anti-terror operation, to the participants in the war of the Ukrainian people for their independence and European choice! [[Applause]] Words to Ukrainian volunteers and especially volunteers! [[Applause]] Dear friends! Praise be to the Ukrainian soldiers of all times, all generations! God, the great only one, we have Ukraine's food! All your loving - kindness and all your generosity, turn to our people. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-08-m0.u6	I invite you to speak to the honorary head of the All - Ukrainian Veterans Union, the veteran of World War II, the man who went through the military ways of Ukraine, Poland and Austria, the Hero of Ukraine, the national deputy of four vocations, the prominent Ukrainian scientist, statesman and public figure, Igor Rafailovich Yukhnovsky.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-08-m0.u7	Mr. President, the Honourable Head of the Supreme Council, the Honourable Prime Minister and the Honourable Government, the Honourable Mr. Guy Moon and the Honourable Presidents of Ukraine, the Reverend Holy Fathers, the Honourable Friends of mine, the Brethren of Veterans, and I bow low to you young people who are now protecting Ukraine. Thank you. [[Applause]] War is always a disaster, it's death and suffering, it's a disaster and a disaster. At the same time, wars, in the history of every nation, unfortunately, are acting in a repertoire that changes the fate of the people. So World War II, in the thousands of years of Ukrainian history, played a fundamental role. The Ukrainian Soviet Socialist Republic, born in 1991 before the war of 1941 and after the war of 45, was fundamentally different. After the war, the Ukrainians settled the cities of Ukraine, the victorious returned from the fronts over Hitler’s Germany and entered virtually all structures. I tried to convince historians that the nations and the nature in which these peoples lived were interconnected. The Ukrainian land spontaneously gives birth to Ukrainians and assimilates Ukrainians, non - Ukrainians, into Ukrainians. Two branches of the Ukraine of those who were on the ruling side and those who were constantly fighting for independence came together in 1991. And we have declared an independent Ukraine. The president of Ukraine also mentioned all the prominent Ukrainians in the war. The Ukrainians’ contribution to the victory over Germany was a decisive one. The first, second, third, and fourth Ukrainian fronts accounted for more than 60 percent of Ukrainians. The liberation of Poland, Czechoslovakia, Romania, Hungary, and Yugoslavia led the armies to these very fronts. It is an internal matter for each of the states of the former republics of the Soviet Union to determine how they are in relation to this war. But we no doubt think that Ukraine is a victorious state in World War II. As a result of negotiations in Tehran, Yalta, and Potsdami, Poland, Czechoslovakia, Romania, Bulgaria, and Yugoslavia became independent. Ukraine did not stand because it did not have its own state. And now that we have it, every Ukrainian, every citizen of the state needs to know that his moral, material and finally physical existence can only be provided in an independent Ukraine. And the memory of World War II, the memory of the independent state of Ukraine. We now look at it as a nation that has defeated German Nazism along with Georgians, Belarusians, Russians, French, English, Americans. Ukraine is one of the victorious states over Nazism. We see World War II as a nation fighting for Ukraine's complete independence from both German Nazism and Russian Bolshevism. It is a memory of a worthy nation, a grateful now living and coming generations. What should be the days of May 8 and 9? Not from the viewpoint of 1945, not from the perspective of the 20th century, but from the viewpoint of the 21st century of the independent State of Ukraine. These days must be without parades. Everyone goes to their churches and prays. Pray for the great victory, the great sacrifice of the rebels, and the good memory of all those who have died. These days are days of memory, prayer, forgiveness, memories. These are the days where we honor the winners and the participants. The memories of this development of thinking and self - affirmation that unites and consolidates us all in Ukraine. I am very glad that today, 70 years later, Ukraine celebrates these days. We used to talk about Hitler and Stalin. Now we are talking about Putin, who has taken disgraceful advantage of the criminal activity of Yanukovich, the absurdity, dishonesty, and dishonesty of the Kremlin, which led to the war between the Ukrainians and the Russians. As the former head of the People's Council in the Supreme Council in 1995-1991, as Head of the "Statehood" faction in 1996, I'm analyzing our mistakes. All the years that followed, I was in constitutional processes. The constitutions we made were too idealized. I will no longer have the opportunity to speak to the honourable gentlemen of the present Supreme Council, but the Supreme Council after the Dignity Revolution and in the face of Russia's aggression is the bountiful Council in the history of Ukraine. You have to accept the new Constitution, the real Constitution of Ukraine. I've always taught someone my whole life. And here's my advice. On the basis of today's Supreme Council to create a bicameral parliament, the Senate and the National Assembly, 100 by 350. One creates strategies and regulations, the other creates laws. Local self - government should only be at the level of communities and districts. The area is an intermediate link that does not have its own budget and is linked between government and self-governance areas. The question of duplicating the state executive power between the President and the Prime Minister: or the Presidential Republic – then under no circumstances can the National Assembly be dissolved, or the Parliamentary Republic – the President fulfils protocol duties. [[Applause]] I wish you, honourable deputies, strength, endurance, wisdom, common sense and efficiency. As a soldier of the past war and a participant in battles, I welcome you all in Ukraine and everyone in Ukraine with Victory Day, with the Day of Reconciliation. Glory to Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-08-m0.u8	The Ukrainian Hero, a participant in the anti-terrorist operation Vladimir Volodymyrovich Greenjuk, is invited to the floor.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-08-m0.u9	Thank you. Dear Mr. President of Ukraine, Supreme Commander of the Armed Forces of Ukraine, distinguished national deputies and distinguished guests! On behalf of the Ukrainian Armed Forces, I warmly welcome the participants in this important meeting with the 70th anniversary of victory over Nazism. We, today’s generation of defenders of the homeland, especially worship the veterans of World War II, for it is our grandparents and our wartime brothers from other countries who have liberated Europe and upheld the right of the nations to peaceful life. Then, in 1945, it seemed that the long - awaited peace on the long - suffering land of Europe and Ukraine had come forever. 70 years later, however, this peace was stricken with the blood of World War II warriors. In 2014, the Russian Federation resolved against Ukraine and the entire existing world order a real military aggression called hybrid war. But the plan to capture our nation was not meant to happen. Millions of Ukrainians have mentioned that they are in the spirit of the offspring of a great Cossack. The stamina and courage of anti-terrorists combined with the All-U.S. Volunteer movement to support the army have become a surprise for armed Russian-terrorist forces. The Ukrainian military stopped the aggressor by restricting its progress to the depths of our country, to the separate areas of Donetsk and Lugansk. Taking this opportunity, I would like to thank the leadership of the State and the Armed Forces of Ukraine, the volunteer organizations and the citizens for their attention to solving the problems of the Ukrainian army. During the last year, many questions have been made about strengthening the strength of our army. The Armed Forces of Ukraine have gained valuable combat experience, been filled with trained and trained personnel, new weapons, and military equipment. Dear comrades, on this day, I would like to assure the audience that today's generation of defenders of the land will be worthy of their glorious grandparents who won the Nazis 70 years ago. An apocryphal enemy who is pummeling the sacred land of Ukraine today will surely find his own infamous end and be hurled to the graves of history. Because of who you really are, you always win. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-08-m0.u10	Dear Mr. President, Mr. Prime Minister, the distinguished veterans of World War II, the national MPs, the guests and the invited, I would like to announce that the Summit of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is closed.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-08-m0.u11	Thank you to the President of Ukraine and to all those who participated in the ceremony. Congratulations on Victory Day! Glory to Ukraine!
