ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-04-m0.u1	Good morning, distinguished national MPs! I'm asking you to take your jobs. We're starting a meeting of the Supreme Council. I'm asking you to turn on the "Council" system for the registration of the National Deputies. [[10:07:11]] 284 national deputies registered. I'm asking the secretariat to invite the National Deputies to the Supreme Council Hall, and we're starting our work. I declare the morning plenary session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine open. Ladies and gentlemen, today we have a number of important treaties to ratify with you. One is the Agreement between Ukraine and the European Union on the Status of the European Union Consultative Mission for the Reform of the Civil Security Sector. For almost a year, Ukrainian European diplomats worked on this agreement. The reform of the civil security sector is extremely important, especially in today’s conditions. So this is a very important issue, and ratification will allow us to launch effective mechanisms to create our ability, to increase our ability to deal with civil security. I would also like to point out that today we need to ratify an agreement that has already been discussed in Ukrainian society. This is about creating a joint military battalion with our partners, Poles, Lithuanians, which is also extremely important, especially at this very serious time. On the basis of what we have today today, it is stipulated that 30 minutes will be given for the performances of the Ukrainian national deputies. That's why I'm asking the people's deputies to prepare themselves. Now I'm going to record the performances and the deputies in the queue will have the opportunity to speak on a variety of issues, including issues of the agenda. I ask the distinguished national deputies to register for the performance. Dear colleagues, the recording is done. Before that, I would like to welcome the birthday of our colleague Sergio Ivanovich Skuratowski, head of the committee. Let's say hello to our birthdays, to your success, and to all the good things.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-04-m0.u2	Dear colleagues, I support the Brotherly Radical Party. Welcome to everyone's birthday. But, friends, along with your birthday.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-04-m0.u3	Mikola Volodymyrovich, I'm sorry. Please, Mikola Volodymyrovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-04-m0.u4	Dear colleagues, I remember one of our great poets, Vasil Simonek, who wrote such a thing called "The Land On the contrary." And I thought last night that it wasn't just a genius man if he were alive, and today he'd write something like that. Because yesterday, when I listened to who was fighting Russia for information security, I mentioned Vasil Simonek. I, my friends, stand up for the harsh opposition of Putin Russian aggression and speak publicly to the Secretary of the RNB, in whom there is great authority, to all law enforcement structures to start fighting Russian information aggression from today. I inform you that the National Television and Radio Council temporarily banned 15 Russian channels. Now go into every store and it sells a bunch of NTV plus where all these channels are, where you pay money for Gazprom Media, where everything is listed in Russia, and where half a million people of Ukrainians are watching this Putin propaganda. I've got a question about where the HQ is, where the MVD is, which won't stop this vacchanal against Ukraine. I have a second question, why don't you go to a hotel, a restaurant, or a coffee shop on cable networks? These are all 15 Russian channels that are banned by the National Council there. I have a question. Where's the PNBO? Friends, you don't have to make a statement, you have to fight the Ukrainian information space every day. Only to fight against Russian channels, not Ukrainians, who are critical of government or authority. Second position. We want to win the war today. I'll let you know how the government works today. The president was in Chercas at the Photoshop. He said he needed to be loaded with military production. Yesterday, the Czech journalists told me, they loaded, the government ordered 14 optical instruments. Well, that's a hell of an army we're loading now. The Northman's lying down. I have a question about Russia and Putin, aren't we fighting? So the fight should not be in the applications here in the session room, but in the fight that needs to be fought daily. We need to raise our factories, we need to strengthen the economy, and we need to fight the Russian media, not the Ukrainians, who are critical. And to the end. Today, a very resonant bill is being considered because it was taken one night. So what we need to do is not sell our forest for a penny abroad, but from this forest to ensure energy dependency. I went from Chercas to Kiev, we have a rich country, we cut trees and we burn branches. But, my friends, it's in a normal European country, it's a criminal responsibility, because there's every branch, every tree being processed to have energy independence. So let's not buy gas, let's supply energy. So once again, we're fighting for Ukraine, not Ukraine.Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-04-m0.u5	Please, Deputy Lewchenko. Lechenko, get out of the way, all right? Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-04-m0.u6	Illenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-04-m0.u7	Please, Deputy Illenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-04-m0.u8	Andrew Illenko, the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union. My fellow Members, this call to parliament is based on the enormous political responsibility and expectations of Ukrainian citizens. And today we see that despite the extremely difficult situation on the front, despite the extremely difficult situation in the economy, unfortunately, reforms do not take place, and if they do happen, they do. We see yesterday in extremely great pains and, in my opinion, there was an entirely disgraceful vote on the anti-corruption bureau. We saw here at the end of last year's adoption of a budget called full advocacy of parliamentaryism. We saw yesterday that Parliament did not vote for the information security of our country during the war. And we see that about a hundred of those bills that the All-Ukrainian Union of Freedom has prepared and registered in this assembly of parliaments, which are aimed at our national security, economic issues, the fight against oligarchy, they are not voting today, they are slowing down today, and they are not making the necessary decisions. We see that there is no political will to introduce a state of war, but only the individual positions of this state of war are now trying to introduce and in the same way are completely balanced and so are a fairly scattered state system. And we see what's happening to the illustration that was actually transformed into a propaganda. When even those law enforcement agencies who were the first to be alert to the implementation of this law were themselves completely ignoring this law and ignoring the illustration. And now there are voices saying that this illustration has to be deleted at all -- it's unacceptable. And a very important question is the issue of integrity. Both the MP and the judiciary, as well as the Presidential and all kinds of intrusiveness that must be abolished in our country is a clear position of "Freedom" and principle. And by the way, tomorrow, when Parliament votes in favour of sending an appropriate bill to abolish parliamentary immunity to expertise before the Constitutional Court, we'll be watching MPs vote in favour of this law as they come to work that day, whether there's a hundred percent chance. And by the way, in order to promote Parliament, so that the hand doesn't hesitate to vote in favour of this law, we'll be tomorrow, the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union, doing a ten-hour sit-down on the Supreme Council. And we urge all citizens concerned to come to Parliament, and to demand this call for parliament to make all the necessary decisions that were both the Maydan programme and the promises before the elections. And it's for which to take political responsibility, because today's account doesn't even go for months and weeks, and it goes down. Right away, we need to accept all the promises that were made at Midan and before the elections. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-04-m0.u9	Nechayev gives the word to Martovic. I'd like to make a statement from the rostrum.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-04-m0.u10	Dear colleagues! Speaking today, I would like to convey to you the concern of all Ukrainian miners and energy about the energy security of our country. I'm a progeny miner with many years of work in the industry, come to Parliament and represent the West Donbass. The first mining strikes of the 1990s were forever remembered, and especially remembered in 1998, when, from Pavlogradugla, the town of Prvotrovensk, miners who were driven to despair by the lack of payment of their wages, the lack of coal, went on foot to Kiev, bringing together all the coal miners around their march. And what I'm saying is that they were supported by all people on all walks of life, and the Government had found money, and in the wake of the multi-thousands of miners, the salaries of the budgeters were promptly repaid. For 10 years now, Kiev has not heard the sound of miners' helmets, and today Ukraine's miners have not come to pull a blanket on themselves. On 28 and 29 January, they had arrived in Kiev under Kabmin to make their demands known and to understand when they were told the truth and why the leadership of the country had double standards. Shuffle requirements are simple: payment of salary arrears, cancellation of 15 per cent of salary and pension taxes that they have earned in hard and dangerous labour. It's about double standards. The Shachers understand that the situation in the country is complex, but they are told that we need the energy independence of the country more than ever. And I say, based on my productive experience, that the country's energy security is created by people, coal miners and energy groups. Then the questions are: Why are miners and energy trying to fill the public budget by amending the Tax Code? Who decided not to include funds for the maintenance and development of mines in the 2015 budget? Why is article 43 of the Mining Law of Ukraine repealed? For whom is a contract for the supply of electricity from Russia on cable terms of 85 kilowatt, while the power blocks of Ukrainian TES are not loaded and unloaded? Why buy coal abroad instead of giving your miners the right to work and mine coal? I don't think there's any common sense. On instructions from the Prime Minister, a commission has been set up to address the problems of the coal industry and wishes to believe that today a memorandum will be signed, the items of which will be included in order to address issues, particularly those related to the support and development of Ukraine's TES, the guarantee and protection of the social rights of workers in mines, pensioners, persons with disabilities and their families. But remember that the memorandum is just a common line of action, according to miners, the law should work. And I'm addressing the deputies that we were with Kabmin, the miners believed the Prime Minister and the Minister, and they went home with hope. Therefore, our task is to monitor the implementation of the memorandum.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-04-m0.u11	Please finish for 10 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-04-m0.u12	To this end, in the memorandum, indicate the responsible and deadlines, and invite Minister Demchikin to report on the energy contract concluded with Russia. And I will remind you of Nikolai Surghaya's words: "A coal will save Ukraine if Ukraine saves its coal."
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-04-m0.u13	Thank you. Please comply with the Rules, because you are restricting the speeches of the following deputies. Corchinska Oksana Anatoliyevna, Radical Party, from the rostrum, right? Please turn on the microphone on on the stand.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-04-m0.u14	Glory to Ukraine! Ladies and gentlemen of the MPs! In particular, to the members of the PARJE, you made us notice that we lack the culture to listen to each other -- that is absolutely true. I'm going to talk now, not like for the MPs, like for the boys on the front. As the medical coordinator of the ATO, I have been coordinating all the medical services of Nazgwardia, the border guards, the Ukrainian Armed Forces, volunteers, and civilian medicine in the Donetsk region for months. Two weeks ago, she returned from there. She was Silidové, Red Army, Mariupol, Krasnoarmeysk, Artemis. I want to let you know that we have a critical evacuation situation on the front. The Donetsk airport area, Sector C, Artemyovsk, Debaltsevé, is now 60 percent of the wounded are being exported by volunteers, because we are fundamentally under-sufficient in the Ukrainian Armed Forces, and we lack evacuation and sanitation. We had him, but he was UAZiki, he got hurt, he got hit, most of the armored armoured transporters didn't work, and I want you to know that the airport area. Dear military, I'm telling you guys this is for you, because the MPs don't care at all, I'm just gonna be honest with you. And my self-help colleagues, I think. I'm sorry that when I do say what the real situation is now on the front, the MPs don't care. And we need to start with you with information from the front, and complete every day with information from the front. You're all ashamed because the boys are protecting us. Because they don't eat there today, they don't sleep there, they don't have guns, they don't have military weapons, they don't have heavy equipment, they don't have shells, they don't have drugs. Chronically, the Armed Forces of Ukraine, the Nachwardia simply don't have pharmacies. For you to know, in the Armed Forces of Ukraine today, there are two doctors in the better battalions for 300, two doctors, and there are battalions for 900 — two doctors as well. If you can imagine how these people can now save their lives, how to stand up and keep your boys safe all month long while you're sitting here in the heat, please have respect for them. The Front needs help! I'm going to the Cabinet of Ministers. I'm talking to Minister Poltorak, we need to immediately gather the ATO medical security headquarters and run it under the sole umbrella. The time has come when all the Armed Forces and all the different types of armies, each under their umbrella, have come to an end. They need to be united; they do not handle themselves; they need to be coordinated daily. ATO headquarters.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-04-m0.u15	Please finish
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-04-m0.u16	Thank you. The ATO’s medical headquarters, which is finally organized this week, should meet not once a month, but every week as a minimum to function every day because the boys are taking the wounded out every day. We don't have a problem getting them out of civilian hospitals. We're doing great. We're doing great. We have problems evacuating from the front line to the hospital, we don't have transportation. We're short on medics, we don't have armored transport. The guy who was hit and he's in the repairs. The Front needs help! Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-04-m0.u17	Here's to Palamarczuk Mikola Petrovich, Party of the Peter Prashenko Block, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-04-m0.u18	Yuri Solovay, 89th constituency, MP's strike group, Peter Prashenko's Block. Dear colleagues, it started in 2015, but unfortunately, for most Ukrainians and for our nation as a whole, it started with bad news. 12 people killed in Volnovas, 30 in Mariupol, dozens of people killed daily in Debaltsovo, on the front line. Dozens of dead military personnel, if not hundreds. This is the price that Ukraine today pays for the so - called armistice for the so - called policy of appeasement of the Russian aggressor that Russia is conducting in Ukraine. What's more, to understand that only the pressure on Russia, total, can stop this country in aggression against Ukraine. But what is Ukraine doing today? All European states imposed economic sanctions on the Russian Federation six months ago. Ukraine has not imposed such sanctions today. What do we see on our supermarket shelves today? This total trade in Russian products, Russian oil, Russian ammonia, Russian companies fly to Ukraine in transit, Russian citizens move in transit, Russian banks and Russian companies work successfully in Russia. The government which had been obliged since September to impose sanctions and to introduce through the National Security and Defence Council of Ukraine, unfortunately, had not taken any steps in that direction. And that's why the MP's strike group of the Peter Poshenko Block will be introducing a bill on the application of economic sanctions against Russia in the coming days. We think it's time in Ukraine to stop trade in Russian goods, except for critical imports. We believe that there can be no transit through Ukraine of Russian hydrocarbons, such as oil, ammonia, other than the critical imports needed for Ukraine. We believe that the Russian banks need to immediately introduce temporary administrations and control the money of the Russian capital in Ukraine. We believe that every company with a Russian capital of more than 50 per cent should pay, as a minimum, 10 per cent of the military tax for the needs of the Ukrainian Armed Forces, the Parliament and the leadership of the State to determine the bill that will be introduced in the coming days as an urgent one and to consider and approve it in the next plenary week. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-04-m0.u19	Dear colleagues! I'll give you my word. I have a request when there's a replacement, it's not so hard, we have this ancient tradition, write a note on who's being replaced and put in the presidency so that I can advertise correctly further. Now from the Radical Party there must be Lensky Alexyyyyyovich, but I understand he's passing on the word to Oleg Valeriyovich Lyashka. Please come to the rostrum.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-04-m0.u20	Dear citizens of Ukraine! Dear fellow national MPs! I would like to draw your attention to a very important issue: the energy security of the country, which is an integral part of Ukraine's overall national security. In this regard, unfortunately, we have very bad things to do. Ironically, for 23 years, we have tried to fight for Ukraine's energy independence from Russia and, in sum, today Ukraine is more dependent on Russia than it has all of the previous 23 years. If we depended on the supply of gas and twill from Russia to nuclear power stations, we never exported electricity, we imported electricity from Russia, today we get electricity from Russia, today we get coal from Russia, instead of buying coal from lion's miners, from Volley miners, from Pavlograd, from Donetsk miners. Because those who tell me that people on Donbassa are not worthy of our attention, I definitely disagree. In Donbas, including in the temporary-occupied areas, Ukrainian citizens and authorities, neither government nor government in general, have the right to refuse the protection of Ukrainian citizens, the liberation of Ukrainian citizens, the provision of jobs for Ukrainian citizens, including Danish miners. Because many mines have registered in freed areas, yet they have no ability to sell their coal, and miners have no opportunity to earn their wages. Contracts signed last December by the Ministry of Energy with the Russian RAO "EES" to supply power to Ukraine are deeply corrupt contracts. They run counter to Ukraine’s national interests. They're driving Ukraine into an energy dependency on the occupying country. Because we, for example, are the average energy price of 1 bracelet - kilowatt/hour. We sell 70 kilos a kilowatt in Crimea. In January 500 million kilowatts of electricity were installed in Crimea. The government budget is 150 million dollars. I'm asking, who's going to make up for this damage? Whose pocket did this corrupt money go into? Why do our soldiers die on the front and the sailors in the back make money on coal, on electricity? Why are we in Lviv, in Vollin miners we say we can buy 1,100 dollars of coal in them per tonne, and in Russian invaders we buy 1,600 dollars per tonne. I firmly deny such anti-State policies. I demand from the President, from the government to immediate action, to breaking these corrupt, anti-State, treacherous contracts that actually drive Ukraine out depending on Russia. Shame! Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-04-m0.u21	Kulinich passes the word Shipk Andriy Fedorovich. Come to the rostrum.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-04-m0.u22	Good afternoon! Shipko Andri Fedorovich, Dnipropetrovščina, Nikopol, 35th constituency, Nikopol, Ordjonikidze, Nicopolski district Dear national MPs, distinguished voters! Every day, we hear from our great reformers how reforms will change life for the better. But for whom are they, and who will live to see these changes? Today, more than 3 million hypertensive people have experienced health reform. And this reform has not only been a threat to their lives. For their health, that is, for their lives. Why, you will ask. Because the treatment patients have received over the last three years has not continued. The project was suspended on December 31, 2014. I spoke from this rostrum, sent a parliamentary request to the Cabinet of Ministers asking what steps were being taken to prevent hypertonia patients from being left without treatment at all. The answer is simple: No money is provided. Consider, too, the fact that the Ministry of Health, for some reason, may have reformed, did not provide adequate documents and calculations. I demand that the government immediately find out which reformer left one-on-one people with his problems, a meager pension that cannot compensate for the cost of drugs. And what is this reform? What's her goal? Today, we do not have the right to leave the sick without the medicines they need, with reforms. I'm sure there must be a transition period. You can’t just take and stop funding medical programs, pilot projects, and just wait for insurance. I'm asking the Cabinet of Ministers to reinstate regulation 340 to compensate for the cost of medicines for hypertensive patients. And it's enough to force people to choose between bread and medicine. Please consider my statement as a deputy request to the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and the Ministry of Health. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-04-m0.u23	Thank you. Major Mikola Romanovich gives the floor to the High Sergey, "The People's Front". I'd like to invite Sergey High to the rostrum.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-04-m0.u24	Good morning, gentlemen. All the discussions of the last days revolve around the information protection of the State in the face of Russian information aggression. Warring in a hybrid war, where, according to smart people, theorists from Genstab and experts at the FNL, there are 7 levels, one of these levels is an information war. A Russian journalist, Russian media, Russian fifth column in the information space could be much more harmful, much more harmful, than the City and the Artillery. We see that a whole lobby has been formed in the Chamber in recent days, which I cannot name other than the pro-Russian lobby in opposition to Ukraine's information security. From the rostrum, we're told, fight the Russian canals, don't fight the Ukrainian canals. We must fight against all the manifestations of the aggressor in our information space. It is no secret that the Russian media, Russian campaigns, Russian legal entities and oligarchs through their offshores, through their trusted individuals, through their so-called Ukrainian partners, who are simply traitors of our State, own remotes in the Ukrainian media. We, the People's Front faction, are trying to fight this. And we see that some of our colleagues are going out on this rostrum and with the Komsomol shoal, they're telling us where the Cabinet of Ministers is, where the BSS is, what should we do about it. I want to tell them, dear colleagues, draft legislation, make your petitions and ask questions, do something. We see that we have a tendency in the information war to fight against the rostrum of the Supreme Council. We believe that if ex-communals or any new MPs, or any parents, as freedom of speech, go to the rostrum and give their fiery speech for three minutes, the Russian aggression in the information field will cease. That's not true at all. In order to end it, I think it is necessary to support the bills tabled by the deputies, including the People's Front faction, and to submit their bills, to submit their proposals, to develop a normative framework in the area of countering information aggression. Yesterday, the Hall failed an important bill on strengthening the power of the National Television and Broadcasting Council. Tomorrow we vote in favour of project 1768, author of the Visocki, Levus and Veličkovic for the exclusion of Russian owners from the Ukrainian media. If Ukraine has shares associated with the oligarch Kremlin, they must be excluded from the owners. I ask the floor to vote in favour of this and to support it. And I'm talking about what we're going to call a traitor to anyone who doesn't support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-04-m0.u25	The word is given to Moses Igor Volodymyrovich. To the rostrum, right? Please turn on the microphone on the stand. Mr. Igor, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-04-m0.u26	Dear colleagues, at an extremely difficult time when Ukrainian military volunteers in the eastern part of the country advocate the territorial integrity of the state, we should talk about their security, first of all. It's about how much the state in our person refers to them. What do I mean? Colleagues spoke to us on many occasions, and I personally applied to the service that gives us the title of ATO’s participant to our military, our heroes. At present, there is no answer, only that more than 500 prosecutors have become members of the ATO, while at the same time 25 brigades fighting under the Debalts have no such status. In this regard, I appeal to all of you, appeal to the Presidium, and demand that the head of this institution be summoned here to the Hall. He has to report to the MPs how many officials, prosecutors, ministers are granted the status of a participant in combat and why this status is not granted to our heroes who are fighting under Debalts, Marioupolis and so on. Another question raised by our faction is that it's an accelerated procedure to give Ukrainian citizenship to those who value their lives, to foreigners, to protect our country. Yesterday, a commander of a volunteer peacekeeping battalion named Johar Dudejava, Munayev Isa, was killed in a battle under Debaltsev. Please honor his memory and the memory of all foreigners who are fighting for Ukraine while standing. Isi Munayeva’s eternal memory and all foreigners who do not regret their own lives, protecting the territorial integrity of our country. Glory to Ukraine! Death to the enemy!
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-04-m0.u27	We've got time for performances. We've got the last performance, the Opposition Block, Dobkin gives the word to the Queen. Please turn on the microphone in the rostrum. And then there'll be Andrew Teteruk.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-04-m0.u28	Dear colleagues! The opposition bloc declares that human rights are systematically violated in our country. And, first of all, we want to draw attention to the rights of our settlers, today in Ukraine more than 1 million people have become displaced, and the situation is simply catastrophic. During January, the Ministry of Social Policy delayed monthly payments to the people and hundreds of thousands of people for whom those kopecks had not been allocated by the State and had not been given any opportunity to live at least. The next problem, and it also has enormous scales. Since 1 February, those pensioners who have come to Ukraine, who are now receiving a pension here in the Territory, but if they have not issued a residence permit, but are making a report today, it is unrealistic because thousands of people are standing in a 24-hour state, these people will not receive a pension. And there are about 300,000 people in Ukraine today. We have no right to allow our pensioners to cease to receive a pension in our country. We therefore require the Ministry of Social Policy to address urgently the issue of pension payments and to resolve urgently the issue and pay all amounts subject to the law to the displaced persons owed by the State today. Next problem. 300 million bracelets have been allocated to the State budget to compensate people for the destruction of their homes and to restore infrastructure. Regrettably, neither last year nor this year have any money from this resource been allocated, nor for compensation for housing for people, nor for the rehabilitation of social infrastructure. And we demand that the Government take an immediate order to compensate people for the destruction of their homes and to restore the infrastructure to the destroyed cities, which are now under Ukrainian control. The Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe drew Ukraine's attention and acknowledged that there was a humanitarian disaster in our country today. The Opposition Unit has therefore registered a draft order for the implementation of the decision of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe. And we ask that this decision be seen as a priority and that the implementation plan, and that the reconstruction of the infrastructure that has been destroyed in Ukraine and the assistance of displaced persons, be urgently adopted in the Ukrainian Parliament. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-04-m0.u29	Thank you. The time for the performances is over. As long as Andrew Teteruk is up for the last performance, I want to read the announcement. So the first announcement. I'm reporting the entry of the Ukrainian National Deputy Lissuk Jaroslav Vasilovich as part of the MP's Party of Peter Poroshenko. Hello, Mr. Jaroslav, if he's in the hall, let's all welcome him. Next announcement. I'm reporting on the creation of the 8th Interfractional European Parliamentary Union, co-chaired by the Interfractional Parliamentary Union Eurooptimists, elected national deputies Klimpush-Cincadze Ivana Orestovna, Katzer-Buchkow Nadia Volodymyrno, Ptajnik Victoria Yuryevna and Rybčina Alexija Mihajlovich, together with us 24 Eurooptimists from today in Parliament. Thank you, and I give it to you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-04-m0.u30	Dear colleagues, national MPs! I invite you to give us the information of the People's Deputy Andrew Teteruk, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-04-m0.u31	Thank you. Honourable Head, Honourable Deputies, Honorable Citizens of Ukraine! I want to make a statement, I take responsibility from all the combatants present on the front from all the military who have entered the Council, that we have no relation whatsoever to the so-called U.S. Battalion Brotherhood, which is stirring up the situation in the center of our country. I would like to state that all attempts at information destruction of our space and at mistrusting the people of Ukraine that our Ukrainian army will surely win and fight only with the enemy of our country is a fact. We will surely win, and we must believe that every military does its best to destroy the Russian occupation anywhere. And not create an information drive, show that we have any situations that can be interpreted in a binary way. So I'm asking you to support our position and lead us to all the Ukrainians. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-04-m0.u32	Thank you for your position and military reality. Dear National Deputies! We're moving on to the agenda, before we start our consideration of the agenda, I want to assign a task to the committee of profile to meet immediately under the chairmanship of Prince Ruslan Petrovich for legal policy and justice and consider the draft Law (number 1883), the draft Order (1312) and the draft Statement (1887) for the purpose of preparing these documents for consideration at this meeting and no later than 13:30 for consideration in the Supreme Council Hall. So please, Ruslan Petrovich Knazevitch, please assemble the committee, by 1:30, and I would like to address the head of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, Hanna Mikolayevna Gopko, please consider the draft Decision on the Supreme Council application (number 1847). It was also previously included in the agenda but not considered by the committee. So please consider the committee and make appropriate suggestions for consideration so that the procedure is followed, please. And now we're moving on to the day-to-day issues, dear colleagues, please focus on your work. Draft Law on the Ratification of the Agreement between Ukraine and the European Union on the Status of the European Union Consultative Mission for the Reform of the Civil Security Sector of Ukraine. Reported by the Minister for Foreign Affairs of Ukraine, Paul Klimkin. Before that, there is a proposal to consider the draft Law on Ratification by Short Procedure, honourable fellow national MPs. I am voting on the summary procedure of the bill (registration number 0003) for consideration of the reduced procedure. I'd like to make a statement, distinguished national MPs. As far as consideration is concerned, the reduced procedure is concerned. [[10:49:38]] For-191 Decision taken. Please report to the Minister for Foreign Affairs of the Ukraine of Paul Klimkin. Please, Minister. The head of the European Integration Committee, Irina Herachenko, will report.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-04-m0.u33	Dear Mr. Head, ladies and gentlemen, national deputies! Today you are being reviewed by the draft Law on the Ratification of the Agreement on the Status of the European Union Advisory Mission for the Reform of the Civil Security Sector of Ukraine. Without delay, I will say that this agreement is aimed at helping reform Ukraine's security sector, and the mission budget is more than 13 million euros for two years. And the main objective of the mission is to assist in the reform of law enforcement through, of course, advice, implementation of projects, expert analysis of relevant laws. The agreement is needed to ensure the conditions of the mission. Given the importance of promoting law enforcement reform, please support this agreement. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-04-m0.u34	Thank you, Minister. Please, Irina Heratschenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-04-m0.u35	Dear Mr. Head, dear colleagues! The Committee on European Integration discussed at its meeting on 3 February this year the draft Ukrainian Civil Security Reform Act on the ratification of the Agreement between Ukraine and the European Union on the Status of the European Union Consultative Mission for Civil Security Reform and adopted a unanimous decision: recommending it to the Supreme Council of Ukraine as a whole. National deputies, members of the committee, point out that the bill is designed to strengthen Ukraine's ability to deal with the crisis by reforming the law enforcement system. It should also be noted that the objectives of the mission are to assist the European Union in reforming the security sector of Ukraine, as noted by the Minister of Foreign Affairs, particularly the IMF, including the police, the National Guard, the Ukrainian Security Service and the State Foreign Service. The mission also includes monitoring the implementation of decisions and the implementation of legislation in the area of security sector reform. And by the way, the mission's representatives who were present at the committee's meeting were proposing to Parliament's profile committees, honourable colleagues, technical assistance and cooperation in monitoring legislation and implementing legislation, so we're also inviting them to cooperate. The mission is also ready to support reforms through training and training of the staff of the State authorities involved. The committee's decision is in line with the findings of the Supreme Council of Ukraine's Chief Scientific and Scientific Administration. And the minister pointed out that the mission would require 13 million euros, and I would also like to point out that these funds would not be allocated to Ukraine's budget -- they were the costs of the European Union and the donors. Also, the issue of how the fastest ratification of this Consultative Mission Agreement was discussed on Monday at the Council of Reforms under the chairmanship of the President of Ukraine, where all the leaders of the factions of the parliamentary majority, who supported the fastest agreement, were present. That's why we're hoping for this.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-04-m0.u36	Please. Done? Thank you. Thank you. Please sign two for, two against, honorary colleagues. Victor Chumak, Peter Dusty Block.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-04-m0.u37	Dear colleagues, I ask you to support this agreement that Irina Heratschenko and the Minister of Foreign Affairs spoke of, because the work of this advisory mission is very important to Ukraine. The consultative mission will provide appropriate advice in reforming the most complex, one of the most corrupt areas in Ukraine, the law enforcement agencies themselves. Civil security is the kind of security that should in principle guarantee our people order in the streets, order in their homes, order that no crime remains undisclosed, no wrongdoing remains unpunished. I met with representatives of this mission, practically leaders. I've seen their tremendous training. Moreover, I have seen their enormous desire to see truly civilized European law enforcement authorities in Ukraine. So I urge you to support this agreement and vote in favour. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-04-m0.u38	Please, Gregory Nemira, Fatherland.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-04-m0.u39	Gregory Nemira, faction of Fatherland. The Fatherland faction supports the ratification of the agreement between Ukraine and the European Union. I want to say that this Consultative Mission has actually begun its work since December 1, 2014. But in order to fully fulfil its mandate, which was formed in response to a request from Ukraine, the missions need to settle legal issues. My point is that the assistance of this Consultative Mission involves not only the executive branch but also the parliament. In fact, all committees that show such interest can be recipients of this advice. The Human Rights Committee had a report from the representatives of this Advisory Mission, where we had already arranged for practical advice to be provided to the expert on how to draw conclusions from those laws that follow the direction of the profile committee. One question, I think, needs special emphasis, namely, civil security. In other words, the safety of people who are not to be obscured even by State security considerations. We have a often-increased situation where, for reasons of security, the State is either ignored or under-emphasized in human security, civil security. That is why, given that Ukraine is firmly on the path of integration into the European Union, one of the biggest missions that is now under the flag of the European Union needs the most favourable conditions for its functioning. The fact that this mission is headed by an experienced diplomat, Kalman Mizej, is also a guarantee that their advisory assistance will be of quality. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-04-m0.u40	Thank you. Please, Ostap Semierak, People's Front. In a minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-04-m0.u41	Seven, People's Front. Dear colleagues, I would like to remind you that one of the reasons for the Dignity Revolution was the European choice made by the Ukrainian society. After the revolution, the government of Maidan was created and the elected new president of Ukraine, Poshenko, and the government led by Yatsenuk, and President Poshenko signed the Association Agreement, which the Ukrainian Parliament ratified. In fact, today's ratification of the agreement is a continuation of the European choice of European integration adopted by the Ukrainian people and the Ukrainian society. I would like to stress that European integration in Ukraine has become a part of internal politics and a priority of internal politics. In fact, the reforms initiated by Minister Habakkuk give hope that the entire legal system will be changed for the better. And this agreement will help us.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-04-m0.u42	Please finish, 10 seconds, finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-04-m0.u43	I would like to point out that by ratifying this agreement today, the Ukrainian Parliament supports the government, supports the Minister of Internal Affairs in reforming Ukraine's law enforcement system. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-04-m0.u44	Thank you. Are they willing to express themselves? None. Dear colleagues, I ask you to invite the people's deputies to the hall, the question is extremely important and, I think, both the rapporteur and the co-reporter have expressed themselves on the importance of ratifying this law, the adoption of this Law on Ratification. So I would ask everyone to prepare for the vote. Ladies and gentlemen, please prepare for the vote on ratification, the Law on the Ratification of the Agreement between Ukraine and the European Union on the Status of the Consultative Mission of the European Union for the Reform of the Civil Security Sector of Ukraine (registration number 0003). The committee's conclusion is to accept it as a whole. I'm betting on a bill (registration number 0003). Please be careful of the people's deputies, on the basis and in general. Please vote on the basis as a whole (registration number 0003) of the draft Ratification Act. On the basis and in general. [[11:00:21]] For 272 Decision taken. Thank you, Your Honor. Next question, the draft Law on the Ratification of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Lithuania, the Government of the Republic of Poland and the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine concerning the creation of a common military unit (registration number 0004). There is a proposal to consider the bill in a simplified manner. Please, Your Honor, determine whether this bill should be considered in a simplified manner. Please vote. [[11:01:01]] For 234 Decision taken. Please welcome Deputy Secretary of Defense, Peter Mikolaiovich Mehed. Please, Your Honor. The head of the European Integration Committee, Irina Herachenko, will report.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-04-m0.u45	Honorary Volodymira Borisovich, distinguished national deputies, according to the requirements of section 2 of article 9 of the Ukrainian Law on International Contracts of Ukraine, the Agreement between the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine by the Government of the Republic of Lithuania and the Government of the Republic of Poland concerning the creation of a joint military unit on 19 September 2014 in Warsaw is subject to ratification by the Supreme Council of Ukraine. In order to implement this internal state procedure, the Ministry of Defence has developed a draft Ukrainian Treaty Ratification Act. The agreement takes effect 30 days after the date of receipt by the depositary of Poland of the latest written report on the completion of all internal procedures necessary to take effect. Ukraine’s national contributions to Lithuania’s Ukrebrig make up 545 military personnel. In addition, 15 persons are directly involved in the brigade headquarters. From the Republic of Poland to 3.5 thousand, from the Republic of Lithuania to 350. The command of the brigade on a permanent basis will be located in the city of Lyublin, Poland. The units that are allocated by the States of the parties to the brigade will remain within the armed forces of their respective states and will be located in their permanent locations. A draft law with interested central executive authorities and no additional expenditure from the state budget. According to the Lithuanian and Polish sides, the procedure for ratifying the agreement is in its final stages.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-04-m0.u46	Please, let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-04-m0.u47	I'd like to support you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-04-m0.u48	Thank you. Please, Irina Heratschenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-04-m0.u49	Dear colleagues, I see that in the session room the right mood, let us vote on the ratification of the Law on the Ratification of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Lithuania, the Government of the Republic of Poland and the Cabinet of the Ministers of Ukraine regarding the creation of a common military unit. The European Integration Committee also discussed the relevant bill at its February 3rd meeting, and in its entirety approved the decision to recommend it to the Supreme Council of Ukraine as a whole. I would also like to inform the distinguished National Deputies that Ukraine already has a successful experience of creating similar, shared with other states, military units, particularly through the conclusion and ratification of the Agreement between the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and the Government of the Republic of Hungary, the Government of Romania, the Government of the Slovak Republic, and the creation of a multinational engineering battalion of Tiss. Well, and any similar decisions, they're actually working today to increase the security of our Armed Forces. Please support the entire Parliament. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-04-m0.u50	Thank you. Please two for, two for against. Please, national deputy Evlakhov, block of Peter Dustenka.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-04-m0.u51	Good afternoon! Please pass the word to Mrs. Jurinec.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-04-m0.u52	I didn't hear the last name.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-04-m0.u53	He's a Jew.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-04-m0.u54	Jurinac, please, National Deputy Jurinec.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-04-m0.u55	The request of all deputies was supported on the committee, and we're certainly proud to have a neighbor like Poland, because in difficult times it's the country that supported us. And so working together is our security today, which is very important in our country. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-04-m0.u56	Thank you! Please, Olena Sotnik, Self-help.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-04-m0.u57	Dear colleagues! At the committee meeting yesterday, the bill was unanimously supported, and we also ask you to support it. Let us remind you that Poland and Lithuania have always been and remain our allies, and the creation of a similar practice, the only practice of enhancing Ukraine's security, is very important today, it's a priority. Therefore, I very much ask the people’s deputies to vote very carefully on the basis as a whole. Thank you!
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-04-m0.u58	Thank you! Please, National MP Moseschuk, "Radical Party."
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-04-m0.u59	Of course, we support this bill, we support cooperation with all foreign military structures that are allies of Ukraine in the fight against Moscow. But at the same time, I'd like to call on the Minister of Defense, he's asked once before not to be summoned here by Mr. Mehed, who worked with the Russian Federation in 2008. The Ukrainian Security Service has compiled the relevant documents, has damaged national security, has little to do with acting as deputy secretary of defense, and has continued to go to this Hall. So once again, I'm talking to the Secretary of Defense that if you want your bills to be supported, don't send Agent Kremlin into this room. Thank you!
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-04-m0.u60	Andrew Teteruk, People's Front, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-04-m0.u61	Dear Mr. Head, the distinguished national deputies of Ukraine! Andrew Teteruk, People's Front faction. We think it's necessary to support this bill, it sets a goal, to improve interaction with foreign structures, with which we maintain good neighbourly relations, first. Secondly, getting the invaluable experience that we need every day in the formation of our Armed Forces. I want to set an example in my personal life. Since 2004-2007, I've been on a United Nations peacekeeping mission in Kosovo twice, and there we have had the opportunity to conduct compatible training with foreign troops in almost 32 countries, and this has provided invaluable experience for our troops in the Ukrainian-Polish battalion. During our compatible studies, we were also able to increase our professional skills and with the Lithuanian unit, with many others. This puts in quality a new level of preparation for compatible learning, for the professional attitude of our military, ultimately, new quality.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-04-m0.u62	Let me finish, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-04-m0.u63	That's why I'm asking all the MPs to support this bill. Thank you for your attention. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-04-m0.u64	Thank you. Is there anyone who would like to make a statement? Please, Boris Ivanovich Tarasyuk, Fatherland.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-04-m0.u65	Boris Tarasyuk, Fatherland faction. The "Fatherland" faction will definitely support this bill on the creation of a common military part between the friendly states of Ukraine and Poland and Lithuania. We believe that this issue, which has been overtaken by the previous authorities, should be supported and, more importantly, we must support all the formats, including, first and foremost, military cooperation, the creation of joint units, as well as military cooperation between Ukraine, Poland and the Republic of Lithuania. Once again, I want to say that the "Fatherland" faction will support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-04-m0.u66	Thank you. I'm asking the people's deputies to take their jobs. Please, Secretariat, invite the national MPs. For your consideration, your honorary colleagues, introduced, registration number of the bill (0004), draft Law on Ratification of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Lithuania, the Government of the Republic of Poland and the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine regarding the creation of a common military unit. Both the reporter and the coreporter, as well as the speakers, stressed the importance of making this decision. The committee also considered the committee’s conclusion, a recommendation to accept it as a whole. So I would ask the Ukrainian national deputies to take their seats and prepare for the vote. Please, I'm bringing you in, please, your honors. I'm betting on a bill (registration number 0004), please vote, please support, honourable national MPs, as a whole. Acceptance as a whole. In general. [[11:11:23]] For 290 Decision taken. [[Applause]] Thank you, Your Honor. Next. The draft decree (registration number 1749) reports the head of the Committee on Human Rights, National Minorities, and International Relations of the Grigory Nemira. Before that, I would like to put to the vote a motion for a summary ruling. I'd like to introduce you to my distinguished colleagues of the National Deputies. As far as consideration is concerned, the reduced procedure is concerned. [[11:12:09]] For 224 Decision taken. Please, Gregory Restless.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-04-m0.u67	The President-in-Office, honourable colleagues, your attention is given to the Supreme Council of Ukraine decree on the holding of parliamentary hearings: "The role and impact of civil society on the formation of the country's unity policy." I would like to point out that the proposal to hold such hearings was unanimously supported by the Human Rights Committee, which includes representatives of all factions. We know that after Maidan came up with a whole new layer of civil society that deals with problems that have never been in Ukraine before, it's about temporary displaced persons, it's about refugees, it's about people who are now suffering from violations of their rights in a temporarily occupied territory, where the state is not being taken over, the first are representatives of civil society. We also have to be aware that there is no active civil society anywhere in Europe that is often, and this is already recognized internationally as being as active as in Ukraine. Part of the most active representatives are now here, in this room as national deputies. But there is a problem when the role of civil society is limited to words for powerful or less powerful meetings. That is why in order to find out what is practically working, what is not working, what needs to be changed, what is the best experience, we offer to conduct such hearings. As for the date, instead of March 4, March 11th, four scheduled hearings on Chernobyl’s AES are offered. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-04-m0.u68	Thank you. Please write: 2 in, 2 in. People's Deputy Yelensky, People's Front.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-04-m0.u69	Ladies and gentlemen, the People's Front faction will fully support these hearings. We believe that the role of civil society in shaping ethnic politics has been diminishing for many years. And now civil society is called upon to play a special role in shaping this policy. The fact is, for at least the last four years, Janukovich's regime has been trying to lure national minorities, ethnic groups into one another, to ignite possible lines of opposition in Ukrainian society, to try to divide the country by ethnic and religious signs. And it is a strong civil society that can put an end to this. We also expect that these hearings will help produce the most appropriate model of ethnonational policy for the country and society that is heading towards the European Union. We know that we have a great deal of both legislative and political problems that hinder the stitching of our society. But this stitching is the most pressing problem of social engineering for the country, the state, and the legislative body. I call on parliamentarians unanimously to support these hearings. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-04-m0.u70	Thank you. Arthur Gerasimov, Block of Petra Dustenka.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-04-m0.u71	Please give the floor to the national MP, Packan.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-04-m0.u72	National MP Packan Valerius.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-04-m0.u73	Ladies and gentlemen of the people, Your Honor! The Peter Dustenka faction will support the decision to maintain such hearings. I would like to remind all the national MPs that civil society has played a key role, namely, the primary role in the Dignity Revolution. We must now consolidate and unite our efforts to ensure that once again Parliament and civil society are united. In order to ensure that all decisions adopted in our Parliament are consistent, unanimous with civil society. We have something to talk about -- it's also forced displaced people, it's ethnic politics. And I ask everyone to take an active part in discussing these issues, and to show once again that the Ukrainian Parliament is a Parliament that listens, hears the Ukrainian people and the Ukrainian society. The Petra Dustenka Faction will support the adoption of such decisions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-04-m0.u74	Thank you. Dear colleagues! I'm asking you to take your seats. Let's go to the vote. Draft Decision on Parliamentary hearings on the role, meaning and impact of civil society on the formation of ethnic unity policy in Ukraine, registration number 1749, taking into account the date of parliamentary hearings on 11 March. I ask you to prepare for the vote, distinguished national MPs. Let's go to the vote. The draft Decree No. 1749 is put to the vote. Please vote. On the whole, taking into account the change in the date on March 11. Please vote. May I have your support, fellow members of the National People's Party. Please vote. Please be supportive. [[11:19:20]] For 271 Decision taken. Thank you. Next. Draft Decree amending certain regulations of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the subjects of the Supreme Council of Ukraine's eighth call. Ladies and gentlemen, a proposal is made to consider this decision in a simplified manner. Please make up your mind. [[11:19:56]] For 221 Decision taken. Please report to Paul Pinzenik, the first deputy head of the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-04-m0.u75	Dear colleagues, your opinion is proposed for consideration of the bill. draft Decree (registration number 1764). The Rules Committee of 13 January this year considered making changes to the subjects of the Supreme Council of Ukraine's eighth call. In particular, proposals by committees on law enforcement, family and youth policy and sport, concerning veterans and disabled persons included in the draft Supreme Council Regulation (registration number 1289) (by Tretlyaków Alexander Yuriovich). In view of the fact that the comments regarding changes in the subjects of the names of the committees mentioned by the other committees, the parliamentary factions, the parliamentary groups, and the Ukrainian national deputies did not come to the committee. The Committee decided to support proposals for changes to the subjects of the Committees: legislative protection of law enforcement, first; secondly, family, youth policy and sport, and veterans and disabled persons, as outlined in the draft Supreme Council of Ukraine Decree No. 1289. Furthermore, in view of the fact that the committee in the general draft regulation took into account the proposals made in the draft Supreme Council of Ukraine (registration No. 1289), the committee also decided to propose to the National Deputy of Ukraine, Alexander Yuriovich Trelyakow, as the initiator of the project that had been implemented to recall it. Dear colleagues, if briefly so, the committee continues to study the subjects of committee knowledge. A large number of suggestions have been made. From these proposals are separate proposals that give no warning to any committee, no deputy faction. It is suggested that they be supported. The committee will approve the schedule for consideration of other proposals. We'll keep working. And we hope that in the future we will improve the subjects of knowledge of the committees of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Thank you for your attention. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-04-m0.u76	Thank you. Is there a need to make a statement? Any questions? None. Dear colleagues, there is a proposal to vote on the basis and in general a draft decision. As far as I can tell, there's no objection to the people's deputies. A draft Decree amending certain regulations of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the subjects of the Supreme Council of Ukraine's eighth call (registration number 1764) is put to the vote. People’s deputies are requested to prepare for the vote on the basis and in general. — Registration No. 1764. Please vote. [[11:22:59]] For 231 Decision taken. The following question (registration No. 1752) is the 2015 Remembrance Regulation. There is a proposal to consider this draft regulation in a simplified procedure. Please identify the national deputies for consideration of the summary ruling. [[11:23:38]] For 193 Decision taken. Please, Mikola Knieżicki, head of the profile committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-04-m0.u77	Dear national deputies, as you recall, when the parliaments of past convocations worked, there was usually a whole series of decrees at the end of the week or Wednesday to mark those or other memorable dates. This year in the committee, we decided to take a different approach to this issue to honor the memory of our countrymen, to remember our heroic history, in order not to forget the people who contributed and did much for Ukraine. We went to the State Executive Authority, the Institute of National Memory. They gathered all the proposals from the National Deputies who came to the Professional Committee and asked the National Memory Institute to prepare a single decision that would be respected throughout the year. Accordingly, we received relevant information from the Institute of National Memory, which made serious historical intelligence, took into account all the suggestions, and confirmed the only list of these memorable dates in the Committee on Culture and Spirituality. I'm asking you to support him right now. What we have also done is we have proposed to the Cabinet of Ministers by this determination not to create separate commissions to honor each of the dates, but to make the only commission to involve experts from the Institute of National Memory so that Ukrainian society can systematically fit into its history, into its past, without which our future cannot be imagined. We've taken quite a few suggestions into account. They're on the Supreme Council website, you know them, they've been doing this work on the committee for a long time. Another proposal came to us from the National Deputies of Lilia Greenevich and John Kirilenko, asking to add to this a list in accordance with article 93 of the Constitution of Ukraine to mark the 150th anniversary of the Polish Agricultural Society, which actually started agrarian science in both Ukraine and Europe. Please support this decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-04-m0.u78	Thank you. Is there a need to discuss the draft decision? None. Ladies and gentlemen, please prepare for the vote. It is, isn't it? Please, Mikola Tomenko's word. Mikola Tomenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-04-m0.u79	Dear colleagues, our faction fully supports the ideology of the committee. I'll say it's not some revolutionary novelty, it's a return to what we've been doing two calls back. This has always been the case in the Ukrainian Parliament. Unfortunately, a few of the phone calls came out of the way and we began to make decisions in the village of the authorship of specific deputies. That's why we support ideology. Instead, we had a lot of comments on the faction, not on ideology, but on specific things. First, let's say in cities of populated areas. Here's the principle we take to celebrate. It's a date for zero, it's a date for a hundred there and so on. The second position now applies to educational institutions. We have basic serious universities that have addressed us and the faction deputies have talked about what would be desirable to include them. In terms of personnel, it's not usually the same thing, and especially for 75 years, we've had a great contemporary Ukrainian theater creator, and I mean early in the 20th century, Mark Kropivnicki, etc. Our proposal for our faction is constructive: to support the ideology, to vote on the basis, and to give the opportunity to those other MPs who are not included, to send the committee to look again, not to vote, but to add to the text of the ruling, and we are voting in three weeks or two weeks at a time. Because it would be unfair if they were in a city or university or somewhere else, so they wouldn't get into that list. So once again, by fully supporting ideology, there's a request that we, on the basis of that, be able to include a number of universities, cities and personnel. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-04-m0.u80	Thank you. Please, Igor Mosiyczuk, Radical Party.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-04-m0.u81	Igor Mosiyczuk, Radical Party. I would also like to point out that a number of notable dates have not been counted by ideologies and the approach of the committee. Well, for example, 110 years since the creation of the first Ukrainian newspaper, Clyborob. At the same time, I would also like to recommend that the committee begin to include new historical dates, such as June 13 – the day of the liberation of the city of Mariupol from Russian invaders. That is why I propose to vote and to allow historical dates to be included in the list they really deserve. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-04-m0.u82	Thank you. Please, Stephen Barna.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-04-m0.u83	Stepan Barna, Petra Dustenka's Block. Dear colleagues, I fully agree with the ideology of the matter and the draft decision, but we need to be clear. In this case, each member of the circuit must have taken the initiative to mark certain memorable dates. In particular, I have registered a draft decree to commemorate the 170th anniversary of John Pavloj, a resident of the Ternopil region, the village of Grimajlova, the Docent of the University of Sorbonne, and the inventor of X-rays, which today, without which there is no medical facility today. Moreover, it should be said that there are many educational institutions in Ukraine today that bear the name of this famous scholar. So I would like to take this into account in the process of considering this draft regulation, and also to take into account the wishes of the deputies. Mr. Head, I ask you to allow some time to take these proposals into account by the national MPs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-04-m0.u84	Please, the head of the profile committee, Mikola Knieżicki.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-04-m0.u85	Dear National Deputies! First of all, I want to pay attention to what the committee was led by when it chose the dates or the dates. This is a practice that corresponds to the President's decrees and the practice that existed in the Supreme Council before. The commemorative dates and the Jubilee proposed for marking should apply to Ukraine, its history, and its territory. Wait a second! Now listen to what you don't know. All dates are given in a new style, the memorable dates and the Jubilee offered for the celebration should begin at 50 years of age. Historical events, the anniversary of organizations and institutions are celebrated with a 25-year interval: 50 years old, 75 years old, 100 years old, 125 years old. The Jubilee of Eminent People is celebrated with a 10-year interval: 50 years, 60s, 70s, 80s, etc. The setting of the annual observance calendar, with the exception of public holidays and festive years, is not part of the Supreme Council’s mandate and is determined by the decrees of the President of Ukraine. In the event that the exact date of the event or the birth of the person from whom the Jubilee is counted is known, proposals for the marking of the memorial dates and the Jubilee are made at least one month before the date of the observance. The Jubilees of those outstanding personalities who have died are being considered. The Jubilee of an outstanding person is calculated from the date of his birth. Memorial dates and Jubilee are considered, not at the local or local level. Dear National Deputies! I ask you to support this decision as a whole and explain why. It's not a comprehensive list, if there's any of your suggestions, we can look at them on the committee and give them, look for expertise. But if we do not vote on it as a whole, for example, Odessa National University will not be able to celebrate and not be able to celebrate its Jubilee or the Jubilee of Mechnikov, whose name it is called, as well as many other educational institutions. We've been looking at this for a long time on the committee, it's an open process, all the proposals have been taken into account, those coming now, we're counting in the future. Please support, vote on the basis and in general, so as not to prevent people from celebrating the outstanding historical personalities of Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-04-m0.u86	Thank you. I think it's good enough to propose to the head of the committee, now to look at it as a basis and as a whole. And I'd like to give the commission to the committee right now, all the suggestions that are in the deputies and are going to be addressed to generalize, see if they are responding to what has just been said from the rostrum, and so we're going to prepare a change to this decision or a new decision, and we're going to put a dot on this. I don't think there's going to be any problems here, so maybe we can fix it. Please, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-04-m0.u87	We've consulted with a committee member to support the proposal of the People's Chamber of Barna, to add 170 years from the date of John Poole's birth. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-04-m0.u88	Please, Igor Nasalik's word. National MP Nasalik. National MP Kurilo, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-04-m0.u89	Please pass the word Curilo.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-04-m0.u90	Dear Mr. Head, from now on, there are still a number of additions I can make. There's an offer, Mr. Head. Vladimir Borisovich, there is a proposal for a reduced procedure for second reading. Because a number of notable dates are not included, and the decision of the Peter Dusty Block was based on the second reading.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-04-m0.u91	Thank you. Lilia Greenevich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-04-m0.u92	Dear colleagues, I ask you to pay attention to the committee head's proposal and vote in general. If necessary, then we can always make more changes, we can take some of the dates back into account by the new regulation. But now, if we don't vote in general, we're stopping the process of setting significant dates for a whole bunch of higher education institutions. I very much ask that we vote in general, and we settle the rest with the next decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-04-m0.u93	Colleagues, there's a lot of different thoughts, let's do it this way. Let's now vote on the basis of the procedure for preparing for a reduced procedure for second reading, and the next one, for example, Tuesday, we'll work fast for next Tuesday or Wednesday we'll take it as a whole. I don't think everyone's ready. I think there's going to be a cut-off procedure for no one to argue, colleagues, to be voted by Tuesday, and nothing's going to happen here. The factions are all ready to make their proposals or not. If everyone's ready to make a statement, I'm going to give it a minute, and you're going to make a statement, if not, then we're going to prepare for the second reading for a reduced procedure so that we don't make any differences here. Let's take a minute from the factions. From factions per minute, Lucenka, offers from factions?
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-04-m0.u94	Dear colleagues! I think we're now taking it as a basis, a reduced procedure for second reading, next week we're ready to vote. There are some important suggestions, such as the Jubilee of Kharkiv Politics, the oldest technical university in the country. Other things, I think five days will suffer this determination, all the jewelers in the world long ago, they're not in a hurry, we're celebrating everything.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-04-m0.u95	Colleagues, we've been discussing for a long time what we can do very quickly. I mean, I'm going to put the vote on the ground, then I'm going to put support to the vote, I'm going to prepare for the reduced procedure for the second reading. I'm giving the commission to the committee: get ready quickly, and on Tuesday we'll be ready, and we'll vote. Why do we now begin to discuss where we have full understanding? So, your honors, please prepare yourself for the registration number of the draft decree, (number 1752) I'm putting the vote on the ground. Please prepare, Your Honor, and vote on the basis. Please vote on the basis, on the basis. [[11:37:59]] For 254 Decision taken. Next. Preparing for a second read by a reduced procedure. Please be supportive. As for the preparation for the second reading of the decree by a reduced procedure. Please vote. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. [[11:38:22]] For 234 Decision taken. I ask the committee, please generalize all proposals made by the people's deputies, put them in the table for the second reading. Thank you for understanding. Next question, my fellow Members, is the draft Act amending some of Ukraine’s legislative acts (registration No. 1107). There is a proposal to consider this draft law in a simplified procedure. I would like to refer to the National Deputies for consideration of the reduced procedure. [[11:39:10]] For 209 Decision taken. Please, National Deputy Osuhovski.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-04-m0.u96	Oleg Osuhovsky, the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union, the city of Raven. Mr. Head, my fellow MPs, brothers and sisters in Ukraine, I would like to present a bill today (1107). The draft law provides for amendments to a number of valid laws regarding the settlement of Ukrainian access to water, such as the amendments to article 47 of the Ukrainian Water Code on the prohibition of restrictions on general water use, article 88 of the Ukrainian Water Code and article 60 of the Ukrainian Land Code on the guarantee of Ukrainian citizens free and free access to water objects. Furthermore, in article 61 and article 62 of the Land Code on the Prohibition of Bargaining, which prevents citizens from accessing the shores of water objects. Available fences are offered to be dismantled at the expense of their owners. Amendments to article 110 of the Ukrainian Water Code and article 60 of the Ukrainian Code on Administrative Offences impose responsibility for unlawful restrictions on the free and free access of citizens to the coastline of water objects. There is also a need to make changes, and they are being introduced to the Law on Local Self-Government in Ukraine and the Law on Local Government Administrations on the Month of Local Self-Government Authorities in Solving the Issue. What are you talking about? Today, Ukrainian citizens cannot go to water objects, to beaches, because oligarchs have set huge fences, set up paramilitary protections, and some other oligarchs are taking money so that Ukrainians can walk freely.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-04-m0.u97	Please finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-04-m0.u98	Go to the beach and use water objects. Please support this important bill for the Ukrainians. Thank you. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-04-m0.u99	Please, co-reporter Mikola Tomenko, head of the profile committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-04-m0.u100	Dear colleagues, our Committee on Environmental Policy, Environmental Use and Problems of Chernobyl has considered the bill. We support our colleagues, Lewchenka, Osuhovsky, Illenka and others, who raised the subject. Instead, we have a lot of problems with how to implement this bill. What is it? It is about what we need to do in order to force us to stop the right to land, to determine the reasons why we do so, and then to figure out who is implementing this decision. So there are two conceptual things that we have in the session room, by the way, not for the first time, we have to do. So our proposal, the committee, we're not responsible for the Criminal Code, the Administrative Code, for the organization of work. The approach is right and we support it. But it's obvious. And we recommend that we accept it in the first reading. But obviously, if we want to do the real thing, we need to think about the second reading, in conjunction with the Cosmetics Committee, with the law enforcement committee dealing with the Vlasenka Committee, where the authority of the local administration, where the power of the prosecutor, where the authority of the relevant law enforcement agencies, as we do, is clear. Here I am. My colleague, Alexander Kugel, addressed me and many other colleagues, who in the famous, more precisely in the sad times of Chernobyl at that time even Dnipro compared it to a small river. Because if it's a small river, then it's already a more simplified roadblock procedure. So this is a systemic problem of such a general Ukrainian character, and for example, we, I'm actually saying, our committee alone will not do such a systemic law. So our proposal to support in the first reading, and Vladimir Borisovich, you would help us to prepare him for the second reading together with a number of other committees. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-04-m0.u101	Thank you, Mikola Volodymyrovich. Please two for it, two for it, two for it. Please, Yuri Chizmar.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-04-m0.u102	I give the word to Oleg Laszko.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-04-m0.u103	Oleg Lazko.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-04-m0.u104	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. Dear citizens of Ukraine! Dear colleagues! The vast majority of the deputies present in today’s hall. These are the people who came to Parliament for the first time. Let them not be corrupted like all those who have come to them. Let's see in six months. Today's law is just a test. The Disruption Act, the Free Access to Waterhouses Act, we tried to conduct it in the last Supreme Council. We didn't make it. And we have tried many times, and we have failed. Why? Because the vast majority of the people who sat on this Supreme Council, they went from the Supreme Council to the lakes, to the rivers that they built with 5 meters of fences, with choirs. How, then, could they have endured these setbacks on their own? I hope that in the Supreme Council, which came after Maidan, those people who live on fenced rivers, lakes and so forth, much less. Of course, there are some parasites that live there. But I hope that if you and I vote today on this law and allow us to break free access to waterhouses, it will be one of the anti-oligaric decisions that the Supreme Council is obliged to make. Why can’t a simple child get through a fish? Why did we, as in Kharkiv region, get shot by a peasant for trying to fish on a lake? Why do we have everything built up? Why can one be both a forest and a lake and everything else in the world and nothing else can be done? The time has come for the restoration of justice! Every Ukrainian citizen must have free access to the river, to the water, to the fox, to the berries, to the mushrooms. Look, there's no private access to waterfronts anywhere in the world, anywhere free, only we're trapped. Fuck these fences! Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-04-m0.u105	Please, national deputy Evtushok Sergey Mikolaiovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-04-m0.u106	Sergey Eutuszek, "The Fatherland" faction. Please pass the word to Kugel.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-04-m0.u107	In supporting and continuing Mr. Laska's speech, I would like to say that probably every national MP has a petition not only for Kiev, but for every city of Ukraine where there are, there are at least rivers left. Well, that was the game: I'll be rich and I can be called an oligarch if I have a house on a separate stretch of river or sea. It started with Crimea. We remember the last year before the annexation of Crimea, how many Crimsons cried out that we could not get to the sea and started to endure these withdrawals. Yet, we can never expect them to live up to their limitations at any cost. There is a very normal survey of those Baltic countries that suffer these setbacks, and the costs and the work they have done are put in court. And that's the norm. What we have in Kiev, for example. In Kiev, really, Dniper has a small river, and there is a conspiracy with the prosecutor’s office and courts in the case of the Vishgrad district and the town of Vishgrad. Personally with the mayor of the Highlands, Mr. Resetnak, we have been on trial for four years. They're where there's a watershed, everyone who lives in Kiev, hear, the watershed for the city of Kiev has been put away, where the sewers will go straight to the watershed where they'll collect the drinking water to the city of Kiev. With the Attorney General's Office, we went to the court, and what you thought was that the courts, at the expense of money, advocated the interests of those who took the common citizens in the horticultural society to go to the river from which their parents built the houses and it was a place of rest for all. I do.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-04-m0.u108	Please finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-04-m0.u109	I'm finishing up the last thing that there is to win. For example, when Mr. Janukovic took and made a forest plot for Cedar, then I, as a member of the Crimean Parliament, condemned him to this right to hunting and that went all the way down from Ayu Doug and took a piece of the beach. We need to be united. We returned all of this to the Crimean community, that is, Ukraine to unite and adopt this law in the first reading and the second reading. It is, indeed, a national law.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-04-m0.u110	Thank you. Please, Sergey Kaplin, Peter Dust Block.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-04-m0.u111	Sergey Kaplin, Block of Petra Dustenka, strike group. In fact, many will find this discussion not serious or funny. But this is the kind of detail that starts with tremendous pressure and discrimination of oligarchs over ordinary people. And it is unlikely that even by adopting the law, we can wait for an absolute and necessary order in this area. These are primarily the actions of the national deputies along with the common people. And I want to address those citizens who are victims of this division of social, material, ideological. When the oligarchs in every village, city, district, and region simply trample on your souls. I want each of you to address me personally. And I promise you, I will roll with you in every way possible after the adoption of the law, those fences that built up and blocked your way to what belongs to you, which is provided by the Constitution personally for you, that you have preserved, that you have cared for. Otherwise, without decisive, radical, and clear action, we will never achieve order and results in this area. And the second important question. In general, we need to ask extremely serious questions about the management of fisheries. We've been working in the country for a couple of decades. We need to get these occupiers in control of all the fish farming today, change management to know all these possibilities for the common people. Here we can expect the support of our faction and me personally. If a clear illustration is needed, that is where it is. Because we're in charge of managing individual premieres, we're going to feel like we're going to have one fish left. So now it needs to be preserved and given constitutional rights and opportunities, especially to ordinary citizens. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-04-m0.u112	Thank you. Please, Anton Yatzenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-04-m0.u113	Dear colleagues, indeed, worldwide water resources can be used by people, even when hotels are built, it is understandable. The only thing in this law is everything. That is, when a village bet is known and not allowed to be fished or bathed by any major in rural areas. That's the way it says it is. And if you're going to add it to the second reading, then you also have to take that position into account so that the villagers can use the bets. And you have to, the previous speaker said correctly that there was a mechanism to be envisaged, because we're going to get into a vast field of courts when, for example, someone was building or setting up the territory there, it was legal at that point, and then we're going to normally demand compensation, because the law of retroactive force doesn't have. Then we should work very well with his lawyers, work on him. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-04-m0.u114	National Deputy Illenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-04-m0.u115	Andrew Illenko, the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union. Dear colleagues, I think that if you're really national MPs, you're being approached by people with problems when they can't reach their river, to their lake, when some "majority" puts a fence with dogs and with security, with guns, and doesn't let ordinary people into their parent land, where they've been going for generations, resting and so on. And this is a question that should be settled today by the Supreme Council, if this Supreme Council is national, not oligarchic. And this previous speech, it shows that there is a resistance to such a decision. I want to call on the people's deputies, support this bill, support the free initiative. Another important moment. If someone illegally placed a fence there, it must be tolerated, because it stands there illegally, and this law gives us the opportunity, it gives people the initiative to do so. So I call upon all of this to support and support people, and their legitimate rights. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-04-m0.u116	Please, Peter Dust Block, Victor Chumak.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-04-m0.u117	Dear colleagues! Victor Chumak, 214 constituency, city of Kiev I made special emphasis on this because it would seem that this bill could be applied to areas in rural areas. But this bill, and in general the issue that has been raised today, is very relevant, including to the city of Kiev. I'd like to say that the Kiev City Council in 2007-2009 made shameful decisions for me to set up water lanes on the banks of the Dnipro River and even to extract the Dnipro River in some parts of Kiev, a small river. It allowed the construction of the Kyiv slopes and the Kyiv coasts to be 50 meters [50 m] away from the water. And we have what we have on the Left Bank, where in Darnica, where in the Mikilski Freedom, where in Obalona houses are built, which in principle prevent people from going to the Dnipro River. What's more, it's increasing the amount of effort.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-04-m0.u118	Please finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-04-m0.u119	The structure that practically residents of these areas get into major traffic jams, automobiles, and so forth, and does not have infrastructure in the city of Kiev. So what I want to say is that it needs to be supported in the first reading, it needs to be supported and developed by this bill. A.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-04-m0.u120	Thank you. Please, National Deputy Gordjeev, then National Deputy Shinkovic, but please, for 30 seconds, let's proceed to the vote. Invite the national deputies to the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-04-m0.u121	Dear colleagues! Andrew Gordjeev, Hersonian. I'd like to point out that in my district, for example, there's a pond where one of the local oligarchs, when they saw it in the parking lot, shot the kids in the direction so they wouldn't even bathe there. And we have the same situation on the coast of the Black Sea and the Azov Seas. And so I have a request to the authors of this bill, and we will also make appropriate amendments. For one thing, the attraction to responsibility and legal persons for violating the community’s access to these waters. The other one. We know that the public prosecutor's office has been removed today, but this bill does not provide for a mechanism for these communities to exercise the powers that we are now required to give them. So the second thing that needs to happen is to predict the mechanism by which communities have the right to implement this law. Because all the heads of the silage that are there now, they've been giving this land to those people who don't allow communities into these waters.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-04-m0.u122	Thank you. Please, National Deputy Shinkovic.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-04-m0.u123	Andrew Shinkovic, 192nd District, Hmelničkina. Dear colleagues, we also have a case of a guard killing a man because of it. That she, the resident of the village, came to the watershed in the village. Today, residents of Theophilus are fighting for the Theophilus watershed. I'll tell you separately, besides not allowing people, there's illegal logging around the lake, and there's no access to the lake that has general use. And there are a lot of times when guards just bully people, the children that come in. So I also urge everyone to support this bill, if possible, on the basis of the whole. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-04-m0.u124	Thank you. Ever since Self-Help, a national MP named Ednak. And we vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-04-m0.u125	Ladies and gentlemen, the Self-Help faction supports this initiative, and between the first and second readings, we also want to increase fines that are not high enough in this bill. In addition, we want to draw the attention of the national deputies to the problem not only of water objects but also to article 18 of the Ukrainian Forest Code on the long - term temporary use of forests, where the oligars ’ 50 - year possession of forest areas, which are then surrounded by parks as well as water objects. In the coming weeks, we will also amend these norms, and we will also urge the national MPs to pass the test, as in this bill, and support, and limit the initiative: not to distribute the forest areas to the oligarchs for 50 years. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-04-m0.u126	Please, Ivan Melniczuk. Come into the hall, people's deputies. As long as they come in, another speaker.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-04-m0.u127	Dear colleagues, dear colleagues! Deputy Melniczuk, Peter Prashenko's Block. I believe that water objects — rivers, lakes — are what has been given to the people of Ukraine by God for use, that is what God has given us all to rest there, to grow our children, to have our parents there. I think we all need to support this law because it's very good: it clears up the possibility of denying what we've been given to use in Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-04-m0.u128	In conclusion, I still had to speak — and say that this is really something that needs to be done. Guys, please. There's no doubt that all the factions of Parliament, all the national MPs that are now in the room, and 330 of them, I see on card registration, everyone supporting this vital bill, there are no contradictions, including majorists. Dear colleagues, please prepare for the vote. Registration No. 1107: Draft Act amending certain Ukrainian legislation to ensure that citizens have unimpeded access to the coastline of water objects for general use. On the basis of this, I would like to vote 1107, on the basis. Please vote. We have to vote by constitutional majority. [[12:00:53]] For 280 Well, almost, almost. Thank you, Your Honor. According to the Rules, I'm forced to announce a 30-minute recess. At 12:30, please come to the hall, and we'll continue our work. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-04-m0.u129	Heads of factions and coalitions, we will meet on the third floor of my office today. Yuri Vitaliyovich, Julia Volodymyrovna, I have a cabinet on the third floor.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-04-m0.u130	Dear National Deputies! We're continuing our work. I'm asking the faction leaders and the secretary to invite the people's deputies into the hall. Please, Andrew Volodymyrovich Parbius, make some announcements. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-04-m0.u131	Ladies and gentlemen, while the deputies are coming into the hall, I'd like to make some announcements. I'm reporting the entry of the Ukrainian National Deputy Lucenko Irina Stepanowna as part of the MP's Peter Prashenko bloc. Congratulations, Mrs. Irina. I'm reporting on the creation of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the 8th call of the Interfractional Right-Forty Union. The National Deputy of Ukraine, Jaros Dmitry Anatoliyovich, was elected head of the Interfractional Law Force Union. He's in a hospital right now with gunshot wounds. I had a long conversation with him yesterday. Therefore, we welcome the creation of an interfractional union and the election of Dmitry Jarosh as its leader. I'm reporting on the creation of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the 8th call of the interfractional Ukrop MPs. The National Deputy of Ukraine, Jaros Dmitry Anatoliyovich, was elected head of the interfractional Ukrop MP. We welcome the creation of interfractional integration and head selection. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-04-m0.u132	Ladies and gentlemen, the draft Ukrainian law (registration number 1883) is being submitted to your consideration. It is the draft law depriving Yanukovic of the title of President of Ukraine. It is prepared by the national deputy Lášk. There's an offer to take a brief look at it. But on the condition that everyone who insists on the word will be given this opportunity. So please prepare (registration number 1883) for consideration of the reduced procedure. As far as consideration is concerned, the reduced procedure is concerned. Please vote. As far as consideration is concerned, the reduced procedure is concerned. [[12:56:30]] For 180. Please, Oleg Lazko. According to Knyazevich Ruslan Petrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-04-m0.u133	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. Honorable citizens of Ukraine, distinguished colleagues of national MPs! A bill prepared by the leaders of the coalition's parliamentary factions on depriving Yanukovitch Viktor Fedorovich of the title of President of Ukraine, which we are now discussing with you. This law was to be considered in February last year, when this Herostrat set fire to a temple called "Ukraine," when he shot our brothers in Midan when he called Putin to bring troops into Ukraine. Janukovic has no moral or any other right to be called President of Ukraine. As you know, the Constitution stipulates that the President of Ukraine, after the end of office, continues to carry the title of President if he is not removed from office in the order of impeachment. As you recall, in the order of impeachment, we did not remove Yanukovic for one reason, for he had withdrawn from the duties of the President because he had betrayed the Ukrainian state, the Ukrainian people, and fled to the wing, under the occupier’s wing. That is why on February 23, 2014, the Supreme Council recognized Yanukovitch as self - evading. But today Janukovic continues to be formally named President of Ukraine. I now propose to the Supreme Council to unanimously vote in favour of depriving Yanukov of the title of President of Ukraine. And God forbid a man ever comes to the office of President of Ukraine who for the sake of power kills his own citizens, who for the sake of power betrays his own country for the sake of power. And let this be a teaching to all those who yearn for the presidency.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-04-m0.u134	Please, Ruslan Knyazevich.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-04-m0.u135	Dear Mr. Head, dear colleagues, in the absence of a quorum, the committee did not meet or consider the matter. But at the same time, the congregations of the committee members present asked me to express their position that it was a matter for the session hall to decide because it was a political one. But we're all alone in this, all the representatives of the political forces, and we would like to ask this issue today as a whole so that there's no second-reading procedure, because there's actually nothing to consider in the second reading. This is a question that needs to be solved and turned over immediately. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-04-m0.u136	Thank you. Please, do you need two in favour, two in favor, or do we vote? Yes. Yes, a moment is requested by the People's Deputy Kaplan. Then the national deputy of Teteruk. Then Lozov. Capplin later.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-04-m0.u137	People's deputy Kaplin, Petra Prashenko Block, strike group. I think we have a constitutional majority today to make this decision, because the blood of Yanukovich's crimes is in every region of the country. Every majority district, every village, every city, every district center, the whole country suffered from its crimes. But I would like to stress another very important responsibility for us. In the past, there were an incredible number of deputies serving his regime. Whom did he rely on in carrying out these crimes? And I've already introduced a bill to depriving them of the same status as the Ukrainian people's deputies, so that no one can ever tell their grandson or every citizen of the country that he was once a national MP. And this should be a teaching for this Parliament in the same way. We must serve people, not our ambitions, and our desire for power.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-04-m0.u138	Please, Andrew Teteruk, then the national MP Lozový. One minute and we'll go to the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-04-m0.u139	Dear Mr. Head, distinguished national MPs, Andrew Teteruk, People's Front faction. We think we're paying too much attention to former President Yanukovic. There is no doubt that he is a criminal and has no right to bear the high honor of the President of Ukraine. And so I propose to support this bill, to vote, to forget about Yanukovich and to work for Ukraine. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-04-m0.u140	Please, National Deputy Lozov, one minute. Then the National Deputy Sobolev, a minute, Yegor Sobolev.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-04-m0.u141	Andrew Lozový, the radical Party of Lazka. In this room, Julia Timoshenko, Igor Mosiyczuk, Yuri Lucenko, unfortunately there is no Andry Bielecki, who is currently at war, and there are people in whom Yanukovic stole a piece of life. In this room, Oksana Korchinska and Boris Filatov, who had to live in exile for a while because of this bastard. In this room, for example, I'm sorry for being immodest, but I didn't stay at home for a month because I knew I was looking for garbage and armed aunts. And most of all, just the rivers of blood have been spilled and over a hundred people have been killed in the revolution because of this bastard, who is an unworthy president of Ukraine. And I really hope we have no right to forget this moment, because otherwise, who forgets his past, he has no right to the future. I very much hope that Ukrainian troops will go to Rostov, go to Moscow, and Yanukovich will not be hiding anywhere until he has nowhere to go.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-04-m0.u142	Please, Yegor Sobolev. I'm asking you to invite the people's deputies into the hall.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-04-m0.u143	Colleagues, let's face it, we've been chosen here not only to speak but also to do what we're talking about and to promise the electorate. The decision must be voted on, but Yanukovich must be taken to Ukraine at the same time. At the same time, however, the case must be investigated by him and his organized criminal group. And in order to do that, you and I need to get the heads of law enforcement to do this. You may have forgotten that, but the state of Ukraine has not yet asked the state of Russia to betray this criminal, who has already been arrested by the Ukrainian court. Let us not simply vote but force the heads of law enforcement agencies, particularly the Attorney General, to do their job. And if they fail to do so, let us look for new law enforcement officials. From this day forward, we begin to print and explain to the voters the surname of every deputy who has not supported retirement.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-04-m0.u144	Ten seconds, complete.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-04-m0.u145	The only way to do that is to take Yanukovich out not only of the president's title, but of money and freedom.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-04-m0.u146	The closing word is Oleg Lazko, and we move on to the vote. Everyone, please be prepared.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-04-m0.u147	Dear colleagues, I thank you very much for your support, and we are finally restoring historical justice. And I fully support all my colleagues, the task of not just depriving Yanukov of his title, our task, our authority, the law enforcement agencies. Our duty to the 100th Heavens, to the heroes who today protect our country in the Eastern Front, to bring the entire Yanukovich gang to criminal responsibility because there would be no Yanukovich gang, there would be no Yanukovic. If it weren't for those who helped him steal, who helped destroy, who voted in favour of dictatorial laws, Janukovic would have been no one -- he was a political pygme. You raised him, you made him a bloodsucker, you made him a dictator, and today you, with MPs, continue to sit in the Supreme Council. And so, the first step is to take Yanukovich's title as president. The second step is to deprive the theft bloc of its parliamentary mandates, to hold it accountable for committing crimes against the Ukrainian people. Finally. When the draft ruling was discussed, Vladimir Borisovich Groysman, Head of the Supreme Council, made a proposal, he asked me not to say, because he is a modest man, and I will say it anyway. Mr. Groissman suggested that paragraph 2 of this law be supplemented by the phrase, "Not only take the title of President, but shoot." I support this proposal: we shoot when we get from under the ground and bring it here to Midan. Where he killed people, that's where he'll end his bad, dog life!
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-04-m0.u148	But only according to the decision of the court. Please, Anatoly Matvienko from the procedure. According to the court’s decision, and if it is necessary to change the law, it will have to be considered in the Ukrainian Parliament, honourable colleagues. We have to build a justice state. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-04-m0.u149	Anatoly Matvienko, Peter Dustenka's Block. Vladimir Borisovich, I'd like to address you. The organisation of Parliament's work is to follow the procedure for organising this work. We have two minutes for the report, two minutes for the report, two minutes for the counter, and one minute for the faction to clarify its position. I would ask you not to violate the procedure and not to use it, not to abuse the rostrum of some of our deputies to promote their idea. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-04-m0.u150	Thank you! There is this wording in Parliament's Rules of Procedure: "Conclusion of the Reporter." I don't think we're going to argue, I'm trying to be democratic enough to follow a full procedure, there's a closing word, dear friends. But we agreed, when we voted in favour of a reduced procedure, that if they want to get the word, I won't limit it, it's my right as chairman. I respect these recommendations with great respect. Please vote. I'm putting to the vote registration number 1883 a bill depriving Yanukovic of the title of President of Ukraine. There is a proposal based on the whole faction and coalition. Please determine how to vote. [[13:08:37]] For 281 Decision taken. Honorary colleagues, you are being brought to your attention by a bill (registration No. 1877). A draft application to the International Criminal Court for the recognition by Ukraine of the jurisdiction of an international criminal court for crimes against humanity and war crimes by senior officials of the Russian Federation, which resulted in particularly serious consequences and mass murder of Ukrainian citizens. Dear colleagues, also an important issue, was the committee meeting, and the coalition council met on this point, resulting in a negotiated decision. I would also like to consider now the possibility of addressing this issue under a reduced procedure, but again, I would like to stress that I will allow those who wish to speak, but in accordance with the Rules. Please be determined as to how to deal with this issue by a reduced procedure in accordance with the Rules. [[13:09:57]] For 219 Decision taken. I invite the head of the Committee on Legal Policy, Ruslan Knazević. Please inform the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-04-m0.u151	Dear Sir, the committee's meeting has not been able to resolve this issue. This issue was finally decided at the coalition council meeting and I am asked on behalf of the coalition to report on the compromise that is being presented to the session hall. We agreed that, Mr. Head and Honorary Colleagues, we are dividing the two documents -- the application itself and the decision to accept this statement. The very statement of the Supreme Council of Ukraine regarding the recognition of the jurisdiction of the International Criminal Court will be made in an editorial that I have been instructed to sound under the transcript of the session. Declaration by the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Ukraine's recognition of the jurisdiction of the International Criminal Court in the commission of crimes against humanity and war crimes by senior officials of the Russian Federation and leaders of the terrorist organizations of the DNR and the LNR, which resulted in particularly severe consequences and mass killings of Ukrainian citizens. On behalf of the Ukrainian people, the Supreme Council of Ukraine, as the sole body of the Ukrainian legislature, recognizes jurisdiction, refers to the International Criminal Court for the purpose of bringing criminal responsibility before the International Criminal Court on the envisaged articles 7 and 8 of the Rome Statute of the International Criminal Court against Humanity, War Crimes Committed in Ukraine since February 20, 2014 and now, senior officials of the Russian Federation and leaders of the terrorist organizations of the DNR and LNR, as defined by the prosecutor of the International Criminal Court. Since the spring of 2014, the Russian Federation’s armed aggression, supported by its militants, has taken place against Ukraine, which has been annexed to Crimea, which is part of the territory of Ukraine’s independent and sovereign state, occupied part of the Donetsk and Lugansk regions of Ukraine, killing thousands of Ukrainian citizens, including thousands of children who have been injured, destroyed the entire region’s infrastructure, and forced hundreds of thousands of citizens to leave their homes. The latest violent act by the military forces of the Russian Federation.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-04-m0.u152	Please let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-04-m0.u153	But the Russian Federation-backed terrorist fighters fired fire from the city's live quarters of Mariupol in southeastern Ukraine on January 24, 2014, killing more than 30 civilians, including 2 children, and wounding more than 100 people. The Russian Federation also continues to supply mercenaries and weapons from which fighters and terrorists kill Ukrainian citizens. During this undeclared war, a number of Ukrainian citizens were wrongly captured in the territory of the Russian Federation. In view of the serious and particularly serious crimes against humanity and war crimes under the jurisdiction of the International Criminal Court, the Supreme Council of Ukraine hereby acknowledges, in accordance with article 11, paragraph 2, and article 12, paragraph 3, of the Rome Statute, the jurisdiction of the International Criminal Court in relation to crimes against humanity and war crimes by senior officials of the Russian Federation and leaders of the terrorist organizations of the DNR and LNR, which have resulted in particularly severe consequences and mass killings of Ukrainian citizens, beginning on February 20, 2014 and now. It was I who read the text of the application, which is proposed to be approved by the relevant decision. This ruling is proposed from two paragraphs of the next sentence. Point one: To accept a statement by the Supreme Council of Ukraine regarding the recognition by Ukraine of the jurisdiction of the International Criminal Court of crimes against humanity and military crimes by senior officials of the Russian Federation and leaders of the terrorist organizations of the DNR and the LNR, which have led to the particularly severe consequences and mass killing of Ukrainian citizens, which is added, I have read the text to you above. And secondly, the Office of the Ministers of Ukraine and the Office of the Attorney General of Ukraine are proposing to gather the necessary materials and adequate evidence to address the International Criminal Court, in accordance with article 12, paragraph 3, of the Rome Statute of the International Criminal Court, concerning the commission of crimes against humanity and military crimes by senior officials of the Russian Federation and leaders of the terrorist organizations of the DNR and LNR, which have resulted in particularly severe consequences and mass murder of Ukrainian citizens. Dear colleagues, I would like to ask you in such an editorial for a draft ruling and a statement, which is added, to support it.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-04-m0.u154	Thank you, Ruslan Petrovich. Five factions and coalition singers, two minutes each. Please, Julia Timoshenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-04-m0.u155	Dear colleagues, dear people of Ukraine! The Supreme Council of Ukraine is now taking an absolutely historic step. You know that in the last few weeks all attempts by the world's societies, the democratic world, have been denied to stop aggression in our nation's territory through peace negotiations, through the signing of the Minsk Accords. The Russian Federation practically unilaterally denounced this. Now that you and I are looking at this basic issue for the country, they're going to fight in Debalcevo. Today, our heroes are protecting Ukraine at the cost of their own lives, their own health. We have lost thousands of Ukrainian lives. Blood is pouring out today. It's a shame we haven't really acted or stopped all the international aggressors for months. Today, we are finally opening the way to appeal to the International Criminal Court from the state of Ukraine. And I can tell you that not only Ukraine today recognizes aggression and war against us. Virtually February 3rd, intellectual influence circles gathered, representing leaders and vice-chairmen of key Western countries. They gathered at the Atlas of Cancelle, where they discussed a report about Ukraine called "Protecting Ukraine's Independence and Resisting Russian Aggression", which is an obligation for the United States, NATO and other Western countries. What did they confess? What we're dealing with in Ukraine is a real war fought by Russia. You understand what statements go to the highest.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-04-m0.u156	Please finish Julia Volodymyrna for 10 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-04-m0.u157	I won't be in in 10 minutes. I won't be in at 10, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-04-m0.u158	How much time do you need?
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-04-m0.u159	At least 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-04-m0.u160	30 seconds, let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-04-m0.u161	It's in the very direct sense of war, it's in the very direct sense of occupation, it's in the very direct sense of annexation of territories, not just Crimea. And this is Europe's main threat and, accordingly, this is a chance. And accordingly, this is the destruction of the chance of peaceful coexistence in the 21st century. We do not have the right to act, so today the Supreme Council recognizes the jurisdiction of the International Criminal Court, obliges the Government and the Henprosecutor’s Office to gather all the evidence and submit it immediately for.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-04-m0.u162	Ten seconds, complete.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-04-m0.u163	In order for the senior officials of Russia, as well as the leaders of the LPD, the DNR to be at the international level, in The Hague, to be held criminally accountable.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-04-m0.u164	Thank you. Dear colleagues, national deputies, I ask you to abide by the Rules. Please, Oleg Berezuk, Self-Help.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-04-m0.u165	There is a crime, there must be punishment. If there's no punishment. If there is no punishment for a crime, even a minor one, the crime repeats itself. Today, perhaps we are instituting a course of punishment for those who have committed crimes against humanity, against the Ukrainian nation, against the Ukrainian man. But this punishment will not only be international, it must be our actions. About what Jegor Sobolev said to our law enforcement authorities to gather and punish those who are still in Ukraine. Because we're going to get together and we're going to think about what's going to happen to our economy, because the biggest punishment for them is the power of the Ukrainian economy, the power of the Ukrainian communities, the local self-government, the Ukrainian education. And in order to do that, honourable Members, we need to work on committees and in sessions to adopt responsible reform laws, in addition to such principled historical decisions. And this will be the punishment of criminals who are no longer in Ukraine today, and they pray to God, their God, that this Ukraine will not stand in battle. Thus, by identifying our weakness, we become strong. Recognizing our weakness, we turn to the strong to be with us. May the Lord help us. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-04-m0.u166	Please, Oleg Lazko, Radical Party, please. The People's Front, Victoria Sumar and the Peter Dust Block, Yuri Lucenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-04-m0.u167	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. Honorable citizens of Ukraine, distinguished colleagues of national MPs! Putin has to answer. The decision now taken by the Supreme Council is indeed a historic decision, but it was to be made a year ago. As soon as they occupied our Crimea, the Supreme Council was to decide immediately to refer them to the International Court of Justice. When Putin struck down a Malaysian passenger plane, 290 people were killed. We were supposed to turn around. When the Travelian mercenaries, the military, were shooting and killing civilians in Ukraine, we were to turn to them. And we've been waiting for something. Because we thought that Putin and I could make a deal, we could flatter him, we could convince him with words. No, no, not again. The path will stop only our strength. Our job is to get Putin to end up like Hitler on the bench, more like Hitler's clique. It would be good if he ended up like Hitler. By the way, yesterday, in Moscow, Mausoleum was closed, and the place for Putin was being prepared. But it would be better if the roadside call took its place on the bench of the new Nuremberg tribunal’s defendants. Because what's happening in Ukraine is not only Putin, it's the whole point of the road, the minister of defense, the heads of the armed forces, the heads of the security forces who are sending divers, the minister of the economy, the minister of finance who is funding Russia's war crimes against Ukrainian citizens and against the Ukrainian state. They must all end up at the hands of the international tribunal's defendants. And today's parliamentary decision will allow the start of an international criminal process, which I am convinced will end with Putin's condemnation and his hateful call. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-04-m0.u168	Please, Victoria Sumar, People's Front.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-04-m0.u169	Dear colleagues, obviously, Ukraine has become a front today and this is Russia's attack not only on Ukraine, it's actually an attack on the whole world, it's an attempt to review the post-war security system, it's something that's not only threatening us, it's threatening Europe and all the civilized world that's based on the principles of humanism. And it's obvious that it's very logical that the Ukrainian Parliament is making similar calls today, and it involves all possible international resources to stand up for Ukrainian positions, because it's not just our war -- it has to stop the whole world, it has to be activated around it. It is very true in an international arena like The Hague to show the crimes that the Ukrainian people are suffering today and that we are seeing today, unfortunately, with you who are happening in eastern Ukraine. That's what we have to do. But there is a question of how to do so. It's very important to be extremely professional about this. You know, there's already been an application in the context of the Maydan crimes. Unfortunately, we see that there is no successful review and a rather weak evidence base has been gathered. Today's challenge for each of us, for every representative of the Ukrainian authorities to produce such quality evidence, is to show all these crimes so that no one in the world has any doubts about the aggression, the crimes against humanity committed by the Russian Federation. That's why the People's Front clearly supports such a statement and such a determination, but it's very important that both the people's deputies and the government and the Attorney General's Office show maximum qualifications. Because it's the image of Ukraine, and that's exactly what our victory is going to be. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-04-m0.u170	Peter Dustenka's Block, Yuri Lucenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-04-m0.u171	Dear Mr. Head, honourable colleagues, today's document is the result of the work of the entire faction and coalition. And he sums up the fact that Ukraine lives in a special period. Ukraine has lived on the battlefield for centuries for its freedom. We're being shot from every angle, it's a real range. We're used to it, and that's why the Ukrainian people are actually a nation of warriors. Moscow is not the capital of Rome. Moscow is the capital of the third world, which cannot otherwise assert its imperial ambitions and how to try to take liberty from its neighbours, stifle their desire to live free. Ukraine is now fighting this war on its own. Along with our heroic Armed Forces, the whole free world is also aware of the value of freedom. We know that no one but us Ukrainians can defend the armed borders of our country. There's no illusions about it. We are a country of warriors, and I know that we will win this victory over evil. But victory cannot be complete unless evil is punished. That is why the Supreme Council of Ukraine today recognizes the jurisdiction of the International Criminal Court over those high-ranking organizers of the war against Ukrainian freedom that have been established in the Kremlin today. The senior leaders of the Russian Federation, as well as the organizers of the terrorist organizations LDR and DNR, are to be brought before the International Criminal Court. To this end, the Ukrainian government and Ukrainian forces must gather all the evidence, prepare, question witnesses, form a White Paper to be presented to the International Criminal Court. After that, we are confident that victory will not only be armed but also legal, on the side.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-04-m0.u172	Thank you, Yuri Vitaliovich. Please, two for, two for against. For the second time, I would ask the factions not to take. [[B in m in s a l in]] Two for, two against. There's a procedure, colleagues. Two for, two against. I'm asking for procedures, let's follow through. National deputy Nechayev.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-04-m0.u173	Suffritz, give me your word.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-04-m0.u174	National deputy Shufrich. He's asking from the rostrum.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-04-m0.u175	Thank you, Your Honor Chairman, Your Honor! Should these crimes be investigated? Of course, we need to do it now. And all who have jurisdiction to investigate such crimes should help Ukraine find those responsible for the deaths of peaceful people. But let's be honest, first of all, with ourselves and with our citizens. What prevents the Supreme Council of Ukraine from implementing, by the way, one of the points of the Treaty on European Association, namely, its accession to the Rome Statute? Today, this is really contrary to 124 articles of the Constitution. But as far as I know, 170 national deputies have prepared appropriate changes. Why aren't they registered? Why didn't we look at them in the previous session and approve them now definitively and ratify the Rome Statute by opening the door to an international tribunal in our country? Unfortunately, what is happening now is, unfortunately, too much of my regret, more of a pyar than a real solution to this problem. Like the previous one, by the way, the law. I want to see Dusty sign it because he'll create a precedent to be next. Let's be very responsible, we have the opportunity to deal with this issue and set up the culprits and punish them at the International Tribunal. But this must be done in accordance with international law and in accordance with the Constitution of Ukraine. Today in Ukraine, the tragedy and today in Ukraine is being buried by an outstanding cultural actor named Kuzmenko Andrija, today his funeral is a remarkable, bright man, it's a Ukrainian citizen with a capital letter. Dear Chief! I ask you to honor the moment of silence.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-04-m0.u176	Dear friends! Let's really pay tribute to the great patriot for a moment of silence. [[A Minute of Silence]] The Kingdom of Heaven. Thank you. Dear National Deputies! With the fact that the factions of the authors have already spoken, and we also have representatives of the "Peter Prashenko Block" and "The People's Front" on record. If you don't insist, I think we can vote for the basis and the whole decision. Dear National Deputies! The draft application (registration 1887) with the amendments announced by the chairman of the Knyazevitch Committee is submitted to your vote. There is a proposal to vote on this draft statement, decrees, on the basis and in general. People's deputies, please prepare for the vote. Ruslan Knazevich, please. Maybe it's technical? Ruslan Knazevich. Word, Rusla Knazevitch, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-04-m0.u177	Dear Mr. Head! Here's the important thing, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs notes that we've missed the town of Sevastopol. So when we talk about the Autonomous Republic of Crimea, we should also mention the city of Sevastopol, which is occupied. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-04-m0.u178	Add "that town of Sevastopol" and, in general, with the changes and additions that were announced by Ruslan Knazevic, accept. Please vote on the basis and in general with the changes and additions announced by Ruslan Knazevitch. Please be sure about the vote. [[13:32:59]] For 271 Decision taken. Thank you, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-04-m0.u179	The factions.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-04-m0.u180	You can see the factions.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-04-m0.u181	Let the people hear it.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-04-m0.u182	Peter Poshenko's Block – 113 People's Front – 71, Opposition Block – 0, Self-help – 24, Radical Party – 18, Father's Party – 14, Will of the People – 4, Economic Development – 9 and 18 non-fractional national deputies. Thank you, distinguished national MPs. In accordance with the decisions of the 1887 and 1312 Committees, they were united and voted in 1887. Next, your esteemed colleagues, you are being examined by a decree (registration number 1847). Draft Decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on ensuring peace and stability in the East of Ukraine. There is a proposal to consider the reduced procedure of the decision. I would like to refer to the National Deputies for consideration of the reduced procedure. As regards consideration of the draft decision by summary procedure. [[13:34:16]] For 215 Decision taken. Please report to the National Deputy of Ukraine Yuri Boyko. Please, Yuri Anatolyovich. Coroner of the committee of Hanna Mikolayovna Hopko.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-04-m0.u183	Dear Mr. Head, distinguished national MPs, your attention is given to decree 1847 on ensuring peace and stability in the East of Ukraine. From the very beginning, we took a consistent position to resolve this conflict, only by military means. Thus, the first paragraph of this decree states that it is impossible to resolve the conflict in eastern Ukraine by military means, since there are several million Ukrainian citizens living in that area, whose lives and health are at risk every hour. We also propose direct negotiations with the Russian Federation on joint efforts to stop the fire. Recover social benefits in Donbas and contact the United Nations for the provision of a United Nations peacekeeping contingent to ensure peace and stability in the region. In our view, this is a political initiative of Parliament, and Parliament has the right to such initiatives, and I also refer to factions that go to most of them, because the negotiations that are currently being held by persons authorised by the President of Ukraine are quite difficult. This decision will give impetus to a diplomatic solution and will facilitate negotiations on a diplomatic solution to the conflict. I'd like to support you. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-04-m0.u184	Thank you. Please, Anna Gopko, out of the way.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-04-m0.u185	Dear head, distinguished national MPs! The Committee on Foreign Affairs today promptly reviewed the draft Order on the application of the Supreme Council of Ukraine for peace and stability in the East of Ukraine. The committee's decision to reject this motion for a ruling, since it is not clear that the claim against whom is directed, there are also conflicting points. As for other points, we are already making some references. So the request to reject this decision is a committee decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-04-m0.u186	Thank you. Dear colleagues! Two for, two for against. Please sign up. Two for, two against, then I'll give a minute to those who didn't sign up and take no part in the discussion in accordance with the Rules. Please, Stepan Barna, Peter Dust Block.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-04-m0.u187	Stepan Barna, Petra Dustenka's Block. Dear colleagues, today we see the cynicism of the so-called so-called growing opposition that led to the power of the one who essentially destroyed Donetsk, the Lugansk region. Today we see the cynicism of those who have set themselves the goal of destroying Ukraine. They do not vote to recognize the Russian Federation as an aggressor, but at the same time they urge us to cooperate with Putin and his regime, which is also called upon to destroy Ukraine. That's why I have a position of principle, so if we speak and appreciate in this case, the Opposition Block, and we also appreciate and don't recognize the President of Ukraine Yanukovic, so do we deprive the legal personality of the political party of the regions that led to the power of all those deputies who are killing our fellow countrymen today who are killing the people of Donetsk, Lugansk. For us today, it is more than ever that we should consolidate in the name of those who give their lives today and condemn this regime and this gang of bandits and thieves. Most importantly, I was literally in Ternopol on weekends. I've met three dead boys from Anti-Terrorism Operations. And the memory of these people is most important to us. So I urge you to condemn the party's central regime, as well as the so-called growth opposition, and not vote in favour of the draft decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-04-m0.u188	Thank you. Please, Natalia Royal.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-04-m0.u189	The opposition bloc calls for an end to the war and a return of peace to our country. And please continue with Dobkin Mikhail Markovich, give me your word.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-04-m0.u190	Dear fellow MPs, I warned you, you can't pass on part of the word. So I'm sorry, but we have to follow the Rules. Please, Mosiyczuk. [[B in m in s a l in]] Then please finish. And Natalia Kraljevska, please finish. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-04-m0.u191	Dear colleagues, every day we spend a minute of silence with you, every day people are killed, every day Ukrainian blood is shed.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-04-m0.u192	And we must do with you everything in our power, every one of us, and every man in the country who wants to live in a single Ukraine and who wants to live in the world, do everything he can to bring peace back to Ukraine. You and I have been convinced that no anti-terrorist operation has been going on for a month. And we see that the situation is only getting worse. We call for recognition that military action does not resolve the situation, that efforts by all parties today must be made to bring peace back to our country. If you ask a person today who lives in Lugansk, Donetsk, Lviv, Harkovsky, Zaporozsky, Kiev, what he wants, he wants one thing: he wants peace; he doesn't want to send his children to war today; he doesn't want to have a death funeral every day. So let's do everything we can. And we have proposed our plan, the 11-point plan, which will allow us to take a step towards a peaceful sky in our country. So let's put aside political ambitions, let's forget about ratings and popularity today, let's do everything we can to stop this war and bring back to our country today a world to protect our children and enable our country to become a strong and prosperous Ukraine. Because it's up to you and me first. And I believe that this vote will be an indicative one for all people in our country, who are truly the bearers of the world, who want to make every effort today to stop the deaths of people in our country, and who continues to profit from war and who today.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-04-m0.u193	Thank you. Please, National Deputy Lozový.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-04-m0.u194	Andrew Lozovy, Radical Party. Here, dear colleagues, you can imagine a rapist talking about virtue, a robber who tells of a transparent financial relationship. The killer, who speaks of nonviolence, we have heard about the same things today from the mouths of the Vatniks Boyko and the Royals, who served Yanukovich and his Moscow hosts, and continue to serve. Here, colleagues of last week flew to the East, to the war, to help our fighters, and they saw Boyko, who was here to speak to me, fly charters to Moscow to receive instructions, obviously money, for subversive anti-Ukraine activities. What the Kremlin block is proposing is Putin's plan, because in fact, peace, stability and peace are possible only when we kick the enemy out of our land. When such as the Royal will return the billions that have been stolen from the Ukrainian people. Only then will there be peace. Peace is possible only after victory and peace can be achieved only by force. And the important thing is, we just witnessed how no member of the block of thieves voted in the International Court of Justice. We were all witnesses earlier, as no member of the block of thieves voted in favour of depriving Yanukovic of the title of President, and four people, the faithful servants of Yanukovic themselves, voted against. We witnessed how no member of the block of thieves voted in favour of recognition of Russia as an aggressor. And today, all of you are the only guidebooks for Moscow's invaders. And I hope that if the state of war is declared, you will be justly shot. For on your conscience the blood of those men who die in the east today. On your conscience, a humanitarian disaster in Donbas, when hungry people. I just got off the phone with Boyko, and my parents called me in the 128th Motorbike Division, and the guys are eight days hungry, and they've got two hundred, three hundred -- that's on your conscience, and you're gonna answer for it sooner or later. If you and Dusty agreed to let you into Parliament, sooner or later you will be responsible for everyone.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-04-m0.u195	Ladies and gentlemen, I understand that each of us is filled with the emotions, pain, and suffering that are in our country today, and this is all very close to us. But I would ask those who speak to follow the rules, not to move on to personalities, because this is extremely important. Andrew Pomazanov, People's Front, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-04-m0.u196	Andrew Pomazanov, People's Front. Please pass the word to Igor Guzu.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-04-m0.u197	Please, National Deputy Gus.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-04-m0.u198	Glory to Ukraine! First. Please do not support all colleagues, since our committee has not supported this proposal by Mr. Boyk. The other one. You know what the thing is, these people sitting there right now under the flags, in fact, the Party of Regions, are killers. They are murderers who are responsible for the heavenly hundredth. These are the murderers, he's pious today, Boyko, for being guilty of peace, let him scold his Ahmedov and Ephraim, who began the killing of thousands of Ukrainians on Donbassa! Today, having the nerve to come out here and talk for peace is a disgrace! And last, third. It's a very important thing. You see, Boyko is asking the UN, the OSCE, to investigate the terrorist situation in Donbas. Mr. Boyko, we need to investigate not the OSCE and the EU, and the UN, the Attorney General of Jarem, who needs to, I urge all of you to sign these 20 more votes so that he can come here, and I ask him, and each of you has asked the question: Jarem, why there is no filing for any member of the Opposition Block for the organization of terrorist attacks and separatism on Donbas. Do you know why? Because no member of the Opposition Block signed Soboljev to take down Mr. Jarem. So please, let's activate this situation and get Mr. Jarem to hold someone responsible: Dobkina, Boyka, Shufrich is for the organization of direct terrorist attacks and separatism in Donbas. And then we're going to see how many people are voted in the room to remove the MP's in touch with these grief-stricken colleagues, and specifically the killers. So the root of the problem is not just these killers.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-04-m0.u199	Replica, please. But I'm asking everyone to hold back, colleagues.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-04-m0.u200	Thank you, Your Honor Chairman. Dear colleagues, we all understand the difficult situation in our country. We see that the negotiations that have begun with such difficulty today are in a critical situation. We are looking for an opportunity to stabilize the situation in Ukraine. There is real evidence of our guilt, please, that we are prepared to answer by law if the guilt is proven. We're looking for an aggressor, but people are asking questions, tell me how our Commander-in-Chief can produce and trade confetti in an aggressor's country? Pay taxes and fund an army of aggressors? Imagine such an aggressor soldier with "Kalashnikov" in his hands and with Roschen confetti in his pocket. So let's be responsible before we accuse anyone of anything. We need to find an opportunity to unite everyone here so that there will be peace in the country.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-04-m0.u201	Yuri Lucenko, please. I want to, you know, say, I want to say that Ukrainian confetti are non-Russian cartridges.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-04-m0.u202	Dear Head, honourable national deputies, I support the call of Chairman Vladimir Borisovich Groysman to speak of matters rather than names. However, the draft application indicates that the bourbons have learned nothing and do not acknowledge their mistakes, and they continue to invite the invader to our land. Because everyone in Abkhazia, Ossetia, Transnistria, and elsewhere knows that the peacekeeping contingent of the Russian Federation is untraceable, but no less dangerous, invader of our native land. Today, the Fifth Column of the Kremlin has published its plan to record the occupation of part of the Ukrainian Donbas under the mask of the so - called Peacekeeper Putin, an oxymoron! It's impossible! Peacekeepers and the Kremlin are incompatible, it's the Swiss Navy, it's gypsy urbanism. There is no Kremlin and no peace, there is a Kremlin and war, a Kremlin and slavery, a Kremlin and a lie, a Kremlin and payment for its fifth column.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-04-m0.u203	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-04-m0.u204	This is where the Ukrainian Parliament and the Ukrainian people try to overwhelm. We're not gonna make it. A hundred heroes on Maidan and thousands of heroes on the front won't allow these battle plans that they haven't learned. Sit there and keep quiet. Don't tell us to forget the ratings. You have forgotten them, sit quietly and go to church.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-04-m0.u205	I'm putting an end to this discussion. Dear colleagues, please let the vote be made. Please, I am putting to the vote the draft decree on the Supreme Council application (Registration No. 1847). It's a draft decision, it's a committee proposal to reject. I'm putting in a draft order, so let's be clear. It's a draft decision. [[13:51:45]] For-33 Thank you, Your Honor. The factions, please. [[B in m in s a l in]] Come on, please. Friends, you know. Colleagues, would you like to vote? [[B in m in s a l in]] Yuri Lucenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-04-m0.u206	Mr. Chairman, the voters are calling me here, and they are very worried that not all the enemies of the people have been able to get a hold of themselves, so please put it again, for the sake of reliability, on the vote again.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-04-m0.u207	Once again, I call attention to return, return to consideration, not everyone has expressed their position. to return to the consideration of Decree 1847. [[B in m in s a l in]] Just calm down! Calm down! [[B in m in s a l in]] Let's do it again. What about a return to consideration? Vote? About the vote? Okay. [[B in m in s a l in]] About getting back to the vote? Sergey Sobolev. Calm down, please! [[B in m in s a l in]] Calm down! Calm down! Sergei Sobolev, offer.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-04-m0.u208	Sobolje, Fatherland. Mr. Chairman, you know there's a draft decision that was prepared by a committee of profile to reject. And so that nobody makes a clear mistake, the decision that you're putting to the vote right now, who supports this terrible project that proposes "The Opposition Block." And then there will be a clear understanding of what happened. Bet: Are they ready to support or not to support without a return? And this is going to be the position of the hall. So there's no ambiguity: it's the committee's draft decision or the draft decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-04-m0.u209	Then let us vote in favour of the rejection of this decree. Oh, no? [[B in m in s a l in]] Please, Sergey Kaplin.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-04-m0.u210	The Peter Prashenko faction unanimously does not support this criminal act of the opposition block faction, the first. The other one. All questions will be resolved when we begin the process of removing parliamentary immunity tomorrow. Third. We need to change the Constitution and choose as President of the Attorney General. And then I'm going to run for office, and in a week, there's not going to be any separatists, no corrupts, and no bandits.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-04-m0.u211	Oleg Lazko.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-04-m0.u212	Dear Volodymyr Borisovich, distinguished colleagues! I propose to proceed with the procedure: to return to the vote and put (colleague Soboljev rightly said) to put to the vote a draft decision by the committee on the rejection of the Boyka draft decision. We're voting on the Committee's decision on rejection.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-04-m0.u213	Dear colleagues! The draft decision submitted by the author means that we just voted and did not support it, so this question is considered rejected. But from what I understand, the question is, not all MPs understand what we're voting on. I'd like to ask the People's Front faction to be very reticent about this, please, very resilient about this, because here are your colleagues. So we can now put the vote to a vote and then I'll make a clear proposal and you'll say it again, and there'll be no misunderstandings. So I'm voting, at the suggestion of the people's deputies, to go back to the review of Decree 1847. To return to the consideration of this decree. People's Front, please. Let your colleagues vote properly. Please come back. [[13:57:17]] For 115 Thank you, Your Honor. I'd like that. [[B in m in s a l in]] One minute, please calm down for a minute. Ladies and gentlemen, I'd like to finish by saying the following thing. I ask the people's deputies who have made an error in their voting, after the conclusion of this morning's meeting, to submit to the secretariat a written statement on your vote, which will be taken into account when determining the final result of the vote. Dear National Deputies! Please, Oleg Easy is asking for a word.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-04-m0.u214	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. Dear colleagues, I am addressing the members of the coalition. Attention, Heratschenko, I'm addressing you guys, there's nothing to be excited about, but you're now very pleased that six people from the Dust Block have washed up, heard out and voted, among them Dubnevich, among them others. Why are you setting them up? Don't fail, because these are our coalition partners. So I'm asking them to go to Lviv, they're going everywhere, and they're going to complain that they voted for Boyka, that's not partnering. I ask the Head of the Supreme Council to put to the vote now the rejection of the Boyko ruling. Vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-04-m0.u215	Dear colleagues, I think there's a rational grain in this proposal. I'm putting to the vote, prepare for the rejection of Decree No. 1847 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Statement on Peace and Stability in the East of Ukraine. Everybody ready? Everybody's ready. I'm voting for a rejection. Vote. About the deviation. I'd like to vote for the rejection. [[B in m in s a l in]] People's deputies, please. Please return to your seats. I'm going to set up the deviation and I'm going to ask everyone to testify to their position. National deputies, please take your seats! [[B in m in s a l in]] Anton Gerashchenko "The People's Front".
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-04-m0.u216	Dear friends! I have an offer, if it was a technical error of six MPs from Peter Dustenk's Block, I have an offer, let them come out here at six and say they made a mistake and that's it. And why do we have to go back? It's simple and clear. All of it. Guys, come on out here, who voted wrong and tell me about it, and if you support it, really, tell me what you really support. All of it.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-04-m0.u217	Thank you. Dear National Deputies! Take your seats, take your seats, and prepare for the vote. I'm voting on the draft Rejection Order (registration number 1877). Please confirm, please confirm, please confirm, Your Honor, by voting on the rejection of the Order (1847). I'm asking you to take your seats. I ask the leadership of factions to properly support discipline in factions. (1847) about the deviation. Everybody ready? Ready? Everybody's ready. I'm betting on the vote on the rejection of the draft Decree on the Supreme Council of Ukraine Statement on Peace and Stability in the East of Ukraine. If we're in favour of a rejection, we vote in favour, do you understand? For rejection, please vote (1847). Decline. For deviation, for deviation. For rejecting the Order Project, for rejection. [[14:02:07]] For 232 The factions. Peter Poshenko's Block – 104, People's Front – 60, Opposition Block – 0, Self-help – 23, Radicalna – 18, Fatherland – 16, Will of the People – 11, Economic Development – 0, non-fractional – 10. Guys, I think we should be more balanced. And if six colleagues made a clear mistake, we don't have to make this show all over the country. That's what I'm telling you, looking into each and every one of you. So I urge everyone, to respect each other, and in this room, to do what we have to do -- to create and bring to life our country positive signals, not humorous performances. Dear colleagues, thank you very much for your work. Tomorrow at 10 o'clock we'll continue our work. Thank you, Your Honor.
