ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-12-m1.u1	Dear fellow national deputies, lunch break is over. I'm asking all the deputies to enter the workplace, and we have extremely important bills, including the War Status Act, which is vital to the security of our country. And in order to be able to start a productive job, I ask the factions to invite the deputies to their posts and ask the secretariat of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to invite the deputies into the hall and prepare for work. Please. Dear colleagues! In two minutes, we're starting work, who hasn't entered the hall yet, and I'm asking you to come into the hall and take jobs.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-12-m1.u2	Good evening, dear fellows! We're starting our evening session. Please take your seats as distinguished national deputies, and we will continue our work. Please, Your Honor, take your seats. Please turn on the "Council" system to register members of the people at the evening meeting. [[16:10:33]] Ladies and gentlemen, 320 national deputies have been registered, and I declare the evening plenary session open. Dear colleagues, according to your schedule, the bill of 2343 on amending the Ukrainian Advertising Act (for part of the advertising that is distributed on television and radio) is being submitted by Condratuk Olena Konstantinovna. There is an offer by the author to consider the draft Law in a reduced procedure, a colleague. I'm voting on a motion to review the draft law in short motion. Please, colleagues, determine how to proceed with the reduced procedure. Please consider the simplified procedure. [[16:12:05]] For-136 Insufficient number of votes per reduced procedure. But there is an offer by the author to reconsider this question. Please take your seats. I remind you that this is a procedural question, we need 150 votes from the national MPs. Please, colleagues, offer: consider draft Law 2343 as a reduced procedure. Please, please, consider the reduced procedure. [[16:12:53]] For a hundred and 150 national deputies, that's enough. Please invite Elena Condratjuk to the rostrum. Please set 5 minutes. Both from the author and the committee, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-12-m1.u3	Thank you. Dear colleagues, the Honourable Head, the distinguished National MPs, your attention is given to the draft Ukrainian Advertising Act (for the part of advertising that is distributed on television and radio). This is a very small bill that proposes to amend the advertising quotas on television and bring our legislation to European standards. In short, the proposed changes introduce a single TV advertising quota — not more than 9 minutes an hour, instead of the current 12 minutes. Convinced, the audience will say thank you, and most of the industry understands that. So you and I will take into account in the Ukrainian law the provisions of the Audiovisual Media Services Directive by implementing another paragraph of the Association Agreement with the European Union. A clear definition of the amount of advertising time will simplify the process of monitoring compliance by law companies and is therefore supported by the regulator. Moreover, on June 5, last year, the Supreme Council of Ukraine approved appropriate legislative changes that allowed us to interrupt the advertising of a television product, including, even, television news, if not more than 30 minutes. Now we have to take the next step and offer a just one. reduce advertising time to 15 percent per hour. Speakers should understand such a decision by honoring their viewers, who, I repeat, will meet with appreciation the adoption of this law. At the same time, we believe that the proposed reduction will make advertising more effective and competitive with other European countries. I will note that in the past, members of our committee made it clear to the representatives of the television industry that the liberalisation of the breakup part would continue to be accompanied by a decrease in the corresponding advertising quota. Radio won't touch these changes. Because, as we see in paragraph 23 of the preamble, the Audio and Media Services Directives should relate to moving images with or without sound, but not to the transmission of sound signals or radio services. On the radio, it is suggested to leave a part valid for today’s quota for advertising during each astronomical hour of actual speech, or 20 percent. It's basically a technical change that comes from the introduction of a 15 percent quota in Article 5.1 "Telemarketing." I note that the Committee of the Supreme Council on Freedom of Speech and Information Policy at its meeting on April 1, 2015, considered a bill amending the Law on Advertising of Ukraine (Registration No. 2343). During the meetings, all members of the committee supported the bill. The main scientific and expert office believes that the bill can be adopted as a basis. According to the Supreme Council of Ukraine Committee on European Integration, Bill 2343 is in line with European Union law. In view of the foregoing, the committee decided to recommend that the Supreme Council of Ukraine consider the first reading and adopt Bill 2343 as a basis and as a whole. Thank you for your attention. I ask you to support the position of the committee and the drafters of the bill, which are part of various political factions, and to support this bill on the basis and in general. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-12-m1.u4	Thank you. Please sign up: two for, two against. Victoria Bird, Self-Help, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-12-m1.u5	Dear colleagues, the Self-Help faction will support this bill, because it meets the requirements of European legislation, and we understand that the main purpose of it is to move away from counting language time from time to time. to the advertising requirements that apply to astronomical airtime to television channels. I mean, I'm explaining. In order for TV channels to be free from broadcasts, there are certain requirements for airtime, for advertising times that occur in airtime. That's why we support this idea, and we understand that this idea is meant to strike a balance between the advertiser and the balance between the advertiser and, respectively, the consumer of advertising, or the TV player. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-12-m1.u6	Thank you. Please, Mikola Princely, People's Front.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-12-m1.u7	Thank you. The People's Front faction will support this bill, because really huge advertising blocks that interrupt our TV channels are annoying the viewers, and the limited advertising time in our small market will in no way harm the interests of television companies, but instead it will be able to raise the value of one minute of advertising time on television companies, that is to say raise the value of advertising. "The People's Front" will vote in favour and call on everyone to support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-12-m1.u8	Thank you. Please, Mikola Tomenko, Peter Dusty Block.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-12-m1.u9	Dear colleagues! As a co-author of this initiative, I would like to encourage support for this bill. But what I'm trying to say is that we're talking today about the formal side of the case. In terms of form, we're reducing the amount of advertising time by an astronomical hour, and that's the right thing to do. Instead, I want to pay attention to our regulator, the National Council for Television, Radio and Advertising, and, in fact, the television companies, unfortunately, under the influence of war, have begun to violate the meaningful parameters of advertising. I mean, in our time, we've restricted the advertising of alcoholic beverages. Today, in ambiguous treatment of certain standards, direct advertising of strong drinks, including vodka, is actually reinvigorated. According to the context of this advertisement, I don't think it can be broadcast at all during the daytime. And it's a de facto serious violation. Today we banned the advertising of vodka drinks on the radio. On the radio, I'm going to Nakradya, please protest. There's a breach on the radio. What's more, I can already see it on the exterior commercials of the vodka brand. This is expressly forbidden by our existing legislation. So I'm talking to experts working in this area. I understand what it looks like, there's this fashion clown who sometimes likes to write on social media, who says that morons make decisions about the forest, it's about water, it's about ecology, it's about television, it's about war. So what I'm saying is, I've already gotten this cover-up by war. Therefore, there is no need to cover up war by violating advertising legislation. So we support the law. The request, Vladimir Borisovich, in the first and in general.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-12-m1.u10	Thank you. Please, Andrew Illenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-12-m1.u11	Andrew Illenko, the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union. In fact, this law must be adopted. And do it on the basis and in general. And it is very important that this law also applies and, very important, pre-election advertising. So in Prime Time during the election battles, there's already going to be significantly less zombie TV videos, which then distort essentially the choice, a conscious choice of citizens. That's why it's so good. And we support, this is the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union. But we would also like to say that we are speaking in general about banning paid political advertising in principle three months before the election. Then, indeed, we can talk about objectivity and equal chances, and that it is the discussion, not the money paid for the oligarchic rollers, that will determine the future of our nation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-12-m1.u12	Thank you, Your Honor. "For"? Against? I understand that everyone is willing to vote in favour of this bill. Dear colleagues! Dear colleagues! Please, we're taking our seats. Now we're going to vote on an important law. Draft Act amending the Ukrainian Advertising Act (for the part of advertising distributed on television and radio). You've heard the position of the faction, the profile committee, in support of this bill. And according to the committee's decision, the proposal is for the Ukrainian National Deputies to consider this bill as a basis and as a whole. I understand that this proposal by the committee is unanimously supported in the Chamber of the Ukrainian Parliament. Therefore, please prepare yourself. The draft Law on Amendments to the Ukrainian Advertising Act (for the part of advertising distributed on television and radio) was introduced and reported by the Secretary of the Committee on Freedom of Speech and Information Policy, Elena Kondratuk. There is a proposal to vote on the basis and generally according to the committee’s decision. Please vote on the basis and, in general, the honourable colleagues. On the basis and in general. "For." [[16:24:34]] For 269 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, there is an offer. You have been introduced to your consideration the draft Law (Registration No. 2004) amending the Ukrainian Tax Code (to reduce tax pressure on taxpayers). Reported by national deputy Victor Halasyuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-12-m1.u13	Dear Volodymira Borisovich, distinguished fellow members of the national MPs, I present to you a draft law amending the Ukrainian Tax Code (to reduce tax pressure on taxpayers). The authors of the bill: Oleg Lasko, Viktor Halasyuk, Žurzyj, Sold, Ostrkova, Efimov, Hmil, Krivenko, Kirsz, Wolf. Dear colleagues, this bill is called upon to reduce tax pressure and simplify tax regulations in Ukraine. Three key innovations introduced by this bill. He gives the Ministry of Finance the right to provide generalized tax clarifications, consultations to ensure that there is no corruption, so that no individual case is treated separately. The other one. It prohibits controlling authorities from using verification acts as a basis for conclusions as to the relationship between the examiner and his counterparties. What are we talking about? Which must be a judgment message that can be sued in court and only then can the controlling authority take legal action in relation to the counterparties of the person it examines. And the third. It is temporary until December 31, 2016 to exempt taxpayers from the payment of fines in the event that they acknowledge their tax liability and pay it within 10 days of the date of the receipt. We are confident that such a format will lead to a significant increase in government budget, a reduction in judicial bureaucracy, gravity, corruption. Dear colleagues, I invite you to support this bill, which aims at facilitating the lives of taxpayers today in Ukraine. We have to accept it, because this is the kind of small brick that builds the general attraction or the unattractiveness of the tax system. So this is really a real step forward. I want to say that this bill is included in the legislative reform plan that is being prepared for the implementation of the Supreme Council. He answers.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-12-m1.u14	Please, let me finish, don't limit the speaker, don't limit it.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-12-m1.u15	He's in line with the coalition agreement. So I would like to thank all the members of the Tax Committee for their rapid processing and encourage the Hall to accept it as a basis.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-12-m1.u16	Thank you, Your Honor. Please, please, from the committee, a profile committee. Please, from the committee. Do not limit the speaker.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-12-m1.u17	Dear Mr. Golovo, honourable colleagues, speaking from the author’s team, reported on the main provisions of the bill to amend the Ukrainian Tax Code to reduce tax pressure on taxpayers (Registration No. 2004). In order not to repeat myself, I will express the opinion of the committee in this bill. In general, the project is designed to address enough tax administration issues. Some issues are more important, such as the opposition to prohibit control and other authorities from using an act of tax verification as evidence in criminal conduct or the conclusion of a relationship with its counterparties. In case the result of such an act does not give rise to a tax notice. Or a proposal for the transfer of rights, a generalization of tax consultations from the State Fiscal Service to the Ministry of Finance of Ukraine, which is the implementation of the European Ukraine Treaty on the Coalition of Deputies. According to the Supreme Council of Ukraine's Chief Scientific and Expert Office, this project can be adopted on the basis of further consideration of the proposals made. According to the Ukrainian Cabinet, the bill is not supported. In particular, there are well-founded comments to the proposed amendments: to article 81, paragraph 81.1, of the Ukrainian Tax Code; to paragraph 94.2.3, paragraph 94.2, of article 94 of the Ukrainian Tax Code. To the proposed bill, the addition of subsection 10 of Chapter XX to the Transitional Provisions of the Ukrainian Tax Code is a new paragraph for the exemption of taxpayers from the payment of fines. The committee also issued warnings about the exemption of taxpayers from the payment of fines, financial sanctions in the manner proposed by the bill. However, the need to improve this standard is to provide for it to be extended only to tax payers of small and medium - size business entities. The Committee decided to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine a draft Ukrainian Law amending the Ukrainian Tax Code to reduce tax pressure on taxpayers (Registration No. 2004) to be accepted as a basis. Please be supportive. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-12-m1.u18	Thank you. Please two for two against, please sign up with your respectable colleagues. Please, National Deputy Romanov, Self-Help.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-12-m1.u19	I give you my word to Tetjana Ostrecki.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-12-m1.u20	Please, Tetjana Ostrikak.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-12-m1.u21	Dear colleagues! The Self-Help faction supports the 2004 Bill because it is fully in line with the coalition agreement. Finally, we will remove the corruption component in general consultations that are approved today by the State Fiscal Service. We believe that the State Fiscal Service, as the controlling body, cannot, has no right to explain some of the laws or regulations. This should be the responsibility of the Ministry of Finance as the body that forms the financial policy of the State. The other one. We are finally back to the correct application of criminal and criminal law. How is this happening today? There is an act in which criminal conduct is violated, no tax notice is issued, therefore the taxpayer has no right to charge him in administrative court. We are finally removing this from the fact that the taxpayer of taxes on the existence of a tax-based decision could charge him, and only after that would it be if there was a court decision to criminalize him. So we ask this bill to be based on. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-12-m1.u22	Thank you. Please, Oleg Lazko, Radical Party.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-12-m1.u23	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. Dear citizens of Ukraine! First of all, I'm talking to representatives of small and medium-sized businesses -- those who are most affected today by tax inspection and tax police. I would like to thank my fellow national deputies Victor Halasyuk, Andrey Zhuria and others, who are committed, constantly coming to Parliament, continuing politics and advocating politics for the protection of small and medium-sized businesses. When we have the National Bank boasting that they're fighting inflation by setting a refinancing rate of 30 percent, that means they're taking away the small and medium-sized business of cheap credit resources. When the government says they took the loans of the International Monetary Fund and thus saved the country -- no, that's not saving the country. Saving a country is a recovery of its own economy, it's a bet on its own small, medium and large business. It's creating jobs, it's restoring national production. And the key to that is that it's a good business environment. So that the person who invests his own money, so that he doesn't get terrorized, doesn't have to wait for a row of wagers who just think how to put it on their paws without asking if you've earned it? First, give three skins or seven skins tore apart and then feed your family. So the guarantee of the country's development is to restore the country's economy to its own national producer. It has to be deligarization, deregulation, and the main thing is to create mechanisms to restore economic growth. Cheap loans, low taxes, paid discipline, lack of fiscal pressure -- that's what's going to make it possible to rebuild small and medium-sized businesses, and so put your own country on its feet. Glory to Ukraine! Vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-12-m1.u24	Please, People's Deputy Chicken, Peter Dusty Block.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-12-m1.u25	Dear national deputies, dear colleagues! Today you and I are about to pass another test to fulfill our promises to create real conditions for the creation of civil enterprise. We've been waiting for this bill for a long time. There is/ questions about tax pressure. The next time we go to the polls, we promise everyone a reduction in tax burden and many other problems that people expect us to solve. Yes, today this bill is really revolutionary, it's breaking that system that was created in the 20s in Ukraine. Who doesn't know who the taxpayer is? Everybody knows that. We have to adopt this law, we have to create real freedom of entrepreneurship, and then we will live, really, in a new way.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-12-m1.u26	Please, People's Deputy Doubenkov, Opposition Block.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-12-m1.u27	Thank you. Dear Chairman, dear colleagues! The Opposition Block also supports this legislative initiative and any other legislative initiatives that are directly aimed at improving the investment climate, improving Ukraine's tax system, and indeed, the scope and scope of work in that direction require a lot of effort on our part, in particular all deputies, regardless of political ownership, because unfortunately, Ukraine's tax system takes the last place in the tax effort plan in terms of the ease of doing business. The substance of the bill is simple. In any case, the controlling authority should take tax notices. These standards rule out this possibility in the event of criminal persecution by the taxpayers concerned. The taxpayer. He's actually trapped because there's no way in which he can take tax messages and make a complaint. It's already an element of psychological impact on taxpayers, on managers, directors, chief accountants, and it's an unacceptable norm. This standard is a testimony to the fiscal and punitive orientation of Ukraine’s current tax system. We must fight this together in a concerted effort. So, of course, I call on all the national MPs to support this legislative initiative.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-12-m1.u28	Thank you. Dear colleagues, we have completed our discussion of the draft law (registration number 2004), by Victor Halasyuk. We heard the position of today’s speakers, both the rapporteur and the committee. And there's a proposal for a committee: to vote on it as a basis, namely, a bill amending the Ukrainian Tax Code (to reduce tax pressure on taxpayers). Dear colleagues, please prepare for the vote. Please take your seats, dear fellow national MPs. And you have introduced a draft Act (Registration No. 2004) amending the Ukrainian Tax Code (to reduce tax pressure on taxpayers). Are you ready to vote, colleagues? Please, 2004 based on a tax reduction based on tax pressure. [[16:39:23]] For 285 Thank you. Decision taken. Come on, colleagues. Let's move on to the second reading. The issue is a draft Act amending some Ukrainian legislation prohibiting the privatization of objects in the engineering infrastructure of the meliority systems and the land on which these objects are located. You remember this draft law: We did not have enough votes. So there is an offer to go back to considering this issue as not previously supported. Please concentrate, colleagues! When it comes back to that question, it's about getting back to him. Colleagues, please support. This is a question of conservation of meliority systems, a very important question. Please return to the previously unaccepted question. If you'll excuse me, I'd like to vote. As for a return to the subject. [[16:40:37]] For 247 Thank you. 247 - back. Please, head of the Agrarian Policy Committee, Taras Kutovov. A few words, and we'll vote. He's already reported it once.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-12-m1.u29	Colleagues, I'm very short. I've already briefed him and talked about the committee's decision. We've actually taken almost all the adjustments, some of them in part. There is therefore a committee decision to support the bill as a whole. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-12-m1.u30	Colleagues, he reported carefully, this bill. Let us support him in the second reading and in general. Dear colleagues, draft Law No. 1128 has been introduced for the vote. Please vote in second reading and in general. Please, colleagues. In the second reading and in general. [[16:41:43]] For 271 Decision taken. Thank you. Let's move on to the next question. Dear colleagues, the draft Law on the legal regime of martial law. I want to remind you that we looked at it in the first reading. Then he was carefully worked by a profile committee. Registration number 2541. And now we're going to consider it as amended. Please be prepared. Please, the chairman of the committee is on the rostrum.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-12-m1.u31	Dear colleagues! For consideration by the Supreme Council, a second reading was introduced by a law authorizing the right state of war by the President of Ukraine. In the first reading, this law was upheld. The committee held a second reading session twice. We've devoted more than four hours of work to the law. 88 amendments were made. Of these, 32 adjustments are taken into account in full, 7 are taken into account in an editorial way. I want to point out right away, there were a few counterversive very high standards. For example, the introduction of a state of war involves the removal of all firearms. All factions have decided by consensus that this rule should not be in this law. It's been removed from the law. There are many issues that are further developed: the functioning of military administrations, the functioning of general public authorities, the continuity of work. the institutions of the Supreme Council, the Cabinet of Ministers and the President. And after a careful study, the final text of the bill has been transmitted to you for study. I want to point out that the current law that is currently working is a morally outdated law that unfortunately does not meet the challenges. Unfortunately, the situation is in Donbassy. Although it's calmed down a little lately, but we can see that the fighters continue to deploy their troops, and the shootings continue. The Russian Federation starts blackmailing and juggling the position of the Minsk Protocol. Sadly, we should not rule out aggravation at any time. That's why I'm asking everyone to unanimously support this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-12-m1.u32	Dear colleagues, you have heard the report of the committee head. Please, two minutes, head of the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-12-m1.u33	Article 10 editorially, it's a technical malfunction. The word "counter-intelligence" is missing. I would like you to pay attention, this is the amendment of 63 people's deputies to Levus. It wasn't printed purely in print. I want to report for the transcript that I'm proposing to vote on this amendment in full. Is there a need to put on.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-12-m1.u34	Levchenko National Deputy, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-12-m1.u35	Leuchenko, Freedom, 223 County. I'd like to put amendment number six on confirmation, it's been rejected. In fact, my amendment, I think, is very correct, is that military administrations should only be created within areas where fighting is taking place. It is not clear why military administrations should be established in areas 600 km away from combat. It's completely counterproductive in terms of war. This is counterproductive in terms of organising economic processes. And this in no way contributes to the protection of the state. So I urge the deputies to support Amendment 6. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-12-m1.u36	Please, head of the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-12-m1.u37	The explanation is small for MPs, either in the entire territory of Ukraine or in clearly defined regions. For example, when we planned to introduce a military situation during the ATO zone, we planned to enter the areas of Donetsk, Luhansk, and nearby areas of Kharkiv, Dnipropetrovsk, and Zaporez. And the state of war, it's not just fighting. These are the organs, the control of the authorities, these are other restrictions on will and freedom. I want to say again, of course, we're going to put the amendment on confirmation. But the author does not understand what a procedure for the introduction of martial law is.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-12-m1.u38	Thank you. Colleagues, proposal for confirmation of the sixth amendment. The committee doesn't support her, I understand. Yes, Sergey Volodymyrovich, does not support the committee?
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-12-m1.u39	Yeah, yeah.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-12-m1.u40	The committee does not support it. The committee has been rejected, please identify the sixth amendment. She was rejected by the committee. [[16:47:53]] For 116 Thank you. Not accepted. Dear colleagues! Another is the amendment. Another amendment? Five amendments. Call them all. Call them all one at a time, please. I'm asking you to name them all one at a time.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-12-m1.u41	Volodymyr Borisovich, it is not possible to name all five amendments that are meaningful one at a time. I ask you to take a separate look at each amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-12-m1.u42	Name the number, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-12-m1.u43	I ask you to vote, I ask you to vote in favour of Amendment 13. The point is that article 4 deals with the census of military posts, and these are the settlements that are replaced by military personnel. However, there is no prescribed order for such a replacement. This amendment is actually technical, which suggests that the order of such substitution is approved by the President of Ukraine at the request of the Chief of General Staff. I don't understand why she wasn't counted. It's actually a purely legal norm, which is basically necessary for the normal functioning of the right norm. I hope that some kind of political here, let's say, preferences don't affect the legal quality of this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-12-m1.u44	Please, Sergey Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-12-m1.u45	And once again, I want to say that we've looked at this in a very detailed way. In any case, after the vote, we will once again take note of this if it does not conflict with the body of the law. We can implement something. But what I'm saying is that we've given it very detailed consideration, and there was no political context even near it.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-12-m1.u46	Thank you. Please identify yourself. 13 amendments to the committee are not supported. The committee isn't supported, is it, 13? Sergei Volodymyrovich?
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-12-m1.u47	No, it's not.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-12-m1.u48	Not supported. Not supported by the committee. [[16:49:46]] For-55 Come on, please. Lechenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-12-m1.u49	Thank you. I want to pay attention to the 29th amendment. 29 amendments relate essentially to the economic issue. In fact, the state of war is an economic law, which is why, in fact, the state of war today is not introduced, because the introduction of the state of war is going to mean the disappearance of the profits of the oligarchs and the work of the entire economy precisely for the needs of war, for our victory. Amendment 29 refers to the fact that following the introduction of a state of war within five days of its introduction, the alienation of objects of strategic importance to the economy and security of the State and located in the territory in which the state of war is established is ensured if such objects are in private or communal property. This is to ensure that the first economic blow in the case of the introduction of a state of war is precisely for the oligarchi business, not for citizens who can take out financial savings, cars, and the like. So I call again on the parliamentarians to show their attitude towards the Ukrainian military and vote in favour of this amendment 29. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-12-m1.u50	Please take the seat of the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-12-m1.u51	Well, of course not, because the state of war is not meant to give any economic preferences or to take away any economic preferences. A military situation is imposed in the event of an open military conflict. And I'm just going to read what a valid editorial that is allowed to force the alienation of property that is in private or communal property and the removal of property from state-owned enterprises, state-owned economic unions for the needs of the state under the rule of law. What does that mean? Well, for example, right now we're in the line of fire building a fortification line, right? Well, if you'll excuse me, we're removing these land plots, and now the Cabinet of Ministers is developing order as we're going to compensate. We're going to have to remove it to private citizens, we're going to have to remove it to private citizens. We're going to have to remove the oligarch factory, so if it's going to need it to increase the resilience in this area, we're going to delete it. Here this mandatory standard, which has been deleted for five days, something has to be deleted, something is not needed, it has nothing to do with the law at all. If the honourable deputy deems it necessary, let him pass the bill, and I will vote for the property of all the oligarchs.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-12-m1.u52	Please, 29 amendments are not supported by the committee. [[16:52:31]] For-69 No correction supported. Please, National Deputy Levchenko. Four.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-12-m1.u53	Thank you. The last question I would like to ask for confirmation of the amendment that has been taken into account, Amendment 17, which excludes the position that has been inserted in this bill, is the correct position that the declaration of the state of war is being made by the Supreme Council at the individual submission of the President of Ukraine. The fact is that the Constitution clearly distinguishes between the concept of war and the state of war. Unfortunately, the state of war is nowhere in separate legislation, it's a failure. And in order to close the speculation that the state of war and the state of war are the same, you have to leave that rule. So I would like to place it, please, for confirmation. And separately, I'd like to ask the reporter as head of the Defence Committee. Doesn't he think it's a violation of the logic, morals and legislation of Ukraine that he's still the head of the Supervisory Board at the same time in terms of his reports that he's doing here today? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-12-m1.u54	Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-12-m1.u55	The acting MP is not the author of this amendment. According to the Rules, the position of the committee is proven to you. All the other questions are in writing, and I will answer them in public. The committee supports this amendment by the national deputy Siroid and sees no contradictions.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-12-m1.u56	Dear fellow national MPs, please. [[B in m in s a l in]] Dear colleagues, see a very important law in the second reading on military status. It is carefully worked with an expert environment, fully suited to all modern requirements and needs. He prepared himself well enough for the second reading, and there is full consent of all coalition factions to his support. So I'm going to ask, honourable colleagues, now to take your seats, take your places to vote. Please take your seats. I'm going to ask for confirmation of the 17th amendment that I'm asking you to support, and immediately after this amendment, we're going to vote in the second reading and in general by the committee's decision. Is it accepted? Dear colleagues, please take your seats. I'm betting on confirmation in line with the 17th amendment I'm asking you to support. Colleagues, please support the 17th amendment, and we will continue to vote on it as a whole. Please, for confirmation of the 17th amendment, please support, for confirmation, please support the 17th amendment! I'd like your support, Your Honor. "For," please support. [[16:55:45.]] For 225 [[B in m in s a l in]] Lucenko couldn't vote. Colleagues, concentrate, please. On my confirmation, I'm putting 17 amendments, the constitutional right of a deputy to vote. Please, I'm betting on the 17th amendment for confirmation. 17th, please support, 17th, for confirmation, please support. I'd like your support, 17th for confirmation. [[16:56:23]] For 239. Thank you, Your Honor, accepted, confirmed. And immediately in the second reading and in general, by the 254 Committee's decision on the legal regime of the state of war, the draft law. Please vote, please support 2541 in second reading and in general. Please vote. [[16:56:49]] For 254 Decision taken. Thank you. Dear colleagues, an extremely important law. During a special period, important and special decisions must be made. Decision taken. Thank you, Your Honor. Dear colleagues, we have an agenda for the day. There is a proposal to consider a number of regulations of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. I've been predicting that we can work ahead of schedule, and I've prepared a draft Order for your consideration of 2482. Draft Decision to refer the Supreme Council of Ukraine to the General States (Parliament) of the Kingdom of the Netherlands on the situation surrounding the return to Ukraine of museum values. Sergey Taruta prepared. And there's been a committee submission since March 31st. The Second Decision (registration No. 2394), the ATO Honorary Order and the National Patriotic Education of Children and Youth. The National MP prepared Timchuk, and another 19.03 was the presentation of the committee for consideration. That's two decisions. And there are also a few draft laws that we can also include for consideration if you agree. I propose to include these two rulings now, prepare your colleagues, the two decrees that I have just announced. To include them in our consideration, and we will begin our consideration of them. Then we'll go through a few more draft laws, and if there's room agreement, we'll vote. Please have two draft decrees: 2482, (author: Taruta Sergey Alexiyovich) and 2394. To the Kingdom of the Netherlands, our colleague Dmitry Timchuk prepared a call for the restoration of museum values and for the patriotic upbringing of children and young people. It's about inclusion so we can look at it now. Please, Your Honor, please support 2482, 2394 at the evening plenary meeting. Please be supportive. Let's vote, colleagues. [[16:59:26]] For 240 We have two decisions. 240, decision taken. So here's the advice, dear colleagues. 2178 — Project. 2423 is a bill amending some Ukrainian laws to increase transparency in property relations in order to prevent corruption. Leonid Kozachenko, a colleague of ours, is an anti-corruption committee. Everything is, in principle, ready. We can look at this, this is the first reading. If there's no objection, I'll turn it on then. I'll put it on for now. 2423, I read it to you, 2423, inclusion in the evening session, consideration. Please vote. Anti-corruption draft law. Please vote. [[17:00:35]] For 245 Decision taken. All right, dear fellows, we're about to prepare some options. We're starting to consider these questions. We'll work with you now. Dear colleagues, we are moving on to the agenda, the draft Act amending some of Ukraine's laws to increase transparency in property relations with a view to preventing corruption. Reported Ukrainian National Deputy Leonid Kozachenko, co-reported by Yegor Sobolev. Please report.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-12-m1.u57	Dear Sir, dear fellows! This is a partial disclosure of the assets owned by legal and natural persons. In fact, that's what each of us has done, practically, by providing this information in his declaration and anyone, any citizen can open up the Supreme Council website and see what the people own. This is to be done, not by writing a declaration, but by giving access to this information to any citizen who lives in our country. It is suggested that in the case of movable property it is practical to give information about the year of issue, the date of purchase without a license plate; the property is a house, apartment or other property without specifying the exact location; and the land areas owned by a legal or natural person. I want to say that these rules are in force in seven countries of the European Union. These standards work in Belarus, by the way, in Georgia. Ukraine, by applying these standards, will take a very serious step in the fight against corruption. I very much ask you, Your Honor, to support this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-12-m1.u58	Thank you very much. The co-report invites the head of the Committee on Prevention and Anti-Corruption of Corruption by Soboljev Yegor Viktorovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-12-m1.u59	Honorary colleagues, Finland became the last country in the European Union to make such legislation. I would like to remind you that this country is one of the world's leaders in the eradication of corruption, which is almost gone. Journalists are asking for this bill, and public organizations are asking for it. I think we all understand that society is now the greatest anti-corruption fighter. And when we give him as much information as we can, when we make property transparent, then corruption will be less, especially at the local level, at the household level. I mean, a year ago, I discovered all the information about the machine, the apartment, the house, I didn't feel any discomfort during this period, it's easy and pleasant. The Anti-Corruption and Anti-Corruption Committee unanimously supported the bill and asked you to support it in the first reading.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-12-m1.u60	Dear colleagues, is there a need to discuss the bill? There's support for voting right now, right? Then please take your seats, take your seats, and prepare for the vote so that we can vote productively. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-12-m1.u61	Dear colleagues, please prepare to vote on the basis. Draft Act amending certain Ukrainian laws to increase transparency in property relations in order to prevent corruption. On the ground, please vote. On the basis of that, please vote on the basis. Based on the base. Well? [[17:05:02]] For 243 That's better. 243, distinguished colleagues, thank you. Small consultations were held. Listen, there are three other laws that, if it is your will, we can include the session today. Draft Act on Amendments to Article 18 on State Social Assistance to Disabled Persons from Childhood and Children with Disabilities (for the addition of the First Group of Subgroup A, prepared by Alexander Trelyakiv. Second position. Three laws: 2069, 2069, 2069-2. Draft Act amending certain laws of Ukraine concerning the right of persons with disabilities to travel free of charge in suburban transport. And 2426 is a draft Act amending some of Ukraine's legislation on alimony indexation. There are three laws that we can include in the evening session. Is there no objection? Please 2426, 2069, 2069-1, 2069-2 and 2026. Please consider them at the evening session, these three draft laws. Please support me. As far as I'm concerned. Everyone's social, you've heard. Please vote. [[17:06:47]] For-200 We didn't make it? Again, 2426. This is for being included in the evening session. 2426 is a draft Act amending some Ukrainian legislation on alimony indexation. Second Act 2069, 2069-1, 2069-2. Draft law amending some Ukrainian legislation on the right of persons with disabilities to travel free of charge in suburban transport. The third position is 2026, a draft law amending article 18 of the Ukrainian Act on State Social Assistance to Disabled Persons from Childhood and Children with Disabilities, on the establishment of a supplement for persons with disabilities and subgroup A. Dear colleagues, please. These are social laws. These are the social laws that we can consider with you. Please, these three laws I put to the vote to include them in the consideration. We've got an hour left. Please. Vote, please. [[17:08:28]] For 205 All right, colleagues. There is no solution for this. Please consider what has already been included. 2482 – Draft Decision on the application of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to the General States (Parliament) The Kingdom of the Netherlands is concerned with the situation surrounding the return to Ukraine of museum values. The author is Sergei Alexiyovich Taruta. Please report to Ostap Semerak. 2482. There's a proposal for a reduced procedure, there's an offer. I'd like to make up my mind. [[17:09:29]] For a hundred and Please, Ostap Mikhailovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-12-m1.u62	Dear colleagues, since this is a very important document, I think we should take advantage of the possibility instead of Sergio Taruta, who is the author of this draft decision, to explain what this is about. So the point is that before the Crimea annex, a huge collection of Scythian gold was sent to the Kingdom of the Netherlands. Sadly, after the collection left Crimea, Crimea museums were annexed. About a year ago, the issue of the return of this collection to Ukraine was raised. And the government of Ukraine asked the Government of the Netherlands a year ago about the return of the collection of Scythian gold to Kiev. Since the government, and I hope, the Ukrainian Parliament is of the opinion that this collection, which was a collection of three Crimean museums, belongs to the people of Ukraine, that the annexed Crimea is also a territory of Ukraine, and this collection must be returned for preservation, for promotion in the territory of Ukraine. The Committee on European Integration, as the main committee in its consideration of this appeal, considered at its meeting on April 8, a draft decision by the national deputy Taruta. And he recommended to the Supreme Council that this decree be approved, accepting it as a basis and as a whole.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-12-m1.u63	Thank you. Please welcome Sergey Taruta. Please go to the microphone behind the rostrum.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-12-m1.u64	Thank you. I'm going to add a little bit to what Oleg said. These are items belonging to the State of Ukraine. They're about a thousand names. It belongs to the Museum Fund of Ukraine. The Crimean museums agreed with the Amsterdam Museum on the exhibition. Today, the exhibition is over. And it's about getting back. Is it returning to Crimea, as the Russian Federation insists. Whether we are restoring this right of ownership to the territory of Ukraine. Relevant references were made between the Ministry of Culture and the Ministry of Culture of the Netherlands. They support the position of the State. But there is a need for parliamentary support. And I believe that this step will help us to regain those values. It is likely that there will be a legal halt. But we are confident and agreed that if our Parliament supports it, it will help us win the solution and restore those values in the legal order. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-12-m1.u65	Dear colleagues, let us ask if there is a question on the matter of having a discussion, can we immediately vote?
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-12-m1.u66	We vote, there is a general opinion of the hall, we vote. So I'm asking the people's deputies to come into the hall, not in the hall, to get as close as possible to their work cards and get ready to vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-12-m1.u67	Please, Your Honor, let's prepare for the vote. Colleagues, please take your seats. Draft Decision to refer the Supreme Council of Ukraine to the General States (Parliament) of the Kingdom of the Netherlands on the situation surrounding the return to Ukraine of museum values. You have heard the report by Sergey Alexeiovich Taruti, Ostap Mikhailovich Semerak. There is a proposal to vote on the draft regulation as a whole. Therefore, dear colleagues, please prepare yourself. Please, on the basis and in general. [[17:15:15]] For 249 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, thank you. The next is a draft decision on honoring ATO heroes and improving the national patriotic upbringing of children and young people. Prepared by national deputy Dmitri Timchuk. Please, Dmitri Timchuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-12-m1.u68	Dear Mr. Head, dear colleagues, for over a year our boys have been fighting an aggressor with Russian Federation troops and terrorist groups in the east of Ukraine. There is a collection of evidence both of the Russian Federation's aggression against Ukraine and the collection of facts of the heroic actions of our boys in the ATO zone. However, this decision, the draft decision that I propose, is proposed to systematize, first and foremost, to set up mechanisms, both the collection of evidence of the aggression of the Russian Federation against Ukraine and the promotion of the heroic actions of our boys. This applies to state structures, power structures, and the involvement and interaction of the Ukrainian Security Service and the Attorney General's Office. In practical terms, the implementation of this decision is being made in the preparation of both the moving conclusions on the developments in the ATO area, which are to work both in the regions and outside Ukraine on the lines of our diplomatic representations and at the level of individual even science museums. It's worth mentioning that now in every, in fact, population, there are historical science museums in which something more is promoted, let's say, the heroic actions of our citizens during the Soviet era, while for over a year we have evidence of the heroism of the Ukrainians today. It is for the purpose of carrying out these tasks that I propose to accept the decision of the Supreme Council. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-12-m1.u69	Thank you. Please, Mikola Knieżicki.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-12-m1.u70	Dear colleagues! More recently, we have been in the hands of a parliamentary delegation led by Mr. Groissman, Head of the Supreme Council, in Poland. And we were truly impressed by the work done by the Ukrainian Embassy in Poland to honor the memory of our heroes, and of the Celestial 100, and of the ATO. We've seen a lot of beautiful and high-quality photos at the embassy house. Then we went to college, where we saw a huge number of paintings and photographs taken by Ukrainians who are now studying in Poland. But does every Ukrainian school, or in every Ukrainian city today, our young generation imagine what is happening now at the ATO, as we protest Russian propaganda both inside Ukraine and abroad? We have to admit that's not enough. The decision for the authorship of our colleagues specifically urges that we do everything in our power to do this work with dignity and dignity. The Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Culture and Spirituality at its meeting on April 8th discussed the draft ATO Heros Honorary Order and the National Patriotic Education of Children and Youth (number 2394), introduced by the National Deputies, Timchuk and Mathios. The members of the committee supported the need for such a decision. Individual members of the committee drew attention to some of the inadequacies of sub-paragraph 7 regarding the provision of funding for the measures taken at the expense of the State budget in budgetary legislation. But as a result of the review, the committee recommends a draft decision to honor ATO heroes and to improve the national patriotic upbringing of children and young people as a basis and as a whole. Committee meeting minutes No. 11 of 08.04. This Decision I urge you to support this motion on the basis and in general. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-12-m1.u71	Thank you. Two for, two against, is there a need, colleagues? You don't? Yes, it's Mikola Tomenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-12-m1.u72	Dear colleagues, we sometimes make very wise decisions and bills. And when we adopt them and it comes to what needs to be done, we start to think that there's a problem with the toolbox. I fully support and vote in favour of this decree. But I just want to remind you that we now have in the government's reform projects virtually total destruction of extracurricular work, groups. And those who need to promote it will soon be on the street. Since the education system will not finance people who conduct patriotic and educational work at government expense in schools, especially in rural areas. It is here that colleagues suggest that we activate our work to promote the history of Ukraine. In fact, we feel that we have a wise decision, and we have a history of Ukraine that is no longer an optional subject in natural institutions and in politics. Today we have total cuts and cuts due to funding, through the introduction of land tax, and this, Vladimir. You're asked to finally adopt a bill for today's second reading, preschools, schools, schools, cultural buildings covered by land tax. At work, they will promote free time, and at work they will seek money to pay the land tax so that it will not be closed. So I think all good ideological patriotic decisions need to be supported, but demand from the government that those institutions that promote Ukrainian values be properly financed, eliminated and protected. Then such a determination will be a workable one.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-12-m1.u73	Thank you. Please, Igor Mosiyczuk, Radical Party, and let's go to the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-12-m1.u74	Igor Mosiyczuk, Oleg Lachka Radical Party I absolutely agree with my colleague, Mikola Tomenk, and we will support this decision. But the question is another: you need to pay attention to the BSS in the first place, other law enforcement agencies, which respect for ATO heroes can be talked about if some school leaders, some rural heads in Dnipropetrovska, in Zaporozhye state that they have to fight fascism and expel the punishers, referring to the same ATO heroes. To honor the heroes properly, therefore, it is necessary to bring to bear the responsibility of the villains who slander their name a severe punishment for those who deny the heroic acts of our warriors. Or heroes put their lives on the forelock, and we let the backs of the cotton-tipped rats call them punishments in an independent country -- a country that's over a year of fighting an external enemy, Therefore, in support of this decision, I reiterate the Ukrainian Security Service’s attention to the cases that took place in Dnipropetrovsk, Zaporozhye, where police officers called the punishments of volunteers. Please pay attention, and we support the decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-12-m1.u75	Thank you. Colleagues, please prepare for the vote. Draft Decree 2394, draft Decree on Honoring ATO Heroes and Improving National Patriotic Education of Children and Youth, 2394. There is an offer: to vote on it as a whole. Please vote, please support a total of 2394. Please vote. [[17:24:39]] For 235 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, we have another draft law that we have long considered with you, a bill prepared by the International Committee of Profiles on the Service of Diplomacy (registration number 2048). We haven't discussed it before. The question is that each member of this committee is a coauthor of this law. And there is now a proposal that I would like to support: to include it for the consideration of tonight's meeting and to consider it as a basis. Draft Law on Diplomatic Service (as regards the appointment of diplomatic posts). Once again, I emphasize that the co-authors are representatives of all factions that are part of the Foreign Affairs Committee. Please, colleagues, 2048: about including it. People's deputies please take their seats. It's about diplomatic service. Please vote on its consideration. I emphasize that all, all of them, all of the factions are co-authors of this bill. I'd like your support, colleagues. Please support the inclusion of it now. Vote please, 2048. Please be supportive. [[17:26:25]] For 224 We didn't make it. Please, this is about getting into the agenda, we can vote again for it without going back. Please enter into the agenda: 2048 – Law on diplomatic service. We'll take it as a base. Please be supportive. 2048. All factions have coauthors of this law. Please vote. Integrating into the agenda for the evening session, 2048. Vote. Vote. [[17:27:11]] For 213 There are no votes for this bill. [[B in m in s a l in]] Let's do it again, okay? Please take your seats, fellow nationals. All right, colleagues. Next 2426, about the size of alimony. Ready to vote? Draft Act amending some Ukrainian legislation on alimony indexation, 2426. The author is the national deputy of Amazanov. Please, 2426, vote. About the alimony in the order of the day that is now given. [[17:28:58]] For 219 The decision is not taken. Colleagues, once again, concentrate, please. Please, colleagues, let's do it again. Listen to the name of the law. Draft Act amending some Ukrainian legislation on alimony indexation. Now? On the basis of that, we will consider. Now we're going to include it in the way we're looking at it. Next, we will consider, discuss, and make a decision as a basis. Please vote 2426 on this issue. Please be supportive. [[17:30:02]] For 218. One minute, Oleg Lazyka, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-12-m1.u76	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. Dear colleagues, please pay attention, dear colleagues. Maybe someone didn't hear. It is an index of alimony for children abandoned by their parents. If you do not know what it is like to feed your mother today who does not have a father who does not have any income, get out of this cozy room and go to the people. By such vote, we will discredit the work of Parliament. We don't index wages, we don't index pensions, we don't index alimony. That's why I'm talking to all my colleagues. Put away all the important things you do, support this law, and vote! And God does not allow anyone to live without a father or a mother!
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-12-m1.u77	Anyone else want to explain that alimony indexing is very important? No one, no one? [[B in m in s a l in]] Author, minute. Listen, calm down, colleagues.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-12-m1.u78	Hello, Your Honor, are you involved? Dear colleagues! Now this is the kind of vote that we're showing that we don't care about the fate of children who are completely without parental care! Now the 100 bracelets that are indexed for someone in the hall may not be money, but for those kids who live on those 150 bracelets, they're a lot of money! And so when someone in the faction tells me that he doesn't understand what this bill is about, let me explain in detail what this bill is about. It's a bill that if we have 100 percent inflation now, this money should be counted automatically! And you don't need a mother who's still deprived of her living rights because her father has abandoned her child, she's bound to go to court right now and prove that she has the right to get a recalculation of this money that she doesn't get. So, dear fellows, I urge you, let us vote for the children and get rid of the pianist you all are doing here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-12-m1.u79	Dear fellow national MPs, I see. I see that the national MPs have prepared for the vote, and I don't know if there are enough votes. Dear colleagues, please determine for inclusion 2426. [[17:33:44]] For 238. Please. Andrew Vitaliovich Amazanov. Let's not, without emotion, we'll have a report, now we'll hear the author. Let's think about it as a basis. Procedure, regulation. Please report.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-12-m1.u80	Dear colleagues, in principle, I will not repeat myself for long, nor should this process be delayed. Let me just say once again that that money is small, which now seems small to us, is just a lifeline for those who live on alimony. So, dear colleagues, I ask you very much to support this bill as a basis for your first reading. And if someone does not understand or wants to fix something, we will do so by the second reading. Please vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-12-m1.u81	Dear colleagues, there is also a report by the secretary of the committee of profile. National MP Wesselova Natalija Vasilovna, please continue to vote, prepare for the vote. Natalia Weselov, please, on the rostrum.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-12-m1.u82	On 8 April 2015, at its meeting of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Social Policy, Employment and Retirement, the President-in-Office of the People's Republic of Ukraine discussed this bill to amend some of the laws of Ukraine on alimony indexation. The bill proposes to amend, and amendments are proposed to the Ukrainian Laws on Enforcement, on the Indexing of People’s Money. In particular, to determine the order of indexation of alimony assigned by the court in a fixed amount of money. Making alimony available to the list of monetary incomes that are objects of indexation, setting up sources of funds for carrying out the alimony index determined by the court in a fixed amount of money, at the expense of the person on whom the maintenance obligation is imposed. The committee supports the proposed legislative initiative, believing that the implementation of the project’s rules would improve the material status of those with whom alimony assigned by the court in a solid amount of money. Please accept the bill on the basis of a request for support.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-12-m1.u83	Thank you. Colleagues, prepare for the vote. 2426 is a draft Act amending certain Ukrainian legislation on indexation of the size of elements. Please prepare for the vote, and I will not agitate you as to how right and important the law is, please support it. Ready to vote? Please base 2426. Let's vote, colleagues. [[17:37:14]] For 248 Dear colleagues, there is an offer. There's a proposal for this law, you don't have to work together. In the second reading, we will adopt the right law. Dear colleagues, it is the invitation of the head of the committee of profile in the foreign affairs of Hanna Hopko to consider once again the possibility of including the draft Law 2048 on diplomatic service (as regards the appointment of diplomatic posts). The draft Law on the inclusion of its consideration is now in session. 2048 – on the order of appointment for diplomatic service. Draft Law on Diplomatic Service. Please be sure. Please support this bill for its consideration at the evening session. Please. [[17:38:27]] For 204 Obviously, there are no votes. Dear colleagues, the agenda of the sitting is exhausted. I declare the evening meeting of the Supreme Council closed. Tomorrow morning, the meeting will take place at 10 a.m. Thank you, Your Honor.
