ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-15-m0.u1	Good morning, fellow countrymen! Please take your seats in the Supreme Council Hall. Before that, your honorary colleagues, as we begin our meeting, please prepare for your registration, please take your seats. While you're taking your seats, dear colleagues, I'd like to welcome you to the World Day of Democracy. I think this day is set for everyone to realize the importance of the democratic path of development, because countries with a high standard of living are sufficiently developed because democracy in these countries has priority. And as UN Secretary General Guy Moon has said, civil society is the oxygen for democracy. And so I would very much like the laws that we are adopting in the Supreme Council of Ukraine to contribute to the development of democracy, civil society, which means the development of Ukraine. In particular, I would like to inform you, my fellow Members, about this session and the tasks that we face, namely, the adoption of the decisions and laws that the country is facing today and every citizen who will make a structural change in life in our country. I would like to emphasize that from the crisis of decision making, we need to move on to a system of work. And the basis for this work can be the legislative reform plan adopted by the Supreme Council of Ukraine. And also to implement this plan, we have defined 70 laws that cover all spheres of life that allow for systemic changes in legislation and to address many, many issues relating to the quality of people's lives. I also think that you will agree with me, that it needs a completely new quality of the work of the committees of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. We talked about it at the Conciliation Council yesterday with committee leaders. And I think we understand each other that systematizing the work of committees is one of our priorities for quality further work. So I urge all of us to work effectively enough so that the political slogans may not be the first position of our loyalty. And the first position of our loyalty was the country itself and the need for the reforms that need to be undertaken today. So I encourage everyone to work constructively. I call for the development of democracy on this day. And I wish us success, because I think there are two things that are extremely important. Parliament should demonstrate a new quality of decision-making. Parliament must demonstrate publicity and openness, which means restoring confidence in the Ukrainian Parliament and in parliamentaryism as a whole. Dear colleagues, I ask you to prepare for registration. Please turn on the glade system, let's register. [[10:07:11]] 299 national deputies in the Hall, distinguished colleagues. I hereby declare the morning session of the Supreme Council open. Dear colleagues, according to the Supreme Council of Ukraine regulations, we have 30 minutes to speak from factions and groups of parliament on Tuesday. Ladies and gentlemen, please prepare for registration. From factions and groups, 30 minutes. Let's register. Dear colleagues, the recording is done. Please, Peter Prashenko's Block, Lucenko Yuri Vitaliyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-15-m0.u2	Dear Mr. Head, dear colleagues! I think it's time, and today we can fully support that political algebra, not the arithmetic that the Supreme Council did in the previous plenary. The constitutional vote allowed Ukraine to stay in the interest of the state and ensure the preservation of the international antiputinian coalition. Kiev’s plan. We have consistently implemented the Minsk Accords, but Moscow is fully sabotaging its part of its commitment. Then the sanctions for Moscow must be strengthened. It was clear to us that there was a plan in Moscow that said that there was no shooting at Donbassa, which means sanctions would continue needlessly. In this regard, it is gratifying to note that sanctions have continued, the aggressor continues to be smothered economically by the world antiputinian front. In addition, President Prašenk's principal post office at the international conference YES made it clear: "Minish agreements are only valid until the end of the year. There will be no extension of the Minsk Accords." In other words, this year’s aggressor comes out of the occupied area of Donbas, or Ukraine knows that we are strong enough to repel a likely attack. And we are wise enough not to take on the occupied sector. What happens if the invaders don't leave Donetsk and Luhansk? First of all, in the changes to the Constitution, the Transitional Situations will become unnecessary, because if the Minsk dies, no mention of the special order of self-government envisaged by these agreements will be unnecessary. The only thing that can be proposed in this particular situation is the special order of economic relations with the operators in the occupied territory but registered and paying taxes in Ukraine. Colleagues, I call on everyone, every time, to vote for strategic laws, to think not of one step, not of arithmetic, but of algebra and to seek national interest where it is. Our national interest is unity. To date, we need to know clearly: Moscow will fall under pressure from the Ukrainian army and international economic sanctions. Our job here in Parliament is to stand up until then, brush your teeth and forget your insults, curb your personal and party ambitions, and work. I call on the coalition to resume its work on the coalition council and work on the main tasks: judicial reform, tax reform, the end of law enforcement reform and eventually work on economic growth.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-15-m0.u3	Please, 30 seconds, finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-15-m0.u4	These are the very questions that the people are expecting from us, and these are the very questions on which there are no differences in the coalition. So please look for what unites. We avoid what separates us. The people are waiting for us to do our job, not another scandal for local elections. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-15-m0.u5	Please, Oleg Romanovich Berezuk, Self-help.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-15-m0.u6	Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen! You know, last night, when we were working at the President's Administration (there was a meeting of the President with the faction leaders), Yegor Sobolev texted me, a text message from the Latin saying, "The law is the art of good and justice." And when you read it, you'll say it's Utopia, it's unrealistic, there's no good in Ukraine, there's no justice. But indeed, the real law is the law that pursues these two goals and the art of making it. And yesterday on ICT, one of the experts said another expression, another quote from President Havel, who said, "Politics is the art of impossible, impossible to make into reality." So the Self-Help faction thinks, and yesterday she told the President, she thinks it's possible for the coalition board to work the way it did at the beginning, and make quality, not compromise, but important laws for the state. The Coalition Council and Parliament can today release 300 judges from the higher appeals courts in Kiev to show the Ukrainian people that it is active. The Council of Coalitions and Parliament can ensure that the customs office is not the gateway to the budget of tens of billions of dollars, but everyone is silent and watching. Maybe he will. The coalition council and Parliament can ensure that good and justice in this country will prevail. This requires mastery over the art of the impossible: quality discussion, expertise, and trust in one another. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-15-m0.u7	Jaroslav Moskalenko, "The will of the people".
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-15-m0.u8	Dear Ukrainian people! Dear Mr. Head! Dear colleagues! The situation that is now taking place in the districts should be mirrored in Parliament. But it's not like that. I'll give you a few examples that add to the social and political situation that's happening in the country today. What's going on here, my dear colleagues, in the walls of this House? You and I can't determine who, how many times, when and how and in what coalition. And you go outside of Parliament -- completely different people, understood, simple, people who live with the basic fear of the soul, and what happens next. And then there'll be autumn, then there'll be winter, then there'll be heating payments, then there'll be tariffs that grow like yeasts. Another episode. Children go to school, go to kindergartens. And it didn't make any sense again to the children of beginners and preschoolers. Because in the fall of this year local elections were held, and city mayors and district council heads decided that children were more concerned with the playground or sidewalk that they would open by cutting the tape than their own full diet. I know what I'm saying, because I had the mother of one of the cities in Kiev who decided to check what their children were eating, and there was a photo confirmation of that, and there would be appropriate questions. Where one serving of 90 grams of meat should have been 100 grams. So, colleagues, what I want to say is that the further we go, the further away from solving social problems. We're not working to give people the opportunity to go through a political crisis, to go through an economic crisis, and basically survive. Where am I going? What we don't want today is for the economic, political and social collapse to be added to the collapse in the land sphere, and we need to continue with you the moratorium on the purchase and sale of agricultural land. I am convinced that the land must become a resource of the Ukrainian economy, but today we are not ready to adopt the Agricultural Land Circumstances Act. And the children will tell us, "You sold the land and sold the Ukraine." The People's will MPs call on all the factions to share responsibility and to work together to solve social problems. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-15-m0.u9	Maxim Yuriovich Burbak, People's Front, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-15-m0.u10	Dear Head, distinguished national MPs! This plenary week, we have a day-to-day major and overwhelming issue: the adoption of changes to the 2015 budget for the increase in pensions and social benefits. I'm going to point out that the government of Arsenija Yatzenyuk has already accumulated funds in the accounts of the State Department. We, honourable deputies, need to consolidate and vote on these changes on Thursday. And that's an increase of 12.5 million Ukrainians and 80ths of a variety of social benefits. An increase in wages, pensions and other social benefits will take place on average. The average increase will take place by 13 percent. For highly qualified workers, this percentage will be close to 18 percent. For example, from September 1, 2015, the living minimum increases by one person from 1,176 dollars to 1,330 dollars, the minimum pension will increase from 949 dollars to 1,074 dollars and will affect 7.5 million Ukrainian pensioners. The minimum wage will be set at 1,378. Remember, when we adopted the 2015 budget last December, we determined that as of December 1, this year we would raise, index pensions and social benefits. The government has made a commitment as a result of the implementation of the budget in the first half of the year to bring this date closer, and we must now vote in Parliament. And by the end of September or early October, all of our socially vulnerable populations will have received additional sums. The second important issue is that of voting for bills for the restructuring of external debt. The government managed to write down about $4 billion in external debt and to cancel the principal payment for the next four years. All of this enabled us to accumulate money in the budget, which we immediately sent to pay and raise social security bills to socially vulnerable populations. The day before, Mrs. Jaresko, the finance minister, met with the heads and representatives of all the coalition factions, where she explained the clear position: this must be supported, if we do not support it, the reputation, as a minimum, will be damaged if we make other decisions. But I would like to remind everyone who criticises this bill that Russia alone has responded negatively to the fact that we have agreed with Western partners on restructuring. Next, there are now about 9 monitoring missions in Ukraine to fulfil Ukraine’s commitments to implement the planned visa-free regime. We also need to support this week's bill, which we will still introduce a visa-free regime for our Ukrainians. And most importantly, local elections have begun, and all Ukrainians have already experienced it. The course for local elections is in places, in areas, in areas, let's not turn the Supreme Council rostrum into an agitation tool. We're going.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-15-m0.u11	Thank you. Done? Thank you. Please, Yuri Anatoliovich Boyko, Opposition Block.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-15-m0.u12	Dear Mr. Head, distinguished national MPs! Since the beginning of September, the number of fighting and shootings has decreased significantly. We welcome the progress made in the work of the security subgroup regarding the diversion from the line of fire of tanks and artillery. The tranquillity that prevailed gives hope for strengthening so far of fragile peace. At the same time, the situation in the economy comes first -- a decline in production volume, a record of 20 years of rising unemployment and lowering citizens' incomes, instead of supporting the economy, developing production and earning real income, the government is driving around the world for loans and building a new financial pyramid. The authorities refused the luxury tax, but they want all citizens to pay the housing tax. To stop government research on the people, the Opposition Block is introducing a bill to the Supreme Council on a moratorium on raising tariffs for people whose total income per month exceeds three living minimums. In addition, the Opposition Block insists on an urgent review of 11 of the economic bills that we have proposed. These are real steps from economic development and the protection of the poor. A month before the heating season, Ukraine is not ready for winter. The government, as we can see, has no idea how catastrophic the situation is. Of the necessary 19 billion cubic metres of gas in the shelters, only 15. At warehouses in need of 3 and a half million tons of coal, stocks barely reach one and a half million tons. It's an energy crisis harbinger in winter. What conclusion can we draw from all of this? Today’s authorities are uncontrolled and irresponsible. All failures are plunged into war, and there is a colossal breakout of the budget. It is imperative that the law of opposition be passed urgently so that society can control its power. This will prevent the country from slipping into economic collapse and impoverishment of Ukrainian citizens. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-15-m0.u13	Please, Oleg Lazko, Radical Party.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-15-m0.u14	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. Dear fellow national MPs, respected citizens of Ukraine! The Ukrainian opposition faction of the Radical Party is proposing its plan of action for the Ukrainian Parliament for the current plenary week, because that list of issues that we see today and for the week is not the answer to the challenges that millions of Ukrainian citizens face. The first question is raising citizens' incomes, which is raising the standard of living of Ukrainians. The payments that people got for electricity, plus the 30 percent increase in electricity, the payments they're waiting for for gas with fear, are actually nail in the coffin of this power, it's actually nail in the coffin of that economic policy run by the President, the government, the National Bank, together. The faction of the Radical Party therefore demands a radical change in the economic policy of today’s authorities. We believe that today Parliament must consider primarily social bills to radically increase wages and pensions, to radically reduce taxes on the wage fund in order to survive small, medium and large businesses. We urge Parliament to consider a law that allows women at 55 years of age to retire on the condition that they have 30 years of work. We demand that the parliamentary majority review the law and cancel the pension tax that we have today, and the shameful deposit tax that people are taking from banks today. The Radical Party faction insists on a radical increase in wages and pensions so that people can make ends meet. We require Parliament, the parliamentary majority to implement the coalition agreement and to vote on the President's impeachment law and the law on interim commissions of inquiry in order to have a real mechanism of control over the President and the executive branch of power. We ask the Head of Parliament to submit to the Hall a bill on amendments to the Constitution, on the abolition of parliamentary immunity, along with the parliamentary introductoryness of the adoption of the President's impeachment law and the interim commission of inquiry. We're demanding a radical change in the leadership of the law enforcement system, including the resignation of Attorney General Shokin, the resignation of his deputy David Saquarelidze, and that means that the prosecution's mafia has won, that there will be no real reform in the prosecution's office, and that's why Shockin has to resign. We demand Parliament to act, not to talk!
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-15-m0.u15	Please, Victor Bondar, Rebirth Party. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-15-m0.u16	Dear Volodymyr Borisovich, distinguished colleagues! It is clear that the closer the elections, the more opponents appear in the hall, everyone begins to become opponents, everyone starts shouting about how to do it, and how not to do it this year. But I think that the authorities, all those who participated in the current coalition, already understand that in a year they were in trouble. Not just trouble, but they brought the country to the brink of default and led people to simple impoverishment, and people today have no more money to buy bread and drugs, not to go anywhere and decide their questions. Much is said about the government, the bravado goals, how many reforms have been made, and how they have improved life. In fact, we see nothing changes, and we see dry statistics published by the State Department. GDP declines by 17 percent, industrial output declines by 19.5, exports fell by 33.6 percent, real population income by 23.5 percent, wages by 23.7 percent, prices rose by 39.3 percent at the same time. And the government is offering us to raise social standards by just 13 percent, up to 1,378 dollars. I want to see how they live on these 1,378 bracelets for a month, pay the fares, treat their relatives and still have a penny to eat, and live on. This bravado ended in disgrace. This government needs to be pushed into the neck and must. The Rebirth Party, the Rebirth faction, requires two months in a row to make every week work and to listen to every minister's week in a year that he plans for the next six months to bring in a specific package of bills that really change the situation. And if he can't explain in a day or two what he's been doing for a year and what he's been seeing plans that are specific for three months, right now in the hall all of his halls should be freed, sent away, goodbye, so that we don't forget what such a disgraceful thing was in this country. We need an active government that will re-establish the country, restore industry, restore the country's investment appeal. We need a government that really thinks about citizens and raises social conditions for life. To solve the issues of citizens, to solve the issues of investment, of industry, which will give jobs and give it a status of a country that is not really a country that no one in the world understands anymore, but a country that will start to respect itself and start to regenerate and start to do real things. That is why we demand that a government be heard by every minister. And to really start the reports and start the rebirth. We need to look at the draft budget for next year. A new Tax Code is needed to change the situation in the country. We're demanding.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-15-m0.u17	Thank you. Dear colleagues, please Sergey Sobolev, Fatherland.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-15-m0.u18	Dear colleagues, the Fatherland faction is in favour of solving at least one specific issue that would allow for the removal of dozens of other important things that prevent the country from developing. As soon as we get the payment, not the gas or electricity bill, the NAC Naftogaz, a state company, is buying gas from another state company called Crushing. You will likely be pleasantly surprised. Here the price is not 3,600 so-called tax price. Moreover, it's not the price of 7,188 so-called market price. So, just so you know, NAC Naftogaz Ukraine is buying gas from the state company Crushing about the price of a thousand 590 G's at four and a half times the cost that this price is then set for the population. And it's twice as cheap as the so-called premium price. How long is this going to go on? Our insistence. Over the past four months, to submit to Parliament a report from the working group, which, according to the paragraphs, has shown that today's corruption component is the key to bringing gas prices up, remains a priority for us. And that's why the "Fatherland" faction insists that this commission be heard not on Friday, but today, and after that, we will make the most important decisions. That is, lowering the rent on gas for the NAC State Company Naftogaz Ukraine, lowering the rent for commercial structures, especially for those who invest billions in Ukraine's economy, extracting gas from the depth of more than 5,000 meters, which will also remove the burden issue that lies on every Ukrainian family today. And what surprises us is the position of the government when the biggest achievement is 2.5 million families that will receive subsidies. In fact, 10 million of our citizens are turning into beggars who have to go, to go, to go, to go, to go, to go, to go, to go, to people who have earned pensions and wages, they are now asking for copies of so-called heating subsidies, electricity and other utilities. This is the question that we insist on is the most important, and we demand that they be put to the vote today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-15-m0.u19	Thank you. Dear colleagues, according to the Rules, the factions and groups have been exhausted for 30 minutes. People's deputies please take their seats in the hall. Please, Your Honor, we are moving on to the issue of the agenda, namely: the order of the day of the third session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Dear colleagues, September 11th, a draft agenda for the day - to - day third session was posted on the site of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. There is also a proposal for the agenda of the day session to include all the bills that are registered for 10 o’clock on Tuesday, or today, at 10 o’clock in the morning. Accordingly, article 22 of the Rules requires us to establish the order of the day of the third session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. I'm asking everyone to take their seats, dear colleagues. Invite the deputies to the hall. Dear colleagues, you have been asked about the order of the day of the third session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine of the eighth vocation, which was posted on September 11th on the site of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, and which includes all the draft laws that are registered at 10 a.m. on September 15th, that is today. Ready to vote? Please, colleagues, in general, confirm the order of the day of the third session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, please vote, colleagues. Please vote. Let's vote, colleagues. [[10:36:30.]] For 180. Ladies and gentlemen, please take your places to vote. This is about approving the order of the day’s third session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. National deputies, ready to vote? Colleagues! Please, colleagues, please take your seats. I'm betting on a vote to approve the order of the day of the third session. Colleagues, we vote, please vote. [[10:37:39]] For 207 That's better. The factions. Ladies and gentlemen, once again, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that we are considering the order of the day of the third session. All the draft laws that are included by the people's deputies are submitted and registered by the Ukrainian National Deputies for the hour are your bills, and we will not be able to deal with them. It's not the agenda for today, it's the agenda for the session. Are you ready to vote, colleagues? Ready? Please vote, colleagues, approval of the order of the day session, please support. Please be supportive. Please vote. [[10:38:55]] For 210 Colleagues, we will not be able to start a day-to-day discussion. Please, colleagues, we're taking our seats. Please, colleagues, confirm the order of the day of the third session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Approval of the agenda for the day session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Let's move on to law-making. Ready? Please vote on the order of the day of the third session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Vote. If you'll excuse me, I'd like to vote. [[10:40:16]] For 219 Better. Dear colleagues, in order to start our work, we need to confirm the order of the day of the third session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Please, colleagues, concentrate. Ready? Colleagues, please take your seats. We will now vote. One minute, we're about to vote, please prepare for the order of the third session, the order of the day of the third session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. So every bill registered by the members of the Supreme Council will not be included, we won't be able to look at it at all. Please, colleagues, I'm asking you to support me. Vote, colleagues, please. We would like to vote on the order of the day of the third session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Ready? Please vote, please support. We vote yes. [[10:41:53]] For 225 Dear colleagues, once again, I am putting a motion to the vote. 225 votes, almost ready. Julia Volodymyr, please. Concerning the approval of the order of the day session, the third session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. All bills included for the hour today. Please vote in all order of the day of the third session. Please vote, colleagues. Please be supportive. Vote. [[10:42:38]] For 228 That's better, 228 decisions made. Dear colleagues, let's assume it was a distraction. But I would ask, very organized, for us to vote with you. Dear colleagues, we have a number of personnel issues that do not need to be included in the agenda. I ask everyone to remain in their seats, national deputies, colleagues. I'd like to inform you, dear colleagues, September 8th. But before that, I'll let you know that we have three statements based on our own desire for personnel issues. On September 8, he wrote his own request to leave his post as head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, Valentin Alexandrovich Zajchuk. Also, honourable colleagues, there is a statement by Mr. Kwiatashvili's Minister of Health at his own request, and there is also a statement by Deputy Prime Minister Vashchevsky at his own request. Let us begin our consideration of this matter, fellow believers. Valentin Aleksandrovitch Zajchuk, director of the Supreme Council, submitted an application for discharge at his own request on September 8, 2015. Ukraine’s legislation has determined that the Supreme Council of Ukraine decides on the issue of discharge from office as head of the Supreme Council’s Apparatus by an open-ended roll-call vote. Accordingly, the submission for consideration is submitted by the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, which I did on. As Valentine Alexander Zajczuk wishes. Dear colleagues, Valentin Alexanderovich is on the rostrum, and I think this is an exciting moment for him. I'd like your attention. And I'd like to give the floor to Valentina Alexandrovich. For more than a decade each day he carried out his duties professionally and conscientiously. Please, Valentin Alexandrovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-15-m0.u20	Dear Mr. Head, honourable national deputies, in 13 years 3 months and 3 days, today has come true, and I am speaking for the first time in a plenary session. For the last time, I took part in plenary sessions from this rostrum when I was Minister of Education. I'd like to ask you very much. I am grateful to the fourth, fifth, sixth, seventh, and eighth deputies for the confidence I am entrusted with managing the apparatus. But I ask you with understanding to respond to me. I've decided that I'm asking you to resign. And I very much ask everyone to support my family's decision on this step. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-15-m0.u21	Dear fellow members of the national parliament, according to the Supreme Council’s Rules, consideration of the matter does not need to be included in the agenda of the day’s session. With this in mind, Valentine Alexanderovich’s statement by the Supreme Council’s Chief of Staff, Valentin Aleksandrovitch, that he should be released from office at his own request. Please prepare for the vote and support Valentina Alexandrovich's statement. You heard his offer. Please vote, Your Honor, on behalf of the Supreme Council of Zajczuk's Chief of Staff, Valentin Alexandrovich, for his release from office at his own request. Vote please, Your Honor. [[10:46:52]] For 217 Dear colleagues, dear colleagues, I think it's just that the national MPs are expressing their respect and respect, Valentin Alexanderovich. I'm going to put this motion to the vote again. Let's support our own wish of the Master of Apparatus, that's his will. Ladies and gentlemen, please concentrate. Please vote, Your Honor, Valentine Alexanderovich's statement. Please vote, Your Honor, we vote, colleagues. [[10:47:39]] For 222 Colleagues, let's prepare and vote, dear fellows! Please, Your Honor, we have a vote. Please support, Your Honor, Valentina Alexandrovich. Are you ready to vote, colleagues? Please vote. Well, we need to deal with this with our conscience. Please, Your Honor, we have a vote. Please be supportive. [[10:48:21]] For 217 Dear colleagues. [[B in m in s a l in]] Valentin Aleksandrovich, your word.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-15-m0.u22	Dear colleagues, I sincerely ask you to understand, and I ask you to support my decision. I'm begging you!
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-15-m0.u23	Colleagues, 66 years old, ask you to do so. Well, we have to do something different. Colleagues, please concentrate. There's a statement of your own. And let's vote. Are you ready to vote, colleagues? [[B in m in s a l in]] Dear colleagues, are you ready? [[B in m in s a l in]] Please, colleagues! Well, we have two more, respectable colleagues, personnel issues. If we go like this right now, we'll go a long way. Colleagues, please! Invite the deputies to the hall. Colleagues, please vote. Ready? Please vote Valentina Alexandrovich Zeichuk. Vote? Let's vote, colleagues. Please vote. Vote, Your Honor. [[10:50:19]] For 218. 218 – no decision taken. Dear colleagues, I announce a 15-minute recess.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-15-m0.u24	Dear colleagues, I'd like you to come into the hall and take your seats. Prepare for the vote. I'm asking the faction secretariats to mobilize a special warehouse. The Secretary of the Supreme Council, please report on the beginning of our work. Please. Dear colleagues, once again, I invite you to the hall, and there will be a vote. Please come in, we're busy.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-15-m0.u25	Ladies and gentlemen, please take your seats. We will continue our consideration of a matter that we have not considered. Please. Dear colleagues, please take our seats. Dear colleagues, can we continue our work? Please take your seats, and I invite you to speak to the head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, Valentin Alexandrovich Zajczuk. Please. Dear colleagues, please take your seats, and I'd like your attention. Welcome to Valentina Alexandrovich Zajchuk. Please, Valentin Alexandrovich. Colleagues, attention, please!
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-15-m0.u26	Dear national deputies, there was such an occasion when the banal question of a staff decision was so difficult to come up in the hall. I ask you very much, once again, to return to this question. Once again, this is my personal decision. And I ask you very much to support this decision. And once again, Volodymyr Borisovich, put to the vote. I ask you all very much to support my decision. I will be very grateful. I beg your pardon! Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-15-m0.u27	Ladies and gentlemen, please take your seats. I would like to inform you once again that Valentin Alexandrovich wrote a statement of his own accord on September 8th. He took a rather serious path, held various positions of responsibility, and made this internal decision for himself, him and his family. He is now 66 years old, and we see the respect of people. But not to satisfy his request today is simply, you know, at the end of his professional career simply to treat him with great disrespect. So, dear colleagues, I ask you once again to take your seats. You have heard the position of the person who asks the national MPs to satisfy his claim. I just don't understand why we're doing what we don't really need to do today: we're voting ten times a day, we're approving a session. We will now vote on the issue of the agenda and the appropriate approval of the statement made by the Chief Executive of the Supreme Council. We all realize that there will be two more positions in the Cabinet of Ministers after this question. And I'm also counting on your conscience to talk about the satisfaction of the statements made by the two ministers -- one Deputy Prime Minister and one Minister. So I ask you again, concentrate, please, on your ballots. Are you ready to vote or not? Ready? Please take your seats. Faction leaders, I'd like to ask. Dear colleagues, I'm voting on a proposal, a decision on the satisfaction of the statement, to consider the statement made by Zajczuk Valentin Aleksandrovitch, Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, to release him from office at his own request. Ready? Please vote. Please satisfy the statement made by the head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine at his own request from this rostrum. Are you ready to vote, colleagues? Vote. Please vote. Please support Valentina Alexandrovich, colleagues. Vote. [[11:35:48]] For 238. Decision taken. Let's give it up for Valentine Alexanderovich. [[Applause]] Thank you for understanding. I think by this vote we have expressed our respect for Valentin Alexandrovich. And I am convinced that Valentin Alexandrovich will not forget about Parliament, but we thank you for your work. Thank you, fellow believers, for understanding on this matter. Please make our decision by making an appropriate decision. Dear colleagues, we have two more statements: one Minister of Health Alexander Kwiatashvili and the other Deputy Prime Minister of Voscevski. But really, I take it they're not in the hall? And they were invited? Please, Oleg Berezuk. Oleg Romanovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-15-m0.u28	Your Honour, Mr. Head! Indeed, people have the right to decide, but these people also had the right to decide to become ministers and vice-prime ministers. They are public individuals, appointed by Parliament. It would be very good, it would be right for all the rules of public administration and parliamentaryism to come out here to explain their position, to make their investment in seeing Parliament why it happened, and to go with God according to their decision. But without them on this rostrum, I think it's just not right to do it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-15-m0.u29	Come on, dear fellows, we do. I think so. Did the machine invite ministers? Let's, you know what we're going to do, dear colleagues, let's do it this way. Let's invite them to 12.30, and immediately at 12.30 we'll continue to consider these personnel issues. Is it accepted? And now, colleagues, we're going to make decisions according to the law. Is it accepted? Okay. Then I ask at 12.30 to invite Mr. Alexander Kwiatashvili and Deputy Prime Minister of Voscevski to the High Council of Health. Head of the Health Committee. Everything's gonna be fine. At 12:30, we'll be looking at Flowers. Dear fellow members of the national parliament, let us move on to other issues of the agenda for making decisions on the issues under discussion. In particular: The Billeyevka District of Odessa, Bilyevka, to the categories of cities of regional importance (2278a). Fedoruk Mikola Trochymovich reports. Please give me a minute, Fedoruk. Apparatus, invite the ministers to Parliament at 12:30.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-15-m0.u30	Dear Head, distinguished national MPs! In view of the need for further consideration of the matter in the committee today, I ask that the matter be moved to another time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-15-m0.u31	Dear colleagues, there's an offer by the head of the subcommittee to postpone consideration of this matter, if you don't mind, he has the right to make such an offer, we'll postpone the consideration. Next. Dear colleagues, an extremely important draft of the second-reading law is the draft Act (registration number 2087a), the draft Act amending certain laws of Ukraine in the field of public procurement to bring them into line with international standards and to take measures to overcome corruption. Report to the Vice-Head of the Profit Committee (this second reading) Yuri Igorovich Solovay. Please, Yuri Igorovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-15-m0.u32	Dear colleagues, your second reading is subject to Bill 2087a on the subject. Ukraine's Act on Amendments to Certain Laws of Ukraine in the Field of State Procurement on bringing them into line with international standards and on taking action to overcome corruption. I want to point out that this bill is very serious. It refers to 300 billion dollars of purchases in the state sector of Ukraine. I would like to remind you that before the first reading, the bill envisioned a reduction in, inter alia, corruption risks, final beneficiary information verification, a demonstration of price proposal content and other documents at the request of a participant in the disclosure of competitive proposals, the publication of evaluation protocols, the impossibility of deliberate blocking of trade through the prosecution procedure; the second, simplification of participation for business and deregulation; the third, the introduction of international standards; the fourth, the increase in the purchase thresholds. In preparation for the committee’s second reading, 64 amendments were made to Ukraine’s national deputies, the vast majority of whom were counted. The Committee's second reading, inter alia, is proposed not to exclude the monitoring system, as proposed by the government, but to improve the system by placing this function more precisely by transferring it from the Ministry of Economics to a profile structure, namely the State Financial Inspection; the second, by increasing the threshold of public purchases without procedures for performing work from a million to one-and-a-half million dollars due to an increase of 28.4 per cent of the price index for construction and assembly works in 2014 and the first half of 2015, by including VAT; and by establishing the customer the obligation to require not less than one qualification criterion; and by introducing the concept of "formal errors" that do not affect the content of the offers, namely the absence of page numbering, signatures, printing on individual documents, technical errors and subscriptions; and by allowing the period of ATO to take place.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-15-m0.u33	How long does it take to finish? [[B in m in s a l in]] Why don't you give me 30 seconds?
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-15-m0.u34	And a number of other amendments. In view of this, the Committee of the Supreme Council on Economic Policy recommends that the Supreme Council adopt the bill in second reading and in general with the Committee's proposals. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-15-m0.u35	I'm sorry. Dear colleagues, you have heard the essence of the bill. We have to go through the repairs. There's plenty of them here. Is there a need to follow the amendments, fellow workers? Is there an amendment? 2087a. None. They're gone, and they're here now. It is, isn't it? All right, then let's go. First amendment, Yvchenko, do you insist? First amendment. Yvchenka, please. Attention, colleagues!
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-15-m0.u36	Vadim Yvchenko, Faction of the Fatherland. Dear colleagues, we really need the anti-corruption law that we are today. We need to take it. But I insist on my right. The point is that all of us today have things in state enterprises, in enterprises that have 50 percent or more of the state, that is, utilities, they have to do tenders today, too, so that we don't have any abuse of finance in this particular area. You know, billions of rings go through state-owned enterprises. So, basically, I insist on my right that state-owned enterprises, utilities, and all businesses, where there is a part of the state -- more than 50 percent -- have to conduct tenders from government purchases, that's also an anti-corruption rule. Thank you, colleagues.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-15-m0.u37	Please take the seat of the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-15-m0.u38	The committee rejected the amendment because such an approach contradicted, given that the bill was drafted by the Ministry of Economics in accordance with European Union directives, particularly in the field of public procurement and that it clearly defined the list for which public procurement was applied, the committee rejected the amendment on these grounds. But in addition, other things are laid down in other articles of the law. So I would say not to insist on this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-15-m0.u39	Thank you. Do you insist on voting the amendment? Don't insist. Let's move on. 5 a.m. Don't insist. 6 a.m., don't insist. 9th. 10th. 11th. 22nd. 23rd. 24th. 26th. 27th. 32nd. 33rd. 36th. 37th. 42nd. 43rd. 44th. 46th. 47th. 50th. 53rd. 55th. 57th. Dear colleagues, all the adjustments are exhausted. I'm asking you to take your seats. Please, under the transcript, a technical seal.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-15-m0.u40	Dear colleagues, there was a technical seal. Please count the stenogram. In paragraph 6 of the first paragraph of section 1 of the bill and in section 1 of the bill, the words "social insurance and protection bodies created by the State" should be replaced by the words "social insurance bodies created in accordance with the law." And I ask you to give the committee a proper commission in drafting the text of the law: along with the Chief Legal Authority to take into account, taking into account editorially technical legal rights. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-15-m0.u41	Thank you, colleagues. 2087a: Draft Act amending certain laws of Ukraine in the field of public procurement to bring them into line with international standards and to take measures to overcome corruption. Colleagues, important law. We've been through the revisions, actually, everything's taken into account. And now I'm going to put a motion to the vote: to approve in the second reading and in general this draft law with technical and legal rights, which were issued by the rapporteur -- the deputy chairman of the committee, Yuri Igorovich Solovy. Please take your seats and prepare for the vote, Your Honor. 2087a. In the second reading and in general the anticorruption law in the field of procurement. Ready? Second reading in general, 2087a. Vote please, colleagues. Vote. In the second reading and in general, please support 2087a, colleagues. [[11:49:01]] For 251 251 -- decision taken. The law is passed, the law is important. The Minister of Economics wants it. One minute, please, a word.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-15-m0.u42	Yes, colleagues, thank you so much for adopting such a law, it's very important. In principle, public procurement reform is a complex, important and very complex reform, affecting very many business interests, and this has been very opaque. A real opportunity to save 50 billion dollars a year. And I see what political battalions you have, but that only shows that reform laws are supported in independence from party membership. The whole reform is just two bills. You've already accepted one. October will be next. So that all of the purchases would eventually go to an electronic plane. This is how it is done in other countries. So let's wait for October, let's do it. And what I wanted to say is that, with your help, with the help of non-State organizations that have drafted this bill, we will necessarily overcome corruption in public procurement and will necessarily defeat corruption in public enterprises. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-15-m0.u43	Thank you. Let us turn to the next question of the order of the day from the questions discussed earlier, dear colleagues. 2940, draft Act amending section VI, paragraph 3, of the Budget Code of Ukraine (for the development of public roads) (second reading). We talked about it, this bill, and there's an offer to support it. Please take your seats, dear colleagues. In the second reading, respected colleagues, second reading, and in general. One amendment. Victor Pinzenik, please, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-15-m0.u44	Dear colleagues, this law provides that loans given by the owners under the government’s guarantees of government obligations are called a guaranteed debt. But if a commitment is a state, it is a direct sovereign debt, not a guaranteed one. In fact, this law proposes a scheme for non-budgetary financing of expenditure, because it is budgetary expenditure by nature. If the state wants to solve any problem, including roads, it has to anticipate these costs in the budget, not invent a different kind of scheme. So I'm asking you to support my amendment to reject this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-15-m0.u45	From the committee of Matthew? Offer, please. There was a proposal by Victor Mikhailovich Pinzenik, you heard, to count the 3rd amendment. Please identify yourself. [[11:52:26]] For-147 I didn't get the required number of votes. Please, in the second reading and in general. Dear colleagues, in second reading and in general draft Law 2940 amending section VI, paragraph 3, of the Budget Code on the Development of State Roads. The proposal to accept in the second reading and in general, respected colleagues. Ready to vote? In the second reading and in general, please vote. In the second reading and in general. [[11:53:15]] For 202
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-15-m0.u46	Well, we have an offer to send him to the committee for re-reading. Come on, colleagues, so we don't lose the bill. Please suggest re-second reading to the Preparatory Committee for re-second reading. Please vote, please support. On second, colleagues, we vote. Re-reading to the committee. [[11:54:00]] For 207 The decision is not taken. The law is regarded as being rejected. 2229a, draft Act amending Appendices 3, 7 to the Ukrainian Act on the State Budget for Ukraine 2015 on the redistribution of budgetary appointments for the Odessa Region (2229a). Paul Unguryan reports.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-15-m0.u47	Dear colleagues, the glory of Jesus Christ! The 2015 budget, in the state budget, provides a subsidy to Odessa for the construction of the Odessa medical unit.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-15-m0.u48	One minute, dear fellows. One minute, colleagues. There is a suggestion that the reporter consider it as a reduced procedure. I'd like to make a point, dear colleagues, about the consideration of the reduced procedure. Review of the simplified procedure. [[11:55:10]] For-173 Decision adopted, 173. Please report.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-15-m0.u49	Yeah, I'll start again. The 2015 budget, the State budget, provides a subsidy for Odessa District to build the Odessa Children’s Hospital’s Medical Corps. But in 2015, more than 400 million dollars are needed to complete this construction. Thus, the head of the Odessa district administration asked for a change in the purpose of this money. And the Committee on Budget Affairs unanimously supported the bill 2229a in the first and in general. But yesterday we had a working meeting in Odessa with the head of the administration to request the direction of the District Children’s Hospital, where we reached our next conclusion yesterday. In view of what we already have in the middle of September and the construction work we need to do very much, and in fact 19 million that are foreseen will be enough for a very small amount of construction work, and doctors and parents ask that the Supreme Council, the 19 million already budgeted, send them to purchase medical equipment to resuscitate children, to treat children with oncology, to deal with neurosurgery. Therefore, it is a great request to support this appeal, which is supported by both the district government and the members of the Committee on Budget Affairs, the Ministry of Finance, that agreed position. And most importantly, it's the doctor's request, and it's the request of the children and the parents that we make it right today. Here's a little bill, a request, to vote it out in general right now. Thank you all for this in advance.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-15-m0.u50	Thank you. Please sign up: two for, two against. Two for, two against, please sign in. Please, the People's Deputies of the Doves.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-15-m0.u51	I give the word to Goncharenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-15-m0.u52	Dear colleagues, dear colleagues, I would like to urge everyone to support this proposal, and as an intern of the Odessa Children's Hospital (I had a page in my biography) it is very important to support this hospital, which actually saves the lives of children, saves the lives of hundreds and thousands of children from the Odessa region, and not only. And so there's a very big request for everyone sitting in the room right now to support this proposal and to support this vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-15-m0.u53	Thank you. Please, People's Front, National Deputy Korchik.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-15-m0.u54	Please pass the word to Fedoruk Mikola Trofimovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-15-m0.u55	Ladies and gentlemen, the People's Front faction will have to support this bill, because this is about children. And we urge everyone to vote in favour.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-15-m0.u56	Please, Julia Volodymyrna Timoshenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-15-m0.u57	Dear colleagues, we certainly support both Odessa and the hospital that needs to be built, and we will certainly support all the social bills. But I want to tell Parliament and society right now that we've been fighting for five months with other factions and coalitions to put in place urgent bills that have to do with fair tariffs. I want to let you know that we have made a decision as a faction until we vote on two bills: one that obliges all 100 percent of Ukrainian gas to give to people for their needs, and until we vote on a bill to reduce the rent on gas production, that's 70 percent of the tax they have on humans, we will not support any bill, even the most beautiful one. In addition to the social bills that apply to people's lives today. Stop bullying all Ukraine! We also prepared an application for a crime that was sent to the Attorney General's Office. We have the Law on the Gas Market. The Law on the Gas Market clearly states in article 1.2.4 that Ukrainian gas is given to the population. Contrary to the law, the government transfers 5.6 billion of Ukrainian gas today, on a corrupt basis, to companies close to them. And that means that these 5.6 billion people don't get enough, and that means that this is the cause of the excessive tariffs. We think that the Attorney General has to deal with every enterprise that gets Ukrainian natural gas on a corrupt basis rather than consume imported gas. And people.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-15-m0.u58	Ten seconds, complete.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-15-m0.u59	And today people have over 20 billion NAK Naftogazu overpaid this year. I'm stressing that the price for gas is 1,000 dollars.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-15-m0.u60	20 more seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-15-m0.u61	The price of Crushing — 1,000,900 dollars — is sold to the people for 7 thousand, 188. This mess needs to be stopped. And we will fight our non-vote for the laws of today and on until we bring the tariffs in order.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-15-m0.u62	Alexander Nechayev, Opposition Block, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-15-m0.u63	Please give the floor to the People's MP, Skorik.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-15-m0.u64	National MP Skork, from the rostrum, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-15-m0.u65	Deputy Skorik, faction of the political party "The Opposition Block." Dear Mr. Head! Dear colleagues! That law, which is now proposed to vote, is completely different, fortunately, to the positive side, from what the committee has adopted, and from what was proposed by the drafter of the bill. Indeed, at the request of the Odessa District State Administration, it was proposed to change the 19 million from the construction of a district children’s hospital and to place these 19 million to an unexistent palace of thousands, as they will call it, in a private room. I want to focus on the presence of the deputies, that there is an administrative service centre in Odessa that has an area of nearly 30,000 square meters, which has spent enormous budget costs that could be opened this year and that was offered to 19 million children. Now, under public pressure and under the pressure of common sense, the author of this document completely changes its contents. I want us to understand that if we vote on the budget on Thursday, on the social guarantees to our citizens, and these changes to the budget will provide for a whole set of measures. Why don't we work on these things and vote on the bill on Thursday, because the bill that we are now proposing to accept is completely different from what was proposed at the beginning of this room. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-15-m0.u66	Thank you. The performances are over. Please, Paul Ungurian, there is an editorial bill, a small bill, and I understand that there is general support for it.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-15-m0.u67	Yes, of course, I thank all those who have expressed their support. What I'm saying is that there's still the same object of funding: Odessa County Clinic, which remains the same amount -- 19 million. So the government budget balance doesn't change. Only the goal is changing. We're channeling this money as a parliament for the purchase of resuscitation equipment, for the treatment of sick children, oncology, neurosurgery, etc. So it's only a change of assignment. The object is the same, the amount is the same. A request for support.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-15-m0.u68	Thank you. Dear colleagues, please take your seats. Draft Law 2229. Please take your places to vote. 2229 is a draft Act amending Appendices 3, 7 to the Ukrainian Act on the State Budget of Ukraine for 2015 on the redistribution of budgetary appointments for the Odessa region. 2229a, a short draft of the Law, put the motion for voting with editorial rights, which were sounded with Paul Ungurian, on the basis and in general. It's a very short bill. Please vote 2229a with technical legal rights declared by Paul Ungurian, on the basis and as a whole. Vote. [[12:05:31]] For 248 Decision taken. Thank you. Dear colleagues, I hereby announce a 30-minute recess in accordance with the Staff Regulations of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-15-m0.u69	Dear colleagues, please take your seats. We can continue our work. Please. Ladies and gentlemen, we continue our work. Dear colleagues, I think we can start by considering draft decree one, and we will continue to hear the statement made by Deputy Prime Minister of Voscevski. Is there no objection? Colleagues, please, project Decision No. 2238a: draft Decision on the amendment and establishment of the boundaries of Sumi and Sumi district of Sumi district. The head of the Fedoruk subcommittee, Mikola Trochymovich, reports. Please, Mikola Trochymovich Fedoruk. 2238a. Let's now consider one decision, and let's move on to the statement made by Vice Prime Minister Vashchevsky. Is there no objection? While the MPs take up seats in the hall, there is a proposal to consider a draft decision on a reduced procedure for changing boundaries. Please support this proposal. In summary, let's vote on the change in the borders of Sumi and Sumi district. Please. This is a vote on a reduced procedure. [[12:57:39]] For-141 Colleagues, prepare, please. Regarding the short-term procedure, the draft Ordinance on the Change and Establishing of the Borders of Suma and Suma District of the Suma Region. There's a reporter's proposal: a reduced procedure. Please support this proposal: consideration of the reduced procedure. Please. [[12:58:21]] For a hundred and Please report. Invite the deputies to the hall.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-15-m0.u70	Dear National Deputies! The Suma District Council asked the Supreme Council of Ukraine for a change in the boundaries of Suma and Suma District. The draft decree proposes to increase the city’s territory by 753.5 acres [753.5 ha], including the land of several rural councils in Sumu. The purpose of land integration is based on the development of housing, social infrastructure, the rational placement of public objects, industrial production, roads, and engineering, landscape and recreational areas, and land management at all levels of farming. The question of the change in the borders of Suma is accepted in accordance with legislation, discussed and approved by the respective rural councils, the Suma City, the Suma District, the Suma District Council, and the Suma District District, and the Sumo District State Administrations. The Committee on State Building, Regional Policy, and Local Self - Government supports the submission of the Suma District Council to modify and establish the boundaries of Suma and Suma District. Please ask the National Deputies to support the appropriate draft of the decree and to accept it as a basis and as a whole.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-15-m0.u71	Thank you, Mikola Trochymovich. Please, two for, two for against. Can we vote? Please sign up: two for, two against. Arthur Palatny, Peter Duster's Block.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-15-m0.u72	May I have a word with Tomenka?
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-15-m0.u73	Mikola Tomenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-15-m0.u74	Dear colleagues, I think in this situation we would still need to improve the mechanism for considering such bills. So we have a number of regulations regarding the city’s authorities calling on us to expand the territory and land of those villages belonging to the district center. And when we discuss these bills, we only hear the general formula that there will be an industry to develop, I don't know where the industry is going to be, so it's going to be developing the well-being of the people. In most cases it is either the construction of taxpayers or other things related to the possibility of solving some corporate matter. I think the first position, we need the district council and the city council in that case to present a project that will be at these 700 hectares so that we don't steal doubts about this whole story. And second position. Maybe then, Volodymyr Borisovich, if we make this decision, we understand that if these rural councils voluntarily join the territorial community of the city, then it makes sense. Or they don't fit in, they stay in their system of coordinates, and they take the land away from them. So I'm not against that decision, I'm against the general principle. The general principle, we need to understand that this is not an abuse of land, and this is a solution to specific socio-economic issues, not only of those living in the city, but of those living in the village, and of those living in the area.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-15-m0.u75	Thank you. Please, Ruslan Sidorovich. Oleg Berezuk, Self-help.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-15-m0.u76	We are now standing, ladies and gentlemen, the honourable Mr. Head, on the floor, the foundation between the new ways of organizing societies, is voluntary union of communities, with old tools for widening borders. And this is this tile. And today we have to make a balanced decision that these communities that have achieved their success over the past years, because unifying and adding this has not been easy, helping them today, because they are stronger, they are moving forward. But the rest of us should encourage this volunteering to be based on a conscious decision that unification, including land resources, will benefit all communities: both more and less. And it's very important, and it depends on the leaders who are in the community. So we suggest that we support this decision and move forward. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-15-m0.u77	Please, Igor Mosiyczuk, Radical Party.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-15-m0.u78	Igor Mosiyczuk, Radical Party. This issue needs to be considered not only in the context of voluntary community unification but, above all, in the context of how and for what purpose land resources will be used that will go back to that inhabited area. And now that it's said that there are no land allocations for ATO participants, and at the same time the vast arrays of land will be provided to cities, we need to be placed in control of all the social security of these people who fought with the land, because of what we are now joining in. The situation is that the land has been given to the city, and there is no land for those who have earned it by shedding blood and protecting the country. We will vote in favour of this decision, the Radical Party, but we demand strict control of the land that will go back to this inhabited area. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-15-m0.u79	Thank you. Please, Vadim Yvchenko, Fatherland.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-15-m0.u80	Vadim Yvchenko, "The Fatherland" faction. Dear colleagues, I want us to be consistent and to address colleagues from the coalition. Last week we voted in favour of increasing the boundaries of Winnitsa, the first. Second, so that we all know, and the city heads know, these things have been going on for three years. The city’s master plan is being developed. Next are all sessions of rural councils that are located directly adjacent to the cities. They make decisions regarding the alienation of a particular land. This is consistent with bilateral signatures on this master plan. All of this is further confirmed by an increase in boundaries in the city, such as Winnice or Suma. This is further confirmed by the district council. Further, an appeal with the head of the administration is submitted to a committee where deputies are already making decisions. My colleagues, I would like us to be first of all consistent, and second of all, to realize that this process is going on for three years. And all the rural councils that are adjacent to the city of Suma, they directly gave their consent, they signed a new plan to increase the borders of Suma. And that allows cities to develop directly. It's a technical decision. And I would very much like you and I to be consistent and support this draft decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-15-m0.u81	Thank you. Please, Medunica National Deputy, People's Front.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-15-m0.u82	Dear colleagues, in just a few minutes, we will have a vote that will sum up the work of many experts for almost 10 years. For 10 years, the city of Suma, along with the rural councils, was in harmony with the boundaries. On the basis of these reconciliations, Suma developed a master plan for its development five years ago, approved by the local council. But at the same time, formally, the city of Suma cannot manage this land, including to provide land for the participants of the antiterrorist operation. At that time, the State Land Agency, using this uncertainty, distributes the land to the right and to the left. Regrettably, there is a fact in Suma that when the land under gardening was distributed to prosecutors to judges, there was to be a road trip according to the general plan. So I ask you very much to support this decision right now, and the bags will definitely welcome you with this decision. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-15-m0.u83	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I'd like to take my seats. It's actually an important decision that takes years, and that's three years, and 10 years. But in fact, whoever's seen it actually works, they realize that this land that we're talking about is agreed between the village councils, the district councils, the district council, and now actually the technical decision. But, colleagues, it's a matter of land that's actually not being maintained, roads, lighting, transportation, cleaning. So they're actually de jure, I'm sure they're within the city, actually, and they're de jure, and they're scattered between the different rural councils and the rural councils aren't completely engaged. So today we need support, and all cities need to be supported, and those who extend their boundaries to ensure quality government, since local councils are better able to see what needs to be done in what territory. So I'm also asking you to support this decision, which is an important decision for the territorial communities. Please, let's take our seats, colleagues. Ready to vote? On the basis and as a whole, draft decree 2238a amending and establishing the boundaries of Suma and Suma district of the Suma region. The proposal to vote on the basis and in general, I also ask everyone to support this proposal, please vote. On the basis and in general, please support, please vote. Vote. Please vote. [[13:09:27]] For 251 Decision taken, my dear fellows. Welcome, bagels. Dear colleagues, as we have agreed, we have a statement by Vice Prime Minister Valery Mikolaiovich Vashchevsky of Ukraine regarding resignation, resignation, according to the application. Please welcome to the report of the head of the profile committee and then Valery Mikolaiovich. Since this is a decision, I would like to vote on it by a reduced procedure. In short procedure, colleagues, let's support it. Review of the reduced procedure, please draft regulation. This is a review of the reduced procedure. [[13:10:36]] For-164 Thank you. Decision taken. Ruslan Petrovich, report.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-15-m0.u84	Thank you, Mr. Head. Ladies and gentlemen, I just want to confirm firstly the words of the Head of the Supreme Council that a statement has been made to the Supreme Council by Deputy Prime Minister Valery Vashchevsky of Ukraine in connection with the withdrawal of the faction of the Radical Party from the coalition. He wrote a statement requesting his resignation. At the request of the Head of the Supreme Council of 9 September 2015, the Committee on Legal Policy and Justice considered today, at its meeting, a corresponding statement by Vice-Prime Minister of Ukraine, Vashchevska Valeri Mikolaiovich, on his resignation as Vice-Prime Minister of Ukraine. Under the Constitution of Ukraine, the Supreme Council is responsible for resolving the question of the resignation of the Prime Minister, members of the Cabinet of Ministers, including the Deputy Prime Minister of Ukraine. This is provided for in part 12 of the first article of article 85 of the Constitution. According to part two of article 115 of the Constitution, members of the Cabinet of Ministers have the right to declare their resignation in the Supreme Council. As indicated in paragraph 1 of the first and second parts of article 18 of the Ukrainian Law on the Cabinet of Ministers, a member of the Cabinet of Ministers may be released from office of the Supreme Council of Ukraine by accepting the resignation of a member of the Cabinet of Ministers on his resignation application. The decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to release a member of the Cabinet of Ministers takes the form of a decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. According to members of the Committee on Legal Policy and Justice, and this decision has been taken unanimously, the submission of a declaration of resignation to Vashchevski is based on the constitutional and legal basis. Taking into account the above, the Committee decided to recommend to the Supreme Council in accordance with article 85, paragraph 12, of the first article, and part two of article 115 of the Constitution of Ukraine, as well as part one of the first part of article 18 of the Ukrainian Law on the Cabinet of Ministers, to accept the resignation of Vice Prime Minister of Ukraine Vashchevsky Valerija Mikolaiovich. Thank you. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-15-m0.u85	Thank you, Ruslan Petrovich. Please invite Vice Prime Minister Valeri Mikolaiovich Vashchevsky to the floor. Please, Valery Mikolayovich. Yes, please, three minutes. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-15-m0.u86	Dear Mr. Head! Dear National Deputies! The reason for my statement is that the Radical Party has decided to step out of the coalition and move into opposition. Accordingly, as Vice-Prime Minister, who is a delegate to the government of the Radical Party, I have written a statement requesting Parliament to take a decision on my resignation. That's the first one. And I don't think there's much to explain. But I would like to take this opportunity to go to you and say a few words about my work as Vice Prime Minister and the situation that we have in the government, and my vision of the situation that we have in the country. I've spent the last few months, almost four months, running an anti-crisis energy headquarters energy situation. I want to report to you. Unfortunately, Ukrainian energy is in a pre - heart attack today. I'll tell you more. The government doesn't control the energy situation. I want you to hear this with full responsibility for your words. Unfortunately, the government does not control the energy situation. And the reason for this is objective but more subjective. Today, for example, six Prime Minister's orders and four assignments to my Energy Minister have gone unresponsive. In order for the government to control and manage the energy situation, it has to have a document that is known to those involved in energy, forecasting, and energy balance. [[B in m in s a l in]] To this day there is no such document in the government. The Prime Minister’s direct request to the NCRE minister is not answered at all by the Prime Minister. Because his leader, not the Prime Minister, is his bank manager. I'm sorry. The contradictions between the two heads of the executive branch are so obvious that they are today disrupting not only energy but also Ukraine. In that locomotive, called the government, there are two drivers: one at Bankowy, the other at Gruszewski. And each one of them is in charge. And this locomotive's not going anywhere, it's standing. That's the problem today. To you, ladies and gentlemen of parliament, the greater responsibility to remedy this situation. Two ways, I think, is not like the Deputy Prime Minister, or as Vice Prime Minister, and as a citizen: first, this government needs to resign immediately and allow the Prime Minister to choose worthy, powerful, powerful ministers. Not "little boys."
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-15-m0.u87	Please, just give me a minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-15-m0.u88	And people who know the sectors that know the agricultural sector that know the infrastructure that know the economy. This is what the Ukrainian Parliament needs to do today. And that's the main thing to do. The obvious systemic problem that many people have referred to in this rostrum: the two - headed executive power has no right to exist, and it is indeed tearing the country apart. If we choose the Prime Minister, he must be responsible from the first to the last letter for both defence and security, and for internal and external politics, and the President must choose such ceremonial functions in this room. That's what all of Europe does. And today we're on the road from Kazakhstan, President, Russia, President, Belarus, President. We need to move on to the parliamentary republic. And then.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-15-m0.u89	Thank you. [[B in m in s a l in]] Colleagues, we have the Rules! Colleagues, we have the Rules! Thank you. Thank you. Colleagues, two to go, two to go, please sign up. Oleg Romanovich Barresuk, Self-help.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-15-m0.u90	Mr. Head, ladies and gentlemen! Today, the Radical Party and its faction in Parliament have taken a powerful parliamentary step towards true parliamentaryism. If it wasn't for this resignation, if it wasn't for this performance, there wouldn't be a first, I think, discussion about the essence of government in the state. Because the Deputy Prime Minister's speech is now essentially, not in shape, correct. And this discussion had to start a long time ago. If we are to move, we must support our resignation in connection with our first call to democratic opposition, and we must continue to work under the regulations of public administration. But I'd like to ask. Can I ask you a question to Mr. Vice Prime Minister? Mr. Vice Prime Minister, would you please explain to us who counts the tariffs in our country? Is this body, which we call NCRE KP, this body that is really studying the market situation, the social situation, and counting tariffs?
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-15-m0.u91	I'd be happy to answer that question. NCRE, as the body and its head, is one of the largest officials in the state. He's operating at about 300 billion dollars, as a minimum, to let you know. That's more than a head. This is more in some cases and more important than the National Bank and the Ministry of Finance. And today there is no head in NCRE, there is a responsibilities. Today, Parliament cannot pass the law on NCRE. And he can't accept it for just one simple reason: The President, the Parliament and the Government want to have equal representation on a commission that determines who will be the head. At the same time, the President's position is not entirely or completely unconstitutional. Parliament must assume responsibility and appoint NCREs exclusively in this Chamber, on this stage, because this is an extremely high position.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-15-m0.u92	Please, Oleg Lazko, Radical Party.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-15-m0.u93	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. The Radical Party faction worked for nine months conscientiously in opposition. I think it's our ex. [[B in m in s a l in]] Thank you to colleagues for their support. The Radical Party faction worked conscientiously for nine months in the coalition, and while at the same time in coalition, opposition to those anti-national laws to that anti-national policy that was sought by some authorities or others. I'm asking my colleagues from the Peter Prashenko Block, and I would like to stress to my distinguished colleagues: don't shout, but we'll listen to each other very carefully. You have just received a statement from Valérie Vashchevsky, Vice Prime Minister, who voluntarily filed a resignation application because he is a representative of the political power. We're showing an example of European politics, we're resigning, we're giving up all positions, because we're going to the coalition not in office, we're going to the coalition to stand up for our principles, to stand up for our vision. And I thank my former coalition colleagues who supported our many drafts, so that we started to change the country a little bit. But we left the coalition after we betrayed Ukraine in this room, voting for anticonstitutional changes. We came out of the coalition when there was blood in Parliament, which is not worth any human life, is not worth the Constitution or anything else. And most importantly, that's what Valery Vashchevsky told you. We're out of the coalition because corruption in energy is debilitating because today, not the government of Yatsenuk, but the Russian oligarch of Grigorishin and its business partner, President Prashenko! And that's why electricity tariffs go up, that's why.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-15-m0.u94	Ten seconds, complete.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-15-m0.u95	And that's why instead of buying Ukrainian coal, they buy Russian coal by financing Russian occupation. That's why we're in opposition.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-15-m0.u96	Mikhailo Papiev, Opposition Block, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-15-m0.u97	Thank you. Honourable National Deputies of Ukraine, respected citizens of Ukraine, who listen to the meetings of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. I don't think it's quite true about the government's work. I think we'll know the whole truth before we know it. But the very fact of the discussion on this issue, in my view, is a positive one. Because today we need to realize that Ukraine is in a systemic crisis, that today's activity and the governing coalition and the government are making this situation worse. And what's important is what Valeriy Mikolaiovich Vashchevsky said, he headed a crisis management headquarters in the energy field. Imagine a month from now, we're going to have a heated season, and people are escaping from the ship to provide a heating season in Ukraine. Dear colleagues, we are at the threshold today when Ukrainian citizens may find themselves in cold dwellings, without heating, which we have repeatedly, as an opposition block, stressed that we today are not prepared for coal stocks, we are not ready for gas reserves in shelters today, we are not ready today, especially today, it is in tariff policy, because people today are in a cash-free condition when they are unable to pay housing-communal tariffs. And look at the state budget project of Ukraine, which was introduced by the government, and called it off. Over the next year, the government plans to increase the funding costs of subsidies by 2 times, up to 40 billion dollars. This suggests that citizens’ incomes, pensions, wages will be frozen again next year, and again people expect a rise in tariffs. He has to resign the entire government in charge of Prime Minister Yatzenuk. This is a requirement, and it is a need for time.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-15-m0.u98	Please, Peter Dusty Block, Mikola Tomenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-15-m0.u99	Dear colleagues, I am pleased to mention today that, according to the Constitution of Ukraine, which has, fortunately, not been changed yet, and according to current legislation, we are a parliamentary-presidential republic. And in the parliamentary-presidential republic, each appointment and each resignation is subject to discussion in the relevant profiling committee, in the respective factions of all those present here, including the opposition, and in the Ukrainian Parliament. Yes, there is a discussion, and there are political emphasis in this resignation. But the inadmissible thing is that in the previous period, when we appointed and dismissed ministers, we were speaking here as a new category of buttons that we've criticized in the previous summons. Therefore, I am convinced that in such principled ministries that go on, the Ministry of Health, we should also hear the committee's position, why it happened that the expected health reform did not take place. But more importantly, when the assignment takes place, this discussion should also be under such a procedure. We had already forgotten when at least one assignment was discussed in the committees. Well, friends, what parliamentary-presidential republic?Oh, my God! Then the factions, then the representation of the minister here, we said the minister was a figure of his own, and then the corresponding vote. Then Parliament will start to respect, and ministers will start to respect, and they will be bolder by defending their position and their program. So I'm convincing everyone, and in history today with the minister of environmental policy, that I'm ashamed to tell journalists that I don't know who's offering, what's being offered, what's being offered. So if I'm head of the Committee on Environmental Policy, who knows? So my demand is to return to a serious and humane discussion where every national MP participates in this discussion, then he will be responsible for these personnel assignments.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-15-m0.u100	Thank you. Thank you, Your Honor. We went through a procedure to discuss the matter. And now we have to decide how to vote on the application for resignation of Vice-Prime Minister of Voschevska Valerija Mikolaiovich. You know what I missed? I've missed it. Politics is enough. Well, statements of all kinds are like that. I lacked a professional report for a period of time. I kind of, like, was there, I did what I did, I planned it, I didn't do it. [[B in m in s a l in]] Well, unfortunately, that's our essence today in approaches: first politics, then business. I think we need to change. And here's what Mikola Tomenko said, our colleague, he has a complete understanding that Parliament has very clearly to make decisions about both the discussion of candidates and the evaluation of professional qualities. And now, colleagues, anyone can speak by vote. Draft Decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the resignation of Vice-Prime Minister of Ukraine Voschevsky Valerija Mikolaiovich. According to article 85, part 12, and part two, article 115, paragraph 1, of the first article 18 of the Ukrainian Cabinet of Ministers Act, the Supreme Council of Ukraine decides to accept the resignation of Deputy Prime Minister of Ukraine Valerija Mikolaiovich Ostevsky. But I just want to ask everyone to unite and support this decision so that we do not repeat the votes we had today. This is extremely, I think, important for Parliament. Not just to talk about decisions, but to make those decisions. I think my colleagues will agree with me. Ready to vote? We're voting on 3087 as a whole. Please vote, please support. [[13:29:46]] For 205 The factions. Peter Poshenko's Block - 101, National Front - 63, Opposition Block - 0, Self-help - 22, Radical Party - 0, Fatherland - 0, Rebirth - 0, Will of the People - 0, non-fractional - 19. Dear colleagues, please take your seats, concentrate on the vote. Dear colleagues, responsible politics requires not only declarations but also decisions. Please, Yuri Lucenko, one minute, Peter Dusty Block.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-15-m0.u101	Dear Mr. Head, dear colleagues, we have just heard statements of European traditions based on the political resignation of the party that comes out of the coalition and we have sincerely voted for these traditions to be established. However, we can see that the newly discovered opponents have gone as far as they worked. I'm afraid that we are now witnessing the creation of a wide-ranging opposition room that is doing everything possible to demonstrate the inability of the Supreme Council. I'm not talking to them right now, I'm talking to their puppet guides. Gentlemen of the oligarchs, you will not be able to dissolve this Supreme Council, it will work! [[B in m in s a l in]] With Vashchevsky, without Father, with radicals, without radicals, he will work for Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-15-m0.u102	Colleagues, please prepare for the vote, colleagues. Please prepare for the vote, Your Honor. In fact, we can't make this question absurd. Dear colleagues, the draft Order on the resignation of Vice Prime Minister of Ukraine Vashchevsky Valerija Mikolaiovich (3087) as a whole. We will now put to the vote, please support the resignation of the Deputy Prime Minister. Ready? Ready to vote? Ladies and gentlemen, please vote. Vote, Your Honor. Please support the resignation application. The man himself wrote a statement, went to the rostrum and said, "I'm leaving because for some reason." Please vote on the 3087 draft decree as a whole. Vote. [[13:33:07]] For 216 106 – "Prashenka Block", "National Front" – 67, "Opposition Block" – 0, "Samohelp" – 24, Radical Party Ljashka – 0, "Batakščina" – 0, "The will of the people" – 0, "The will of the people" – "Oprazakščina" – 19. Look, I think we have an opposition vice-premier in the coalition government. Dear colleagues, I still think that we should not turn completely democratic procedures into what they are trying to do now. So please, let's take it from the factions who have desires again, probably in a minute. In a minute, please, Oleg Romanovich Beresuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-15-m0.u103	Ladies and gentlemen, we are indeed on our way to what will eventually be a full-scale parliamentary-presidential republic in the country. But today, when we address all of us, let us not neglect our own work and respect the Deputy Prime Minister of Ukraine, who said very honestly on this stand today about our deficits with you. So we vote yes and we go to work to develop this republic.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-15-m0.u104	Thank you. Please give me a minute, Natalia Royal.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-15-m0.u105	Dear colleagues, we all see today perfectly that coalitions are difficult to work and that is why we propose, and we now support this decision to resign the entire Government. Let's vote, let's solve this problem in this room today. And let people know that we are adequate, that we understand that we do not agree with those decisions, pension taxes, inadequate tariffs, inadequate social indexing. Let us take a responsible decision, and we guarantee you that the Government's resignation from the “Opposition Block” will be all at once. Let us therefore make a decision faster and not take time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-15-m0.u106	I wanted to make a joke, but it's not the time to do it. Please, Victor Bondar, one minute, Rebirth Group.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-15-m0.u107	Dear colleagues! We've been talking for six months about this government being bankrupt. In May we registered an application for the release of the minister of health, we speak repeatedly on all the Conciliation Councils, that there is no plan in the work of the government, we do not see any systemic reform. We insist on listening during the month of each minister, what has he done with the year of his work, which are the ministers' plans for the next three months, at least? I don't talk for a year, for two. Where a package of bills across every ministry, let's put it, let's listen to these gibberishes. I guarantee that the Rebirth Group, the Rebirth Party, will support the resignation of the government, because this government has led the country to bankruptcy. You look at the statistics, minus 17 percent of the decline in gross domestic product, unemployment, social poverty, the catastrophe is approaching, we don't see? So we're going to support these things, but this is it.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-15-m0.u108	Oleg Easy, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-15-m0.u109	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. Dear citizens of Ukraine! I want to remind you that after the faction of the Radical faction came out of the coalition, there are four factions left of a total of more than 280 people's deputies. If the coalition is unable to make personnel decisions, this is a matter for the coalition, not for the opposition faction of the Radical Party. In accordance with our standards, when we went into opposition, we applied for release, including the three heads of the Supreme Council committees that were assigned to the Radical Party quota. We ask the Head of the Supreme Council to release our representatives from the positions of committee heads, to give us as the opposition faction to lead a regulatory committee, as provided for in any European Parliament. We demand that the pro-powered coalition adopt the Opposition Act, normalize the activity of the opposition. I'm warning you, Mr. Groissman, you'll be in opposition too soon.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-15-m0.u110	I believe that the presence of opposition and power is the best mechanism for the development of democracy in our country. So wherever I am, I will serve Ukraine -- both in power and in opposition, if necessary. Please, Maxim Burbak, People's Front. But the only thing I won't be in is I won't be in opposition to the Ukrainians. That's right.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-15-m0.u111	Ladies and gentlemen, we have heard from the opposition that they have a dream and I can assure you it will not happen again. It's about the vote. So if the minister wrote a statement, so we have to satisfy and start working on a very large agenda. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-15-m0.u112	Thank you. And Peter Dustenka's Block, Irina Heratchenko. Colleagues, please take your seats. Ladies and gentlemen, we will vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-15-m0.u113	Dear colleagues, you know, a year ago, the Supreme Council of Ukraine, in sync with the European Parliament, ratified the Association Agreement, thereby demonstrating that European integration becomes part of our internal policy. But in fact, today’s Parliament is very little like the European Parliament. I'm not going to appeal to the so-called newly created opposition, it's on their conscience at all that the question of Ukraine for them is 105 places after the elections now. But I want to look to my coalition colleagues. Dear Fatherland Party, we've heard a lot of references from you right now about what disorder we have in the energy sector. So let this free vice-premier retire so that we can assign a normal person to his post who will deal with the issues that concern the coalition as well as the "Paternity" party. And let's not blackmail each other, at least in the coalition, we won't be so ashamed. So we had a big story in common to do this to each other right now. Therefore, I propose to vote in favour of this resignation and to choose.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-15-m0.u114	Thank you. Please, Vadim Yvchenko, Fatherland, and let's proceed to the vote. Please, faction leaders, invite the deputies to the Supreme Council Hall.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-15-m0.u115	Vadim Yvchenko, "The Fatherland" faction. Dear coalition, honourable deputies, distinguished colleagues! I'm asking you to come to your senses. In two weeks, the heating season will begin. Every one of you is coming to the county. The first question today is, give us a chance to live, give us a chance to pay for those tariffs. Today we're going to report that they're buying NAC Naftogaz gas at government companies for 1,500 dollars without VAT. Please let's work this out. There's a commission that proves today that the tariffs are up. We're willing to vote for any coalition decision, we're ready to make decisions, but we're going to go to people, and that's the main thing today. Two weeks left. Without it, we're in protest, we're not voting for any decision that goes into the agenda today. It's social, it's for people. Come on, fellows! Surrender! Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-15-m0.u116	Dear colleagues, please take your seats. Let's go to the vote for the Order. Registration number 3087. Ready to vote? They took their seats. Yes, colleagues? Please vote on 3087 as a whole, draft Order for the resignation of Deputy Prime Minister of Ukraine Vaštewski. Please vote, please support. In a democratic way, respectable colleagues. Please vote. [[13:42:35]] For 210 Thank you, Your Honor. The decision is not taken, but it does not need to be included in the agenda. Dear colleagues, I think that the evening session will begin with this very question, we will demonstrate perseverance. And now I declare the morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine closed. At 16 o'clock we'll continue the meeting, the evening session of the Supreme Council. Thank you.
