ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-13-m0.u1	Dear fellow countrymen, good afternoon. Before we start the registration, I want to inform you that we did enough productive work yesterday, about two dozen laws we were able to adopt with you, including an anti-discrimination law, which is another important step on the road to our introduction of a visa-free regime. Yesterday we set up with you the State Bureau of Investigation, which will reveal all possible corruption, including in high-level offices. I think it's an important tool in fighting corruption effectively. We were obliged by the Antitrust Committee to conduct our activities more clearly with you yesterday, which is also an important step. They recognized the deportation of Crimean Tatars in the 44th year as genocide of the Crimean Tatar people. We've finally released over 200 judges and actually today we've created vacancies where we can introduce a completely open public selection, professional selection of judges, which is also a very important tool in restoring confidence in the judiciary in Ukraine. I would also like to inform you that yesterday we gave permission to the U.S. Armed Forces, to other NATO members in November-December to conduct training together accordingly. And we've also approved nine bills as a basis, that's what's happening in the economic sphere of our lives with you. I want to inform you that a meeting has just taken place with the United States Minister of Finance, which we held together with our first Vice-Speaker, Andrey Volodymirovich Parubi, and the faction and committee leaders, the factions and committees, have discussed a number of issues of our further economic cooperation. I want to emphasize that the United States remains committed to our interaction, our strategic partnership, Ukraine's all-round support. So we've identified further plans for our mutual interaction. Well, today we have, dear colleagues, a traditional government day. And I'm asking everyone to take their seats. Please, Your Honor, we are preparing to register. Please, one minute, Olga the Mantis, before we run the registration. Please, Your Honor, take your seats for registration.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-13-m0.u2	Dear colleagues, honourable national deputies, today Ukraine celebrates World Sugar Diabetes Day. 2 million Ukrainians have this disease, and I don't think the least of them know that they have diabetes. Today, the Association for Sugar Diabetes in the Towers of the Supreme Council conducts free anonymous diagnostics. Any one of you who wants to go to the table right now and get a blood test on the sugar. If you've had breakfast, it's okay. This will allow you to be an educated optimist. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-13-m0.u3	Thank you. Please turn on the "Council" system for registration. Please register, Your Honor. [[10:09:14]] 288 national deputies are in the Supreme Council of Ukraine. I hereby declare the morning session of the Supreme Council open. Before we go traditionally to the "government hour," I want to inform you that the Prime Minister has no objective reasons: he is currently meeting with the United States Minister of Finance. But there is a full body of government present today. Dear colleagues, we have nouns. I'd like you and I to welcome our colleagues to our birthday party, namely the great Mustafa Djemiliev. It's a birthday party, let's say hello. [[Applause]] Sergei Mikolaiovich Evtušk, our colleague. [[Congrats]] Well, the Jubilee of Adulthood is celebrated by our colleague, Andriy Anatolyevich Cosemyakin. Welcome, Andriy Anatolyovich. [[Applause]] Fellow workers, good, health, success, and all the benefits of the earth! Dear colleagues, let's move on to an hour of questions to the government. For information, please contact the Minister of Foreign Affairs of Ukraine, Pavel Anatoliyovich Klimkina. Please, Paul Anatolyovich. 15 minutes for the show, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-13-m0.u4	Dear Mr. Head, ladies and gentlemen of the national parliament, as you all know, the Fifth Report on Ukraine’s Implementation of the Plan of Action for the Liberalization of the visa-free regime was published by the European Commission on May 8. This report contains 54 recommendations. The work of the European Union’s expert missions has seen positive progress in areas such as document security, border management, migration and shelter, money-laundering and terrorist financing and personal data protection. For today, and I mean the state of 12 November, of the 54 recommendations of the European Commission entirely, I emphasize, exactly, 18 recommendations have been made. There are 36 in the state of implementation, and we have -- and this is an important moment -- no unfulfilled recommendations, all in the process of implementation. I would like to thank the Ministry of Foreign Affairs personally, if possible, for the adoption of important laws in the Supreme Council. These laws play a key role in implementing the recommendations of the European Commission. Now I'm going to go into more detail on the main blocks: first of all, for today, we've implemented, all of us -- I emphasize -- all of the recommendations and we've practically closed the border management block. In order to secure the document security block, we need to settle definitively at the legislative level the issue of primary identification and the issue of ID cards. And this is going to be a real substitute for the sad passports of the Soviet model. At the final stage, there are recommendations under the Migration and Asylum Block. The implementation of this block depends on the adoption of 3154, 3155, and 3159 in the second reading of the laws of Ukraine. Yesterday's adoption of changes to the Labour Code was very important in the implementation of the recommendations under the chapter "Fundamental Rights and External Relations". The government will soon adopt a plan of action to implement the national human rights strategy. The European Union has also been critical of the steps taken by Parliament in order to separate the investigation bodies and to adopt the Ukrainian Law on the State Bureau of Investigation. These steps will now allow the European Commission not only to have a strategic vision of the reform of the law enforcement authorities but also a detailed plan for this reform. In the area of combating corruption, many steps have been taken, in terms of the legislative basis, also in terms of institutional security. And the decisive steps are the adoption of the Ukrainian Law on the National Agency for the Detection and Management of Assets from Corruption and Other Crimes. And of course, we need to get the final conclusions of both the European Commission and GRECO. And with regard to the procedure for improving the arrest and confiscation of property, here we need conclusions not only from the European Commission and GRECO, but, of course, FATF. It's going to be a fundamental moment. Of course, it's European. For European partners, it is very important how the work of the National Anti-Corruption and Anti-Corruption Agency and the process of establishing a specialized anti-corruption prosecutor will be practically launched. We had previously scheduled for the 24th of November a meeting of senior officials from a visa-free dialogue, where we would discuss our progress with a view to preparing a report to be published on December 15. This is going to be the sixth report, and we all hope very much that it will be positive and allow us to start the process of practical preparation for a visa-free regime. And to achieve a positive outcome, we need a consistent work, coherence and coordination of all branches of government. Thank you for your attention and ready to answer any questions you may have. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-13-m0.u5	Thank you, Minister. Please take your place in the government’s bed. I invite you to speak to the Minister for Economic Development and Trade. Ivaras Abromavichus, on the rostrum.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-13-m0.u6	First of all, I would like to thank you very much for yesterday's Economic Development Day, virtually all members of all factions. As one of the deputies yesterday evening, the more the economy expressed itself, the less politics. Thus, of course, not all very important economic laws have passed, and a large number have been copied. According to our calculations, those who support or even support the Ministry of the Economy very much, at least 35 bills were currently dependent on the Supreme Council. So thank you very much for organizing such a day for the Supreme Council and for the head of the Supreme Council. We have a proposal to do a similar day on 15 December. Please support our initiative. With regard to those bills that are very important, but that have not been passed yesterday, I would like to mention public and private partnerships, industrial parks, administrative services there, electric cars, everything else. Of course, a great deal of thanks for the bill adopted with regard to the improvement of corporate governance standards in public enterprises. But we will go a long way, unfortunately, towards improving the efficiency of public enterprises. It must therefore be noted with great regret that draft 2319a was not adopted, there were not enough votes, and I do not really understand, that is, who is really blocking privatization. On the one hand, I can understand the populists, so they appeal to their electorate, so to speak, Grandma Yaga is always against. But I can't quite understand the more progressive part of the MPs. So we all know, every day, articles in the newspapers: someone is supplying gas on a tolling system in the IPF, someone is delivering something else to public enterprises at high prices, and then they get goods at low prices. I mean, either we're all involved in some conspiracy to steal government funds on a particularly large scale, or we're doing something. Neta is a country capable of managing 1,000 374 working enterprises. So let us please ask you to adopt this bill next week, which is really an opportunity to initiate transparent privatization. We have repeatedly said that the first case is the Odessa Port Facility, where the adviser has already been appointed, the Swiss bank UBS. Consider the example of Odessa Port Privatization, as is done professionally, as is done otherwise, we will receive a credit of confidence from the population, from the business community, and we will do more and more. But this bill must be adopted. The bill also concerns advisers. And, I know, there were some comments about that. Not everything in the law is prescribed, and counsellors are necessarily needed during privatization. Each large-scale transaction is accompanied by advisers from the seller, the buyer's adviser. I can teach my kids tennis too, but it's better if I teach them how to play tennis, of course, a professional tennis coach. Privatization, of course, is not the only thing the Ministry of Economics has to offer. As I have said many times, 2015 has been a year of macroeconomic stabilization, of punctual improvements, of punctual objectives. 2016 will be a year of growth. At present, we expect a growth of 2 per cent. To accelerate this growth, of course, we must work together in the legislative field to make business feel different. What are our priorities? First, we continue to deregulation. Two weeks ago, they presented the Office of Effective Management, received large-scale funding from the European Union, and by the end of the 1st quarter, 70 professionals would be working in the office. So these are business people who know what kind of business there is. It will be the largest office for grants that are working to reform and improve the business environment in our country. So let's get some ideas, too. We'll work with this office. The office expects us to go through a full so-called "review environment," and we're going to need dozens of bills. And it will definitely require your support. 20 of them will be meagre, and we expect them to be submitted to Parliament soon. Of course, if the 15th year was a year of specific goals, of point change, in the 16th year we should also lay the groundwork for long-term economic growth in our country by also creating instruments for this growth. We therefore fully support the Industrial Parks initiative. We are now supporting the bill that was on the agenda yesterday, and we are also considering supporting other draft laws that are in the Supreme Council regarding industrial parks. And together with an action group of business deputies, we are developing further steps to create incentives to create such parks. The credit agency, we're sure to have it. And in the near future, it is imperative to work on this project and implement it as quickly as possible. Public-private partnership. The largest infrastructure projects in other countries are, of course, being developed through public-private partnerships. That is why we also support the bill that is in the Supreme Council. I know he's got a few notes, ready to work out and send him to the gym. We now have a very important bill on the agenda, which we are submitting to the Supreme Council in the near future, which is the second bill on purchases. First, thank you so much, you voted. For full reform. This excellent reform needs only two laws. Next week, I hope it will be adopted by the Cabinet of Ministers and registered with the Supreme Council. By next year's end reform, all public procurement will be in electronic format, savings will be, as I have said many times, 50 billion bracelets per year. Yesterday was also a great day for us: in Geneva, we signed a treaty to join the World Trade Organization on public procurement, the so-called WTO GPA, which will help us join our producers in public tenders in other countries of $1.3 billion. Work must continue to improve the efficiency of public enterprises. On Wednesday, the Cabinet of Ministers adopted a decree increasing remuneration for heads of state-owned enterprises. This is one of the three most important moments that have not yet allowed us to bring real normal leaders into public enterprises, i.e. one barrier has been removed. The next barrier (the most important) is political pressure. There is also a need to get rid of the political pressure with regard to appointment. We believe that it is only possible to insulate, isolate public companies from political pressure by creating a central function, a central function for the management of public property. And this has to be done on the basis of a holding company or on the basis of an asset management company, or on the basis of a future generation fund, you can call it different. In all countries, all public assets that are not privatized are directly managed by professional management in such companies. The deputies also asked questions about DCFTA, and the free trade treaty with the EU entered into force on 1 January of the following year. We have a trend in the first 10 months, unfortunately, not very positive, hardly very objective reasons: the Donbass war, a very negative price situation with regard to world commodity prices -- steel, iron ore, also a food group -- corn, grain and everything. Therefore, it is mainly up to half the drop that these groups make up. What do we do if 1 January was also an opportunity for business to export to the European Union, and to continue to do so? A council was set up with the Ministry of Export Promotion. A separate working group was established with regard to trade with the EU. We have already held the first meeting, we will work more actively. We are also working on establishing a new format for trade offices. 8 is scheduled for next year, I hope that the Cabinet of Ministers will support our initiative on Wednesday. One of the main priorities is the European Union. There we expect at least two tradesmen in Europe. Even four trade offices out of eight. We are also reloading the Government's “ukrexport.gov.ua” portal to negotiate with the EU on further trade liberalization in the search for industrial contacts. It is not only tariff liberalization, including quota increases, but also deeper links through industrial cooperation, as well as Ukraine's participation in regional and global value-added chains. A high-level business forum will be held in Brussels on 16 February, focusing on free trade with the European Union. Today, also in our city, European Union Trade Commissioner Cecilia Malmström, with whom we have also discussed this morning and after lunch, we will also discuss a number of very painful topics for our exporters. Colleagues! I believe that the most difficult period for the economy is behind us, and we must not miss the opportunity for growth next year. Only through joint legislative initiatives can we achieve a positive outcome on other initiatives, so that business will ultimately say: this government, this Parliament works for the benefit of the country, for the benefit of business, for the benefit of economic growth. Let's work together. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-13-m0.u7	Thank you, Your Honor. Please prepare for government questions. Get ready. Get ready, colleagues, to record questions for the government. Let's take 30 minutes for this. Please register with the government. Dear colleagues, please, 30 minutes. Please, Andrew Illenko, non-fractional.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-13-m0.u8	Andrew Illenko, the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union. I have a question for the Foreign Minister. You know, in the last days in Ukraine, there was such a whole fever associated with a visa-free regime. And of course, everyone under a visa-free regime is certainly not a member of the Supreme Council who would say that he does not want to be a visa-free regime with the European Union. And there were even scandalous amendments to the Labour Code yesterday, although not mentioned in the Plan of Action on Visa Liberalization, but less. I have a question: is there any specific time when Ukraine gets real guarantees that there will be a visa-free regime, or at least a substantial liberalisation of the visa-free regime? And can we really talk about this in the current circumstances right now and talk about it as if, let's say, give them this hope that it's going to happen right now when in Ukraine the minimum wage is 50 dollars a month and when we actually have an uncontrolled huge area of the border with Russia? Will we not now overemphasize the European Union’s desire to come to us with such concessions? Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-13-m0.u9	Please answer.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-13-m0.u10	Thank you so much for asking that question. I don't usually like to keep parallels in international relations. But let's take one of the neighbouring states, Moldova, where the average wage is well known where Transnistria is, and in which the visa-free regime works. And this is the first moment. One second. If December 15th, as we all hope, we will have a largely positive report that will allow us to move on technical and practical steps towards a visa-free regime, then we will begin to prepare a decision first by the European Commission and then by the European Council. At the same time, the Eurocommission should, of course, see that everything that is accepted -- and I am very grateful for that to all the members of the Supreme Council -- works, and then the visa-free regime will be provided accordingly. I can't say exactly what the time frame is, but there's a real chance that we'll get it by about a month after the relevant European Commission and European Council decision. It could be 2 months, it could be 3 months depending on which frame is selected. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-13-m0.u11	Thank you. Please, National Deputy Nechayev, Opposition Block.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-13-m0.u12	The debtor will ask questions.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-13-m0.u13	Please, People's Deputies.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-13-m0.u14	Debenkov, opposition block faction. I have a question about not so many of the events that have taken place around the voting of the visa-free regime bill, because I think that now is an urgent need for the population, the vast majority of the population, not a visa-free regime, but because they are in fact. Because their economic wealth has dropped to about 3, 2 times, and at an average monthly wage of 50 dollars, it's unlikely that anyone in Europe is waiting for them. I have a question: why didn't we vote on Bill 2835, which deals with the reduction of rent payments? Does the government support this bill, and when will it be put to the vote? And when the government is still planning to introduce tax reform, because the level of tax pressure that we now have on business is unprecedented. Ukraine has the highest stakes. Ukraine has the most tax and congregation administration. We have an investment environment so unattractive that all the investors have escaped. What?
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-13-m0.u15	Please answer. Please, Minister, Demchisin.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-13-m0.u16	I'll try to answer your question. In fact, the Ministry has developed a very similar law to what you're talking about. And we fully support the reduction of the wage on gas produced by private producers. We've talked about a lot of meetings with European and American specialists, who have done quite a lot of research on the detailed and economic and geological, and we've done a lot of research on participants working in the Ukrainian market, the gas market. Thus, in principle, a joint decision was taken to reduce the rent from 55 percent for wells to 29 percent. It's the right decision to make. It should help because the production of private enterprises from today’s level of about 300 million cubic meters per month is expected to increase, somewhere we estimated about 30 percent. So we clearly support the decision in this part. There were also many discussions in the joint ventures. The 70 percent currently in operation are fully supported by the Ministry. As for Crushing, I want to tell you that in fact you all remember very well that the 70 percent rent rate was calculated solely to generate sufficient resources to pay off subsidies. For 2015, this rate cannot be changed to an extreme extent because it is already included in the budget. For the next year, it's a political issue. Costs for Crushing, really, it's necessary. But they can be involved in a variety of ways: you can get the money from the budget directly into the capital, you can get the credit resource, you can reduce the rent accordingly. Therefore, taking into account the diversity of these tools, we need to make the most optimal decisions. At the moment, I think the consensus was 70 percent of the rent on the Crushing fee left behind. I want to point out that, in fact, 70 percent is at the price of a thousand 650.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-13-m0.u17	Minister, it's two minutes to respond. One minute to ask, two to answer. Ten seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-13-m0.u18	Ten seconds, I'm done. 70 percent for Crushing is worth a thousand 590 dollars, not six.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-13-m0.u19	Please, Andrew Gordiev, Peter Dusty Block.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-13-m0.u20	Good afternoon, I have two questions: one to Gennady Grigorovitch and one to Igor Ivanovich. Dear colleagues! We all know that the building industry, if we add 1 bracelet to it, we add 5 more investment. So I have a question for you as to the people who are responsible for financing this area today and for its development. What do you plan to do in 2016? And how can we, as a parliament, support you in this matter? And the second question to Minister Rosenk, but unfortunately he's not, is there a substitute? The question is that we have passed the Employment Centers Reformation Act, but it turns out that we have failed to make such a decision as the judicial administrations and other interested persons in the premises of these bodies are sending them letters that if they were to leave those premises. So the question is, how can you explain how to be ours, particularly the Herson District Employment Center? Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-13-m0.u21	Dear National Deputies! I'd like to inform you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-13-m0.u22	I'd like to go first. Dear National Deputies! First of all, I would like to say that, for 2015, the Ministry of Regional Development has been asking for all programs about the construction of affordable housing and housing for rural housing. It's also the "own house" program, as well as the issues that were raised in development, in general, in the construction sector. Regrettably, that 2015 budget did not allow the cost to be practically invested in these directions, allowing only those programs that had already begun to continue. And we made a correction this year just to leave those programs that are the most influential. First of all, it's 70 over 30, and here's a completely normal program that allows almost 30 percent to be given from the state. And then from the builders, return 30 percent as taxes to the Treasury, to the Treasury. We're also going to propose for 2016 to increase assimilation in this direction. That's what we'd like to ask you and your support. In the following year we have a specific unification of the territorial communities and 159 of them, and according to the Law on the Voluntary Uniting of Communities, there is specific State financial support (art. 16) from the State to these united communities. So we're going to suggest that it's a separate line of government budget for the 16th year of institutional infrastructure. The development of these communities. The second question is the question of the State Regional Development Fund. You know that according to our joint decision, 3 billion dollars was spent on investment projects that are mainly social objects. But I also think it's building support. 2 billion 900 projects are currently being implemented in Ukraine, 744 projects in 25 areas. I would like, in general, to take this opportunity to allow our deputies today to go to the DFRD site, which is an online open platform, and look at every area: what projects are being implemented, what stages, who is responsible for them, what costs are in which direction.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-13-m0.u23	Hennady Grigorovich, Rules, please. Please finish 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-13-m0.u24	And this is a public platform that allows us to control the implementation of investment projects today, not just to the national MPs, but to our ordinary citizens, who should know clearly that, in their own town or in their village, they are being implemented according to the State Program of the Regional Development Fund. I'd like to go to you again and ask for support for the direct allocation of funds in 2016 for housing programs. Housing is one of the ways that we start the economy.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-13-m0.u25	Thank you, Hennady Georgievich. Please, National Deputy Kodola Alexander Mikhailovich, People's Front.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-13-m0.u26	Alexander Kodola, 209 constituency, Chernigovishte. I have a question for the Foreign Minister. Dear Paul Anatoliyovich, in the event of a positive decision by the European Union to grant our country a visa-free regime, I am interested in how in practice the border will be crossed by Ukrainian citizens, since there are cases in Moldova where citizens have to collect a complete package of documents to cross the border. Actually, that package of documents is for the visa. But they are denied entry into the European Union at the border. In fact, the only benefit is the absence of a Consular Assembly. And the second question is to the Ministry of Information Policy. At a previous meeting, I asked questions about the information security of the border regions of Montenegro. Because in fact, five areas of our area are covered exclusively by Russian television. Therefore, what measures are being taken by the Ministry to improve the information security of the people in the Chernigiv region? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-13-m0.u27	Thank you so much for asking that question. First, in line with the Schengen rules after the visa-free regime, all those who have biometric passports and who have no violations in the Schengen area will quietly and freely cross the border. Of course, Schengen rules are valid for up to 90 days. For those who either don't have biometric passports, and these cases are in Moldova, or they've violated some Schengen requirements, they cross, of course, not the simplified procedure, but the complicated procedure. But these cases are relatively small compared to the total number. Thus, a classic, as it were, standard procedure provides for a peaceful intersection without any additional documents provided that there is a biometric passport and that there are no violations of the Schengen rules. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-13-m0.u28	Please, National Deputy Barwinenko, Rebirth Party.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-13-m0.u29	Please pass the word to Kulinich Oleg Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-13-m0.u30	Thank you. Oleg Kulinic, 147th constituency, Poltavščina. I have a question for Deputy Prime Minister Gennady Zubko. Dear Gennady Grigorovich, you passed a bill in this room six months ago to give local communities the right to manage the land outside the population. Every month there are allegations that this bill will be tabled to Parliament, but it's been gone for six months, and probably 11 months now since we voted in the agrarian committee on Bill 1159, which just provides for the transfer of land outside the population to municipal property. So I have a question: why don't you support 1159? We could vote in the first reading and work on it. Why do you not support 1159 and when a bill will be passed by you? Give me an answer, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-13-m0.u31	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to address you first. 1159 you voted on the committee, please put it in the room and vote, that's your right. So I would like you not to associate these issues with the government bills and with 1159. The seven bills that apply to the transfer of power, not to municipal property, but to local communities that are today united and can take over the functions of government administration, are now being agreed upon by the Ministry of Economics, the Ministry of Justice. The procedure is a little longer than the parliamentary bills, so these bills are now subject to procedural agreement. As a national MP, you can get information at all, join a working group that runs these bills, and make your recommendations. It's an absolutely normal process that, I think, will help speed up the issue of agreement between these bills not only in government but also in the Supreme Council, in committees. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-13-m0.u32	Please, Vladimir Gusak, the Opposition Block.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-13-m0.u33	Please pass the word to Mr. Voropeiev Yuri Mikolaiovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-13-m0.u34	Yuri Mikolaiovich Voropeyev, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-13-m0.u35	I'm, uh... My question to the Minister for Foreign Affairs and to the Minister of Justice of Ukraine, or to anyone who can answer it instead. Please tell me that you have been raping the Supreme Council for two weeks with the inadequacy of draft laws necessary for the visa-free regime. The Supreme accepted it in the end. You are prepared to take responsibility if the European Union does not accept the visa-free regime for Ukraine. You're ready to resign, both of you? That's the first question. Second question to the Minister for Foreign Affairs. You are the author and one of the parties to the negotiations on the Minsk Agreements. If they're not done, are you ready to resign?
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-13-m0.u36	Thank you so much for asking that question. First, the laws adopted under the visa-free regime, and this is my personal and political conviction, are also needed by Ukraine in the context of the reforms that are taking place in this country. For a visa-free regime, and independently for a visa-free regime, and if we do not all share such understanding that these laws are precisely what we need, and not just for a visa-free regime, then of course we have a problem understanding the path of reforms in this country. I personally believe that these laws and what is being done to fulfill and what will be done by these laws are needed by Ukraine. And second moment. I'm absolutely sure that the implementation of the Minsk Accords is the only way to, first, destabilize and then stabilize on Donbassa. And the other way, no plan B, and no plan B, and no one else is. And to this day, our efforts must be aimed at forcing Russia to do so, since Ukraine is in the process of fulfilling its part of the Minsk Accords. And that is why we have solidarity and the help of the world’s societies. And of course, I'm responsible for what's done under the Minsk Accords. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-13-m0.u37	Victor Krivenko, non-fractional. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-13-m0.u38	Good afternoon! I have a question for the Minister of Economics. Nine years of fighting in the field of economic paradigm. And before that, we were considered half sick people when we said that we couldn't get the economy out of the state it is when it's developing. To this day, thank God, that thought is already in the vast majority of people, for there is no example in the world if only in liberal ways could the economy be brought out. I'm glad you're starting to talk about industrial parks, about export credit agencies, about state tools in her partnership with business. I have a question for you: don't you think the Ministry of Economics should be in charge of the Ministry of Finance, that the strategic function should be higher than the tactical function? How did we do? In the public sector, the second person was always a headhead or nachofin, since there was no money and in the morning he wrote down, and he put the pieces in to pay the director. In a private company, in a normal organization, there's always a second person who's involved in the economics of development. In the 1990s, the Ministry of Finance actually broke down the Ministry of Economics.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-13-m0.u39	Ten minutes, complete.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-13-m0.u40	In fact, it crushed the Ministry of Economics, doubled its salary, extended all functions and dehydrated the Ministry of Economics. Do you think the Minister of Economics is supposed to be the first Deputy Prime Minister to define a strategy and combine stimulating ones?
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-13-m0.u41	Please answer.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-13-m0.u42	Look. Thank you so much for asking. First, with regard to the Minister of Finance. She's my favorite minister of all, and I respect her very much, and she's a very professional person. Second, with regard to wages. By December 11, when we have the report of the year's work, we'll have a minus 50 per cent state in the Ministry. By this point, and already wages are higher than those of the Ministry of Finance, because the Ministry of Finance, including those who are reducing the state, allows more to be paid. Therefore, we now have wages as one of the highest in all ministries. With regard to responsibilities. From the government's programme of activities, there are more than 600, I believe, initiatives that the Ministry of Economy is leading with a large cut-off. We have more initiatives on the government's programme of activities than the second Ministry. Therefore, initiatives and responsibilities and responsibilities are sufficient. Who's taller, who's more important, I wouldn't argue here. I think both the Ministry of Finance and the Ministry of the Economy are very important for the economic development of our country.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-13-m0.u43	Please ask questions, Lenski, Skuratowski. Two minutes together in one act. Baby Oleg.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-13-m0.u44	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. I have a few questions for government officials. The Minister of Energy has just admitted to the country as a whole that the cost of producing 1580 dollars per thousand cubes of Ukrainian gas. 70 percent of the rent, that's almost a thousand dollars above the price of gas. Why don't you support our initiative to cancel your rent, because this will allow you to reduce, at least for a thousand dollars, the cost of producing Ukrainian gas and, as a result, to substantially, radically reduce the cost of housing and utilities? We're asking the government, the Radical Party faction, to support the initiatives of our faction, Tariq Maidan, who's been in the government district for almost a month now about decisions that will actually reduce the cost of housing services. I have a second question for representatives of the Ministry of Finance. On Sunday, we celebrate a great celebration for our entire country of origin, the Day of Agricultural Workers. People who feed this country. And you, the representatives of the Ministry of Finance of the Darmoid, want to rob a peasant, and you want to make some changes to the Parliament's budget in order to take out the peasants' tax regime. I warn you that your initiatives are a crime against the Ukrainian village, against the Ukrainian manufacturer. And I'm asking you to either confirm or correct this information, as well as information that in the budget next year you want to eliminate the wage and pension index rule for the most needy categories of citizens. And the third question to the Ministry of Defense. We see the fighters on the eastern front activated. What does the Ministry of Defense do to stop possible hostile attacks that intelligence suggests may be possible on certain areas of the front? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-13-m0.u45	Colleagues, please give a very concise answer. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-13-m0.u46	It's about the cost of getting gas by scrapping. 1 thousand 590 dollars is actually the price at which. The price of gas at which "Gasbowling" sells Naftogazu gas is not self-sustainment. And I want to enlighten you, the rent is paid off from this price, and it's calculated down, so the cost is at a lower level, so the rent is not at the top, it's at the bottom. Thank you, yes. And you're talking about a reduction in self-sustainment that doesn't allow you to develop this sector. You see, I've explained to you before that it's necessary to invest in capital because those projects of acquisition, they're without development, they're not possible at the expense of their own funds. So these are other mechanisms. We need to get the money into the capital. There are mechanisms for this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-13-m0.u47	Thank you, Minister. Please, first Deputy Minister of Finance of Umanski.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-13-m0.u48	Thank you for asking the Ministry of Finance and for your appreciation for our efforts to bring about a system of public finances in the country. With regard to the preparation of the State Budget project for the following year and its position on agricultural taxation. The Ministry of Finance today can only prepare the state budget from that legislative, including the tax base that operates at the time of preparation of the draft budget for the year in question, on the one hand. On the other hand, you know this well, this document and the commitment are public. According to our Memorandum between Ukraine and the International Monetary Fund, Ukraine has made a commitment since 1 January 2016 to a general tax regime in agriculture. The IMF mission in Ukraine began yesterday. Negotiations on both the memorandum and commitments, and on how we will enter into the budget process next year, are under way, including representatives of the Ministry of Agrarian Policy, the Ministry of Finance, including part of this commitment.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-13-m0.u49	Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-13-m0.u50	That's why I think we're going to have a common position, both ours and the Ministry of Agrarian Policy, and the currency fund.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-13-m0.u51	Thank you. Yes, please, Santa. Department of Defense, please, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-13-m0.u52	Thank you for asking.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-13-m0.u53	A minute, literally.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-13-m0.u54	Thank you for asking. The decision of the General Staff gives the headquarters of the anti-terrorist operation to the sector headquarters for the actions of the military units accordingly. I want to give you some kind of information that just in the last day, we've identified 22 violations of the non-opening of fire by fighters, of which 21 are provocative. So the shooting goes unearmarkedly towards our troops. There are appropriate decisions, and our military are keeping the fire from being fired in response. At the same time, if there is a fact of use of weapons on the stand, according to our guards, military weapons will certainly be used. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-13-m0.u55	Thank you. Mikola Ivanovich Lavrick.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-13-m0.u56	It's a valve!
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-13-m0.u57	Oh, Svetlana Zlatchuk, please. We'll ask more questions from our colleagues. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-13-m0.u58	Good afternoon, government officials. My first question to Minister Klimkin. Mr. Minister, I ask you to inform Parliament, as well as the Ukrainian society, how exhausted is the situation regarding the odinous "four" of the Henprocuratorate on the commission of the appointment of an anti-corruption prosecutor. I want you to inform us or the claims that we made. The criticism expressed by our fellow Europeans remains, and how far can this be from a failure to meet our visa obligations? And the second question to Mr. Demchikin. Why, after the competition and the determination of the winner for the leader of the Crusnaphtha after Parliament has fought for cleaning and improving the quality of leadership in the state-owned enterprises, the leader has not been appointed for more than half a month. Please give an answer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-13-m0.u59	Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-13-m0.u60	Thank you so much for asking that question. Two important moments. Firstly, in order to achieve a fully independent and effective anti-corruption prosecutor's office, we need two things: this is a procedure that will be open, transparent, and effective cooperation, first and foremost with the European Union. And that's why we're negotiating with Olaf right now, how the future anti-corruption prosecutor's office gets help. One second. As for the commission that will be involved in the creation of an anti-corruption prosecutor's office. A decision has been reached today, and it is supported by the European Commission to replace part of the budget of the Attorney General's Office. This quota replacement is believed to lead to an increase in the efficiency of this process in the European Commission. But once again, the main element is not just the commission. The main element is the procedure. And the main element is that the future anti-corruption prosecutor's office will work absolutely transparently and in cooperation with the European Union, and I hope with our other partners. And now we're negotiating this. And I really hope that once we have a new candidate on December 1st, we will be able to present a plan for this interaction immediately, and I am ready to inform Parliament.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-13-m0.u61	Thank you. Dear colleagues, time is running out, but let's ask a few more questions. People's MP Vanat Peter Mikhailovich, then we'll give Demchino another word. At the end of the day, we'll give you the Demchikina.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-13-m0.u62	Please pass the word to Kirshu Aleksandro Viktorovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-13-m0.u63	Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-13-m0.u64	My question to the Minister of Economy, Mr. Ivaras Abromavichus. Does anyone have a calculation, either in your ministry or, if not, who do they have, regarding the damage the Ukrainian State has suffered due to the forced freezing of working funds from all enterprises following a new VAT administration system for VAT accounts? How much did the business lose, how much did the State lose on unpaid taxes? If the Ministry doesn't have those calculations, who has that number? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-13-m0.u65	We all know that the DFS is the biggest problem for business right now. I think that, once adopted, I hope that the tax reform proposed by the Ministry of Finance and the Cabinet of Ministers will, of course, provide for measures to facilitate tax administration. And our further steps, including deregulation, should be the first to deal with tax administration. The numbers you're asking, I don't have them, I think they should probably be with the Ministry of Finance. If there is such a desire, of course we can count. I will ask my colleagues to do so at the earliest possible time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-13-m0.u66	Thank you. Please, Igor Shurma, the Opposition Block.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-13-m0.u67	Igor Shurma, Opposition Block. I have a question for Mr. Zubko's deputy prime minister. Not a secret, and you know that the timeliness of pensions and salaries, their indexation, their increase depends on the ability of the budget. The budget is filled when taxes are paid on time by those enterprises that are active. Regrettably, today a number of businesses do not get their legal right to pay off VAT. I'll give you a specific case. A restricted area. Zaporoztal exports products to 50 countries around the world, employs 14,000 workers. They've paid 2 billion 100 million dollars to different budgets, and since May, they've been automatically disconnected from VAT. Debt is 1 billion. Why break up the business that works? Answer: Why was the VAT cut off from automatic return? And the question to Klimkin. Why didn't you answer the question?
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-13-m0.u68	Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-13-m0.u69	Thank you for asking. Tax administration is carried out by the State Fiscal Service. I wrote your question down, and a company, including. We will find out in the fiscal service why the company is not automatically available today, and we will give you an answer accordingly. The Ministry of Finance doesn't have that information right now.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-13-m0.u70	Please, Rephat Chubarov, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-13-m0.u71	I have a question for Deputy Prime Minister Zubka. A well - known statement by the Prime Minister of the Russian Federation that Russia is putting an end to trade with Ukraine in connection with the entry into the agreement of January 1, 2016. I want you to comment on that. But the second question to Mr. Demchikin. Mr. Secretary, you know the situation at the blockade sites, you know our demands. You've never tried to meet us. Mr. Secretary, the deal you signed in December with Russia is over. Once again, you intend to sign a contract to supply electricity to the invaders, while dozens of Crimean Tatars are in the shades of the FSB? I want you to answer that question. Have you been held responsible for what you called Crimea by the Russian Federation?
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-13-m0.u72	Wait a minute. One minute, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-13-m0.u73	With regard to the question of Crimea. Of course, the decision to supply electricity to Crimea was the decision of the Cabinet of Ministers. I'm going to take it back this year for the extension of this agreement. Because I am convinced that in order to return this territory to Ukraine, we must treat the people, the ordinary people who live there adequately. Why? Because all of those you're talking about have their own generators. They will not depend in any way on whether we deliver or not. And the people in the hospitals who support the elevators will be in favor. [[B in m in s a l in]] They all have generators, these military garrisons you're talking about. And ordinary people will suffer. Thus, as long as we do not make political decisions, we will live up to our obligations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-13-m0.u74	Colleagues, and final question, Sergey Eutuszek. And then I'll have a call to the minister, to the First Deputy Secretary of Defense. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-13-m0.u75	Sergey Eutuszek, Equinox, Fatherland. Thank you, Mr. Head, for being able to ask questions. And I'd like to ask the minister of education that I don't see in the government's bed, but hopefully there are representatives. And please consider this a request. Our nation is increasingly practicing Christian spiritual values. And with such a great deal of serious conflict that there is, I would ask all of Ukraine's public education schools not to officially conduct the faculty from the subject of Christian ethics, but to introduce it as an object. To that end, there are conditions in Ukraine. For example, Ravenna Ostrov Academy has released teachers who can teach this beautiful subject. And we're not going to have any problems with patriotic values or spiritual values, because we see some celebrations on some part of Ukraine, there's the Day of Victory, the New Year, and on the other side they run in embroidery.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-13-m0.u76	Thank you. Dear colleagues, please, there was another question about Crucifixion to Demchino. Please, 30 seconds, answer. There was a question about Crustransnaft, you didn't answer. And it's Eutushka.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-13-m0.u77	With regard to the appointment of Gavrilenka to the post of Director General of Skrtransnafti. All procedures are under way. He took a selection at Naftogazu level approved by the Ministry, passed the nomination committee at the Economic Development, that is, all procedures are fully implemented. At present, documents in full volume sent to the Cabinet of Ministers are awaiting approval at the level of the Cabinet of Ministers. On Wednesday we talked about being assigned to state enterprises. It was said that there would be a special Cabinet of Ministers as soon as possible, an additional meeting on personnel matters. I hope this happens soon. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-13-m0.u78	Thank you. The answer was yes. Dear colleagues! I asked the First Deputy Secretary of Defense to immediately accept a petition from Oksana Korczynski, signed by the 70 people's deputies. Please get this one now. And I'd like to ask you very carefully to do this. Please, Andrew Volodymyrovich. Thank you, Government. The year of the government is over. Thank you, dear colleagues.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-13-m0.u79	Dear colleagues! We continue to have day - to - day decisions that do not give rise to controversy, and there is a suggestion that we may be able to speak objectively even if we discuss them. And I have a request to support the proposal to consider them in a simplified procedure. I have a request that the deputies come into the hall and prepare for the vote. Dear colleagues! Please come into the hall and prepare for the vote. Thus, the proposal for a short-term draft Resolution on Parliamentary Hearings on Health Reform in Ukraine (Decision No. 3176) is proposed. And I'm putting an alert on a reduced procedure. Please vote. Short-term procedure, please vote. Please include the voting system. Members, please prepare for the vote. Ready? Yeah? Please vote in favour of the summary procedure. Please include the voting system. We're voting for a reduced procedure. [[11:11:34]] For 1052 Dear colleagues! I'll talk to you again. I understand that part of the MPs is the irresistible desire to set up parliamentary hearings on a full-time basis, but some may reconsider their principled position. And I ask you to come into the hall, prepare for the vote. Now I'm going to re-apply for a reduced procedure. Ready? Colleagues, a vote in favour of a reduced procedure of 3176. Please vote in favour of the summary procedure. [[11:12:39]] For 128 Dear colleagues, let us consult: Can we at least discuss decisions or should I move on to questions? Can we work? Please, colleagues. Once again, I'm putting forward a motion, a signal vote, a summary ruling. We have five sets. Four decrees. We can look at them today, vote on another plenary day, but save a lot of time. Save a lot of time on Tuesday next plenary week when we work. If there's a wish in the room, if there's a willingness to consider those four decisions, I'm going to put the vote again. If there aren't enough votes, I'll go to the MP's questions, read the MP's questions. They heard my offer. Everyone, please concentrate. And I would like to re-vote the proposal to consider the draft Ordinance on Parliamentary Hearings on "On Health Reform in Ukraine" (3176) on a simplified basis. Signal vote. Whoever supports this proposal, please vote. Please give me a signal vote. Vote, colleagues, please. [[11:14:27]] For-152. Thank you. So, yes. I am now putting to the vote the bill of Parliamentary Hearings on "The Reform of Health Care in Ukraine" (3176) under a reduced procedure. Please vote. We're voting for a reduced procedure. [[11:14:57]] For a hundred and I'm going to put another vote in favour of a reduced procedure of 3176. Please vote 3176, summary procedure. Vote. [[11:15:25]] For-152. Thank you. I invite you to report to the head of the Health Committee, Bogopolitan Olga Vadimovna. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-13-m0.u80	Ladies and gentlemen, the problem of reforming the health sector is now one of the most painful, because unfortunately, in this area, we still have positive changes, except for international procurement, so far. The Health Committee asks you to be actively involved in parliamentary hearings where the Health Committee is ready to present its health - care reform model in order to give people the opportunity to have a fair, dignified access to health care and medical care. And as a result of the reform we have to make, increase life expectancy in Ukraine to 80 years in the next 15 years. I ask you to support this decision, which is developed by the Health Committee. We had committee hearings. Desires were collected from all areas, from all regions, about which Ukrainians would like to see the reform, namely, the health system and the system of medical care they need. Therefore, in view of the fact that we have made this decision in September and today in November, and taking into account the requirements of article 234, paragraph 2, of the Supreme Council of Ukraine's Rules on the need to adopt a decision on the subject, the date and time of parliamentary hearings no later than 30 days before, I would like to make a stenographic suggestion to the Committee to amend the proposal set out in the draft regulation on 25 November 2015 on 16 December 2015. Please support the committee's draft decision with the proposed changes. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-13-m0.u81	Thank you. Dear colleagues, are there two in favor, two in favor? There are two for you, two for you, against you, please. Igor Artushenko, Peter Dusty Block, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-13-m0.u82	I give the word to Victor Krivenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-13-m0.u83	Dear colleagues, we need to have a discussion on a parliamentary basis between the Ministry of Health and the committee of profile. I have great respect for the head of Mrs. Mantis' committee, and I feel that delaying this discussion in public, professional, professional terms is damaging to our state. There is no reform for a year and a year and a year and a half, we have huge concerns about the Ministry of Health. But I'd like to say a little bit more about this: you and I have two programs that are on the verge of breaking up. And I want to go to the Ministry of Health with an urgent request that the OHMATDIT program be built and the breast cancer program. On the other hand, I want to remind you that 7.5,000 people a year die from this disease alone, 100 of them more men than die in the ATO. So please, I urge the Ministry of Health to make every effort to ensure that those half-billion dollars for OHMATDIT and 200 million dollars for breast cancer diagnostics are used this year. Please support the bill and the position of the committee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-13-m0.u84	Thank you. Please, Vladimir Litwin.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-13-m0.u85	Dear Chairman! Dear colleagues! Now, the government's hour has just ended, and I've been listening to the answers from the Ministry and the Department of Intelligence, which have shown that they have absolutely no control of the situation, and they don't know what's going on in the cities. And in this context, the words come to mind, known as "the narrow circle of revolutionaries, they're so far away from the people." This is objectively true, and above all, it refers to the state of health. As long as we hold parliamentary hearings, there will be no medicine in Ukraine at all, people are simply dying. They're closing down the last district hospitals and the field obstetrics, and the problems are just screaming. For example, people today are in dire need of replacement of ball joints. All references to the relevant ministries and authorities end with the same answer: We put the person in line, and she can't expect anything in this row. He goes on a crutch, then he goes on a wheelchair, dies and dies. We have a completely irresponsible organization of work, and in this regard, at the state level, if we're to hold these parliamentary hearings, we need to hold them as soon as possible, but we need to use radical, surgical means. First of all, whether a valid minister will work or not? This political game must be put to an end.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-13-m0.u86	Thank you. Igor Šurma.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-13-m0.u87	Igor Shurma, Opposition Block. Dear listeners! Today, you may need to look to the Ukrainian citizens, and you have a real answer today, whether the current authorities and the active health reform coalition are needed, which is so widespread through the media. Today’s health minister and his captors are world champions from briefings, conferences, and they tell us how it should be. And on any issue of supply, change and introduction of laws, it's tomorrow, next Sunday, it's a Georgian option, it's tomorrow, not today. What do we have today? You see, for six months, we always started a session and said, "There's a decision in the coalition meeting.".. So there's obviously no decision at all. Since September, the parliamentary decree prepared by the committee’s head, by the way, a member of the governing coalition, has been in place to date. And it is only today that we will consider holding parliamentary hearings or not. And I'll tell you, they're essential. Finally, the ruling coalition signed up for its inability. Parliamentary hearings are held to develop, approve and harmonize the concept of health reform. A year and a half later, they admit that nothing is ready. But God be with him! This needs to be done. Next. No one is responsible for this failure, the minister continues to work and does nothing. What's more, I'll tell you, it's not that there's no reform, nobody's telling people the truth. In a year, you don’t reform health care, tell both doctors and patients the truth, it takes 3-5 years to change legislation, change structure, prepare people. There'll be a shortcut, and it will be, but no one's saying that. Parliamentary hearings should therefore be held and recognized that that is where the concept of health reform should be discussed.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-13-m0.u88	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-13-m0.u89	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. The whole reform of the health system was called for the mechanical closure of hospitals. This is particularly a major problem for rural residents, when in villages away from the parks, the FAPs shut down hospitals, and people in rural areas are deprived of basic access to medical care, especially those of older age who can't go to the well there 100 meters in the street to get them, they are told, go to a 30 - mile [40 km] railing and get medical help there. And who will give them the medical care that awaits them in that center when they have their patients in the center? That's why we strongly deny the so-called "health system reform" that comes down to the mechanical closure of hospitals. There is no real reform. And this is an estimate of two, minus two to the President, the government and the parliamentary majority who are actually depriving people of the constitutional right to health.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-13-m0.u90	Thank you. One more minute for the deputy minister. Pauline, please. Turn on the microphone. I think you're just talking to the wrong microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-13-m0.u91	It's supposed to be on, right?
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-13-m0.u92	No, normal, good. Talk to me.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-13-m0.u93	I'm not going to say a lot of words. I want to tell you that all reforms are being made through Parliament. The reform, the project was prepared at the end of this month, November. She'll be taken to the voting room. In view of the fact that we need a dialogue with each faction, with each political party, we ask for parliamentary hearings to take place before the vote, and everyone has heard what reform means by very simple words, so to speak, "on the fingers." So please vote today in favor of the draft decree, come to these parliamentary hearings, and hear from the Prime Minister, the Ministry of Health, about health reform. In simple words. In addition, I would like to say that all your comments tend to be about lack of funding, but it is within the reform that it is possible, and new mechanisms are in place to increase funding, not through an increase in the public budget, but through mechanisms that have not yet been implemented in the health system. Please listen to me: the decision must be approved and the parliamentary hearings held before the parliamentary reform vote will take place. Otherwise, I want to say that the centre system, the reform centre that is to be voted on this year by the end of this year, because it affects the new budget year, will be ruined by Parliament. I'm sorry, but that's what the truth looks like. Please vote with approval. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-13-m0.u94	Thank you. The People's Front is still asking for words. Peter Dustenka's block already had a word. Stasuk, please, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-13-m0.u95	Good afternoon. Here we have just heard from Mrs. Pavlovenko about the threats that may occur if something is suddenly broken down by Parliament. Please tell us who failed the purchase of drugs for the sick, which, according to the media, according to the National MPs, we had human casualties, we had children killed. And who will be responsible for this? We already had information, and we know the minister wants to resign. What holds you in this position? Explain, argue, what else can you do for medicine? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-13-m0.u96	It's about questions. Well, we had an hour of government, you had the opportunity to ask all the questions. Now for failure. Please stop manipulating information space. At present, some government programs have not only been used for tendering, but also for payments already made, and even one program is being supplied to the region. In all other government programs, there are different stages: offers are made somewhere, offers are discovered somewhere, acceptances are already going somewhere. 16 programs are devoted to international purchases, just as he voted. To purchase to international organizations, just as Parliament voted. As you wish, we've given it to international organizations. Now, on some programs, please wait through international processes, and on some programs, enjoy how we are able to buy them by the end of this year.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-13-m0.u97	Dear colleagues, we have discussed this decision. And I'm asking for understanding in the hall. I think there's going to be a common consensus that we're going to postpone the vote to the next plenary week. Is the room supported by such an offer? So thank you. Let's move on to the next order of 2513a. Dear colleagues, there is an offer to consider it in a simplified manner. And I ask you to support this proposal by voting. It's a draft decision. I've just turned to the hall. Dear fellow workers, when the one speaking is speaking, listen, not discuss with one another. I asked the audience if there was any general support for the postponement of the vote to the next plenary day. There's an understanding in the room. I heard that answer, and we're moving on. So I'm asking you to support the proposal to consider regulation 2513a, the draft Parliamentary Hearing Recommendation on "The Military Medical Doctrine of Ukraine" for a reduced procedure. Dear colleagues, please support this proposal for a reduced procedure. Signal vote. Please vote. Signal vote, please. [[11:30:05]] For 118 Thank you, Your Honor. It seems that this week’s powerful potential has run out of work. And so we were able to speak on Decree 3176 and we will be able to vote on it in the next parliamentary week. And I'm moving on to reading the MP's questions. It's 30 minutes, just until the break at 12 o'clock. So, dear colleagues, I'm moving to the agenda section for reading announcements and parliamentary requests. First announcement. I'm reporting on the creation in the Supreme Council of Ukraine of the eighth invocation of an interfractional parliamentary association to protect the violated constitutional rights of citizens and against the political repression of "No Ban". The Interfractional Union for the Protection of the Violations of the Constitutional Rights of Citizens and against the Political Reprisals "No Prohibition" has been elected the National Deputy of Ukraine, Dercak Andrija Leonidovic. MP's questions. Viktor Razwadowski to the head of the Zitomir district administration for the payment of the debt for the construction of the street gas pipeline in the village of Volosovka, in the region of Zitomir. Viktor Razwadowski to Prime Minister of Ukraine on the use of measures to provide the necessary medical care and operational treatment for the replacement of the two ball joints of Beige Dmitry Alexanderovich, resident of the village of Zarecany of the Žitomir region, Žitomir district. Alexander Abdullin to the Ministry of Health of Ukraine on an urgent operation at a specialized medical facility with the appropriate profile and further treatment for the budget costs of Miska Vladimir Petrovic, a disabled Chaes from a low-income family living in the city of Dubrovnik, Ravensk. Denis Silantiev to the Supreme Qualifications Commission of Judges of Ukraine on the verification of violations of the requirements of law by judges of the Kyiv District Administrative Court and judges of the Kyiv Administrative Court of Appeal. Denis Silantiev to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for not accepting the problem of damaging Ukraine's economy and creating artificial barriers to the activities of airlines. Michael Bondar to the Minister of Defence of Ukraine, Minister of Social Policy of Ukraine for the conduct of an official review of the decision of the Inter-ministerial Commission of the State Service of Ukraine on the issue of war veterans and participants in the anti-terrorist operation "To grant the status of military commander Anklewich Jaroslav Mikhajlovich" for escorting volunteer assistance to the east. Michael Bondar to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for the introduction of the 2016 first-line objects for which repair and construction work is scheduled, the road of Brody-Red Town T-14-10 for a total length of 81.1 km. Natalia Weselova to the Ministry of Social Policy of Ukraine, head of the Luhansk District Military and Civil Administration, on projects for the adaptation of the VPO in the Luhansk region. Maxima Polakov to the Head of the Ukrainian Security Service on the facts of possible abuse of power and official office by the H.E.S.B.U.S. in Kiev and Kiev. Maxima Polakov to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the use of measures to respond to the abuse of power and official power by officials of the General Directorate of BSS in Kiev and Kiev, the Kiev City Customs Department of U.S.A. Victor Romanyuk to the Head of the Security Service of Ukraine on the use of response measures for the possible violation of the requirements of the law by officials of the General Directorate of BSS in Kiev and Kiev, and on the management of BSS in the Chernigiv region, drawing them to responsibility. Sergey of the Highland Security Service to the Head of the Ukrainian Security Service for the verification of the promotion of anti-Ukrainian slogans and calls on November 11, 2015. Sergey Vysotskow to the Ministry of Justice of Ukraine on the verification of the legality of the actions of the employees of the Department of State Executive Service of the Main Territorial Administration of Justice in the Kharkiv Region. Vladimir Litvina to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for amendments to the legal and regulatory provisions governing financial services in order to prevent fraud in the conduct of business activities. Vladislav Buhareva to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for full tax compensation for the added value of the Public Shareholder Society "Sumska Engineering Production Union". Vladislav Buhareva to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for the inclusion in the Ukrainian State Budget for 2016 of the necessary expenditure for the completion of the construction and operation of the hospital complex of the Oxtrian Central District Hospital. Alexander Kirsch to the Head of the National Fiscal Service of Ukraine, the Attorney General of Ukraine, for the payment of salaries to employees of the Kharkiv State Aviation Company and for the non-payment of social contributions to the Ukrainian Pension Fund. Dmitri Andriewsky to the Attorney General of Ukraine for the measures being taken to recover the money that was allocated from the State Budget by corrupt methods and the amount of money that has been recovered to the State for the present time. Andrija Lozov to the Minister of Interior of Ukraine, Head of the National Police of Ukraine, for the immediate release of the Chief of the National Police in the province of Ravensk, Colonel Maximov Sergey Volodymyrovich, and for the conduct of a public investigation into his activities concerning illegal mining and the "breathing" of illegal drilling of amber in the province. Lilia Greenevich is headed by the Federation of Professional Associations of Ukraine for the transfer of the Weselka Pre-school Institute to ensure access to pre-school education in the city of Morshin. Anatoly of Hirschfeld to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the granting of the State budget of the city of Lozow in the area of stabilizing subsidies and increasing the amount of educational and medical subsidies in 2015. Mr. Timchuk to the Minister for Foreign Affairs of Ukraine on countering the manipulation of the Joint Centre's data on the control and coordination of cease-fire issues and stabilizing the side line by the representatives of the Russian Federation. Mr. Timchuk to the Ukrainian Defence Minister on the status of Russian military personnel in Donbas. Oksana Sold to the head of the Chernobyl SDA to ensure the current repair of the Strý - Ivano-Frankivsk - Černivtsi - Mamaliga road. Vasila Petyevka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for the allocation of funds to the Teresvian Village Council of the Tachyov region of Zakarpatsk district for the reconstruction of the Vesella DNA. Victor Krivenk to the U.S.S.A., U.S. Attorney General's Office of Ukraine, on the abuse of municipal enterprises in Mikolayovshtzhina. Victor Krivenk to the Ministry of Internal Affairs of Ukraine, U.S. Attorney General’s Office of Ukraine, for the lengthening of pretrial investigations into cases involving the construction of a pet farm in the village of Schulgivka in the district of Dnipropetrovsk. Sergey Labazuk to the Minister of Social Policy of Ukraine on the situation of payment of one-time financial assistance to persons who have the status of “children of war”. Sergia Labazuka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for the housing of ATO participants and members of their families. Jacob Besbach to the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, Ministry of Social Policy of Ukraine, Ministry of Finance of Ukraine, Dnipropetrov district government on the need to take effective measures to protect the State-guaranteed social rights of ATO participants. Jacob Besbach to the Ministry of Finance of Ukraine, the Ministry of Infrastructure of Ukraine, the State Sanitation and Epidemiology Service of Ukraine, the Ministry of Regional Development, Construction and Housing of Ukraine, the State Architectural and Construction Inspection of Ukraine, the State Agency of Roads of Ukraine, the City Council of Mikolai, the Kiev City Public Administration on the need for a comprehensive review of citizens' appeals to provide adequate housing services in various regions of Ukraine. Alexander Revega to Henprocuror of Ukraine on the illegal activity of the Grant Carrier in the Berdichov region of the Žitomir region. Igor Shurma to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, the Secretary of the RNB, the Head of the SBU on the dangerous situation that has arisen in Ukraine with the prevention of infectious diseases through vaccination. Igor Shurma to the Head of the Court of Auditors on the non-target use of the budget allocated for the implementation of the National Immunity Assistance Project. Anton Kisse and Vasil Gulyev to the Head of the National Police of Ukraine, temporarily acting as Head of the State Geology and Geological Survey Office of Ukraine, head of the Odessa ODA on preventing and combating the illicit development of sand careers and mining of useful fossils in the territory of the Bilieu district of Odessa. Sergio Leschchenka to the Head of the National Bank of Ukraine on response measures in connection with the transfer of $40 million to the National Deputy of Ukraine, Kotwiecki, to the Panamanian company. Anatolia Denisenka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the restoration of the work of the State Food Safety Service and the protection of consumer rights through the licensing of small and medium-sized enterprises. Anatolia Denisenka to the Minister of Social Policy of Ukraine, Minister of Finance of Ukraine, for the enforcement of the State's obligations under the Ukrainian Act on Social Protection of Children of War. Sergio Melnika to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the provision of essential medicines to the Hmelnice City Hospital. Natalia Wesselov to the Minister of Information Policy of Ukraine regarding non-response to the MP's appeal regarding the negative image of the resident of Donbas. Igor Popov to Prime Minister of Ukraine on the state of implementation of the national project "The Wall". Jury Bublika to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, the Attorney General of Ukraine, on the inaction of law enforcement authorities and the epidemiological services of the Poltava region on the prevention of environmental pollution and the task of harming the local community in the processing of seeds by the Polmark Society with limited responsibility, as well as the non-application of measures to respond to guilty persons. Dmitra Sphenov to the Minister of the Ministry of State, Henprocuror, for the conduct of the inspection and for the responsibility of the persons involved in the distortion of the results of the citizens' will in the city of Dnipropetrovsk. Dmitri Link to the Head of the U.S.S.A. about the release of judges for violating the judge's oath. Vladimir Aresonkova to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the need for inclusion in the 2016 State Budget project of funding for the State Youth Housing Programme. Vladimir Aresonkov to the head of the commission for the reorganization of Ukrzalznice, acting as Director - General of Ukrzalznice for the calculation of taxes and for the collection of the income of natural persons into the city budget of Corstene. Groups of National Deputies (Second, Onufrica) to the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine on the state of implementation of the experiment in Odessa, Volinska, Lviv and Chernivsky areas of financial security for reconstruction, the current repair of public road traffic. Alexia Lensky to the head of the Kyrovograd Regional Public Administration on the use of emergency response measures to carry out capital repairs and exit from the emergency situation of a nine-story emergency shelter that threatens the life and health of the city's inhabitants and was taken into service in 1987, located in the residential area next to the school's teaching corps, working nine-story group of DP "Direction" (Alexius Mine of Uranium ores), the realization of constitutional and social rights of the community. Anatolia Evlakhova to the Minister of Health of Ukraine on the settlement of the issue of the provision of vaccines to public health institutions. Alexia Lensky to Deputy Minister of Ecology and Natural Resources of Ukraine, Deputy Prosecutor Henprocuror of Ukraine for the conduct of a check of the legality of renting by the Provincial Government Administration of the Provincial Region of Šovkoplas V.M. Waterfront on the River Beresovka, the granting by Kirovograd Regional Water Administration of permission to lower the level of water for fishing, which has led to significant disturbances in the entire region’s ecosystem, irreversible consequences, and the denial of public access to a reservoir for the purpose of catching fish and rest. Andrija Šinkovič is acting as Head of the National Territorial and Western Railway Association on the need to restore the movement of the train along the route of the city of Ivano-Frankivsk, the town of Shepetovka Hmelnicka district. Andrija Šinkovica to the head of Hmelnické ODA for the uninterrupted water supply of residents of the village of Zadni Krasilów district of Hmelnické district. Jaroslava Dubnevic to the Lviv City Head, head of the Lviv ODA for ensuring the right to free ownership of the land. Jaroslava Dubnević to the Ukrainian Minister of Health in order to provide a centralized purchase of medicines for the sick. - and the post-op period from the transplant in 2016. Jury of Derivyanka to the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine on the non-privatization of the State Alcohol and Alcoholic Industry of Ukrispirt and its alcohol factories. Valeria Davidenka to the finance minister of Ukraine on the need for amendments to the Ukrainian Budget Code. Vasil Janicki to the Minister of Health of Ukraine, head of the Rokitni District State Administration of the Plains Region, head of the Plains ODA to resolve the issue of providing the Rokitni CRL with sanitation. Alexander Kodola to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Education and Science of Ukraine for the establishment of a block-and-module boiler for the burning of the teaching corps of the University of Lower State named M. Gogol. Alexander Kodola to the Prime Minister of Ukraine regarding the rights of Ukrainian citizens in the city of Nizhin. Edward Matviychuk to the Ministry of Regional Development, Construction and Housing of Ukraine, Odessa City Council, Odessa ODA on the need to take effective measures to address the collective appeal of residents of the fourteen-story residential building at 7-B on the street of Varna Kyiv district of Odessa on the comprehensive solution to the issue of the convenience of the operation of the housing fund and the safety of the elevator industry. Edward Matviychuk to the Ministry of Social Policy of Ukraine, the Ministry of Health of Ukraine, Odessa ODA, Odessa City Council on the need for an objective review of the address of the resident of the Kyiv district of Odessa to a child of war, the disabled of the second group of the Dobrovolski Alla Leontijovni for the provision of comprehensive social, medical and other assistance and for the maintenance of housing at the address of the long-term residence of the petitioner on the street of District 29. Jaroslava Markevich to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the implementation by participants of the fighting right to state targeted support for higher education. Irina Ephraimov to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the abuse of office and corruption by the head of the Nicolaus United Financial Inspectorate in the Dnipropetrov region of Osadchim. Dmitri Lubinz to the Ukrainian Presidential Administration for the establishment of military and civilian administrations in certain areas of the Donetsk Region, namely, in the Volnovsky and Vodar regions and in the city of Volnovah, where rural, rural, city councils and their executive bodies do not exercise the powers imposed on them by the Constitution and the laws of Ukraine, including by de facto self-delivery or self-refoulement from the exercise of their powers, or their actual non-execution. Sergija Rudika to Prime Minister of Ukraine on unwarranted tariffs for centralized water supply and water supply, I am KP "VODGEO" in Smila. Rudika's Sergei to the Minister of Economic Development and Trade of Ukraine on the threat of bringing the national economy of Ukraine to bankruptcy. Anatoly of Evlakhova to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the revitalization of measures regarding the efficient use of energy resources and energy conservation. Andrija Illenka to Prime Minister of Ukraine, Director-General of the Public Shareholders Association Kiyivenergo, temporarily acting as Head of the Right District Authority in Kiev, Head of the Kyiv City Public Administration, Head of the Self-Government Authority of the Kyiv City Public Administration for the protection of the interests of the people of the Righteous District of Kiev in connection with the lack of hot water supply in the residential building on Milutenka Street, 25 for two months. Mr. Andrija Illenka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, Director of the Department for Illustration of the Ministry of Justice of Ukraine, Minister of Interior of Ukraine, Henprocuror for information on the ex-Minister of Interior of Ukraine Vasil Pascal. Taras Batenka headed by the Lviv ODA on the allocation of funds from the Lviv district budget for 2016 for the ongoing repair of the road to the general use of the Premysljani-Chemerinski-Plugs of the Premyslánski and Zoločov region of Lviv. Ruslana Demczak to the Minister of Information Policy of Ukraine on the retransmission of the UA.TV channel in the media area of Kazakhstan. Ruslana Demczak to the first Deputy Attorney General of Ukraine on the legality of the Ukrainian Security Service in the Winnitsky region. Groups of National Deputies (Dombrovsky, Prashenko and others) to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the appointment of Heads of Cartography, Geosystem and Hersongeo Information. Alexander Dombrovski to the head of the Government of the Public Shareholders Association Megabank, head of the National Bank of Ukraine for the restructuring of the loan to Kasenyuk Vasil Anatoliyovich. Vitalia Gudzenka to the Department of Technical Regulation of the Ministry of Economic Development and Trade of Ukraine on the verification of the quality of gas for the population of Biloczerkowsk, Voddarski, Skuriski, Stavistenski, Tarostian regions of the Kyiv region. Oleg Kulinić to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the need for amendments to the Ukrainian Cabinet of Ministers decision of 23 April 2014 No. 117. Vitalia Chapinoga to the Minister of Interior of Ukraine, the Head of the State Environmental Inspectorate of Ukraine, the Attorney General of Ukraine on the halting of the illegal construction of the garbage treatment plant within the territory of the village of Nové Zalyssa of the Brorodian Region of Kyiv Region and on the verification of violations of environmental legislation. Andrea Shipka to the Minister of Finance of Ukraine for the financing of the health sector for 2016 Andrija Shipka to the Minister of Health of Ukraine to address the issue of the approval of the standard position on the scientific research institution. Igor Popova to Žitomirski ODA on the status of implementation of the CMM order from 31 August 2011 in the Žitomirsk Region for the period 2014-2015. Mr. Holubov to the minister of the Ministry of State, the Attorney General of Ukraine, for the verification of the corruption of the head of ODA Saakashvili in the form of theft, possession and waste of funds; the payment of personal demands and political advertisements for himself and Alexander Borovik from the funds of the charity fund and funds collected by volunteers for the needs of the ATO and the rehabilitation of the injured and for the involvement of Saakashvili in the responsibility of the law. John Sporish to the Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine regarding the delay in the involvement of the Obolon district authorities of Ukraine’s Ministry of Internal Affairs in the case of criminal prosecution in Kiev. Vasil Janicka to the head of the Ravenska ODA, Lake Village Council of the Volodymyrecki District, head of the Provincial District District State Administration, Head of the Government of the Public Shareholders Association of the "Rineoblanergo" to solve the issue of electricity supply in the village of Lake Volodymyrecki district of the Plain region. Oleg Osuhovski to Prime Minister of Ukraine for the completion of School No. 6 in Kuznetsovsk district. Oleg Osuhovski to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the fulfilment of the requirements of the Ukrainian Law on the payment of lump sums in the event of the death or disability of a police officer. Alexander Suprunenka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the implementation of the Ukrainian law on the specialities of the exercise of property rights in a multi-housing house. Alexander Suprunenka to the head of the Kyiv City State Administration for refusing to raise the Chinese tariff for maintenance services in homes and insurmountable areas. Sergija Vlasenka to the Head of the Management of the Public Shareholders Association for the provision of information on the list of enterprises with which contracts have been made for joint ventures in natural gas production in Ukraine and on the disclosure of information on the final beneficiaries of these enterprises. Sergey Vlasenka to the Head of the National Commission, which regulates the national energy and utility sectors of the Ministry of Environment and Natural Resources of Ukraine with regard to the provision of information on the list of enterprises that have been licensed for natural gas production and disclosure of information concerning the final beneficiaries of these enterprises. Dmitra Dobrodomov to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the improper investigation of a criminal case involving the theft of funds by the Directorate of Education of the Glubecko District Government Administration of the Montenegrin Region in the amount of over 5 million dollars and the non-use of measures to compensate the State. Dmitry Dobrodomov to the head of the Ravenskie ODA, head of the Zabórl village council of the Plains region of the Plains region for the electrification of the streets of Wesel and Sunaczna, located in the village of Zabórl of the Plains region of the Plains region. Ruslan Solvar to the Minister of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, Prosecutor's Office of the Visgorod region of Kiev, Head of the National Police of Ukraine in the Kyiv region, on the facts of the inappropriate response to citizens' appeals and on the conduct of pre-trial investigations by colleagues of the Vysgorodski HUPP Ukraine in the Kyiv region. Jury Pavlenko to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the unlawful actions of the Head of the Cherka district administration in the area of adoption and protection of the rights of the child. Constantine Jarinič to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for the restoration of financing of state housing programmes for young people in 2016. Gregory Times to the head of the Novoseltsky District State Administration of the Montenegrin Region for information on the implementation of public and district budgets aimed at the needs of the education and medical sector in 2015. Gregory Times to the Head of the Government of the Czernovitzigaz Public Shareholders Association for providing information on a forward-looking gasification plan for part of the villages in the region of Czernovetsec. Victoria Vojtsicka to the Head of the National Shareholder Company Nadra Ukraine, temporarily acting as Head of the State Geology and Geology Service of Ukraine, acting as Minister of Environment and Natural Resources of Ukraine for the reasons for placing TOV "Angro Invest" in the lease of the property complex. Mr. Vasil Nimchenk to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the involvement of Prime Minister Arseny Yatsenuk in the judicial proceedings. Vasil Nimchenk to the Attorney General of Ukraine on criminal conduct concerning the Minister of Justice of Ukraine, Paul Petrenko, for interfering with the judicial authorities. Irina Souslowy to the Head of the State Border Service of Ukraine, Minister of Infrastructure of Ukraine, Head of the Lviv District State Administration on the construction of the "Boberka Smolnik (Juravin)" crossing at the Ukrainian-Polish border in the Turkov region of Lviv. Irina Suslowy, head of the State Environmental Inspectorate in Lviv district, on urgent action to halt environmental crime and to compensate for environmental damage in the Sokal district of Lviv. John Melniczuk to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Social Policy of Ukraine, on the legality of non-payment of salary indexes to employees of the Žmerinian Psycho-neurological Home. John Melniczuk to the Ministry of Education and Science of Ukraine for the protection of the rights of the inhabitants of the village of Petrik in the area of Vinnitsky and the return to the property of the territorial community of 428 hectares of arable land granted to the Vinick National Agrarian University. Andrija Reka to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the improper examination of parliamentary appeals by officials of the Office of the Attorney General of Ukraine regarding the conduct of official checks. Sergia Leshchenka to the Attorney General of Ukraine regarding the provision of a copy of the reply from the Attorney General's Office of Ukraine to the Austrian Prosecutor's Office regarding the criminal case concerning the head of the Ukrainian administration, Mr. Lozkin Boris Evgenović. Alexander Nechayeva to the Attorney General of Ukraine for ensuring objective investigation of the obstacles to the exercise of electoral law, a violation of the order of conduct of electoral campaign during the preparation and a re-voting of the election of the Mikolai city’s head, the city of Mikolayev. Ruslan Solvar and John Melniczuk to the Ministry of Health of Ukraine on the provision of information on the reasons for the absence of painkillers, which are to be readily available in medical pharmacies to provide first aid for transport and measures that are being implemented at the national level to address this issue. Jaroslava Markevich to the National Fiscal Service of Ukraine, U.S. Attorney General's Office for Tax evasion by individual participants in the manufacturing and distribution of alcoholic beverages. Igora Artushenka to the Head of the Ukrainian Security Service on the attempt to take power in Melitopol. Igora Artushenka to the Ministry of Internal Affairs of Ukraine on the facts of voter bribery in Zaporozhye. Jury Bublika to the Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine, Attorney General of Ukraine, on the commission of illegal acts and the obstruction of the parliamentary activities of the Ukrainian National Deputy in Poltava. Groups of National Deputies (Chervakov, Lucenka and others) A total of 19 deputies) were appointed to the head of the Supreme Qualifications Commission of Judges of Ukraine for an unjust decision by the Irpine City Court of Kiev. Groups of National Deputies (Chervakov, Lucenka and others) A total of 19 deputies) to the Attorney General of Ukraine for the verification of the activities of the Executive Committee of the Irpin City Council of the Kyiv Region. Group of People's Deputies (Holovka, Levchenka) to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, the Head of the Court of Auditors, the Head of the State Financial Inspectorate of Ukraine, the Head of the State Fiscal Service of Ukraine for the verification of compliance with the requirements of Ukraine's legislation for the purchase of natural gas outside Ukraine's Naftogaz Ukraine. And groups of national deputies (Head, Levchenka and others). A total of 6 deputies) to the Secretary of the National Security Service, the Secretary of Internal Affairs, the head of the Ukrainian Security Service, the head of the Ukrainian State Fiscal Service, the Attorney General of Ukraine, on the verification of the facts that threaten Ukraine's energy security. Dear colleagues, therefore, the time spent reading parliamentary inquiries is exhausted. According to the Rules, I'll call it a 30-minute break. At 12:30, we will continue our hard work. And at 12:30, there'll be performances. At 12.30 a.m., we'll sign up for the performances and there'll be an hour of speeches by the deputies in the "Variable" as provided for in the Rules. Regrettably, I have no authority to change the Rules and not to declare a recess on my own. This can only be done through the decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. So it's 12:30. Unless we concentrate, the potential is, the potential is. [[B in m in s a l in]] Dear colleagues, I don't have that kind of authority. We can sign up and start at 12:30. Everyone will see how it is. That may be the case. Let's do that. [[B in m in s a l in]] Andrew, Andrew, what is the problem? [[B in m in s a l in]] Dear colleagues, recess until 12:30. [[B in m in s a l in]] Don't press the line. I announce recess until 12:30. At 12.35, we'll continue our hard work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-13-m0.u98	Dear colleagues, break time is up. Please take up your jobs. Prepare for hard work. I'd like the MPs to record the performance in the "Variance" section. Please record. Korchinska Oksana Anatoliyevna Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-13-m0.u99	Good day to you all. As always at this hour, there are hardly any deputies. And I am indignant that today Mr. Groissman, Head of the Supreme Council, has not given me the floor, a question to the Ministry of Defence, although there has been a possibility. And that's why I'm going to ask why Mr. Groissman chooses, which one of the deputies to speak to, not to speak to when, at this point, their drawing led to a performance. And so in spite of this situation, I will now read out more than 70 deputies to the Ukrainian Defence Minister, Lieutenant General Poltorak, and Chief of General Staff, Commander-in-Chief of the Armed Forces of Ukraine, Lieutenant General Muzenek. Both generals of the army. "You're being approached by national MPs. We ask that we urgently respond to the most shameful situation that has arisen around the unacceptable actions of military commissioners throughout Ukraine, who have allowed numerous cases of proven bribery involving so - called pay exemption from mobilization and military time. Yes, according to the information in the press, the size of the bribe for the release from mobilization and the cost service in various areas of Ukraine ranges from 20,000 dollars to 100,000 dollars. In addition, as the coordinator of the ATO headquarters, which coordinates the ATO's interdisciplinary coordinating headquarters, I confirm that we have a large number of ATO boys who have already gone to ATO with cancer, tuberculosis, extremely many boys who have been mobilized with alcohol addiction and drug addiction. This is a great disgrace, and such a situation is unacceptable and is seriously damaging to the national interests of Ukraine and our entire army. In view of what has been said, we, the national deputies of Ukraine, propose to start and reorganize the troops. the reorganization of the military commissions, by introducing the following social and reformist project: to release military commissioners throughout Ukraine and to appoint, on the basis of a transparent competition for military commissioners of military actions serving in the ATO area, first of all, injured fighters and those with amputated limbs, as well as ATO participants who were awarded State awards. I'm showing the whole country that more than 70 signatures have been collected, the signatures are being collected, and we're going to demand this reform. Because at this point we have a feeling that the IMF is being reformed, which is impossible. And secondly, I'm addressing all the national MPs: for the moment, our ATO fighters are twice as likely to be paid on a contract as they are in the ATO zone.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-13-m0.u100	Please, 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-13-m0.u101	Thank you. They're twice as paid by the police. Such a situation is impossible. Next year, we are promised to raise our contractors' salaries to a maximum of 6,000 dollars, which is 50 percent less than that of a regular police officer, and in the ATO zone, only 50 percent more. As Ukrainian volunteers, we will be firm against this. The boys who risk daily in the ATO area on the front demand and deserve a minimum of 100 percent. And the increase in the salaries of our Ukrainian Armed Forces contractors should be no less than police and make, at least, 8 or 9,000 dollars.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-13-m0.u102	Olya the Mantis, the Peter Dust Block. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-13-m0.u103	Dear colleagues! Dear National Deputies! I want to thank you for your support for holding parliamentary hearings on health reform. You witnessed Mrs. Alexander Pavlenko's Deputy Minister's speech today. I want to tell you that in January the committee held committee hearings, where the ministry was given 25 steps in health reform, which we were to go through in the next two or three years to go to insurance. Instead of following these approved steps, the Ministry of Health was torn out of the context by a completely criminal section called "Autonomization of Hospitals", which must be done, but after the approval of the financial model. The Ministry of Health is moving forward and lobbying for the Supreme Council of the Law on Autonomy, which is declared unconstitutional. This law allows medical institutions to change their status from state to commercial enterprises and stock companies that are beginning to own all their possessions. This law liberates this process. The process of changing the status of the audit, i.e. in the process of changing the status from a state institution to an equity company, the property complex of the hospital may lose some of its buildings, some of its lands. And this law allows opening or forcing these institutions to open accounts in commercial banks. So these four points are aimed at bankruptcy of the entire state health system, and the Ministry of Health has not fulfilled any of the paragraphs of the Coalition Agreement that we have approved and passed on. In fact, health - care reforms are to begin with the approval of medical standards and clinical protocols. These clinical protocols and treatment standards have not been developed by the Ministry at all, because today what's in the clinical protocols is the key to winning tender procedures. The only thing we've been able to do is adopt a law on the transfer of purchases to international organizations. The Ministry of Health has done everything possible to maximize the delay of this process, that is, in May months, they did not collect the needs in the regions, the contracts that have not yet been signed. I mean, there's a totally pretentious stretch, on purpose. And the Ministry of Health had all four billion purchases transferred to international organizations. Today, only 620 million contracts are signed. They promise that the maximum that they're going to transfer is 2 billion, and 2 billion are going to be broken down in the same way as the final buyers. So I'm asking you to pay attention. And the Health Committee has taken the initiative to create and adopt the concept of reforms. Most importantly, it's a financial model, how they're going to treat and who's going to pay. Therefore, the Health Committee is ready to control and move it forward today. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-13-m0.u104	Thank you. Chubarov gives the word Krivenkov. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-13-m0.u105	The honourable chairman, the honourable colleagues, wanted to talk about the economy. If you don't know where you're going, any wind will be on your way. This is about our economic model, and it's about the fact that even today, the highest officials of the state, including individual ministers, are modeling: the state is a night watchman, the deregulation will save everything, the invisible hand of the market will fix everything. This is a utopia that is not supported by an example in the world. No nation has been successful solely because of the market. And it's the same extreme utopism of economic, extreme liberalism as extreme communism, and generally like communism. The whole world combines free processes and brings together stimulating processes, so-called horizontal reforms -- those reforms that relate to improving conditions of activity for all spheres, which are: fighting corruption, antimonopoly policies -- with vertical ones. Focus on our priorities and tools to support them. Three days ago, I had my first constructive conversation with our Minister of Economy, Mr. Ivaras Abromavichus, where he confessed and said that we finally have one common economic paradigm with you, that it combines in one policy. On the one hand, we need to give the maximum freedom to a small enterprise, an average business. And as much as possible to stimulate development as all our countries are building neighbors in the manufacturing sector. Nothing should come out as raw materials in high technology and energy conservation. We talked about the tools. And yesterday was the day of the economy, which, unfortunately, I think was partially ruined because a bunch of issues have been removed that have nothing to do with reforming the economy. And yesterday, we already passed a piece of the bill. I am pleased that the Ministry of Economics has already advocated the creation and development of industrial parks, even though this process has slowed down for a year. For the creation of an export credit agency that exists in 70 countries around the world. Ukraine has not been able to create an export credit agency since 1994, because the agribusiness oligarchs that ruled the government do not need it. The raw materials are always bought. And the key thing that I wanted to focus on. It's because tactics can't control strategy. I respect the Minister of Finance, and I respect that the Ministry of Finance, the Ministry of Economics, are not corrupt organs. But the annual plans cannot be replaced by strategic three, five, seven - year plans. In the European Union, we have a seven-year budget, we have a one-year budget. In the public sector, the second person was always a nacho, a headhead, because he and the head of the company had been putting up stakes to pay in the morning. In a private company, there's always another person who's involved in development, who sees perspectives, who sees markets. Where do you get the money? Out of circulation? A partner involved? Stocks placed? That's the second question. And then.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-13-m0.u106	Please, 30 seconds, finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-13-m0.u107	Thank you. And then this asset is already being invested in financial services. There are negotiations on loans, on restructuring. What do we see today? In the 1990s, the Ministry of Finance actually beat the Ministry of Economics. Because of the lack of funds, the minister of finance became the prime minister of the economy, which is a nonsensus in its very essence, without looking at individuals or looking at personnel. Or we need to bring the Ministry of Finance and the Ministry of Economics together into one function in which the macroeconomic function, the development function, the priority function.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-13-m0.u108	Ten seconds to complete, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-13-m0.u109	Or we need to determine that the Ministry of Economics is the head of the Ministry of Finance. The Deputy Prime Minister must be of the economy to which the Minister of Finance is subordinated. Who this staff is going to be is the second question. A proper structure and good thinking are needed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-13-m0.u110	Thank you. Aresonkov Vladimir Yuriovich, Peter Poshenko's Block, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-13-m0.u111	Dear Lord Chairman! Dear colleagues! Vladimir Aresonkov, 64 constituency, Žitomirščina. I would like to draw everyone, my dear colleagues,' to the very important question that is about our country's future: education, the issue of our children's education. And I would like to remind you that in June, we made a very serious, very important decision in this room, and we allocated 130 million dollars for printing textbooks. With this money, if you remember, we even found it by saving money on wages and deputies, including the Supreme Council’s apparatus. And we were very happy about that, and I was proud to tell the teachers that since September 1st you'll get new textbooks on new programs and we'll be fine. Sadly, this did not happen. So far, the 4-7 grade textbooks haven't come to our schools. There are many reasons. The minister cites both subjective and objective factors. But first, I'd like to take some responsibility for those on whom the timely printing and delivery of textbooks depended. Secondly, we need to get out of the situation now, absolutely right, and we need to report it publicly. Next question: The Ukrainian Education Act, which we're waiting for, is the basic one that has to determine the development strategy and the sector for the years to come. We're waiting for him in this room because we're about to adopt a budget for 2016 and we're very interested in what financial model of future education will be proposed in this law? The public, the teachers expressed their opinion, there was a broad discussion at least in Žitomirsk, we held it, we made our remarks, the ministry seemed to count. So we would very much like to see a draft of the law worked. I am very grateful to my colleagues for having adopted yesterday's decree to commemorate the 30th anniversary of the Chernobyl celebration. And I would very much like it to be not just a tribute to those people, to say nice words to them, to put flowers somewhere to those who gave their lives when it was a tragedy, but to finally solve the issues that have been going on for years: debt to displaced persons; medicines are free to those who have the disease today. Well, a lot of questions. Well, that's the end of it. Dear colleagues, I am addressing us. Now we're going to work in the districts, and on the committees, let's influence the situation in the regions. There goes the formation of councils of all levels, going down the battle, proving who's smarter, who's the bigger patriot, all quarreled with each other. We need to work, not find out who has the highest ratings. That's why I call on all of us.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-13-m0.u112	Ten seconds, please finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-13-m0.u113	Joining and helping to form district councils in order to be a working body for them to work peacefully for the state. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-13-m0.u114	Thank you. Abdullin gives the word Olya Chervakovi. Please, from the rostrum.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-13-m0.u115	Dear colleagues, today we have a sad Jubilee. Just a week ago, we were here with parliamentary women and some men, protesting this incident that took place at the reception of the Supreme Council the week of the incident between our colleagues Teteruk and Kugel. Regrettably, yesterday's parliament failed a ruling, an elementary decision that was simply proposed to condemn such actions that took place last Thursday, and to remove one of the figures of this scandal, this fight that caused the bodily harm of another figure, from the plenary. Sadly, this did not happen. The results on the board impressed me the most, with only 106 deputies voting for such a decree. And I was even more impressed by the fact that it was 35. These are the people who pressed the red buttons and refused to condemn the violence in Parliament. This means that such violence will continue. The most cynical thing about this situation is that the vote was agreed on by the coalition council. And all the factions' leaders agreed that in order to make this impossible in the future, so that things like this would never happen again, and that Parliament would demonstrate that it condemns violence, that decision would be voted on. Yesterday it was a disgraceful failure. I would like to remind you, dear colleagues, 2011 the end of the night when the predominant faction "Party of Regions" here, at the parliamentary presidency, had its head in the opposition with taburettes. I think you all remember how Volintz was then in a hospital with a broken jaw, and then the deputies were taken out of there by "quick help." But the next morning, we all learned that one of the leaders of the Party of Regions, one of the frontmen, said that nothing had happened. And these MPs beat themselves up, sorry, in beer cups on the head. Unfortunately, I have to mention this man’s last name. The kingdom of heaven, this is the Lord of Checht. But I also want to remind you that it was the journalists who then announced Chechtchev's boycott, not the Supreme Council, not the national MPs. And because such actions are not condemned by Parliament, that is why they are repeated. I also want to remind you that we've been given a book that deals with the legal regulation of the behaviour of parliamentarians. And this is where the international experience of how such issues are regulated is gathered. In Europe, then, separation from plenary meetings can be simple.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-13-m0.u116	Please, 10 seconds, finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-13-m0.u117	They're just being suspended for unethical conduct that's incompatible with the status of a deputy. And I think, dear colleagues, if we're going to Europe, that's what we need.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-13-m0.u118	Thank you. Ivan Rybak, Peter Dusty Block.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-13-m0.u119	It's a great company! It's really nice to see how many people in the room. I would like to say that today and throughout the past week we have talked a great deal about health care, about the costs to be allocated, the huge costs to be spent to ensure the health of our citizens. But let's talk about one more thing. The thing is, we're not talking about preventive measures at all. What are preventive measures in health care? It's prevention, first, disease, and second, it's a clean environment that surrounds us every day. You know, we don't spend money on ecology at all. Unfortunately, this year, in fact, only 200 million dollars were allocated by the government to environmental programs and measures. If we don't spend money on a clean water programme, if we don't spend money on waste management, including hazardous waste, we're going to turn into a dirty country in 15-20 years, not that Europe, maybe even the world. Thus, before talking about health care, we need to talk first about clean environment. The second thing I'd like to hear from this rostrum today is a question of road traffic in Western Ukraine. In the Chernobyl area from which I was elected, which is from 202 constituencies, this year was repaired by the funds allocated by the Cabinet of Ministers only 5 kilometers of roads, I think that's very little compared to how many roads there are in general in the territory of the Chernivian region. One of the most complex areas of the road T-2601, which runs from Chernivts through Vashkovci, Putil, Vistula and KPT "Rusca" through the region of Czernovetskie region, is generally a non-passage, impenetrable road. In fact, the government wants to make a reservation out of one of the most beautiful Carpathian regions and simply do research on the people who live there, and then, a few years later, see what these people have survived or not survived. I think that, in principle, such actions by the Ministry of Transport are generally unacceptable, because, in fact, the first is the development of tourism in the Carpathian region, the second is the creation of new jobs and, as such, the continued development of the entire region. I think we should all join the 16th-year budget in order to allocate the cost of repairing roads in Western Ukraine, in fact, as a priority for our work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-13-m0.u120	Thank you. Victor Halasyuk, Radical Party. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-13-m0.u121	Thank you. Dear Chairman! Dear colleagues! Dear People of Ukraine! For over three months, we insisted on having Economic Development Day in the Supreme Council. That day, during which we would consider purely economic bills, those that aim at improving the lives of citizens who aim to make life easier for entrepreneurs, to re-energize Ukrainian production. Finally, the leadership of the Supreme Council accepted our offer, and yesterday we calculated that we would have a great economic Thursday. Unfortunately, this great economic Thursday turned into an economic hour, for yesterday the Supreme Council considered in the first half everything but to consider economic laws. Single dismissals of judges were considered at a time when full reintroduction of the judicial system was needed in Ukraine when full replacement of the judicial corps was needed. Any human being, society understands that. Entrepreneurs understand that. Only the authorities do not understand that the judicial system in Ukraine needs to be fully reestablished. Some minor issues, appointments on committees, and the fight against discrimination that does not exist today are considered. But we didn't get to the top of the line, to what worries Ukrainian citizens today the most, to overcome unemployment to create conditions that make us competitive with other countries of the world for investing, for improving the standard of living of Ukrainian citizens. That's why I want to address the leadership of the Supreme Council and personally to the Head of the Supreme Council of Groysman: an economic day in the Supreme Council should not be an exception, and that should be the rule. This economic day should not be a holiday that we ask for but a gift from us. We don't need those gifts, we need an economic day every week. Every week, the Supreme Council has the blocs to deal with the issues that stand today. You ask anyone -- the taxpayer, the entrepreneur, the manufacturer -- what concerns him today. Even today, the minister of the economy from this rostrum, with whom we have very different views on many issues, admitted that more than 35 good-quality bills, fundamental ones, have already been piled up over the course of the year to be considered. But how long can the main items be put in the further drawer? Today, I think the biggest problem with power is that they can't tell where it's basic and where it's secondary. This is the biggest problem. They've lost their sense of reality, lost their sense of what's really important to society. So we have to look at economic laws on a regular basis, not accumulate them. To increase the welfare of citizens, to attract European investments to Ukraine, to create jobs. And look, Friday, and the Hall of the Supreme Council is virtually empty. Well, I want to look at any company, any factory, wherever people work like that, they get their wages, and they don't get paid. Therefore, honourable voters, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-13-m0.u122	30 seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-13-m0.u123	Therefore, honourable voters, please see who is working, who is drafting bills, who is voting for them, and who is not going to work at all. I am addressing the Head of the Supreme Council: Your Honor Vladimir Borisovich, I am officially asking you to amend the Rules of Procedure of the Supreme Council, to do so immediately, to make Friday a full day of work. And if you and I don't have time to consider important economic laws even during the full-time work week, let's do it.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-13-m0.u124	Ten seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-13-m0.u125	Let's work on the weekend faction The Radical Party will do it in its entirety. I call upon all colleagues of all factions and groups to join this initiative. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-13-m0.u126	Thank you. Paul Kishkar, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-13-m0.u127	Dear colleagues, Paul Kishkar. Why Does Mydan Teach? My personal conclusion. The conclusion is that our society is not ready to accept unnatural processes. This is when the prosecutor's office is about making money when the public service is the only way to do it as a person, when the court is not a court, but a court and these trials. Our society is ready to react quite harshly to these processes. Curiously, this Supreme Council in many ways gives birth to corrupt schemes by its decisions, and it does not respond to the challenges facing the state. In particular, the challenges facing the state today in the area of defence security. Believe me, war, at this moment, has become even closer and even more likely than ever -- when a zombie in the Russian Federation continues to abuse Russian society. We have nothing to do to become a strong state. We've written a security strategy, we've written a military doctrine, we've made changes to the Ukrainian Law on Internal and Foreign Policy, we've submitted a normal project to amend the Ukrainian Law on Fundamentals of Security, even though it needs to be copied now. I say from this high rostrum that I am ready to withdraw my bill if it is submitted by the Security Council to the appropriate, developed and finalized draft. But in this society there is a gap between good laws and reality. This breakup is executive power, it's a middle chain that doesn't work and in many ways doesn't implement these laws, good laws. For example, this Jurko guy won't let us lie. We have good tanks. Tank parts are good. We'll have no one there. Oksana Korczynska, a motivational problem, spoke about these problems. The motivation is not to say, boy, sit down or, boy, you can drive. There's a material interest, there's a moral interest, there's housing, there's education, there's provision of free education, there's opportunity to acquire or import into Ukraine without a moment's notice a military officer who's actually been in military service in the ATO zone. This has not been implemented. We want to motivate people just by wanting to go to the front. That's not how it works. So we're going to develop the National Military Organization Development Programme, we're going to solve and prepare the tasks of the Armed Forces of Ukraine, to the extent that they're supposed to be fundamental to the adoption of a state defence order, and there's no such instrument. We will.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-13-m0.u128	Please, 10 seconds, finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-13-m0.u129	At this point in time, we're shaping POPs and buying military technology, not knowing how we're going to use it, and what threats we've assessed and considered these forces.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-13-m0.u130	Thank you. Gennady the Clumsy, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-13-m0.u131	Gennady Kryvoshea, faction of the People's Front. Dear colleagues, honourable chairman, distinguished Ukrainians! I guess I'll say it again when I say that yesterday was actually a great day in the Supreme Council. He was only outstanding because we saw the concerted work of the government, of the individual ministries, of our Committee of Industrial Profiles, and of the deputies of the Supreme Council, not only of coalitions, but also of other political forces represented here. Why did this happen yesterday? This has happened so that we can see that in principle the Supreme Council can't just work, and the Supreme Council is ready to defend the interests of people and ordinary citizens. Yesterday was the day of economic reform right in Parliament. This was the first step that needs to be continued, and this work needs to continue not only with us in Parliament, but the results of the laws voted yesterday have to be the result of economic reforms in our country. Ukraine must reach an appropriate international level. Dear friends, among yesterday’s drafts, are sad but have not been voted in a second reading as a whole on the issue of a moratorium on the activity of individual owners. It's a big problem for today that we have in a country that's actually gotten us since Soviet times, when the relevant structures come to a normal entrepreneur and with a big bad smile they start to take out everything he has out of him, everything he's legally earned and, given his instability and inviolability, we were able yesterday, we, MPs, not able to protect him for a certain period of time from the separate corruption actions of individual officials of our state. The People's Front faction will support the relevant bills and speak for entrepreneurs in small, medium and large businesses. At the same time, I would like to point out that yesterday, it should be us. People's deputies, due to a low appearance, at six o'clock in the evening, we didn't support or vote in the second reading, in particular, number 1912 and 1,647, if I'm not mistaken about electric cars. Dear friends, when there is a small, medium-sized business waiting on the street, when the market in the country is virtually electric, the sale of electric cars is not available, yes, we simply have to work with you to make the market work. There's a positive conclusion from the Executive Office of the Government, there are positive conclusions from the Executive Board, and our committee supported this bill. And as an author, I demand it.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-13-m0.u132	Please, 30 seconds. Finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-13-m0.u133	I very sincerely ask that the Supreme Council consider it at its next plenary session. Thank you. The People's Front faction for the people.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-13-m0.u134	Thank you. Yuri Suhevich is invited to attend. Please. Stop the conflict in the hall, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-13-m0.u135	The Ukrainian people, as early as December last year, I registered Bill 1170. What is it? On the social protection of former political prisoners, former repressives, former settlers. Despite the positive conclusion of the Chief Scientific and Scientific Administration, despite the fact that the bill in question was approved on a professional committee, it has not yet been introduced into the conference room. Why? And I can't explain that. But what is the real situation? Imagine the people we're talking about here today, we're showing up at the Supreme Council. And you know that these people have won the right to demonstrate here, to speak here, to speak here freely, and to many, many things. But these people are the most successive today, the least socially and materially provided. See, the Supreme Council of the Soviet Union adopted the Rehabilitation Act. According to this law, prisoners were allegedly entitled to compensation. But they had the right to compensation, not for the entire period of their stay, but for only six years. And I'm going to bring you a specific person. Darius Hussyak, who served 25 years in prison, received only six years ’ compensation. So 19 years has not been compensated for what is a violation of the Constitution, 56 percent of the existing constitution. But what compensation? You can imagine 25 copies of illegal living there each day. You can imagine. There was a hard fight for it, for raising them to retirement. I'm going to tell you that in 2008, there was a law that made pensions payments, how much they started paying 54. 54 bracelets, 43 bracelets for prisoners and special settlers. But they didn’t want to pay for it, so they had to go to the courts and beat up the same situation. Thus, this law now foresees a correction of this situation, canceling this unfair norm — six years. We have normal supplements to have, all the participants.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-13-m0.u136	Please give me a moment to finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-13-m0.u137	All those who took place in Soviet prisons and camps should be given the same status as those who participated in the fighting. All those on special duty today should be given the same status as those involved in the war. It's going to be partly, it's going to be justice, because otherwise, what are we going to say today to those people who are fighting on the front? That they would ever be like those who chose independence and freedom there — in the underground, in the camps, in the prisons. And we can look them in the eye today and say that -- it's waiting for you? Because if we don't adopt this law, we won't bring it here. The year is looking forward to this law.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-13-m0.u138	Please, 30 seconds, finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-13-m0.u139	Then bear in mind that you are not. They'll realize that they're going to be the same, just like the ones in this society that owes them, that Ukraine is today a state that is a whole state. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-13-m0.u140	Thank you. John Kirilenko gives the floor to Oleg Lazka. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-13-m0.u141	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. Dear fellow National MPs, those who remain in the Hall, I want to show you the information that radical party activists have gathered all over Ukraine on the cost of housing and utility services in those cities and communities where people have already received payments to the HKG. After all, in many cities, especially in those where the election is currently under way, payment orders are not specifically offered, so as not to discourage people from actually deceiving them before the elections. Now the government claims that it has solved the tariff problem and this problem is not in front of the people, and it says that the "tariff field" that's been standing in the government district for almost four weeks, we don't know why we're standing here. I want to show you on specific figures that the whole country sees the enormous deception and the enormous looting policy that is being pursued today by the authorities in relation to their fellow citizens. The city of Mikolai. In October of last year, in favor. The dwelling area of 115 square meters was 548. Today, it was 1 thousand 48. The city of Pervomaysk. 53 square meters: October last year: 200 dollars; this year, 590 dollars were paid in October. The city of Lubotin, Kharkiv district. 62 square blocks of housing: last October – 370 griven, now – 810 griven. The city of Romney, the district of Suma. 50 square meters: last year it's 66 grevens, this year it's 445 grevens. The city of Romney, 69 square meters: this year -- 720 bracelets against last year -- 143 bracelets. The city of Bilopil. 78 square meters: last year it's 250 grevens, this is 530. The city of Chernivci. 49 square meters: last year, 62 bracelets, 323 bracelets. The city of Chernigu. 30 square meters: last year, 95 bracelets, 573 bracelets. The city of Ignatius in Chernigovishte. 60 squares: last year 216 bracelets, this is 720. The city of Wessel. 80 squares, last year it's 300 bucks, that's 1,450 bucks. Here's these numbers, this is how they rob people. I have a simple question in the absence of time: where can people get money to pay for the tan? In addition to heating, the family needs to be fed, children should be taken out to school, and medicines should be bought if they are older. I'm asking, what is this robbery policy? Why are there no deputies today, why aren't they here yesterday, why don't they vote on laws that will allow people to pay tariffs that will give people the opportunity to make ends meet? That's why Tariq Maidan stands. And we encourage people to join in just to force joint pressure to adopt laws that will make it possible to radically reduce the cost of the HKG. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-13-m0.u142	Andrew Illenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-13-m0.u143	Andrew Illenko, the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union. Dear Ukrainians who look at us and listen to us! It has been a year since the work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine began on the eighth call. We see that, sadly, today, we must note that those enormous expectations that the Ukrainians had placed on this Supreme Council are not being fulfilled today. Today we have a coalition that has implemented the Coalition Agreement by 3 percent in a year. Today we have a government formed by this coalition that has less than 1 percent of society's support. It's not a legitimate government, and in fact even a party, the main party of this government, the Prime Minister's party refused to participate in the elections, which, in principle, automatically means that this government has to resign, absolutely logically. Today we see a huge number of corruption scandals, with corruption scandals. Very often from Europe, we are told that representatives of European states, the countries of the European Union, say that there are honest corruptioners in today’s government. For some reason, however, today’s Ukrainian authorities are not as active in meeting Europe’s requirements in this regard as they are in the matter of amending the Labour Code. For example, in Switzerland, the Czech Republic, for example, does not have such an active desire to investigate criminal cases in the present - day Ukrainian authorities. Now regarding the situation concerning the east of Ukraine. Regrettably, despite constant claims of peace, of truce, we do not have it, battles are fought, unfortunately, our heroes are killed. A few days ago, I spoke in particular, and from this rostrum, Yuri Cherkashin, the head of the Sokol Youth Organization, one of the leaders of the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union, was seriously injured. And unfortunately, we see this real situation, which is very different from the rhetoric that we hear from the high rostrums. And in view of that, yesterday we announced this at the briefing, our constituency of the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union in Parliament is addressing all the healthy forces that are in the Supreme Council of the Eighth Call, and we are addressing all the deputies who are indifferent today to the fate of Ukraine, who are not indifferent to the fate of the Dignity Revolution, who want to defend national interests, to stand up for the fight against corruption. And what we are talking about today is that we need a new subject in Parliament, we need a parliamentary task force to bring all these patriot deputies together to stop what is happening today, a new voice, a new subject in Parliament, in order to stop this culinary business. We've made this call, we're ready to discuss the working principles of this group, its regulations and its quantitative, quality composition, obviously it's people who aren't stained, people are patriotic. And then we really are.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-13-m0.u144	Please, 10 seconds, finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-13-m0.u145	We can really put some fresh blood into the work of this Parliament. Please consider this proposal, and we are ready for such negotiations. Thank you. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-13-m0.u146	Didic Valentina gives the word Igor Lucenka. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-13-m0.u147	Thank you. Dear friends, welcome! Welcome to the people of Ukraine! Igor Lucenko, "The Fatherland" faction. I'd like to look at a very painful and disastrous question, in fact, the restoration of the authoritarian system, the repressive system of Yanukovich, already under the Dustenka regime. Today, there are three elements that actually end up in their creation, played more precisely, these are the courts, this is the prosecutor's office, this is the Ministry of Justice. So the "high on the cake" of restoring this system today is the process of creating a shadowy Attorney General's Office. Such a shadowy Attorney General's Office existed at Shockin, it was the real Attorney General's Office, where real investigators, real intellectuals worked, though on the side of evil, but intellectuals who developed criminal cases that developed a plan of investigation and brought it to the formal investigators of the Attorney General's Office. That's what's being done right now, that's what's being restored. I mean, there's a sort of intellectual center that's running the Attorney General's Office, which, unfortunately, is now down to the level of a small department of the President's Administration. In particular, such an example. These well-known young prosecutors, who were released for their letter in Weiber, where they agreed to break off the phone, are now working at this intellectual center and are actually giving instructions to real prosecutors. The result of this activity is the disaster of the Ukrainian State, no more and no less. Hundreds of people today sit without any evidence, political motivation, commercial motivation, and have neither the right to defend themselves nor the right to a fair trial. By the way, with regard to a fair trial, there was recently a congregation of judges and there were all the same faces. Judge Kzarevich was present. Likewise, when you go to the Cave Court, you will see, too, Judge Karabanya there, the same one who judged Janukovich, the same people he judges now. Likewise, you will see at the end of the day the practice that he spoke of, the running judge today, Mr. Chernushenko, who in principle gave enough for several criminal cases of testimony, how the President's Administration manages the judges. But it all went to the sand because there's no one in the Attorney General's Office to do either the political will in Parliament or the President's Administration. Friends! I urge you not to be an accomplice to this crime, because playing elements, repressive elements of the Yanukovich regime is not just a crime in itself, is a double crime. Because people died on Maidan, people died on the ATO. And to repeat what has led to this tragedy is a double crime. I call on Parliament to become a parliament and to take its main role, in fact, I think, as a function. The main function is not to enact laws here, but to seek to enforce them. Because.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-13-m0.u148	Ten seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-13-m0.u149	The law is the law only when it is fulfilled. And Parliament is only a parliament when it seeks to do so. So, my friends, let's not be complicit in this crime. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-13-m0.u150	Natalia Novak conveys the word, please, to Solovia.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-13-m0.u151	Yuri Solovay, 89th constituency. Dear colleagues, you know, my speech will primarily be about those MPs from the democratic coalition that are in the room today, and it won't be specific, but it will be about general issues. You know, because when I look at the processes that are going on today in both the Ukrainian Parliament and in Ukrainian society, unfortunately, I'm returning to the Ukrainian history of the millennium. Please tell us why, having the best lands in Europe, having the best and most talented people, having the best armies in Europe, starting with the Cossacks, ending with the Ukrainian rebel army, we unfortunately never had the Ukrainian state. We've always been either part of the Polish Federation of Post-Polish Things, or part of the Austrian-Hungarian Federation, or part of the Russian Empire. Do you know why? Because internal strife, strife, betrayals have always been a hiding place for Ukrainian politics and the Ukrainian state. Always! Always the Ukrainian leaders, like a thousand years ago, ending today, thought they were the wisest and only they would be able to move this Ukraine forward rather than unite. Has not such things occurred in modern history? Remember 2005-2010 and make a parallel with today. How did the disunity end in the middle of the 2005-2010 democratic forces? Remember. He ended up in the power of Janukovich. Is it not the same processes that are taking place in our country today, as in my mind, that are absolutely similar, only the danger that is higher today, because it is no longer possible for Janukovic to come to our country, but it is possible for a close neighbor to Putin to come. And so today, when the next local election is over, I'm not just saying it, we have a unique chance, we have a small four-year reserve of time. And I'm talking to colleagues who are joining the coalition today, because we have two ways. One way is to unite our efforts here in Parliament and unite our efforts and in the local councils, create coalitions, and work for the state for four years. Or we have another way to destroy each other in mutual criticism. It's a choice for each of us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-13-m0.u152	Dmitri Linko gives the word to Andrew Lozov. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-13-m0.u153	Andrey Lozovy, Radical Party of Lazka. A few days ago, in my home country, I read a news story with great pain, sadness, and disappointment. And the same reaction of the public and the resentment of the equations and the inhabitants of the region is incredibly high. What happened? As respectable fellow citizens, we see that, unfortunately, two years after the Revolution, no reforms have taken place. The only reform that is going into effect is the formation of the National Police. We all know that the Ministry of Internal Affairs has in the last 24 years taken the worst of the Soviet system by multiplying it by total corruption, by total gang violence in the '90s, which has all been used in this terrible machine, which has just been abusing people, and reform is supposed to be inevitable. It's happening. We see a lot of positive moments where people are assigned to high positions of dignity, people who have passed the front, people who have risked their lives to prove their dignity, like Alexander Fasewich, like Roman Pitzkow, like Vadim Troyan, who led the Police in Kiev. I saw this man take part in the liberation of Mary on June 13, last year. But what is happening at the Plain? There's the head of the so far in the U.S., right, meaning that the National Police appointed Colonel Sergei Maximov is an ominous figure, a representative of the worst mint warehouse that can only be, who is constantly, literally every week, a new scandal that is associated with the fact that bandits in the heathens are called law enforcement officers, in fact, involved in corporate gang-related conflicts involving illegal mining, specifically amber, in the first place. We see a recent appointment of new bosses in Zagodenska, Dubrovicki, Rokitnivsky, Sarniny region, all brought from Žitomir. Here are colleagues from Žitomirščina who will confirm just the odystic ones there, particularly in the Olev region, who have been involved in illegal amber production. There's been absolute absurdity. In the middle of the day, Colonel Maximov was led by the Internal Affairs Department, and in the middle of the day, think! – bags, whole bags with amber: 136 kilograms. The cost of a kilogram is marketed from about one and a half to seven, up to a thousand dollars. So, basically, half a million dollars of natural wealth given to us by God -- our solar equinox -- was carried out simply and unpunished by no one. And I would like to view this as my address to the Minister of Internal Affairs of Arsen Awakov, to the head of the National Police of the House of Decanoode, and this is not just my address. We've started the process, and many deputies from different factions and groups have already signed a request, not to appoint in any way the Head of the National Police Maximov as full leader, to investigate and severely punish Maxim's leaders.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-13-m0.u154	Please, 30 seconds and finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-13-m0.u155	And all the law enforcement guys called, and in fact, the bandits in the "mousor" chases, they're not going to be named otherwise, who are participating in schemes from illegal mining and drilling at my home level. I'd like you to support my colleague. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-13-m0.u156	Marchenko Alexander. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-13-m0.u157	Good afternoon, dear Ukrainians! Good afternoon, distinguished voters! And good day to the deputies. I want to thank you, first of all, for staying here in order to express your visions that hurt you. I am pleased to see that Vladimir Yuriovich, who left the Žitomir region, highlighted the problem, the disaster that exists in the Ministry of Education. It is unfortunate that Mr. Paul Kishkar once again said that the Ministry of Defence did not complete our Armed Forces by 90 percent. Now, I got an application today that the socks, the balaclavs -- the same thing happens in the army. It is unfortunate that the Ministry of Health today does not have a single injection. With our addresses, we have already seen the absence of any response to the problem that is today in the regions. John Ribak emphasized the state of the roads. I'll say, Mr. John, they're all in Ukraine, all over Ukraine. On Ukrainian roads. There is a war on Ukrainian roads. We lost nearly three thousand people in nine months. Executive response, government zero. But I would like to address you here today, especially the coalition representatives. Today you began to address this room with a small problem: we lost. You've lost control of the executive branch of power, of the government. That's all the trouble. There's a lot of calls: let's get together for Ukraine. We were always united, Mr. Yuri, both in Midan and in the Armed Forces. But I have an appeal today to the voters, to the white churchmen: don't join forces with corruption, don't join with the thieves who have stolen property, Ukrainian property, don't join with the people who steal the budget, because the optimist of what the minister told us today is that electronic purchases will give us 50 billion dollars. So tell me, when we took a 30-year decision to mark the Chernobyl tragedy, today, probably in front of all the black people, in front of all the wounded disabled in the war, in front of those fighters on the front, we should probably adopt Bill 2093, even though we should give people the basic state guarantees that they are.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-13-m0.u158	Please, 30 seconds, finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-13-m0.u159	They've earned their feat. I'm talking to the government, I'm talking to Mrs. Natalia Ivanovna, the problem not only is that the Ukrainians are being oppressed by taxes, but the problem, Natalia Ivanovna, is that these taxes are being developed by the state. I think society, all the people who stay here, see the problem. Today, the authorities have found nothing more than to blend in with the man in action.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-13-m0.u160	Well, the next man is sitting. She has the same respect you do. Please, but please, I have one minute left. Please, just for a little while. Lušnjak, Deputy Lušnjak. Krivenko gives the floor, he tells me it's Deputy Lušnjak.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-13-m0.u161	Mikola Lušnjak, 166th District, Ternopilska. Dear colleagues, we make a lot of decisions, we make a lot of innovation, we raise the economy. But do we not realize today that Ukraine is in danger of food? The Cabinet of Ministers decreed that an agricultural inspection be dissolved. A permit that would be issued today for a seed certificate, no one is responsible for it. Seeds are not certified, criminal cases are broken. You know, for today, 40 percent of the suspended winter is not enough, that's the area that we're going to be sifting. Is our economy going to work if we don't have something to feed ourselves. Let's think about who pulled out our economics locomotive, the agrarians. Today, I am calling on the Cabinet of Ministers and the Prime Minister to restore the necessary number of agricultural inspections that must issue seed certificates without fail and to keep this process running until law 1460-1 is in place. Which will go into history as a new law of seed and planting in Ukraine. Dear colleagues! Taking this opportunity, I want to welcome all the agrarians to our holiday! Honorable Workers of Ukraine! In particular, Ternopilska, congratulations, you remember that today the economy of our country is on your shoulders and on your hands. Inspiration, health, and well - being in our families. Glory to Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-13-m0.u162	Thank you. And the final speech, Deputy Rosenblatt, please be brief.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-13-m0.u163	Thank you, my friends! Glory to Ukraine! You know, there's a lot of statements here, loud statements, those that today are very disturbing and confusing to our citizens. But you know, in other speeches, you hear that we're having populism again today. And here I was being presented by a representative of the Parenthood Party, who said something was coming back, something new was coming. From the faction, I'm sorry, but the question in another question yesterday, based on the votes and the merger of the Yulia Timoshenko Block and the Opobloku Party, was united by such a "broad" in the Zitomir Arch. So, you know, when some statements sound here and others do happen in other places, you never have to twist. But the question is not even that, really, two Ukrainians are three Gehtmans. This is what really prevents us today from creating a strong, healthy country to move forward. You know, I'm also in favour of low tariffs in Ukraine today, but not because we're here in the Council to fight for gas rents, but because of what we do, by warming our houses, by reducing our gas, spending. For actually doing economic growth. Yesterday, really, it was a very big day, we adopted a lot of economic issues, but in the middle of a very big holiday in Ukraine -- the day of agriculture -- I want to remind you that the law that we voted in the spring to support our dairy sector, to restore subsidies and milk and meat. It has been lying for more than six months and has not been considered in the second reading, and today it is necessary to give people the opportunity to have money to pay a kind tariff: both large and small. We have to do everything we can to ensure that the amber law, which also waits for about a year, also has to go so that Ukraine has the opportunity to make money in the budget, not at the expense of the IMF, but at the expense of its own taxes, on account of the fact that citizens will actually have the right, I repeat, the right to work and this work will be paid. With this, I would like to welcome everyone, especially once again, the greetings to all our peasants. With a feast of you! And good luck to all of us! And we're done arguing, let's work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-11-13-m0.u164	Thank you. Dear colleagues, the time for the national MPs to speak on various issues has been completed. But I want to say a few words. This is where we have very active MPs, who often speak and whose fate depends on the future of this Parliament, and the future of Ukraine as a whole. Well, at the time of the talks, I heard the worst words about both the President and the government and the Parliament itself, including representatives of the power coalition. I want to remind you that this week alone, society, this week alone, we have adopted a package of anti-corruption laws: an agency to identify and locate corrupt assets. Thank you and the Committee to Combat Corruption of Jegor Sobolev, as well as those present. The Criminal Code and the Civil Code have been amended to help fight corruption. This week we passed a law that we had been waiting for a long time: the State Bureau of Investigation. Guys, would you mind reminding me when we could have taken so much in the past? So many fair, fundamental, emphasising state-based laws that reform the law-enforcement system that actually complete the anti-corruption system. And the visa package is itself -- just these visa laws, you have to understand, these are laws that don't need Europe, but we need to fight corruption, which is very important. And it's important for us to realize that. This is not to simply get visas – to have better mechanisms to fight corruption, which is the biggest evil in Ukraine today, against which we must unite all efforts. Sadly, though, party and political ambition often prevails over the state’s view of the situation. And I would just like to encourage all the deputies to know how to see Ukraine through political parties, to see Ukraine through political interests. And then we'll probably be able to make more decisions in the hall and more control their implementation. I'd like to invite MPs to come to this room and know that we've been given some time at a very responsible time for Ukraine. This period should not be wasted or distributed into party destruction, but to the maximum of that time, we should put our energy for Ukraine. Many of our predecessors did not have the strength we have today. We have a great responsibility. I want to call for this responsibility both in our actions and in our words and in our work. I also want to remind you that next week we work in committees, factions and groups. The next plenary meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine will take place on Tuesday, November 24, at 10 a.m. Let me remind you: we passed the European Integration Act on the eve of the beginning of Maidan, November 21, when many of us here also went to Midan Independence. It's a big sign, and it's a symbolic action. I want fruitful work on committees, I want productive work in factions. And on November 24 at 10 a.m., we meet here in the session room. At this morning's meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, I declare closed. Thank you. Glory to Ukraine!
