ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-16-m0.u1	Good morning, dear fellows! Please, take your seats, get ready to register for the start of our work. Earlier, I would like to point out that a year ago, September 16, I remember this because I was present at the Supreme Council Hall, a synchronous ratification of the Agreement with the European Union took place. In fact, a treaty that was a firm requirement of Ukrainian society, a desire for our European integration, and unfortunately, many Ukrainians paid for it with their own lives. I think that the goal is not to sign a treaty, but the goal is to make people's living standards meet the standards that are now real in the European Union. In this regard, it is up to each member of parliament to see how quality we will adopt laws, how much these laws will meet our European aspirations, and how well they will conform to European standards. Every presence of an MP in the room, every committee member's work should bring us closer to a full association with the European Union. I would also like to inform you that yesterday was probably not the very effective day in the Ukrainian Parliament, but the two decisions that we adopted with you are extremely important: the Law on State Procurement, specifically, changes to it. Friends, experts estimate that up to 50 billion dollars, this law will be saved in the state budget. And that decision was adopted yesterday by the Ukrainian Parliament. 1.7 trillion, the European Union market, will allow Ukrainians, Ukrainian companies, to participate in international tenders. This means that this law will directly affect development, including its own producer. And as I was informed, the law that was passed yesterday on cars for people with limited physical capacity when they finally had the right to own cars, they say that a lot of parliaments had gone into this history before and couldn't make a decision. You and I made that decision last night. I think every day a few important decisions should be the norm for the Ukrainian Parliament, it should be the norm for our work together. Dear colleagues, please prepare for registration. Please turn on the "Race" system. Please. [[10:05:12]] 277 people's deputies in the hall. Honorary colleagues, according to the Supreme Council of Ukraine regulations, have 30 minutes to speak from the Supreme Council’s rostrum on Wednesday. Please prepare to register. Please prepare to register. Colleagues, let's register for the performance, please. 30 minutes to show off from the rostrum. Please, Victoria the Bird, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-16-m0.u2	Thank you. Good afternoon, fellow countrymen, distinguished Ukrainian people! Yesterday you and I passed an important Act on State Procurement. You know that government purchases are a platform where money is being spent every day from the state budget, and that's where non-lethal complainants, using the Ukrainian Antimonopoly Committee, are being accused of buying. That's what happened with the purchases of medical supplies, and that's how the armored vests were bought, and that's what's happening now with the purchase that's going on around the construction of the new Ohmatdit Hospital. Unfortunately, an unscrupulous complainant has been filed with the Antimonopoly Committee to charge the purchase, so that 500 million dollars from the budget will not be allocated to the Ohmatdit State Hospital, and so that the construction will never be done. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that the Antimonopoly Committee has considered this application, has not satisfied it, and again this same complainant, is addressing the Antimonopoly Committee again and is filing a complaint. So I'm asking the Antimonopoly Committee to expedite the consideration of this complaint, if there's actually a basis for the same complaint again and again from the same complainant. In fact, to see if there are any nonconformity in the applicant’s signs. If there are grounds for recourse to law enforcement, I ask the Antimonopoly Committee to transmit all these materials to the law enforcement authorities so that the law enforcement authorities can figure out why the same company is constantly addressing the committee, trying to delay and prevent the construction of the Ohmatdit Children's Hospital, just as they had previously blocked the purchase of medical supplies and the purchase of armored women. I hope the public will pay the same attention and prevent the construction of the Ohmatdit Children's Hospital from being blocked. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-16-m0.u3	Oleg Lazko.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-16-m0.u4	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. Dear fellow national MPs, distinguished citizens! I want to inform you that political corruption has returned to the wall of the Ukrainian Parliament, the most disgraceful phenomenon in the time of Janukovic, which we have been rid of since the Dignity Revolution. Today, a year and a half after Maidan, the spirit of political corruption is back in this room. Once again, MPs are being bribed by threats, blackmail, intimidation, banal bribery, and attempt to break up the Radical Party faction after it has gone into opposition. One of our national MPs, Artem Witko, unfortunately, has not endured the temptations of money or whatever, because I don't know what could have affected a person to change his position dramatically, and today he is in the coalition, instead of holding the position of a faction, holding the position of voters who chose the Radical Party. Colleagues from the Dust Block laugh a lot, applaud and content, support political corruption, and this is not an accident. Because President Poshenko brought political corruption to the House of Parliament. President Prashenko's orders are now under way to bribe members of the people from the Radical Party faction. Alexander Tretyakov, Igor Kononenko, as well as the non-fractional national deputy Alexander Onishchenko, are personally involved. These are the three corrupters who are today attempting to bribe our national deputies by means of intimidation, threats, and bribery. In particular, as a minimum, five national MPs from the Radical Party faction told me that Alexander Tretlyakov himself had negotiated with them, promised money, promised places in the parliamentary elections for the term just to get them out of the faction. A colleague of ours just reported that if they failed to bribe him, they took his 70-year-old father and threatened to arrest his father if he didn't get out of the Radical Party faction. I'm addressing President Dusty. I'm talking to the parliamentary majority. I'm addressing the faction of the coalition, the democratic faction of the coalition. What was the Dignity Revolution for? Why did people die? For beating up parliament again? Think about what the Yanukovich regime started with -- the "breathing" of political forces. The pears built the Yanukovic regime. Today, Prussianko again wants to build a new oligarchy regime. I call for an end to political corruption in the Supreme Council, which leads to destruction.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-16-m0.u5	Mikola Tomenko, Petra Dustenka's Block. [[B in m in s a l in]] Please make an application to the police and the D.A.'s office. And write a statement at the Anti-Corruption Bureau. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-16-m0.u6	Dear colleagues, when quiet in Ukraine, have the best opportunity to discuss how we can continue to build and form an army. I am a little surprised that we have calmed down in the situation in the military, and I would like to draw attention to five positions of great importance, in my opinion, to the strategy and formation of the Armed Forces of Ukraine. Of course, elections are a good thing, and now more and more people are saying in my words of the year that it is necessary to form a contractual professional army. But I think it's mostly a pre-election trend, not a system job. I am convinced that at the level of the Supreme Council we must finally identify and form and support the Military Doctrine and strategically say that in Ukraine there is a contractual professional, socially protected, patriotic army. In view of this, we form an army structure and prepare people accordingly. The story of mobilization in factories, factories, and shops should be completed. Second position, economics. Today, I think Genstab should not drive and check the length of the billboard or the poster in the military, but make an inventory of the military units, think about how to reconstruct them. Write down how to build houses where families of soldiers who protect the Ukrainian state should live. Third position, social position. Today, we need to consider, not once, but a system of social protection for the military, their families, and the families that lost the military. Third position, adaptable. To date, I think the government would have to create an appropriate registration of ATO participants. And according to this register, every area, district and city would have to get the most of these people involved in serious professional social, other programs. Because they are people who have been raised by war and must be involved in making decisions and participating in the reconstruction of the state. Fifth position, patriotic-educational. As we speak today of the need to form a country that is built on Ukrainian values, we must do our utmost in both the army and the country as a whole. I just got back from Ivano-Frankiv County, where in the Center for Patriotic Education, Stephen Bandera, teachers were surprised. They said that we were talking about raising Ukrainian values, and the government had taken the required Ukrainian language, literature, the history of Ukraine first from its teaching programs, and now it had taken it away from the KNW. Today we have a ZNO, or the history of Ukraine, or mathematics. So in a normal country a person who finishes school should be a citizen of Ukraine, he should know his language and his history. Then we will teach her other subjects. So once again I appeal to the government and to the President: a professional contractual and patriotic army is a guarantee of an independent Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-16-m0.u7	People's Deputy Shipko, please. After Šipko – Mikola Veličkovich. Please, National Deputy Gus.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-16-m0.u8	Glory to Ukraine! Igor Gus, 19th constituency, mining district. I have two questions. First, to Mr. Demchikin. I want to call him, I hear he'll report. Before the report, show the Ukrainian Parliament an application for exemption. Why? I represent the district on Volina, where there are mines. So Mr. Demchi's year is turning with Volin miners to the left. We have the only mine number 10 in Ukraine that's being built. You and I have put 200 million dollars on its construction this year. Today, mid-September, the miners received only 50. Where else are 150 million dollars left for the only mine built in the country to be upgraded? Constant debt, coal miners go out to cover the road. Day, day two, three, means Demchi's head is scratched, and only then are steps taken. The money that got stuck in the Bank of Kiev Russia that didn't come to the miners. Lots of trouble, lots of holes. So I think we, Parliament, and some factions are calling, and we all support that the government, part of the government, part of the ministers need to be reformulated. One of them, I think, is the first to take off, this is Demchisin. I was in contact with the Neovolline miners literally a few days ago, and they say a burning welcome to Demchino. A man can't cope, he doesn't understand, he doesn't know the depth, he doesn't see the strategy, he doesn't see the future of our field, especially of Novovolinsk. It's been spinning for over a year now. So I think the coalition should find a worthy candidate for this position. Period. Mr. Demchikin must resign. That's the first one. And the second. Dear colleagues! I want to ask you the same thing about supporting a very important topic. In July and August last year, I was approached by Belarusians who wanted to fight on Donbas for the Ukrainian state. I was involved in the creation of the Drive Battalion. So this battalion and many other colleagues from the volunteer Ukrainian Corps, from the Donbas Battalion, Dnipro, Azov, are fighting for the Ukrainian own constituency. Literally two weeks ago, a Belarus from Brest was killed, which is now buried there. The Ukrainian State of Belarus and Ukraine did not legalize this patriot. I ask all of us to consider legalizing foreign volunteers: Belarusians, Russians, who are in favor of the Ukrainian state. And I'm very sorry, I'm ashamed of the Ukrainian state in front of the parents of this Belarusian guy from Brest who was buried in the ground, but he's not recognized by the Ukrainian state. Today we have laws that are presented and that are behind this. I ask us, all of us parliamentarians, to take a quick look and make a decision. Thank you. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-16-m0.u9	People's Deputy Shipko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-16-m0.u10	Andrew Shipko, Dnipropetrovština, Nikopol, Ordjonikidze, Nicopolski district Dear National Deputies! Dear Ukrainians! I mean, we spent the whole day on personnel issues yesterday. On three applications for release, he went all day. Is that how we're supposed to work? And most of all, we didn't solve it yesterday. And at that time, the government continues to tell us about the growth of the economy, as if in 2016, about the rise in social standards, about the rise in pensions and wages. We're not told about belts anymore. They don't need to be stretched anymore. But who among the Ukrainians felt this increase? I asked people in the neighborhood, they don't know how to live on, how to pay for gas, how to buy drugs. They don't even have enough money to eat. Another drop, and they'll all be here in Kiev. What's really going on? During the first half of this year alone, the inflation index was 139 percent. Foods increased by 35 percent, housing, water, electricity, and gas prices increased by 32 percent, while drugs, medical supplies, and equipment increased by 32 percent. I'm talking official statistics. In fact, the situation is even worse. How much did the cost of living increase? 13 percent. And this is after the Rebirth Party has never once claimed to have destroyed Ukrainians, after we've carried out a mass of public action, and told everyone that the livelihood minimum in the Ukrainian is lower, than in the poorest countries in Africa. I'm talking to the government. Officials, if you're not saying what you think you're saying, you're not listening to what you believe, and you're doing what the soul is doing, are you not working there? And if you don't work there, we'll do it for you. There are laws in the Supreme Council that must be passed immediately. In the spring, the Rebirth Party registered bills 2162, 2038 on the cost of medicines and foodstuffs – purely European bills. The decision to postpone the increase in the tariffs of the HKG, for the prosecutor’s office should first deal with such tariffs. I have registered Bill 2462a on mandatory social insurance, which will enable people to be treated rather than afraid to go to the hospital. These are the laws that need to be passed. Dear Volodymyr Borisovich, I demand that we bring to the fore those bills that the people need. The Rebirth Party for the real rebirth of the country. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-16-m0.u11	Irina Heratschenko, Peter Dusty Block.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-16-m0.u12	Honorary colleagues, just a year ago, on September 16, 2014, the Supreme Council of Ukraine synchronously ratified the Association Agreement with the European Parliament. During this year, 22 member states of the European Union have ratified this agreement in the same way. The three countries are still in the process, and only one of the Houses of Parliament ratified the agreement. The Netherlands is putting an end to this process. And the two countries remain problematic -- Cyprus and Greece. And we want to turn from two committees -- Euro-integration and the Committee on Foreign Affairs -- to the Speaker of the Supreme Council, to our Parliament, asking the parliaments of these countries to speed up the ratification of the Association Agreement. During this year, European integration became part of our internal policy. But is it always true not only about political culture but also about our policy, in fact, about adapting Ukrainian legislation to European standards? Sadly, no. The Supreme Council of Ukraine is still very often making decisions from certain laws, not taking into account the expert opinion and conclusions of the Committee on European Integration in order to comply with any bill with European norms and standards. And that's essentially what the honourable colleagues are doing, and then we're having problems with the question that we're going to have to re-examine these laws to bring them closer to European standards. So we urge our fellow national MPs to study carefully the expert opinion on adapting and complying with any law to European standards. In particular, I would like to thank the Ukrainian Parliament, in particular our international delegations and groups of inter-parliamentary friendships, who are also actively working today to establish such powerful friendly ties with the parliaments of the EU countries and to find new lobbyists. But, dear colleagues, lately there have been more and more disturbing signals that some political forces, including those of the coalition, have not fully grasped the difficult lessons of 2005 and 2008, and are once again trying to use the outer arena for internal political strife. I would like to remind you, my dear colleagues, of what this could turn out to be for Ukraine. If in 2008 the lack of unity stopped the adoption of VAT for Ukraine, it could now be because we don't get visa-free, and it will also stop the formation of a powerful antiputinian coalition in the world. So I want to call on my colleague to unity in the outer arena. And the last. From January 1st comes the free trade zone with the European Union. From our committee, we're going to propose at an hour of questions to the government as well as to listen to the government about the willingness of the Ukrainian authorities to fully enter the zone, to join the free zone.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-16-m0.u13	Ten seconds, complete.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-16-m0.u14	Regarding the willingness of the Ukrainian government to comply with the conditions allowing Ukraine to fully join the U.S.A. on 1 January. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-16-m0.u15	Thank you. Before inviting Refat Chubarov, "Peter Prashenko's Block", let's welcome, colleagues, Alexia Hotcharenko with her birthday, our fellow national MP. Happy birthday. And John Hennadiovich Fursin. Happy birthday. Happy birthday, happy birthday, colleagues! Please, Rephat Chubarov.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-16-m0.u16	Dear Head, distinguished colleagues, respected fellow citizens! Today is the 567th day of Crimea occupied by the Russian Federation. 567 days ago, the state, or we with you, was unable to protect Crimea and its citizens living on the peninsula. Back in the 21st century, disaster struck the Crimean earth. A terrible disaster, since all the previous conquests of Crimea by Moscow, regardless of who was sitting in the Kremlin — the king or secretary - general — ended in catastrophes for the Crimea’s indigenous people. And today, Russia’s main goal remains the displacement of the Crimean Tatar nation from its own land. Hence the violent kidnapping of young people and their killings, endless pogroms and searches in the villages of Crimean Tatars and Ukrainians, people of other nationalities who remain faithful to Ukraine. Ahtem Chigoz, deputy head of the Majlis Crimean Tatar people, Ali Asanov, Mustafa Degermengji, Ruslan Zeitulayev, Nuri Prime, Rustem Wait, Feat Saipulayev -- all of these people have been behind bars for months, in the shades of the FSB, awaiting trial. Oleg Saints and Alexander Kolchenko were duly sentenced to 20 and 10 years in prison. And their only fault is that they are the Crimean Tatars of Ukraine, who remain faithful to their nation, to their people. But neither Ukraine nor the international community today have been able to implement effective mechanisms to protect the rights and freedoms of Ukrainian citizens living in the occupied Crimea. At the same time, hundreds of tons of cargo, including food, are daily supplied from mainland Ukraine to the occupied Crimea. Ladies and gentlemen, at that time, I would like to inform you that on September 20, at 12 o'clock, in the afternoon, we will be covered with cargo carrying goods to the Crimea, all three roads leading from the mainland to the Crimea. At the same time, the movement of people and light cars remains unhindered. I want to make a separate observation that our action will be of a lasting nature. We conclude that during this time, the Supreme Council will have to consider bills of national MPs aimed at settling the issues of the interaction of the mainland Ukraine with the occupied Crimea. The Crimea Free Economic Zone Act must be repealed. Instead, however, we consider conduct to be appropriate.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-16-m0.u17	30 seconds, complete.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-16-m0.u18	We have an appropriate introduction of the free economic zone in the areas of the Hersonian region that belong to the Crimea. Ladies and gentlemen, on September 20th in the morning, we invite everyone who wishes to join our action to the stock headquarters that will be stationed on the transport of Chongar, to be together in these days. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-16-m0.u19	Oleg Beresuk. Yegor Sobolev, Self-help, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-16-m0.u20	Today, the speaker told the MP who reported political corruption, so go to the prosecutor's office. It's very important that you and I acknowledge that we don't have a prosecutor's office. There are people who want to hear the August 31st report here. You have to understand, from today's DA's office, you won't know what happened on August 31st. It can be repeated more than once, but you will not find out what real customers and performers are. The Attorney General's Office, and there are people in this room who are very well aware of this, is a capable, very thorough, very effective way of covering official, high-level corruption. Moreover, on August 31st, people came, not because of the Constitution, but because they see the striking difference between the good laws that we adopt and the things that remain in place, as they were. There is no justice, there is no justice, there is no roofing. I feel a little hurt for my old acquaintances who came to Parliament from journalism, for their friends who came to Parliament from war, for my acquaintances, whom I knew as good, decent people. I remember how enthusiastic these people said, yes, Attorney General Vitali Jarem needs to be retired because he is the one who is failing to investigate the Maydan case. What has changed over the six months? The failure is even greater. Since Oleg Lazko started collecting these signatures for Victor Shokin's resignation, do you know what happened? Nothing. The only achievement of the Attorney General’s Office in investigating these cases is another key witness who was one of the aunts’ organizers along with the police. And the prosecution, along with the courts, let him escape. Colleagues I've known a long time ago who I've met here! We do not represent the mayor of Lviv, the Prime Minister, the President, we are all chosen here to represent society. If the President stops, if the government stops, if the Attorney General does not work, we are the last authority that can and must take this decision. The Constitution gives us the right to expel the Attorney General, who does not give advice on his duties. A request to all parliamentarians. It doesn't take a lot of signatures to do that. Come and express your will.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-16-m0.u21	Alexander Kodol, People's Front.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-16-m0.u22	Dear colleagues, today our nation faces the task of restoring and strengthening its military potential as quickly as possible, which is impossible without developing new and modernizing existing weapons and military technology. In these circumstances, the role of an independent testing facility that would conduct a comprehensive, qualified assessment of any GTA samples in the short term with recommendations on the possibility of accepting them for arms or for allowing them to be used in the Ukrainian Armed Forces is significantly increasing. In the Ministry of Defence, these functions are assigned to the National Science and Testing Center of the Armed Forces of Ukraine. This is an independent expert institution that conducts a complete set of tests of new and modernized military technology. Now is the best time to make a decision on the establishment of a national research institute based on testing and certification, to form a new organisational and state-level structure to deal with the tasks assigned with further increasing scientific potential, and to create a powerful field-testing, experimental laboratory base. The centre's active development is supported by a new location in the city of Chernigów, which has created the most favourable conditions for building the infrastructure, the laboratory testing base and the development of the scientific and testing structure of the centre. The presence of the North Airport, the active Goncharivsky and Chernigovsky ranges provide efficient operation of the air-testing and measurement complexes of the centre. The presence in the city of Chernigus of a powerful scientific and industrial potential allows for fruitful cooperation in the creation of new models of military technology that have already begun practical work. However, the leadership of the Ministry of Defence, despite numerous appeals, including mine as a national deputy, is not in a hurry to address the issue of the creation of DNA by transforming it into a full, modern scientific and research structure and delaying it until the complete restoration of the infrastructure of the centre. At the same time, I'm getting information about the possible relocation of the centre from Chernigova, which, in turn, for a few months still delays the start of its activities and threatens the loss of its main science and testing units. In relation to the above, I turn to the Ministry of Defence, to the government to make every effort to preserve the DNA of the Ukrainian Armed Forces through the establishment of the National Research Institute of Testing and Certification and the military technology of the Ukrainian Armed Forces. As well as leaving the site of further headquarters, Montenegro’s garrison funds have previously been defined, where the local industry has taken an active part. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-16-m0.u23	Thank you. Ivan Rybak, Peter Dusty Block.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-16-m0.u24	Dear colleagues, I was forced to go to this rostrum by the electorate of my 202th constituency in the region of Cherniewec. They have expressed their dissatisfaction with our vote here with you all night long for the resignation of Vice-Prime Minister Vashchevsky, who is working for today's government under the quota of the Radical Party of Ukraine. They're dissatisfied with this person because it's this person who's taking care of transport and infrastructure today in the Cabinet of Ministers. You know, a small area in the territory of the Chernivecki region, the Putil region, which essentially has only one road connecting to the Ukrainian civilization, this region of Bukovina, does not have an absolute road covering. You know, these people probably didn't deserve that attitude, and I think that the funds that were allocated in 2008 by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine had been used to deal with the effects of the flood in 2008. You know, but nothing was done. Today, the Cabinet of Ministers and the Ministry of Infrastructure do not carry out the obligations and responsibilities imposed on them. Therefore, my distinguished colleagues, I express my indignation on behalf of my constituents in the Visninicke district, the Stražinetsky district of Cherniewec region, in the Putil region, Kossovina, the Supreme. What infrastructure can we even talk about, what development of tourism can we talk about in Western Ukraine if there are no roads at all? Let us, then, pay attention to the wishes of our constituents and vote in favour of Mr. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-16-m0.u25	Dear colleagues, the national MPs have finished speaking. Let's move on to ratification issues. You are considering the draft Law on the Ratification of the Treaty of Friendship and Cooperation between Ukraine and the Republic of Paraguay. He'll report. Please, 0054. Draft Act on the Ratification of the Convention between the Government of Ukraine and the Government of the Republic of Malta on the avoidance of double taxation and the prevention of tax evasion in respect of income taxes and the Protocol thereto. Draft Law 0054 introduced by the Government. Reporting from Finance Minister Natalia Jaresko. There is an offer by the reporter to consider a reduced procedure, colleagues. Please be sure to review the short-term ratification. Please take your seats, national deputies.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-16-m0.u26	Dear Volodymyr Borisovich, distinguished national deputies!
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-16-m0.u27	Mrs. Natalie, one minute. As for the consideration of the reduced procedure, please specify. Colleagues! [[10:40:50]] For a-117. I'm asking the people's deputies to take their seats. Colleagues, the proposal by the reporter, the draft Law on Ratification to be considered under the reduced procedure. Do you understand the offer? Please, colleagues, we are determined to consider the draft Law on Ratification under Short Procedure. Let's vote, colleagues. [[10:41:37]] For 139 Colleagues, the rapporteur's proposal is to review the draft Law on Ratification under Short Procedure. Please take your seats. Faction leaders, secure presence in the Chamber of Deputies. Please consider the simplified procedure. Ratification by short procedure. [[10:42:37]] For-153 Please, Minister, report.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-16-m0.u28	Dear Volodymyr Borisovich! Honorable National Deputies and Presence! Your opinion is proposed by the draft Ukrainian Law on the Ratification of the Convention between the Government of Ukraine and the Government of the Republic of Malta on the Prevention of Double Taxation and the Prevention of Tax Mitigation on Income Taxes and the Protocol thereto, which took place on 4 September 13th year in Kiev. The purpose of this convention is to avoid double taxation on the income of natural and legal persons that arise in the territories of both countries. This will be achieved both by dividing the right to tax certain types of income between Ukraine and Malta, depending on their origin and by taking into account the tax obligations of one State’s taxpayers of the amount of taxes paid in another State’s territory. In addition, the convention aims to prevent tax evasion, eliminate tax discrimination, create mechanisms for improving cooperation between the tax authorities of Ukraine and Malta by establishing mutual reconciliation procedures and ensuring the exchange of tax information. The Convention provides tax rates for dividends, interest and royalty that meet the requirements of the OECD Model Convention. Dividends. The total interest rate is 15 percent, 5 percent for dividends received by a company that owns less than 20 percent of the capital, the company that pays such dividends. Interest and royalty. Ten percent interest rate. In accordance with article 9, paragraphs 2 and 3, of the Ukrainian International Contracts Act, this convention and its protocol are subject to ratification by the Supreme Council of Ukraine. The adoption of the Act will speed up the validity of the convention and its protocol, as well as the organization of relations between Ukraine and Malta in the tax field. Including, we're going to be able to take Malta as a country that goes into transfer policy. Thank you for your attention. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-16-m0.u29	Thank you, Minister. Is there a need? Two for, two against, please. Before that, the committee's report. Vladimir Ariev, from the committee. Malta, ratification. Please, Vladimir Ariev.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-16-m0.u30	Dear colleagues! The Committee on Foreign Affairs considered the draft Law on Ratification of the Convention between the Government of Ukraine and the Government of the Republic of Malta on the avoidance of double taxation and the prevention of tax evasion on income taxes and the Protocol thereto. And he unanimously recommends that the Supreme Council approve this project as a whole. The adoption and entry into force of the Ukrainian law is necessary for the execution of internal procedures, for the acquisition of a convention and a protocol of validity. Implementation of this convention will, firstly, help to avoid double taxation, secondly, prevent tax evasion and, thirdly, reduce mutual tax barriers to foreign investment and trade. This is particularly important with regard to Ukraine, since our tax legislation provides for the avoidance of double taxation only on the basis of the signing of bilateral international agreements. The convention is also aimed at warning tax evasion. Entrepreneurs in both countries will be assured that profits derived from entrepreneurial activities in another country will not be subject to double taxation. The main scientific and expert office also considers it possible to ratify this convention and its protocol. And I'm asking you to support the Committee's decision on foreign matters. From me, I want to add that we are now implementing the global telecommunications project of Ukraine and Malta. And so in this case, the vote for this, the ratification of this agreement is very timely and will show the desire for mutual protection of entrepreneurs of both sides in the territory and Ukraine and Malta. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-16-m0.u31	Thank you. Please, it's been recorded. Victor Halasyuk. And we're going to go to the vote. Please ask the MPs to take their seats to vote on the Ratification Act.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-16-m0.u32	Dear Volodymyr Borisovich, distinguished fellow national MPs! The Radical Party faction supports this decision, but there is a much more important issue. And this is a more important issue today -- the real radical liberalisation of tax and tax reform in Ukraine. We are in Ukraine today, if we create the tax conditions that exist in Poland, Slovakia, Turkey, and the question is whether there will be major investment in Ukraine in the real economy. No, they won't, because there's more stability because there's no corruption. So in order to invest in Ukraine to create jobs in Ukraine in order to build new factories, we need to create tax conditions much more favourable than in Europe. That is why it is necessary to introduce not just any improvements or tax reform today, but today we need a qualitative tax base. Today it is necessary, first, to radically liberalize, to reduce tax pressure on entrepreneurs. Second, the simplification of tax administration, the elimination of those colossal corruption schemes that exist. Third, creating investment incentives for industry, for investment in the real economy. This is an urgent matter to be done today. So I invite you to join a working group created by the Tax and Customs Policy Committee, which has worked out a concept that is now 80 percent ready, is one that supports business. Today we cannot allow tax reform to be implemented in the interests of fiscal services, in the interests of customs. Today we have to do tax reform for Ukrainian entrepreneurs, employers, investors, taxpayers. By reducing tax pressure, making it smaller today than in Europe, we will be given a massive detinization of the economy and a chance to invest in Ukraine. There's no other alternative. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-16-m0.u33	Thank you. My colleagues, the performances are over. And the ratification discussion is over. Please prepare for the vote, Your Honorable Fellow National MPs. 0054, draft Law on the Ratification of the Convention between the Government of Ukraine and the Government of the Republic of Malta on the avoidance of double taxation and the prevention of tax evasion in respect of income taxes and the Protocol thereto. Reported by Finance Minister Natalia Jaresko. Now there's going to be a signal vote. Please take your seats. Please, colleagues, ratify the draft Law 0054. Accept as a whole. I'm betting on the vote on this proposal. Signal vote, please, colleagues. 0054 - ratification. Signal, please. Ratification. [[10:51:17]] For 204 Please, by the factions. "Block of Peter Poshenko" – 84, National Front – 59, Opposition Block – 2, Self-Help – 25, Radical Party – 14, Father's Party – 1, Rebirth Party – 0, "Will of the People" – 4, non-fractional – 15. 0054 – question discussed. We'll move on to the next question. Members of parliament and faction leaders are requested to mobilize deputies in the hall. 0053, distinguished colleagues, draft Law on the Ratification of the Treaty of Friendship and Cooperation between Ukraine and the Republic of Paraguay. He will report to the Minister of Foreign Affairs of Klimkin. And there's a proposal for a simplified procedure to consider this bill. Please vote on the summary procedure 0053. [[10:52:50]] For 169 Decision taken. Please, Paul Klimkin. Short-term procedure.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-16-m0.u34	Dear Mr. Head, distinguished national MPs, we are now actively developing political, economic, and interpersonal ties with Paraguay. This country plays a significant role both in Latin America and in many international organizations, and not least, the Ukrainian community, which is one of the most influential in Paraguay and one of the most influential in Latin America. Therefore, without unnecessary or other arguments, I ask you to support this law. And this law, and the ratification of the friendship agreement, the friendly relationship of cooperation, will also signal other countries in Latin America. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-16-m0.u35	Please report by Hanna Hopko, head of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-16-m0.u36	Dear Ukrainians, dear Mr. Head, as well as national deputies! The Committee on Foreign Affairs, at its meeting on September 2, discussed the draft Law on the Ratification of the Treaty of Friendship and Cooperation between Ukraine and the Republic of Paraguay, introduced by the President of Ukraine, and approved the decision to recommend to the Supreme Council the adoption of the project and the ratification of the treaty. This is an extremely important bill and agreement to strengthen our friendship with Paraguay, a Latin American country, and to take into account the Russian aggression that is, so we support the position of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs on expanding cooperation in Latin America and ratifying this agreement is one example. Please vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-16-m0.u37	Is there a need to discuss it, colleagues? Two for, two for, please sign in. Alexi Muschak, Peter Dustock's Block, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-16-m0.u38	Dear colleagues, of course, Paraguay is very important. But I want to draw your attention so much that in order for our nation to develop, we need to stimulate the economy. We don't really have and don't have a bill on Tuesday and Wednesday that's aimed at economic stimulus. You can talk about big social standards and support, you can talk about external activity, but if there's no money in the state and people don't make any money, it's not worth it. And this bill, let's vote and move on to the economy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-16-m0.u39	Please, Victor Halasyuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-16-m0.u40	Thank you. Dear Vladimir Borisovich, distinguished colleagues of the national MPs! Economic cooperation with Paraguay is probably really important, but much more important, the question of how today to show Europe and the United States that Ukraine is not just a phorpism of Europe but a Western civilization. Show them that we're not just asking for donor help from the International Monetary Fund to live for a few months and get compliments from foreign bureaucrats. And we need to show a concrete plan for the transformation of the country. The transformation of a country of raw, oligarized, monopolized, open-source entrepreneurship, into a country of productive economy, and funding needs to be involved. We need to show the United States and Europe today that they are much more comfortable with the strong economy of Ukraine. The fact that Ukraine needs to implement the marshal's plan, to make the economy strong is a powerful buffer zone of protection, generally Western civilization. Not to implement Ukraine’s postwar plan, Morgentau, which is unfortunately being implemented today in relation to Ukraine. And this is a plan to destroy the Ukrainian industry, and this is a plan to dissipate Ukrainian state property. This is only advantageous to a single dealer of speculators – neither to Ukraine nor strategically to the United States of America or to Europe. But it's our role as parliamentarians with you to show that we have vision, we have a plan, we involve resources under this plan -- and we're creating investment opportunities for our Western partners. That's why we need to focus on this today: to consider laws that contribute to this approach, not just economic cooperation with Paraguay. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-16-m0.u41	Sergei Sobolev, Fatherland.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-16-m0.u42	Dear colleagues, unlike the previous vote, where I am surprised by our colleagues in the hall, with few offshore workers in Cyprus, they still need offshore workers in Malta, and they are willing to continue to work to avoid taxing our large businesses. Therefore, our faction did not vote in favour of the previous law, and such ratifications should have at least the basic economic justification that the country's economy loses because of such pseudoschemes. In contrast, this Law on Ratification is important. Our faction will support it, just as we will support the following ratification laws, where there is a question of the burial of the military with the Czech Republic and Slovakia separately, where there is a breakup of the Agreement on the Construction of the Hmmeln nuclear station. But what we want to remind you is that there are no daily issues that really allow tariffs to be lowered. So the requirement of our faction remains unchanged: to immediately put into order two questions that allow for real entry into the autumn-winter period with reduced tariffs. It's also a reduction in the rent, it's also a question of reducing the standards for the shape of homes that don't have that amount. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-16-m0.u43	Dear colleagues, the ratification issue 0053 is also under discussion. Please, 0053: draft Law on the Ratification of the Treaty of Friendship and Cooperation between Ukraine and the Republic of Paraguay. Please, MPs, take your seats, prepare for the vote. 0053, signal vote. I'd like to make a statement. Draft law on ratification. Signal vote. Please. Please pay attention to the deputies. [[11:00:49]] For the 220. It was a signal vote. Please prepare to vote in general for the ratification project. Ready? Please vote in whole 0053 of the draft ratification. Draft Law on Ratification. Please vote, 0053. Vote. Please vote. [[11:01:22]] For 249 Decision taken. Next, please, 0055. Draft Law on Ratification of the International Labour Organization Convention on Fundamental Objectives and Norms of Social Policy No. 117. The rapporteur is Minister of Social Policy, Pavel Rosenko. There is a proposal by the rapporteur to consider the draft law on ratification with a reduced procedure. Please determine how to proceed with the reduced procedure. Review of the simplified procedure. [[11:02:03]] For a hundred and Decision taken. Please, Paul Rosenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-16-m0.u44	Dear National Deputies! Dear Volodymyr Borisovich! The President of Ukraine addressed the Supreme Council of Ukraine with the initiative to ratify the International Labour Organization Convention on the Basic Objectives and Norms of Social Policy No. 117, which was adopted at the session of the General Conference of the International Labour Organization in 1962. The implementation of the law will provide for the entry into force for Ukraine of the Convention. I would like to say immediately that, in accordance with the provisions of the Convention, raising the standard of living, quality and standard of living in the country is seen as the basis and purpose of planning the economic development of the State. The Convention provides, inter alia, for international, regional or national measures to promote progress in health, housing, food, education, child welfare, women’s status, working conditions, improved living conditions in rural areas, protection of labour migrants’ rights and social security. I would like to point out that, in particular, the aim of raising the standard of living of the convention is to take measures to ensure that independent manufacturers and employees are provided with conditions that will enable them to increase their standard of living. The convention also pays considerable attention to the protection of labour rights. In particular, employment with a view to protecting and protecting the rights of migrant workers Also, in the case of an absolute article of the convention, the minimum wage is encouraged in collective agreements or freely arranged between trade unions and employers.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-16-m0.u45	30 seconds, complete.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-16-m0.u46	An important aspect of the convention is the abolition of any discrimination among workers on the basis of race and colour, sex, religion, nationality or professional membership. The draft act is accepted without notice by all interested central executive authorities. Please support the President's initiative and ratify the International Labour Organization Convention.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-16-m0.u47	Thank you. Is there a need to discuss, colleagues? From the committee, please, Hanna Hopko, head of the Committee on Foreign Affairs. And please sign up: two for, two against.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-16-m0.u48	Good afternoon, dear colleagues. The Committee on Foreign Affairs considered the President's draft Ukrainian Law on Ratification of the International Labour Organization Convention on Basic Objectives and Norms of Social Support No. 117. And recommends that Parliament approve it. As part of its accession to the convention, Ukraine commits itself to planning for economic development with a view to raising living standards, ensuring the basic needs of migrant workers and encouraging the transfer of part of their earnings to the place of origin of workers, encouraging the fixing of minimum wage in collective agreements, not discrimination on the grounds of race, skin color, sex, membership in the labour force, or other social obligations. Ratification of the convention will enhance Ukraine's international authority and further develop understanding and relations within the International Labour Organization. The committee therefore requests that the convention be supported and voted in order to improve economic development and social security. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-16-m0.u49	Thank you. Please, Victor Halasyuk. Get ready for the Royal Natalia.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-16-m0.u50	Thank you. The ancient Volodymyr Borisovich! Dear fellow national MPs! There are two main economic components of the normal life of society and the country. One is economic growth, that's the foundation. You can't do that without it. The second is socialisation, the social orientation of the economy, so that the wealth that is created in the country does not belong to five people, but to the people of Ukraine. What do we have in the first term? A few years ago, the country's GDP economy was $180 billion. Today I'm afraid to tell you what the GDP is, $84 billion. You can imagine how much we've fallen, our economy continues to decline. This needs to be corrected immediately. This in itself cannot be corrected. Any country in the world, including the United States, when they were in such an economic crisis as we are, and we're actually already in economic depression, the government did not move away from solving those problems, but the government involved itself, strengthened its influence, created powerful investment incentives, created temporary employment programmes for the population, aimed at overcoming unemployment, did large-scale projects, which were used by government purchases from domestic producers, created special institutions to stimulate export abroad. And because of this, he was actively involved and taking responsibility for correcting the situation. Unfortunately, we have another situation. And the second is the socialisation of the economy. Today, social standards need to be raised by less than 13 percent. Because 71 percent of GDP is made up of household demand. People who don't have any income can't buy anything at the store, so the economy goes down. We need you to understand this and change the situation. The Radical Party faction insists. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-16-m0.u51	Please, Natalia Royal.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-16-m0.u52	Dear colleagues! Dearly-respected are those who are present. We understand, of course, that without a vote for this convention, the Government may not have guessed what our social sphere should be today. Therefore, the Opposition Unit will vote in favour of ratifying Convention No. 117. That question is indeed very relevant today. But at the same time, we need to understand the most important thing with you. Today, Ukraine has taken one of the most recent places among African countries at the minimum wage level in our country. Well, the salary in Ukraine is 55 dollars, five times less than in Honduras. And we understand that today's adoption of the convention will not automatically raise the minimum wage. And it is highly unlikely that this convention will become another filkite instrument, as was the case with the Convention, which was adopted as early as 61 on the protection of wages. As you all know, over a year and a half, wages have grown threefold and today it is over two billion bracelets. That is why we turn to the Government. Urgent measures must be taken to ensure that our wages are paid in the country. And we call on the Hall, we do not have to wait for this convention to enter into force. We need to adopt social protection laws today that will enable us to index wages and pensions, introduce a moratorium on tariff increases, allow us today to return those State guarantees to our veterans, Chernobylers, internationalist soldiers, children of war, many children's families, teachers, doctors, everything they have taken from them in violation of international conventions signed and ratified by Ukraine. We therefore hope that after that vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-16-m0.u53	Ten seconds, complete.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-16-m0.u54	That, after that vote, we will look at the social sphere and at the most difficult situation it is in today's situation through the convention.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-16-m0.u55	Dear colleagues, we have discussed the draft Law on the Ratification of the International Labour Organization Convention on the Basic Objectives and Norms of Social Policy No. 117 and are ready to vote. People's deputies please take their seats and prepare for the vote. Proposal for adoption of the draft Law as a whole (registration number 0055). Please vote in general, colleagues. Please vote. Vote. Vote. [[11:11:46]] For 237 Dear colleagues, I ask you to be more careful. 0058, draft Law on the Ratification of the Agreement between Ukraine and the Kingdom of Spain on the conduct of paid activities by members of families who are held by diplomatic, consular, administrative and technical staff of diplomatic representatives and consular institutions. Please report to Foreign Minister Paul Klimkin. There is a proposal by the minister to consider this draft law in a simplified procedure. Please consider the short-term proposal. I'm asking you to identify the national MPs. Review of the reduced procedure, colleagues. [[11:12:40]] For a hundred and Colleagues, I'm asking you to be more careful. The Minister's proposal to review the draft law in a simplified manner. Vote. As far as the procedure is concerned, please. [[11:13:04]] For-147 Please report, Minister. There's a proposal by the deputies to consider the issue of a reduced procedure, and I'm putting it to a vote. Please, fellow national MPs. As far as this draft law is concerned, there is a reduced procedure. Draft Act on short-term ratification. [[11:13:50]] For-161 Please report, Minister.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-16-m0.u56	Dear Mr. Head, honourable deputies, and in the European Union, and practically all the civilized countries of the world, there is a practice where members of the families of members of the diplomatic service have additional opportunities to realize their right to work, to support their qualifications and to create opportunities for further professional development on legitimate grounds. We have already made such agreements with many countries. This is Britain, Poland, the United States. And we are now working on a network of such agreements within the European Union. The practice of the European Union foresees such agreements; almost all countries of the European Union have a network of such agreements. Please be supportive. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-16-m0.u57	Thank you. Please report by Irina Heratchenko, head of the European Integration Committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-16-m0.u58	Dear Mr. Golovo, honourable colleagues, the bill has been drafted as reported by Mr. Minister for the purpose of ratifying the Agreement between Ukraine and the Kingdom of Spain on the conduct of paid activities by family members who are in custody of diplomatic, consular, administrative or technical staff of diplomatic representatives and consular institutions in Madrid on 30 October 2013. Under this agreement, Ukraine and the Kingdom of Spain provide for employment on the basis of the reciprocity of family members of foreign diplomatic institutions of Ukraine and the Kingdom of Spain under the enacting State in accordance with the legislation and provisions of this agreement. This, in turn, will contribute to the realization by family members of the diplomatic service of their right to work, to the promotion of their qualifications and to the possibility of further professional development. The Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on European Integration, on its Committee of September 2, discussed the bill. Similarly, we have taken into account an explanatory note to the draft Law, its implementation does not require any additional expenditure from the State Budget of Ukraine. There's a positive conclusion from the Scientific and Expert Authority of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. So we ask our colleagues to support this law as a whole. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-16-m0.u59	Thank you. Colleagues, if necessary. Please sign up: two for, two against. Alexi Mushak, please, Peter Dustock's Block.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-16-m0.u60	I'm asking you to support this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-16-m0.u61	Please, National Deputy Linko Dmitri.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-16-m0.u62	Please pass the word to Moses Igor.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-16-m0.u63	Please, Igor Mosiyczuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-16-m0.u64	Honorable Ukrainian Parliament, distinguished Ukrainian people! It's a very good norm, very good ratification, but there are a few questions that, in the context of it, would like to be violated in front of the Foreign Ministry. In fact, yesterday in Grozny, two Ukrainian citizens, Mikola Karpuk and Stanislav Clich, who were not allowed to do so by Ukrainian consuls, Ukrainian diplomats, began their trial. I would like to know if there were representatives of our Ministry of Justice yesterday, and what the Ministry of Internal Affairs is doing to protect Ukrainian citizens. The other one. I would like to know whether a representative of the Ukrainian State is being sent to the court of Genoa to demand the deportation of the criminal, Military Igor Markov ("Maradoni"). And the third. Ukrainians working abroad, especially in Italy, are asking a very important question about the signing of the Agreement on the Use of Driving Rights. The Ministry of Internal Affairs signed such a treaty and sent it to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. A big request to the minister of foreign affairs, to pay attention to the matter, and how to resolve it as quickly as possible. The Radical Party faction will support this ratification of the agreement. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-16-m0.u65	Colleagues, we've completed our discussion of this question, 0058. You heard the position. I ask you to take your seats as national deputies and prepare for the vote. Draft Law on the Ratification of the Agreement between Ukraine and the Kingdom of Spain. Are you ready to vote, colleagues? Please vote to adopt the draft Law 0058 as a whole. Vote please, colleagues. Vote. [[11:19:52]] For 235 Decision taken. The law's been passed. Please, next. 0056, draft Law on Ratification of the Agreement between the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and the Government of the Czech Republic on Military Funerals. In view of the beginning of the government’s meeting, there is no minister, he agreed. Deputy Minister of the Year. Please, Vjačeslav Andronović. Draft Law on Ratification of the Agreement between the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and the Government of the Czech Republic. There is a proposal to consider the draft Law in a simplified manner. I'd like to make a statement, Your Honor, regarding the consideration of the reduced procedure, please. Review of the simplified procedure. [[11:20:52]] For 155 The decision has been made. Please report.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-16-m0.u66	Dear Volodymyr Borisovich! Dear National Deputies! Your opinion is proposed by the draft Ukrainian Law on Ratification of the Agreement between the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and the Government of the Czech Republic on Military Funerals, which was developed by the Ministry on the basis of the Law on International Contracts of Ukraine for the purpose of carrying out internal procedures for the ratification of the agreement made on 21.10.2013 in Kiev. The adoption of this bill will contribute to the creation of legislative preconditions for the implementation of a series of measures to perpetuate the memory of the fallen participants in World War I and World War II and to organize burial sites for the victims of military action. And so to preserve the memory of the defenders who gave their lives for the free existence of future generations and found their last refuge in the territories of these two states. In addition, the ratification of the Agreement between the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and the Government of the Czech Republic will give impetus to deepening comprehensive cooperation between Ukraine and the Czech Republic by further developing bilateral ties and understanding. The implementation of the basic provisions of the bill will enhance the effectiveness of the cooperation of the national authorities of both countries in the area of the eternal memory of war victims and political repression, and will contribute to the reduction of existing problems, issues that hinder search, accounting, equipment, security, preservation, maintenance of military burials of war victims and political repression. In view of the above, please support the draft Law on the Ratification of the Agreement between the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and the Government of the Czech Republic on military burials in the first reading and in general. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-16-m0.u67	Please report. Deputy Head of the European Integration Committee, Andry Artemenko Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-16-m0.u68	Dear Head, distinguished national MPs! The Committee on European Integration of Ukraine discussed this issue at its meeting on 2 September 2015, this bill on ratification of the Agreement between the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and the Government of the Czech Republic on military burials, and approved the decision to recommend it to the Supreme Council as a whole. In making such a decision, the members of our committee came from the fact that the ratification of this agreement would contribute to the development of relations between Ukraine and the Czech Republic, a member of the European Union. The adoption of the law will allow internal and external procedures and Ukraine’s obligation to enter into force this treaty. As a result, legislative preconditions will be put in place to make arrangements to perpetuate the memory of the soldiers who died during World War II. This bill does not conflict with the international standards and legal obligations of Ukraine. That decision of our committee is in full agreement with the conclusion of the Supreme Council of Ukraine's Chief Scientific and Scientific Administration. Please support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-16-m0.u69	Thank you. There's a need.? Two for, two against, please. Please, Igor Mosiyczuk. Prepare the national deputy Doubenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-16-m0.u70	The faction of the Radical Party of Oleg Láska will definitely support the ratification of the agreement, since we believe that the memory of each soldier should be duly respected and respected by the country he protected or represented in the war. At the same time, we would like to draw the attention of Parliament and the Ukrainian government to the need to address such an important issue for the national consciousness and national memory of Ukrainians as the transfer from abroad of the dust of our great heroes buried in various countries of the world, namely, Colonel Eugene Konovaltz, UN leader Stephen Bandera, Jaroslav Stack, Dmitri Dontsov, and many others who sacrificed themselves to protect the country with weapons in their hands. In this connection, the Radical Party of Oleg Láska is proposing to the Ukrainian government and the Ukrainian Parliament to create an appropriate commission to cover up the dust of Ukrainian heroes and create a pantheon of heroes at the Ashland grave in Kiev, which will be a symbol of the memory of the great heroes and the greatness of the Ukrainian nation. The glory of Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-16-m0.u71	Please, Peter Dusty Block, Mikola Dovbenko. Mikhail Dovbenko. Please, Mikhailo Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-16-m0.u72	Mikhailo Dovbenko, electoral district 84, Timenica. Dear colleagues, such work is done in the order of military burials, and quite significant, by schools of various organizations, by the public. And it's a pleasure that the Agreement is signed. signed between the governments of the two countries, transforming this work into a systemic one, transforming it into a more organized one, and I think it will only be of greater benefit to us if we honor the memory of the fallen heroes properly and fairly. I want to say that signing such agreements is very important. But we need to think: in order for us to be able to build a pantheon of heroes in the state, we also need to think in Parliament about adopting a bill. I think it'll be a very good perspective for the future too. And we can better organize the work, not only talk, but also work. That's why I'm asking you to support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-16-m0.u73	Thank you. Dear colleagues, we have discussed this important issue, the draft Law on Ratification of the Agreement between the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and the Government of the Czech Republic on Military Funerals. People's deputies please take their places to vote for this important bill. Dear colleagues, a draft Law 0056 has been introduced for adoption, on the ratification of the Agreement between the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and the Government of the Czech Republic on Military Funerals. People's deputies please take their seats and prepare for the vote. Please vote on the bill as a whole. Vote. Please be supportive. [[11:29:12]] For 248 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, we had a signal vote of 0054, a draft law on the ratification of the Convention between the Government of Ukraine and the Government of the Republic of Malta. And we didn't vote for that decision. I will now make a proposal as a matter of vote. Please, Your Honor, take your seats. Draft Law, Registration No. 0054, on the ratification of the Convention between the Government of Ukraine and the Government of the Republic of Malta on the avoidance of double taxation and the prevention of tax evasion in respect of taxes on income and the Protocol thereto, by fellow colleagues. The question was raised by the minister of finance. It had only a signal vote, and a discussion was held. Please vote on the ratification of the Convention between the Government of Ukraine and the Government of the Republic of Malta. There is a proposal in general, this question has been discussed. Vote please, colleagues. [[11:30:29]] For the 220. There's an offer. Three national deputies did not take part in the vote. There is an offer to return to the vote. Please, 0054. The suggestion to return to the consideration of the matter. Back to question 0054. Please identify yourself. Returning to consideration of this ratification, on return. [[11:31:12]] For 214 This proposal did not receive the required number of votes. There is an offer to return it to the committee for re-examination. Please return the offer to the committee. Identify yourself. Please be sure to return to the committee. Back to the committee to prepare for review. [[11:31:43]] For 219 This proposal did not add up. The decision is not approved. But that's not a decision. Thank you. What are the motives? Honorary colleagues, draft Law on Ratification of the Agreement between the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and the Government of the Slovak Republic on Military Funerals (0057). The deputy minister of the Negoda reports as well. There is a suggestion to consider a reduced procedure. Please, Your Honor, consider the simplified procedure. [[11:32:55]] For 184 Please report, Viacheslav Andronovich. Draft Law on Ratification of the Agreement between the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and the Government of the Slovak Republic on Military Funerals. Report.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-16-m0.u74	Dear Volodymyr Borisovich! Dear National Deputies! Your opinion is proposed by the draft Ukrainian Law on the Ratification of the Agreement between the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and the Government of the Slovak Republic on Military Funerals, developed on the basis of the Ukrainian Law on International Contracts of Ukraine, with a view to carrying out internal procedures for the ratification of the agreement signed on 17.06. In 2011 in Bratislava The implementation of the basic provisions of the bill will enhance the effectiveness of the cooperation of the national authorities of both countries in the area of the remembrance of war victims and will help to reduce problems that hinder the implementation of search, accounting, equipment, security, preservation and maintenance of military burials. In view of the above, please support the draft Law on Military Funerals in the first reading and in general. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-16-m0.u75	Thank you. Please report, Andrew Artemenko, from the committee. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-16-m0.u76	Dear Head! Dear National Deputies! Our committee discussed this issue at its meeting on September 2, 2015, on the ratification of the Agreement between the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and the Slovak Republic and approved the decision to recommend it to the Supreme Council of Ukraine as a whole. In making such a decision, members of the committee came out primarily from the fact that the ratification of the aforementioned agreement would contribute to the development of a friendly relationship between Ukraine and the Slovak Republic. The adoption of this law will allow the internal procedures necessary to establish the validity of the agreement. As a result, legislative preconditions will be put in place to implement a set of measures to perpetuate the memory of the participants in World War II and to preserve the burial sites of the victims of war. The bill does not conflict with Ukraine’s international legal obligations. Our committee's decision is fully in line with the findings of the Supreme Council of Ukraine's Chief Scientific and Scientific Administration. I'd like you to support me as a whole. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-16-m0.u77	Is there a need to discuss, colleagues, by analogy? Well, please, two for, two for against, sign up. Please, National MP Pober, Peter Dusty Block. Irina Heratschenko, Peter Dusty Block.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-16-m0.u78	The session room supports the view of the Peter Dustenk bloc that there is nothing to discuss here, and we support this bill with the entire session hall. But we took the floor to join, in principle, other colleagues from other factions in the same way, as regards respect for the burial of all heroes. And it is obvious that this topic today, in the context of what is happening in eastern Ukraine, is extremely relevant to Ukraine. And in this context, I want to take such an initiative once again that the leaders of the parliamentary factions and groups meet with representatives of Ukraine who work in the Minsk sub-groups, especially the humanitarian sub-group, because one of the things we're discussing is the search for missing missing persons and the identification of the dead, the involvement in this work of the International Red Cross. Well, the bills that we are voting with you right now in support of their ratification are just as important not only in the humanitarian context, but also in the fact that this is an experience for Ukraine, as we need to respect the burial of every hero, the establishment of the name of every missing missing hero. And I think these are the topics that unite the session hall. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-16-m0.u79	Thank you. Please, Ivan Krulko, Fatherland.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-16-m0.u80	Ivan Krulko, "The Fatherland" faction, co-head of a group of friendships with the Slovak Republic. Dear colleagues, surely this ratification project needs to be supported. Moreover, for Ukraine this issue is not a formality. I would like to remind you that during a two-month operation at the Dukljan Valley in the years of World War II, at least 120,000 fighters were killed by the European Union. Among them, more than half were Ukrainians who fought in two fronts, the second and the fourth Ukrainian fronts. Moreover, I would like to remind you that there are at least four funerals in the territory of the Slovak Republic of the Ukrainian rebel army, which have carried out a famous raid to the west aimed at creating an anti-communist anti-Soviet coalition since the end of World War II. So, of course, it is very important for Ukraine to honor the memory of our heroes who fought against the Nazi and Communist regimes, and finally these two regimes fell. But at the same time, I would like to point out that it is vital that this veneration of burials take place on the basis of the principle of reciprocity and parity. That is, just as we in Ukraine honor the memory of other armies, other nations, at the same level the citizens of Ukraine, our fellow countrymen who fought in various armies, but who fought for Ukraine’s independence, must be respected. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-16-m0.u81	Thank you. Dear colleagues, we discussed the ratification of the law, the draft law on ratification of the agreement between the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and the Government of the Slovak Republic on military burials. And now we're going to vote on this important issue. Please ask the people's deputies to take their seats. 0057 - ratification. Colleagues ready to vote? Ratification of the Agreement between the Cabinet of Ministers and the Government of the Slovak Republic on Military Funerals. Please support this bill. Please vote in general. Please vote, colleagues, vote. [[11:40:34]] For 240 The law's been passed. Thank you, Your Honor. Dear colleagues, it is the submission of a committee, please your attention, that is the submission to the Committee on Foreign Affairs of the adoption of the Declaration of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the 70th anniversary of the United Nations Organization and the membership of Ukraine in the United Nations. This statement, it didn't need a prior inclusion, and there's an offer to put it into the agenda right now, this statement, for discussion. Boris Ivanovich Tarasyuk will report. And making the right decision, because it's important that we adopt it as a statement today. Is there no objection? So I'm proposing to put in order a day's proposal for an application, for a decision, for a statement by the Supreme Council of Ukraine in connection with the 70th anniversary of the United Nations and the membership of Ukraine in the United Nations, for the submission of a profile committee in foreign affairs. And Boris Ivanovich Tarasyuk will report. Is there no objection? Colleagues, please support the UN-United Nations issue. Please support me to vote in the agenda and to make a decision. Please be supportive. [[11:41:52]] For 222 Colleagues, please be careful. Take your seats. Entry into the agenda of the Supreme Council Statement on the United Nations. Prepare for the vote, please. Prepared by the Committee on Foreign Affairs for inclusion in the agenda and decision-making. Please support this proposal, please, colleagues, we vote. Please vote. 70th anniversary of the UN, please vote, please support the inclusion in the agenda for the decision. [[11:42:36]] For 245 Thank you, Your Honor. If there's no objection. Boris Ivanovich, is it necessary to report or vote on this decree? Boris Ivanovich Tarasyuk, please report. In short procedure, please. Please support the consideration of this application by a reduced procedure. Please vote. [[11:43:08]] For 202 Thank you. Boris Ivanovich, please report.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-16-m0.u82	Boris Tarasyuk, Fatherland faction. Dear colleagues, your opinion is a bill submitted by a number of members of the Committee on Foreign Affairs of the Supreme Council, dedicated to the 70th anniversary of the establishment of the United Nations. Let me remind you that the United Nations was founded on October 24, 1945, when they had to talk to their colleagues abroad, they are surprised to learn that Ukraine was among the 51 founding nations of the United Nations. I don't think there's any need to convince you of the need to approve this statement of the 70th anniversary of the United Nations. The fact is that Ukraine was not only the founder of the United Nations, but Ukraine was and was the head of the conference in San Francisco, which was dedicated to the development of the purposes and principles of the charter of the United Nations. Among these goals and the principles of the United Nations Charter, on which the organization had been founded for 70 years, were, among other things, prohibitions on the threat or use of force against the territorial integrity and independence of States. That is, Ukraine has contributed to the strengthening of this principle in the Charter of the United Nations. So, honourable colleagues, accepting this statement is an important signal not only for the United Nations but also for the aggressor country, which is the Russian Federation, a permanent member of the UN Security Council. This statement sets out the position of the Supreme Council, which I ask to support, including in support of Ukraine's application for membership in the UN Security Council, not a permanent member of the UN Security Council for 2016-2017. Please support this statement.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-16-m0.u83	Thank you, Boris Ivanovich. Dear colleagues, I don't think it's necessary to discuss, I see the signatures of all literally all groups and factions. Colleagues, many, I would say, not all, but many. Colleagues, please take your seats to vote on the draft application. Please, colleagues, take your seats, please. Ready to vote? Draft Decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the 70th anniversary of the United Nations and the membership of Ukraine in the United Nations. Are you guys ready? Please, on the basis and in general, the draft request, please vote, colleagues. Take your place, we vote in general, colleagues. [[11:46:25]] For 238. 238. Decision taken. Actor's been approved. Dear colleagues, there are two factions: the Radical Party factions and Self-Help -- the announcement of the break they gave me for the presidency. But they're asked to replace it with a performance. Three minutes, please. Three minutes, showtime.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-16-m0.u84	A statement by the Radical Party of Oleg Láska in connection with the 15th anniversary of the kidnapping and murder of George Gongadze. 15 years ago, George Gongadze was kidnapped and killed. This crime swept all over Ukraine, showed all the depth of the fall of power, and attracted the attention of the whole world. During this time, the third president came to power, and none of them ever made it to the end of a resonant crime investigation that played such a significant role in Ukraine’s recent history. Georgia’s mother, Lecia Gongadze, had tried to find the truth and achieve justice until the last day of her life, but she did not find or succeed. More than six years ago, he was eventually detained and the organizer of the murder of George, ex-Military General Alexy Pučak. Yet, the judgment against him has not yet been legally enforceable. And the question of establishing and bringing to justice the perpetrators of the murder remains unresolved. Although there is a separate case in the Attorney General’s Office, Puchak himself gave direct evidence of Gongadze’s murder. The Gongadze case has long become a real lakh paper of political corruption in Ukraine. Each authority uses the case as a tool for blackmailing and obtaining political dividends from the oligarchy Kuchma clan through manual administration. Because everyone in Ukraine knows that Gongadze was killed at the request of the then president of Kuchma. However, from the easy hands of the authorities and the last three presidents of Ukraine, President Kuchma did not bear any responsibility as a buyer of the crime. In particular, a criminal case committed against Kuchma in March 2011 was soon closed, apparently in exchange for certain services of the Januković regime. As for President Kuchma, he is forced to take shame in the black work of the representative of Prashenko at the so-called Donbass Minsk talks, where he and his best man Putin Victor Medvedczuk sit at one table and negotiate with terrorists and bandits, and his son-in-law Pinchuk organizes annual international piranhas with European and world political pensioners for Dustenka and censors the appearance of dangerous opponents of the incumbent President on the TV channels of his media empire. Perhaps for this, President Poroshenko, says the former head of the Kyiv Chernushenko Court of Appeal for his subordinates, instructs judges not to be called as witnesses in the Gongadze, Kuchmu, and others. This vicious cycle of political corruption in the Gongadze case must finally be broken. The perpetrators of the murder must be set up and punished as to how they should be held accountable and those who cover them.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-16-m0.u85	Thank you, Your Honor. We have the following day-to-day draft Act on the termination of the Agreement between the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and the Government of the Russian Federation on cooperation in the construction of the Power Clouds Nos. 3 and 4 of the Hmelnicka AES. There is a suggestion to consider these issues in a simplified procedure. Please be supportive. Please vote in favour of the summary procedure. Please vote. [[11:50:46]] For-153 Thank you. The report invites Deputy Minister of Energy and Coal Industry Svetlelik Alexander Dmitrović. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-16-m0.u86	Dear André Volodymyrovich! Dear National Deputies! [[B in m in s a l in]] We agreed with the Chief of the Council, because the Minister is now reporting on. [[B in m in s a l in]] No, I understand, but he'll report to the government.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-16-m0.u87	Dear colleagues! Please report.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-16-m0.u88	Ladies and gentlemen, you have before you the draft Ukrainian Power Plants Act on the termination of the Agreement between the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and the Government of the Russian Federation on Cooperation in Building Energy Clouds Nos. 3 and 4 of the Steel Nuclear Power Plant, prepared for failure by the Russian side to fulfil its obligations under the Treaty, making it impossible to build the 3 and 4 Power Plants. The purpose of the bill is to terminate this agreement, signed on June 9, 2010 and ratified by the Supreme Council of Ukraine on January 12, 2011. The adoption of the bill will enable the construction of the energy grids of the 3th and 4th Hmelnicka AES with the application of the modified reactor installation of the VVER-1000 alternative European supplier and the maintenance of the safety level according to the requirements of national rules and regulations, and the MAGATE standards. The implementation of the bill does not require expenditure from the state budget. The draft does not apply to matters relating to the development of administrative and territorial units. Please support the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-16-m0.u89	Thank you. Please invite Martinenko Mikola Volodymyrovich, head of the Committee on Fuel and Energy.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-16-m0.u90	Dear Chairman, distinguished national MPs! At its meeting on September 2, the committee considered the draft Law on the termination of the agreement between the Cabinet of Ukraine and the Government of the Russian Federation on the cooperation of the construction of energy-clouds number 3 and number 4 of the Hmmeln nuclear station. Considering that the agreement has not worked for nearly five years since its ratification, first of all because of the failure of the Government of the Russian Federation to comply with its obligations under the terms of the agreement, and the committee has made the following decision in the future. Recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine a draft Ukrainian law on the termination of the agreement between the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and the Government of the Russian Federation on cooperation in the construction of energy clouds number 3 and number 4 of the Hmelnicka AES, number 2471a since 04.08.2015, on the basis of the consideration to be adopted as a basis and as a whole as a law. The main scientific and expert office supports the adoption of the bill. Please support the committee's decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-16-m0.u91	Thank you. Dear colleagues, is there a need to discuss? There's a need, please write down: two for, two against. Easy.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-16-m0.u92	Oleg Lazko, "Radical Party." The Radical Party faction will certainly support the draft Denunciation Act with Russia on the construction of the Hmeln nuclear power plant, because the country's energy security is part of the country's national security. And we can't depend on Russia to supply gas, nuclear fuel, any other energy source, because it's a political tool that Russia uses to pressure Ukraine, to influence Ukraine, to change the vector of Ukraine's European development. But do they recognize the importance of this policy in the Ministry of Energy? Is the current Ministry of Energy running a policy aimed at protecting Ukraine’s national interests? No, no, not again. The Minister of Energy, Demchishin, must be retired immediately. Today, he is lobbying the interests of Russian oligarchs, such as the Russian oligarch Grigorishin, who, thanks to his support, took a monopoly on the Ukrainian energy market. During the days of the miner's Day, on the last Sunday of August, Igor Guzem and I were in the Novovolinsky Volinsky region welcoming miners to the miner's Day. The tenth mine to be built, which would create at least one and a half thousand jobs, which would have worked for at least 50 years, to build 10 mines in the budget of the Ministry of Energy, there is no money. To buy Russian coal in Russia, to pay billions of dollars, there is money for that in Ukraine. Ukrainian coal is purchased at a price of 1,100 dollars per tonne, and Russian coal is purchased at a minimum of 1,800 dollars per tonne. I'm asking, what did the Ukrainian miners do against the Russian miners? Why should we finance Russian miners instead of giving jobs to Ukrainian miners, Ukrainian miners? The girl is retired and she's a disgrace.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-16-m0.u93	Thank you. Please, Greenwich Lilia Mikhailovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-16-m0.u94	Please pass the word to Andrija Alexandrovich Réci.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-16-m0.u95	Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-16-m0.u96	The People's Front faction supports it. No deal with the aggressor! They did not make the covenant before their aggression.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-16-m0.u97	Thank you. Kirilenko of "The Fatherland" gives the word. Please turn on Yvchenka's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-16-m0.u98	Vadim Yvchenko, "The Fatherland" faction. Dear colleagues! Do you remember when the so-called Energy Minister Demchisin signed a deal with Crimea County? What did we say? You and I have registered an order to release this minister. What is happening today? I remember the Conciliation Council when the Head of the Supreme Council made it clear that all laws would be reported by ministers. Where is the minister reporting on government law today? Next. What is happening to us today in preparation for the heating season? Are we ready? Do we have coal? Do we have gas? Colleagues! And I'm not talking about corruption in Energoatom. I'm already silent in other structures that are directly subordinated to the Ministry of Energy. So I ask you, of course, we will support this bill on denunciation of any work with the Russian Federation, but let's be deputies with you and be consistent. If we are against corruption, if the Head of the Supreme Council, who is the source of the great faction, says that the minister should report, and we, as deputies, should ask him questions, we should talk to you about it and not keep it quiet. We support it, but we believe that Minister Demchikin is immediately required to resign. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-16-m0.u99	Thank you. Please, from the Peter Dust Block of Mikola Tomenko, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-16-m0.u100	Dear colleagues, we support the initiative of the Ministry and the committee regarding the agreement. Rather, it is clear that we have a similar situation with regard to the energy sphere, where we have certain agreements or dependence on Russia around the construction of a series of objects in the Chernobyl zone and with the nuclear power plant. And I think the Ministry needs to analyze and propose options, as we do in the alternative mode, to confidently complete the Hidden Two construction and complete all the projects in the Chernobyl area. And I'd like to pay attention to both ministries, and I'll contact the Secretary of the National Security and Defence Council. We have very disturbing signals to the incomprehensible processes today in the Chernobyl alienation zone, where an unknown group of businessmen began to terrorize the workers working there. I'd like to deal with it, and the situation in Chernobyl has been calm and controlled.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-16-m0.u101	Thank you. The discussion is over. I've already come from Peter Dusty's Block, if you'll excuse me. Dear colleagues, I am now continuing our morning session for 15 minutes. I propose, given the demands of the deputies, that Alexander Dmitrovitch explain before the vote why the minister is not with us, why he is not here. Can you explain to the deputies, Alexander? Yes, please. Why doesn't Minister Demchikin report the law on his identity?
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-16-m0.u102	There's a cabinet meeting going on, and there's important energy issues. As you just said, we have a lot of points to make about our work. So we try to accept something to remedy this situation. He'll report several laws there, several drafts he'll report from the voice. Only the minister can do this. So we've asked you to report these draft laws.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-16-m0.u103	Thank you. Please don't come out of Self-Help for one minute, please. It's sublime. It's sublime.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-16-m0.u104	The Self-Help faction clearly supports this bill. But I would like to point out, in general, the situation in the field where we have the wars of the oligarchs, when we have the tariffs for companies approaching an oligarch, actually a Russian oligarch of Grigoroshin, and not for others, when we are fully privatizing the management of the Ukrennergo State Company and the tariffs for this company are rising. And I'd also like to pay special attention to the atomic branch, because we're breaking the agreement with the aggressor on construction issues, but we need to review all of the contractual relationships, namely, "Energotoma" on the supply of spare parts and the repair of various tools for the industry. Because we have a certain command that essentially entrenched the monopoly right of Russian manufacturers to supply equipment at excessive prices, and because of indirect schemes for.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-16-m0.u105	Thank you. Dear colleagues, fully sharing your warnings, I want to say that this bill is important, it's breaking the deal with the aggressor. I think it'll be right for us to put him to the vote. And at the suggestion of the committee, I'm going to put it on the ground as a whole. And I'm asking my fellow MPs to come into the hall, take up jobs, get ready to vote. Please enter the hall. Thank you. So I'm voting on the draft law on the termination of the agreement between the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and the Government of the Russian Federation on cooperation in the construction of energy clouds number 3 and 4 of the Hmelnicka AES (2471a) as a basis and as a whole. Please vote. Please be supportive. [[12:03:35]] For 210 Thank you, Your Honor. We either don't have votes or we don't have time to come in. So let me call the deputies again. I very much ask my fellow MPs who are in the towers to come into the hall and take up jobs. Dear colleagues, an important bill and a symbolic one We are breaking up with an aggressor. And I think it would be fundamental for us to be able to go to a successful vote. Please come into the hall. Now I'm betting on going back to the 2471a bill. Please prepare for the vote. Anyone who supports the return to the vote, 2471a, please vote. Please vote. [[12:04:47]] For the 220. Six votes. Once again, I'll put it again. But I'm going to call the people in the towers again to come into the hall. Please enter the voting room. Heads of factions, call from the deputies' towers. It's a short concentration, we have two important bills. Please prepare, and I ask again the question of the return to consideration of 2471a. Anyone for return to the hearing, please vote. Vote, please. [[12:05:49]] For 222 Colleagues, this is the last, third time. And if there are no votes, I'll call it a break. Yes, by factions, the request to include in factions as the deputies approach. Anyone who hasn't reached their jobs, please come into the hall. Peter Poshenko's Block – 83, People's Front – 62, Opposition Block – 0, Self-Help – 25, Radical Party – 14, Father's Party – 16, Rebirth Party – 0, Will of the People – 0. So they went into the hall. Yes, I see there are other deputies. I would like to point out that I am the last person to vote on the proposal to return to the debate. I'm asking who's coming into the hall to come into the hall. And once again, I'm going to go back to the 2471a bill, and I'm going to ask you to support this proposal. And please vote. Please vote. [[12:07:04]] For 227 Decision taken. Now we ask that we do not part. And I am voting again on the draft Act on the Cessation of the Agreement between the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and the Government of the Russian Federation number 2471a as a basis and as a whole. Please vote. Please, 2471a as a whole. Vote. [[12:07:40]] For 234 Decision taken. Colleagues, we have seven minutes and another bill of the same sphere. I'm asking you to stay put right now. Let's take another look at that bill and then we'll take a break under the Rules. Five minutes, company. Well, five minutes is fine. Let's just say there's a proposal for Bill 2472a under a reduced procedure. Whoever supports this, I ask you to vote. Short-term procedure, please. [[12:08:24]] For-173 Decision taken. I invite you to report to Svetelika Alexandre Dmitrovitch and to be as concise as possible. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-16-m0.u106	I'm going to be very concise. Because this law is compatible with the previous one. As Mikola Tomenko said, we need a new law. If we work in old formats, we can't move on. The purpose of the bill, which you are given for consideration, is to repeal the Law on the Location, Design and Construction of Energy Clouds Nos. 3 and 4 of the Hmělník nuclear power plant, which will create the legal basis for the adoption of a new Ukrainian law that will be directed towards the construction of new blocks of the Hmělník nuclear power plant. To be concise, I ask for the support of this law, which is related to the previous one. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-16-m0.u107	Thank you. Please head of Committee Martinenko Mikola Volodymyrovich. Please, too.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-16-m0.u108	Dear colleagues, the committee discussed on September 2nd a draft of the Ukrainian Law on Recognition in such a way that the Ukrainian Law on the Placement, Design and Construction of Power Clouds 3 and 4 of the Hmelnick nuclear power station became effective. The argument is the same as the previous vote. The Committee also recommends to the Supreme Council a draft Ukrainian law on recognition of the validity of the Ukrainian Law on the Placement, Design and Construction of Blocks 3 and 4 of the Hmelnicka AES (number 2472a since 04.08.2015) as a basis and as a whole for adoption as a law. The main scientific and expert office supports the adoption of the bill. Please support the committee's decision. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-16-m0.u109	Dear colleagues, this is actually an extension of the previous bill. I ask my colleagues to come into the hall and prepare for the vote. Dear colleagues, I ask you to come into the hall and prepare for the vote. I'm going to put up a vote. If there's any potential, we'll vote if we don't, we'll postpone the discussion. Dear colleagues, I'm voting on Bill 2472a's bill, and I'm asking you to vote. Signal vote, 2472a. Please vote. [[12:11:17]] For 223 Who didn't make it? I'll put the alarm back on, company, we'll have three votes, and I'll invite the MPs in the towers to come into the hall. So we're not voting in a bell, we're voting in full? Then, attention, I invite all the deputies to the hall. I'm voting on the draft law on recognition of such that I lost the validity of the Ukrainian Law on the Placement, Design and Construction of Power Clouds 3 and 4 of the Hmělník nuclear power station (number 2472a) as a basis and as a whole. Please be supportive. Please vote. Please. [[12:12:09]] For 230 Decision taken. Congratulations on the successful vote, with a successful job. According to the Rules, I'll call it a 30-minute break. At 12:45, everyone please be in the conference room to continue our work. Thank you very much. Yes, I ask everyone to be there at 12:45. I urge you to do so. At 12:45, we'll continue our work.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-16-m0.u110	Dear colleagues, please come into the hall and prepare for work. The secretariat of the Supreme Council please inform the deputies of the start of productive and productive work. And the heads of factions are asked to contact the deputies, to turn to their conscience, and to inform them that the Supreme Council will begin its work. Please. Dear colleagues, once again I invite you all to come in. In two minutes we'll start our work. Please come into the hall to continue our work. Dear colleagues, according to the order of the day, we are going to consider drafts in the first reading. The following bill is under consideration: 2279 and 2279-1. This is a draft law amending Ukraine's Land Trade Code. There is a proposal to consider the bill in a simplified manner. Please prepare for the vote. Please take your jobs. So I'm voting on the motion to review the shortened procedure of draft laws 2279, 2279-1. Whoever supports this proposal, please vote. [[12:55:53]] For-75 The proposal did not find understanding in the hall, nor did it get the required number of votes. That's why we're moving on to the full procedure. I invite you to the report of the Ukrainian national deputy Kulinic Oleg Ivanovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-16-m0.u111	Oleg Kulinich, "Rebirth" Poltavščina. Dear Chairman! Dear colleagues! Given the importance of the bill, and its anticorruption, which local governments await every day, it is awaited by rural heads, and it is awaited by farmers who aim to combat corruption. I ask you, Your Honor Chairman, taking into account the number of national deputies in the Chamber, to put on a signal vote and such an important anti-corruption bill to be passed on to Thursday tomorrow, where we will be able to look at it properly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-16-m0.u112	Thank you. Dear colleague, there may be a signal vote after the discussion. But we have a form like, listen to me carefully, we have the form of voting on the bill that has already been discussed. So we're going to be able to discuss today, and we're going to vote tomorrow. And so I propose that we have a full discussion of this question as to how the hall is defined. If your report is complete.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-16-m0.u113	No, the report is not complete.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-16-m0.u114	I'm asking you to sign up for a question. Not finished? Then please report. Oleg Ivanovich, please report.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-16-m0.u115	Dear colleagues, the authors of this bill are representatives of all MP factions and groups. This bill is part of a package of measures to stop corruption in the land. What's going on now? In the country, the economic crisis, the budget lacks social pay. At the same time, thousands of hectares of state utility land are distributed by officials to the left and to the right at reduced rent rates on noncompetitive grounds. And what's interesting about this is that it's not the local self-government, it's the officials who are mostly the bribers who are assigned to Kiev rather than the local government. This is done on various occasions and formally within the framework of the law. The plots are passed on as if for personal agriculture or farming and other purposes. Although there is no farming in practice. Often, for auction purposes, the area is first passed on to a utility, and then it is passed on to a subcontractor, and there are countless such examples. I want to give you a specific example from Poltavščina, which I represent in the Supreme Council. Last Friday, in Poltava, a million dollars in bribes was detained by the head of the State Department for granting permission to produce a project for farm management. This is an excellent example when these schemes are used to fill the pockets of officials. I would like to remind you, dear fellows, that literally six months ago, the previous leader was released from this position when people went out on the street, when rural heads came out, when farmers came out, and under the pressure of these people, the leader was released. The new leader who arrived from Kiev was to bring about an order in land relations, to fight corruption in any way in the Poltava region. And what do we see happened? In a six - year period, a man received a bribe of 350 hectares, a million dollars. What do we do all over the country? What bribes and how much money do officials have in their pockets to fill local budgets? We suggest that we make a radical change in the situation and close the gaps in the Earth Code and ban public utilities from being leased without auctions. I want to warn you about some speculation on this bill right now. We are in no way limiting the right of citizens to privatize land free of charge and to obtain pieces of pie. Each citizen would have the same right from the State. For example, for personal agriculture up to 2 hectares, it can be granted free privatization. But if he needs a larger area, such as 100 acres, please be auctioned. This will at least be fair both to the territorial communities and to the state. The bill also proposes to improve the auction procedure itself. auctions are often not conducted simply because the budget lacks funds to carry out the project of withdrawal and conduct an expert evaluation. So we're proposing that we put these costs on an organization that auctions, and then we're going to pay back the winner. Dear colleagues. It is unfortunate that such important anticorruption bills, which are really awaiting people, are being considered either on Wednesdays when there are no national deputies in the hall or a small number of them, or are being considered on Fridays. I would really like to discuss it in detail today, because there are many speculations on this subject. And this bill, it stops all these corrupt dirty schemes that officials use to charge their own pockets, and local budgets lose huge costs. I think there's a lot of Marjorie deputies in this room, ask them in their districts in the heads of the country, the farmers who use the schemes in renting land when these lands go around at auction. I think everyone's going to tell you about it, and you know for yourself that the bets on bribes go up to $300 to $400 per acre, and to get land, it's up to $1,000. Well, we have to put an end to this situation. So we, the authors of the bill, are about 20 deputies from all the MP factions and groups, we propose, let's vote in the first reading. There are mistakes, there may be some inaccuracies, but we must take this into account before reading the second reading. But it is imperative that this situation be changed dramatically and that the land of government and municipal property be leased exclusively at land trades (sells). Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-16-m0.u116	Please report, Rudik Sergey Jaroslavovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-16-m0.u117	Dear Chairman. Dear colleagues, Sergey Rudik, 198th constituency, Smila, Kamyanka, Cherkas region, Cherkas region. I'm standing in front of you more than a spider, because I understand that today this bill will not be voted on and I'm simply drawing your attention to this problem, just like my colleague. The problem of prehistoricism was born in June, May last year, when I was head of the Ukrainian State Agency for Land Resources. Looking at this entire area of land relations, which is, of course, as it was, and unfortunately remains very corrupt, I've drawn attention to why so little is going on in auctions and why so little is in state land, municipal land, and the rights to it are being made through auctions. Why so little? Both experts and experts explained to me. Both those who work on earth and those who consult in this field. There are said to be two answers to your questions. First, there is no political will. The second is that the auction procedure does not allow them to live in real life. Procedures have begun. What's the point? We started to work things out. They say it's very simple. A local government or government authority is responsible for preparing the organization for the conduct of the Lots. As a rule, there are no funds in the local budgets, either in May or November or in June. And by this procedural standard, it says, there's no money, there's nothing to do with these auctions. So our bill, which was sometimes called an alternative, is something because it's essentially not. His only alternative is that we turned him in, registered him two weeks after our colleagues registered him. And Oleg Kulinich, who has just spoken, has said enough about his bill. Their bill slightly expands the scope of relations because it increases the conduct of auctions themselves. So if we have a lot of exceptions in existing legislation that these countries can't be sold through a competition, these countries can't be sold through a competition, they narrow it down, so they increase the revenue in government and local budgets. It's obvious. And that is because we offer competitive conditions for increasing the income of the state and local budgets, the bill is put in place on Wednesdays and Fridays. This bill that we're looking at today, you won't let me lie to you, who's very interested, who's monitoring Parliament's work, can check it out. Six times he seems to have been on the day - to - day schedule at the concording councils, and he was constantly treating either Wednesday or Friday. Here we have today’s presence of you. We understand perfectly what they're doing just to crash. So, colleagues, I don't even know what to tell you. I realize that the problem is important, and I insist as an expert who did it, and I did what I could in this area to make the land sales system transparent and as affordable as possible, and to increase the revenues in local and state budgets, but I failed. By the way, ending the subject, reasoning and explaining the motives. The government of Yatsenuk in June last year, when he heard our idea and mine as heads of the State, admitted that there were three first-line initiatives to be settled by means of the introduction of relevant bills by the government, and this was one of them. But it happened that I left office, in fact 28 or 27 November, and the government had not passed any bill until then, which is why it was being transposed. Society, the law is simple as a door, but it greatly expands people’s rights and narrows down opportunities for corruption. Please support or transfer the consideration to the next time there will be people. Because we understand if there was a signal vote right now, I realize there would be an 80, a 100. Convince people that this is not a planned provocation against this bill and the continuation of corruption schemes in the field of land relations. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-16-m0.u118	Thank you. I repeat, Sergey Jaroslavovich, that we have this form of voting for the projects under discussion. Now we're voting, we're talking about the bill, and I think it's right, this important bill, we have the opportunity to speak in full. I'm going to make a signal vote, and if there aren't enough votes in the room to make a decision, the vote will be postponed to another vote when there are votes in the room. I'm telling you on that point so that you can get the right perspective on the matter. Thank you very much. The co-report invites the head of the Committee on Agrarian Policy and Land Relations, Kutovo Taras Viktorovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-16-m0.u119	Dear colleagues, the committee considered two bills at its meeting in March of this year. I want to think that we actually had a discussion and the conclusion of the Scientific and Expert Office there is a recommendation to send for work, but this recommendation is only related to the exclusion of two points. Items related to the provision of land to enterprises, institutions, and public organizations in the fields of culture and art under the arts. Because the expert management felt that the economic component of these organizations had not been understood, as well as the creation of green areas of general use. In general, there are no other points to the conclusion of the scientific experiment. What about the committee? The committee considered the matter. In fact, what colleagues said today, unfortunately, is a good idea -- giving land to Ukrainian farmers to own them, often turning into corrupt schemes, very often. And so, really, this law sorts these issues out at the expense of auctions. Of course, the question arises, it was discussed on a committee in the context of how competitive farmers can be with other, larger, farming facilities, such as holding companies, large businesses, and so forth. But in general, the liberal composition seemed more fair to the committee, as a collegiate body. And so the committee decided, at its meeting, to adopt Bill 2279 as a basis, and 2279-1 as a result of support for the first rejection. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-16-m0.u120	Thank you. Now, according to the order of the day, we have the opportunity to ask both the reporter and the co-conspirator. Please. I am very much asking the National MPs to sign up for a question to the rapporteurs right now. Please sign up for the question. Thank you. I'm asking Kulinich Oleg Ivanovich to the rostrum. Mr. Oleg, this is a question, you will ask Kulinich, and he will answer you. That's a question. Please, Baby Oleg, ask me a question.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-16-m0.u121	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. Of course, we will support a bill aimed at establishing transparent procedures for land administration. There's no more transparent procedure than there is no auction. Let anyone who wants to rent land come to the auction, pay a decent price, and be able to rent the land. Of course, it is worthwhile to extend the lease of land so that landowners have the opportunity to calculate their expenses, to maintain credit policies, and so forth. But at the same time, we insist, the Radical Party faction insists that Parliament urgently consider the continuation of the moratorium on the sale of agricultural land. Our party, Radalný, makes a strong statement about the sale of agricultural land. Selling Ukrainian land is selling Ukrainian souls, selling Ukrainian mothers, selling the future of their own nation. And so we are definitely against the sale of land, and we are proposing that we introduce the land rental market, not the sale of land.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-16-m0.u122	Thank you. Please answer.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-16-m0.u123	Thank you, Mr. Oleg, for this clear understanding of anti-corruption legislation and its support. I hope that tomorrow, because there are no votes in the voting room today, we will definitely support it in the first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-16-m0.u124	Please ask me a question, Mamchur Yuli Valeriyovich, Peter Dustenka's Block.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-16-m0.u125	I'm handing over the fish to the National Deputy Rybak.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-16-m0.u126	Fish. Turn on the Ribaku microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-16-m0.u127	Dear colleagues! Our faction supports the fight, the fight against corruption in the land. But it would be nothing if we didn't take away the right of citizens to transfer land to residential buildings, farm buildings, buildings, suburban areas, individual tax buildings, and to build individual garages, for haystacks, including. And please tell me, some have been given today, others will no longer have the right to receive. And what about those involved in the fighting by the ATOshniks who today have the right to acquire land? In fact, this law takes that right away from them. Let's vote, but that's not the norm.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-16-m0.u128	Dear colleagues, we are certainly prepared to work with the drafters for the second reading, but there are no such provisions in the current edition. We do not limit the right of citizens to obtain land for personal farming within two hectares and for the purpose of doing so. Within the limits of the farmer's pie. But if you want to get 100 acres without auction, well, I'm talking about it, you have to go to auction. It's a campaign. There are no changes to the article of the Codex earth. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-16-m0.u129	Thank you. Macola Roman Mikolaiovich. Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-16-m0.u130	Please pass the word to Nasalik.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-16-m0.u131	Nasalik, right? Speak more clearly. Nasalik, right?
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-16-m0.u132	Please turn Nasalika on.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-16-m0.u133	Yeah, yeah. Well, I would like to agree with the second speaker that the Supreme Council can only vote on Thursdays and on Wednesdays and Fridays we can no longer meet more than 226 people. And now, essentially, the question. If the general plans were to develop territories, we wouldn't be asking questions about auctions. And one more thing. You have to review the law, because the land under the municipal enterprise is also under the stadiums, and that's the land under the garbage dumps, under the new schools, under the new territories. And they're not included in your bill. So I would very much like to say, when you go to the land, that there are lands that work for the city, and there are lands that trade for land. That's what this is all about. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-16-m0.u134	Thank you for asking. That's a very good point. But we'd just like an active editorial to keep the land from being leased to utilities, and then these utilities wouldn't have passed it on to private entities, so that's what we did. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-16-m0.u135	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I'd like to emphasize again. When you pass the word, take it and clearly tell who you are passing on to so that the secretariat and the Council will hear. Now Kishkar's national deputy is handing over Ednak. Yeah? Criminals? Yes, Krivenkovi. Okay. Criminals. One minute. Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-16-m0.u136	Dear colleagues, good day to you all! Of course, this law must be adopted. As a resident of Dniprodijnska, I want to tell you one fact. One of the three most dirty cities in Ukraine, the city of ecological disaster. On the left bank, a presidential decree was created in 2008. But it doesn't prevent the district council from handing over 44 hectares to the 22 people in charge of private farming, who are employees of one company. And then, by chance, the target assignment changes, and free of charge, the land of the reserve goes under the drug farm. People protest, they rebel. They're being beaten, these people. Let's write a bunch of references to the Attorney General, to the district attorney -- no reaction. The land of the reserve through auction-free schemes, without a penny to the budget, goes to a drug farm that will become an environmental disaster. There are 3,000 signatures of the inhabitants of the left bank, because there are completely ground-based waters coming up to the top, which is going to be a disaster -- no reaction. I'd like to ask the members of the Ecological and Agrarian Profile Committee to look at this issue to help people. I'll make contact.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-16-m0.u137	Thank you for asking. I fully support it because, unfortunately, there are such dirty schemes when land areas appear to be at the base of up to two acres [2 ha] for personal farming. And that's how they get the arrays. I have this example in the district of Poltavščina in the Zinkov region. People were taking cities. That is why such bills must be voted on as anticorruption. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-16-m0.u138	Thank you. So the time for answers is up. Now we're going to have the factions. I'm asking all factions to properly sign up for the performances. And I'd like you to record it. Please sign up for the factions. Individually, there will be speeches by the deputies. It's a faction statement. Vassil Alexanderovich, rebirth party, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-16-m0.u139	Good afternoon. Deputy Guljavil, rebirth party group. I want to say by this law what this law is, and Law 1159 must be in the complex. Because what's happening on the ground today? As the former president of the village council, I see it all and I know it. The village heads will learn that they have taken the land outside the settlement, only from the cadastre map, when nothing can be returned. And we're all saying that we want to give power to places that will be decentralization. When the power comes to pass, the land will be gone, especially by the railways, near the track. And when we do this unification of communities, it will not be possible for the united head to lead this settlement, because the whole earth will already be in private ownership, which has been placed entirely under the basic documents, under everything else, free of charge, without all competitions. So this law must be supported, and Act 1159 must be introduced and adopted. Because the village head will never give up the land against the community, because the community will rise up against it, and it will have to be accounted for. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-16-m0.u140	Thank you. Please, Semenha, Self-Help faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-16-m0.u141	Please give the word to Jehor Sobolev.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-16-m0.u142	Yegor Sobolev, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-16-m0.u143	Good law. Self-help will support him. We want to say that it is just important to keep this law forbidding the issue of land simply to utilities. I think there's people in this room who've drawn attention to the journalist's investigation of how in Borispol Roschen's company got land without a competition, in the process, precisely because of this lasagna. Therefore, this law should be adopted with all the restrictions that are now in place.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-16-m0.u144	Thank you. From the "Father's" faction, Evtushok Sergey Mikolayovich. He's giving Yvchenk the word. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-16-m0.u145	Vadim Yvchenko, "The Fatherland" faction. Dear colleagues, we are indeed decentralizing you. By this law, we, in my hands, make a comparative table of amendments to article 134. This is the decommissioning of those land areas that are subject to auction. We're taking out land that goes under the wholesale markets. We're taking out the land that's being allocated to utilities and then they're going into private property. We've narrowed down the list of land that won't just give in. Imagine, colleagues, the decentralization we have with you today. A united community for which we vote with you. A leader of a united community comes, and he cannot: (a) rule the land and (b) he has no mechanism. This mechanism, how will it give? Will he divide the field by two hundred and pay people for bribes, or will he actually conduct the bidding, and millions of dollars will go into that budget? My colleagues, I'd like to take a second look at how the auction is going. And this article, directly, 136. Preparing these land trades. To date, rural budgets do not have the capacity to conduct trades and auctions. We put in place a standard when the auctions are done by the organization and then they pay it for services because it has to make projects with land, it has to prepare lots, auctions, it has to invite auctioneers, it has to make auctioneers. And that company or the person who won it pays for the services of these auctioneers. And this will be approved by the decree of the State not to be misused: one, one, one, one, one, the other, another, the other, the other. Colleagues, next. I'd very much like to have a frank, open conversation with you about decentralization. It's not just finance, it's got to be land administration. We say that the united communities may seek ownership of this land, and they have the right to do so, and this was a common position. Above all, we need to give the United Communities tools. These are tools. And I'm asking you a lot, I know that today there are some thoughts "for," "against." In fact, the right colleagues say, there is a question of gardening. I'm going to make a special application to leave the gardening. I'm going to make a special application to regulate gardening so that the haystacks can be left behind. But on the other hand, when you see an array under the haystack, and in the middle of the cornfield, there's corn, that's the question. So, colleagues, let's work from one to the other, because in 134 there are a list of areas that are subject to auctions that are not. Asking for support, and Fatherland supports. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-16-m0.u146	Thank you. From Peter Prashenko's Block, Musak Alexi Petrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-16-m0.u147	The honourable chairman, honourable colleagues, the President, the Prime Minister, all the leaders of the parliamentary factions say that we must fight corruption. We're all in favor of the fact that there were open competitions about the appointment of heads of state enterprises, about everything else. Yesterday we passed a bill on transparent government purchases. Now, when it comes to land, and I want to remind you that this is one of the most corrupt issues in the state after energy and finance, we're somehow afraid of auctions. But for a second, if we say we're giving authority and we're giving up, and we're doing decentralization, then we have to give the local communities the right to get the maximum price for their resources, for their land, because they're now deprived of rights and essentially. This is a corrupt scheme when land is allocated to farming, and in fact it's just passed over and sold to large agroholdings, and the local community gets nothing out of it. Just to have a transparent mechanism for local communities to have the resources to repair roads, make infrastructure, improve their lives, we have to put in place transparent auctions to sell land. That is why I ask you to support this important bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-16-m0.u148	Thank you. From the Radical Party, Linko Dmitry Volodymyrovich gives the word to the leader of the Radical Opposition Party, Oleg Lášk. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-16-m0.u149	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. Honourable citizens of Ukraine, honourable colleagues of the national MPs, certainly a faction of the Radical Party, voted for by so many villagers, our laborers, we will support a bill that allows for a transparent way of managing communities' lands and thus filling rural budgets. But it is not just the rent of the land that a rural person lives on. The main income of a person in a village who doesn't know, the children of asphalt, is selling milk, it's selling pork, it's making money in the field, it's making money for his family. How does the parliamentary majority, how does the government solve these problems? No, we didn't, we didn't, we didn't, we didn't, we didn't, we didn't, we didn't, we didn't, we didn't, we didn't, we Today's a liter of milk, the purchase price in the village what? Two bracelets, this Davidenko, the manufacturer of the Bachmachchina, my district, knows: 2 bracelets 40 copies. And in the store, what's a liter of milk, and all that's called milk, because it's divorced chemistry? 12-13 bucks. What difference does it make? Why is this difference not in the peasant pocket? Why do people not have the opportunity to sell milk at normal prices, feed their families, stay away from subsidies, taxes, and subsidies? But one Ukrainian cow can feed the entire family! And today this cow does not feed because they stand, feed it for six months, heal it, collect the hay — and milk a penny cheaper than water! Why does the government not work? Why do laws not change? Why not set a minimum price for milk? And because they don't care about farmers' problems, because they're used to drinking, not milk, but whiskey, whether it's expensive cognac, or wine, instead of drinking Ukrainian milk, feeding Ukrainian peasants. In addition, even the milk that has been delivered has not been able for months in Montenegro, in Poltavščina, in Kiev, in Cherkaščina to receive money for the milk that has been delivered. The oligarchs charge their pockets with money, and the peasants rob them like glue! So I'm asking the government to set a minimum price for milk of 4.5 dollars per liter, at least 4.5 dollars per liter. The second question is VAT. What you parasites have led the farmers to do! People can't get VAT. Such a curved scheme was made that the producers actually wash off their circulation costs. And they want to change the order of taxation. I'll lay here with bones, but I won't sell the land, I won't let the peasants rob. Milk, we'll raise the price and protect the Ukrainian village. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-16-m0.u150	Thank you. So instead of whiskey, we all drink milk at night. Dear colleagues, we've finished the factions. All those who wanted to do so came forward. Now we're moving on to the performances of the people's deputies. It takes 15 minutes. I ask you to sign up for the speeches by the national deputies. Please record. Ivchenko Vadim Evgenovich. Turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-16-m0.u151	Colleagues, please pass the word to your colleague Eutuska.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-16-m0.u152	Mr. Chairman, honourable colleagues, bill 2279d amending the Land Trade Code, which is prepared as I have seen most of the authors representing this committee. Therefore, the need to support it is vital. I think it was the experts who drafted the bill. In the present Code of Land, there are rules that determine additional cases of land transfer without auctions, without passing them through the legal plane around the code. So if we predict an exclusive list of land data, it'll allow us to increase the income of local budgets, well, and actually government revenues by about 300 million dollars. The state and local communities are losing these costs because the level of rent on non-competition basis is much lower than when auctioned. In the past year alone, 10,000 hectares, a very small number at the state level, were transferred through auction. Let's finally stop this saviour and set up an exclusive list, and send most of these proposals to auctions. There are also problems with the land trade process: the constant lack of funds in local budgets does not allow local self - government authorities to prepare the auction. Therefore, the bill provides for a procedure that will be carried out at the expense of the successful bidder. This bill will allow a significant reduction in corruption, which is very important and very timely. The Fatherland faction insists, we suggest that a moratorium be made on the sale of land, and the bill will allow local budgets to be filled at the expense of auctions.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-16-m0.u153	Thank you. Mishchenko Sergei Grigorovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-16-m0.u154	Sergei Mishchenko, 89th District, Kyivshina. Dear citizens of Ukraine! I want to ask you first to tell me whether something has changed for the day in the field, or whether you have stopped wearing bribes to form land areas, or whether farmers are registering pies in organizational services, as they are now paying for one act or contract to register it. What's going on here right now, I think it's propaganda. There is no land reform and there is no land reform! Why? And what's to say: two years ago, a year ago, and now, and the land-use organizations that weeded our citizens to land resources remained or were they changed, or did the state itself, as in 2008, produce land-use documents and give free land acts? How much do you need to privatize at ten, for example, hundreds? Who knows? 8-15 thousand dollars for a pensioner. Most people don't privatize because there's no money. And for the farmer to go, to register the registration service, the pie deal he took from the citizen was worth $250 a year ago, and now the bribe is $500. And what do you say you're changing something? You're not changing anything, there's no political will for the peasants not to wear these bribes. Why is there no political will? And because the diagrams that led the Yanks then, now you're in charge, that's all, and there's no difference. So what's going on in this room right now, I think it's translating into these people who have introduced these two bills that need to be supported, they're correct and they're faithful. But there is no comprehensive approach to eliminating these schemes from the Ukrainian field. Because all the laws that I'm talking about today, and most of the schemes that these schemes eliminate, are registered in Parliament for five years, six years, two years, one year, they exist. So let's take something for people, not for ourselves.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-16-m0.u155	Thank you. Please, Krivenko Viktor Mikolayovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-16-m0.u156	I'd like to give you a word.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-16-m0.u157	Krivenko passed it on to Tomenko. Please turn on the microphone on the stand.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-16-m0.u158	Dear colleagues, today we have a very important historic second day of Parliament working under the conditions of European reform and readjustment. We have begun a new life in this Parliament, according to the head of parliament. And I think the brains are missing without Europeans to tell us that if we have fundamental issues like land and agriculture, can't we put them first, but ratification or some secondary questions to ask a little bit later? And to invite a government that doesn't exist, because the village feeds us all, the agrarian business feeds us today. What business is holding the Ukrainian economy today? And there's no one, because why, all of their questions are solved. So I'm pretty sure if we don't change jobs in a format that we have two or three topics in one day. Under these topics, everyone's prepared and sitting here, not press conferences, and together they're thinking about how to solve the issue. And in agriculture, it's very easy to solve the issue on the ground. We have to do an inventory of the land at last. Make a normal public register. So we can understand what we have, what we've lost, and what we can turn back. After this real land register, we have to make a strategic decision: we risk, we go to sell land, or we're already preparing. My belief is that we are not ready. And in the last summons, I'm glad that my amendment was voted by the session hall on January 1, 2016, but we can't hang the country for a few months. That is, there must be a discussion and everyone must understand. It's like a currency market: someone will know and benefit from it. We have to say that, for example, the next few years there's no land sale, we're going to do that, and from that year there's going to be inventory, the agrarian fund is going to work and so on, so on and so forth. Now it's about the bill. Obviously, the auction is the right approach. But, guys, let's go over the second reading again, the whole humanitarian field, so that we don't destroy education, culture, sports and so on. They will not sell the land at the auction, for they are being taken away from them now and again today. So that we don't get hurt by people who own private property, I mean, the house there, the property and all that. There are no other questions. And the last position, today, has happened historically, that I have already in several areas a call from farmers or people who do agriculture, a small business where they say that so far there are a lot of heads of district administrations -- they're mostly like landowners working. They have a file on you when you're done with the act of the treaty, and they're looking to rewrite it to their own people and to pressure the farmers who have this land. So, friends, the earth, in principle, can only be considered from.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-16-m0.u159	Please, 10 seconds, finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-16-m0.u160	And this land issue has always been a key issue for Ukraine. And I want us to start a plenary session in the morning, in the presence of the entire government, and in the sense that the land and the village can save Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-16-m0.u161	Thank you. Please, Tarasjuk Boris Ivanovich. He's handing over Ichchenka.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-16-m0.u162	Please give my word to my colleague Yvchenk.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-16-m0.u163	Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-16-m0.u164	Vadim Yvchenko, "The Fatherland" faction. My colleagues, I really applaud that performance that just sounded from the rostrum. I want to remind you that we've been working on the road map of land reform all summer. And what you're saying today, we're talking about a dead inheritance. Do we have to decide? I have to. Should we address the issue of land inventory? I have to. Do we need to finally open the cadastre and fill it out, for today 17 percent is in cadastre alone? I have to. Have we started receiving acts from the State Department on the Internet? Here we go. We have a lot to do in terms of land reform, a lot to do. Do we not have a bill to return the land to the territorial communities? Do we understand how the State should control the direct use of land and the protection of land? Believe me, we're going to present a road map of land reform. And this bill, I want to stress, is one small tool: (a) how to fill local budgets; (b) how not to make uncontrolled use of land. My colleague said 10,000 acres [10,000 ha] across Ukraine last year was issued through auctions. Do you know how many auctions have been issued without?Oh, my God! More than 100,000! This year the State Land Agency wants 84,000. They're ambitious plans, because we're not ready to go. Please give me the tool, please give me the opportunity to conduct tenders today and allow me to fill local budgets. Because today local budgets, besides VAT, believe me, the village lives on fixed agricultural taxes, on what farmers pay. Allow it to be legal today. I'm not even saying that today almost nine million hectares of land from a dead inheritance is in shadow. At one time 32 million were given, many died, and today these are uncontrollable lands. To whom do they pay? No land tax. For rent, yes, some administrations come in and take these costs, but this goes to the district council. It doesn't go to local budgets. Colleagues, please let's give the tools and the ability to fill local budgets. And then on the road map. Rightly said the colleague, we will clearly guide the laws of the village, the laws of the land and the land reform, for without land there will be no complete decentralization. It won't! The Fatherland faction will support everything about the village and everything about decentralization. Especially in the land sphere. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-16-m0.u165	Thank you. Head Michaela Josephovich gives the word to Andrew Illenck. Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-16-m0.u166	Andrew Illenko, the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union. Dear colleagues and respected Ukrainians who are now watching and listening! Indeed, the issue of this bill is extremely relevant, and I can say that as one of the co-authors of one of the bills that we have just considered. And by the way, all our "liberators" here in Parliament are also co-authors of this law. And indeed, the question of the earth is a fundamental question for Ukraine. And it's probably not just a question of the earth -- who's going to process it, how it's going to stand out how it's going to be used -- but probably an important and fundamental question of the earth is whether we, Ukrainians, are actually the masters of our own land, whether we are the citizens who are the owners of this state. And we understand very well that, unfortunately, today's trends are not as glimmering as we would like them to be. And you know, nobody mentioned this today from this rostrum. And so it was that, just now, we had the opportunity to speak in full discussion. And no one mentioned that exactly a year ago on September 16, 2014 was not only the ratification of the Association Agreement with the European Union, which was certainly an important and right step. But there was another event, unfortunately, with a huge negative sign. When, in fact, in an anti-constitutional way here in this room, I was in that room, and I witnessed these events, there was a closed session. For the first time in history, I hope that the last time in the history of the Ukrainian Parliament has been turned off the voting board so that no one can even see who is voting. And then, essentially, in an unconstitutional way, the same law on the special order of implementation of the so-called local self-government in certain areas of Donetské, Luhansk region, on which two weeks ago there was a vote in the House for changes to the Constitution to make reference to this law already in the main law. And, you know, then a year ago, it probably wouldn't have occurred to anyone that one day the Constitution would have to change under this law, which was actually written under Putin's dictatorship. But now it's a reality. And it's scary to imagine that tomorrow could be with our country if this false course of betrayal and surrender continues. And you know, those who stood up for the Constitution, and among them was Yuri Orotyuk, who was actually a member of the last vocation, when, by the way, the "liberators" were the only ones who didn't give a vote then for this law. He is in prison today because he protects the Constitution. And I would like to say that I am very grateful to the people's deputies from many factions and non-fractional, not just "liberators." Already 25 people who have signed the pledges to Yuri the Orphan are willing to vouch for the fact that he is an honest man who should be on the loose. In fact, I call on all other fellow national MPs to sign the same thing and take the Orphan into custody. Freedom to Prisoners, Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-16-m0.u167	Thank you. We've run out of time for the national MPs. No, we're out of time. And now we'll have more. Ladies and gentlemen, let's do this. The next is Rybak Ivan Petrovich. If there's an insistence, there's no red light on the board yet, but you already have to figure out which one of you is going to act, either Barna or Rybak. So, Ribak Ivan Petrovich, from Peter Dusty's Block. Turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-16-m0.u168	Dear colleagues, for further consideration of this matter, please give the floor to Oleg Barney.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-16-m0.u169	Please, Barna. Turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-16-m0.u170	Dear colleagues! Ukraine is united by traditions, Ukraine is united by land. And when we talk about the earth, we should address it as "you," because this is the sacred thing that connects us as a nation and a nation. Thus, until the land policy has been established, there has been no land register until a land audit and audit has been carried out, until we know who has stolen, traded, privatized illegally, has no reason to continue to talk about any issues concerning the privatization of illegal land or its sales. I want everyone to finally understand. We can sell what we made, buy a car -- sell it, build a house -- sell it, steal it -- sell it, sell it. Well, no one gave you the right to turn the land into a commodity. This is the fundamental concept that identifies us as a nation, as Ukraine. We borrowed the land to pass it on to our children. And that's why I'm asking everyone to finally understand. Stop snorkeling on the ground like a commodity. You can put it into use, long-term use, but in no way turn it into a product, because it's not yours, it's our next generation. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-16-m0.u171	Thank you. So they all took the floor. The last item on our agenda is the final word for the reporter and the co-rapporteur. So, Kulinich Oleg Ivanovich, is there a need for a closing word? There's a need. Please. And prepare Rudik Sergey Jaroslavovich for the final word. Please, Kulinich Oleg Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-16-m0.u172	Dear colleagues! I thank everyone for this professional discussion. It is really important when such important bills are discussed in full procedure. Because this is the land, this is the fight against corruption, and these are the local budgets. Of course, we would like to consider today, if that were the case, 1159, because we must restore the right of communities to manage land outside the settlements. But I think everyone understands that, and in the near future, this bill will appear, which has been wandering around for eight months and has not reached the session room. So after today’s discussion, I hope that this extremely important bill will be voted on the following day, that is, tomorrow, in the first reading, and all these misunderstandings for the second reading will necessarily be corrected. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-16-m0.u173	Thank you. Before I give the next word, I ask the delegates from the towers to enter the hall, in three minutes there will be a signal vote. So I'm asking those fellow MPs who are in the towers, conducting active negotiations, going back to the hall and taking jobs. And the Secretary of the Supreme Council, please report that there will be a vote in three minutes. Please give the floor, for the final word of co-reporter Rudik Sergio Jaroslavovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-16-m0.u174	Dear Chairman! Dear colleagues! You see, it wouldn't have been happiness, so bad luck would have helped. The absence of a quorum in our session allowed for the first time in a great period of time to discuss a very important land issue in its entirety and to hear a large number of people. From what I've heard, I've come to realize that the vast majority of the pro-reporters are, and that makes me happy. As a co-reporter and author of the so-called alternative bill, I would like to draw attention to a few things, to the conclusion. So first. Among the questions raised in this room were whether this would prevent ATO participants from obtaining land. On my part, I would like to point out that there is no such obstacle in option number one or in option two. I know what I'm talking about, because I was the initiator of that idea free of charge to issue land to ATO participants back in May last year, and I will, of course, do everything I can to make sure that everyone who wrote these statements gets this land, and unfortunately not all of them today, but only 8,000 members of the fighting that fought in the east of our country get land, and about 20,000 more people are going through procedures, and many people are unfortunately refusing and refusing. The other one. I was talking about Oleg Lazko's milk. I am grateful to all your colleagues for having voted in the first reading of the Minimum Milk Buying Bill a few months before our summer sessions are concluded, and now this price is even more than 4, 4, 4 is a minimum, and the milk of the higher class is already 5 dollars. Now our task is to see that this bill enters the hall not on Wednesday and not on Friday, so that it enters at least on Thursday or Tuesday, so that we can vote on it in general and in the second reading, of course, because from what I hear in the towers there are a lot of people who are not happy about what this bill has been approved. And the last. In the example of the 2089 Milk Bill, I would like to demonstrate the will of normal, adequate people's deputies to make collective collective decisions that are really for the benefit of our state. All 6 participants or co-authors of the 2079-1 bill are ready to vote tomorrow, so I understand that today there is no quorum and there is no point in voting it, and we will confirm it by signal vote, for the bill of our colleagues in order of their coming. But I'm asking for my side if, God forbid, your option didn't pass, I'm asking your entire copyright team to vote for our 2079-1, because both one and the other bills are a huge breakthrough in this area that we're looking at today. I ask your support and ask the chairman to put the vote to a vote. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-16-m0.u175	Heroic glory! Dear colleagues, we had an important, professional discussion on these bills. And as we agreed, I'll put it on the alarm first. If we don't have the required number of votes, it's the vote we'll be transferring to another day, but nevertheless, I'm very much asking all the deputies to come into the hall. We're not that few. And if there's unanimous support for the hall, we have a chance to get to a successful vote. So I'm asking my respectable colleagues not to leave the hall, but to enter the hall. Take up jobs. Please inform the secretariat that there will be a vote. There's Knyazevitch, there'll be a result. And then I ask you to prepare. And I stress, I put to the vote, a draft bill amending the Ukraine Land Trade Code 2279. Who is ready to support this bill, I ask you to testify in the 2,279 vote. Please vote. Please. [[13:53:30.]] For 205 I see a few other deputies have gone into the hall. Let's try it again. I see there's unanimity support. Colleagues, I'm asking everyone who's in the towers, who's in the buffet, who's up in the voting room, we have a chance to get to a successful vote. And I'll do another one. But I'm asking everyone who's in the towers to come into the hall. Yes, whether we have the potential or have lost it hopelessly in the course of our work. Everybody ready, right, for the vote? Everybody in place? Andrew, I'm asking you to take your seats. So I'm going to re-vote Bill 2279. Who is ready to support this bill, please testify in a signal vote. Please vote 2279. Please vote. [[13:54:48]] For 206 The potential is high, but it's not enough. Dear colleagues, we've seen the unity of the hall in that regard, but obviously we're not going to be able to make a successful vote right now. We therefore postpone voting on the bill to the next day. And at this morning's meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, I declare closed. And tomorrow I ask everyone to be in place at 10 o'clock to continue our productive and effective work. Thank you. Good-bye. See you tomorrow.
