ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-21-m1.u1	Dear colleagues! I'm asking the people's deputies to come into the hall to continue our work. The break is over and I ask the secretariat of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to inform the deputies of the beginning of our work. We have very important issues on the table, and I'm asking the heads of factions for factions to invite deputies to the workplace. Thank you very much. Please come into the hall. Dear colleagues! Whoever's in the towers, who's still talking, please come into the hall, we can't get a job because there aren't enough deputies in the room. I'm asking you very much, let's go into the hall to start our work. As we have warned, we are already publishing those who are not voting, publishing those who are not present at the meetings, and those who are not taking part in the work. I ask you very much to inform the national MPs who are near, to enter the hall, to prepare for the beginning of the work. Dear colleagues, let's make a signal vote. And I ask you to come in and prepare for the signal vote of your fellow national MPs. Please come in for an emergency vote. Dear colleagues, we're going to have a registration, and now we're going to start and see after the registration, and I can see our colleagues are coming up and coming up -- they're just going into the hall. And I ask you not to leave the hall, but to enter the hall. Dear colleagues, not there, not there. We're still waiting. Please, who else is in the towers? Please come into the hall.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-21-m1.u2	Dear fellow national deputies, please take your seats. Please, my friends, prepare for registration. Let's start the evening session. Ladies and gentlemen, please take your seats. I'd like you to turn on the "Council" system for registration. [[16:11:03]] 329 national deputies registered. I hereby declare the evening session of the Supreme Council open. Ladies and gentlemen, the draft Law (registration number, for discussion, 1912) of the Law on Amendments to Chapter XX of the Tax Code on Taxation of Imports and Supply of Vehicles with Electrical Engines is being submitted to your consideration. Please have a suggestion: 1912 should be considered in a simplified procedure. Please prepare. I will now put to the vote on the summary procedure, colleagues. Please support me. There are still many bills to be considered today. Short procedure, friends, consideration. [[16:13:12]] For-149 [[B in m in s a l in]] Colleagues, I understand. Let's do it again, please. Short-term review, please. 1912. [[16:13:44]] For-152. Decision taken. Thank you. Please report to Bennady Grigorovitch.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-21-m1.u3	Good afternoon, dear fellows! Good afternoon, Your Honor! Good afternoon, dear Ukrainians! Gennady Kryvoshea, faction of the People's Front. Today I'm going to report on a bill that I'm more than sure we're going to vote on today's first reading: Bill number 1912. The bill deals with the amendment to Section 20 of the Transitional Regulations of the Tax Code on the simplification of import taxes for vehicles equipped with electric motors. I want to thank all the representatives of the political forces and factions that have joined this bill. The number of authors is about 20. So, dear friends, please pay great attention to this bill. What is the essence of the bill? First. At present, the development of energy - efficient modes of transport and its infrastructure is quite relevant. What we're talking about: we're talking about today's possibility that we have the possibility of giving the benefits of bringing electric cars into Ukraine to reduce the use of energy, including the countries that are occupying our country today. The other one. I want to point out that the use of electric cars, namely electric cars, costs about 10 dollars to travel a hundred kilometers on an electric car. And the cost of driving 100 kilometers on a standard normal electric car. The average car, the vehicle costs an average of 150 dollars. Dear friends, I would also like to point out that the market for simplified taxation for importing electric cars into Ukraine will provide a good opportunity for additional investments from the European Union as well as from other countries in general. Dear friends! We should not forget about the environment.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-21-m1.u4	Please, 30 seconds. Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-21-m1.u5	Thank you. We should also keep in mind the environmental component that is present in the matter. So given that in terms of macroeconomics and the direct interests of the state, the development of the electricity market has a number of advantages. For the state. It's a reduction in energy dependence, an extra sale of electricity, a creation of new innovations. For business. Organization for the import of electric cars, foreign investment, infrastructure development and again additional jobs.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-21-m1.u6	Please, 10 more seconds. Finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-21-m1.u7	Dear friends! Please support this bill in the first reading. Thank you. Gennady Kryvoshea, faction of the People's Front.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-21-m1.u8	Thank you. Please report. The head of the profile committee of Eugene Nina Petrovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-21-m1.u9	Dear Head! Dear colleagues! Let me allow the position of the committee on the draft Amendment Act to Chapter XX of the Tax Code on the characteristics of the taxation of imports into the customs territory of Ukraine and the supply in the customs territory of Ukraine of vehicles equipped with electric motors. In general, the bill is proposed temporarily by 1 January 2020 to exempt taxes on added-value taxes and excise taxes on the import into customs territory and the supply in the customs territory of Ukraine of vehicles equipped with electric motors. This bill is supported by the Cabinet of the Ministers of Ukraine, provided that its effect on the release of such means of transport is extended solely from excise duty. So the government is proposing to exclude from the bill the provision to exempt such transactions from tax-added tax. At the conclusion of the Supreme Council's Chief Scientific and Expert Office, this bill can be adopted on the basis of the comments made. In the course of the discussion of the bill in the committee, members of the committee drew attention to the inadequacy of the legal provisions of article 4 of the Ukrainian Tax Code in the section "Equality of All Payers before the Law and Neutrality of Taxation". This is due to the fact that if a bill is adopted, importers and manufacturers of electrically powered vehicles will be placed in unequal conditions with importers and manufacturers of vehicles equipped with internal combustion engines. As a result of the review, however, the committee decided to recommend that the Supreme Council of Ukraine adopt the bill as a basis, taking into account all the benefits of the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-21-m1.u10	Thank you. Please sign two in, two in, and no. Please, National Deputy Pavlov, Opposition Block.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-21-m1.u11	Please pass the word to Matthew.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-21-m1.u12	Matvienkov, 57th District, Mariupol, Opposition Block. Without having anything against energy-saving engines for cars and the development of such environmentally clean industries, we are playing with this law, with benefits that in general undermine the country's overall economy. I mean VAT in particular. By playing with VAT, we play with industries, basic sectors of the economy such as metallurgy, engineering, chemistry, large basic industries that are the backbone of our economy. To date, our negative balance has increased by 65 percent in the first quarter alone. Exports decreased by 38 per cent in the steel industry. Already today, the State has owed the largest exporters huge sums for overpayment of the profit tax and, among other things, the VAT tax has not been refunded. Largest enterprises such as the metal combination Ilic, Azovstal, Zaporoztal, are now largely shutting down the automatic VAT return system, thus violating the existing VAT return field by washing the turnover off their operating system. So far, we have a chemical industry that's almost there if we put down more industries like steel industry, I think we're almost going to stop the income part of the budget. Therefore, once again, we refrain from voting on this bill only because the problem of the tax system in the country as a whole needs to be addressed and the issue taken root, rather than dealing with superficially with some things that someone likes and someone does not like. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-21-m1.u13	Thank you. Please, Tetjana Ostrkova, Self-help.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-21-m1.u14	Dear colleagues, the bill is proposed temporarily by 1 January 2020 to exempt from taxes on added value and excise duty vehicles equipped with electric motors. Its purpose is to increase demand for electricity among the population. This is clearly indicated in the explanatory note, which in turn will lead to a decrease in fuel consumption, a corresponding introduction and an improvement in the environmental situation in Ukraine. But the Self-Help faction generally supports it, this idea, but with the aim of preventing any abuse in the taxation of imported means of transport, we call on the first and second readings to exclude trolleybuses from the bill, because they are being produced in Ukraine today and they enter into the same code as the bill. Also, hybrid vehicles equipped with hybrid engines as well as electric means of transport used in warehouses, factories, airports, and so forth are used in industry. This premium should only be distributed on electric vehicles intended for use by the population and public transport, except for trolleybuses. Therefore, we urge all of us to support each other with our declared obligations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-21-m1.u15	Thank you. Please, national deputy Eutuszek, Fatherland.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-21-m1.u16	Sergey Eutuszek, "The Fatherland" faction, Ravenshkina. Please tell me. I would now like to address the head of the committee, the co-authors or the authors of the bill. I fully support the self-help faction position. But I would like the committee manager and the committee members and the authors to check the codes so that they really don't call them hybrid cars. And until the second reading, we will vote. And now the "Fatherland" faction supports this in the first reading.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-21-m1.u17	Thank you. Please, Mikola Trochymovich Fedoruk, People's Front.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-21-m1.u18	I ask you to pass the word to a customs expert, Oleg Yurievich Krishin.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-21-m1.u19	Oleg Yurievich Krishin, People's Front.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-21-m1.u20	Good afternoon, distinguished colleagues! We have a very negative trend in the walls of Parliament, in my view, is to present some tax advantages. Please tell me, what is worse than the chemical industry, the steel industry? Let's get to the point where we're going to be giving singles, bicycles and so on, and so on and so forth. The principles and experience of any successful tax reform was that tax reform was successful when it worked on the principle of horizontal equality, i.e. all taxes were the same. I therefore call on all colleagues to vote categorically against this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-21-m1.u21	Thank you. Please, Victor Halasyuk, Radical Party.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-21-m1.u22	Victor Halasyuk, faction of the Radical Party. Dear colleagues, this is where we just heard from the Opposition Block criticizing the laws on the development of electricity. And you know how this criticism can be dictated. What if we buy fuel, gasoline, diesel toms on traditional cars, what part of imported fuel? 70 percent. What's the fraction of what's being imported from Russia? Over 60 percent. So what I'm saying is that this law can be very small, but very concrete, in a different direction, so that we don't pay Putin the money and take steps like other European states do. And when Estonia spends 50 percent of its electricity on its citizens, they probably think about something, so does France, and other countries, I don't talk about environmental aspects anymore. I mean, why is there no tax loss? Because there is no such industry, less than 100 such cars per year are being imported into Ukraine, and Ukraine is being viewed not only as a manufacturer but also as a consumer of such goods. We will not be able to become a manufacturer until a certain number of these machines appear in Ukraine, without the creation of service infrastructure, repairs, and maintenance.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-21-m1.u23	Ten seconds, complete.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-21-m1.u24	They're working on it. Even in the Lviv City, five of the cars have already been transferred to electric cars because they cost tens of times less than traditional cars, so any conscious state is developing its electricity. We call for support for this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-21-m1.u25	Please, Alexander Dombrowski's Peter Prashenko Block from the rostrum.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-21-m1.u26	Dear Lord Chairman! Dear fellow national MPs! You can agree with both the position of the government and the position that this bill has some flaws that can undoubtedly be taken into account and settled between the first and the second readings. We can agree that we have to hold something back, slow down in order to conceptually change either tax or fiscal or fiscal policies in our country. But there are global processes in the world -- one of them is called the science and technology revolution. And electric cars are now at an extremely fast pace in terms of innovation around the world, developing in the European Union, in the United States, in China, even in Russia, where we are, you know where we are. So we need to be at the level of innovative countries themselves, have innovative technologies, have an innovative economy. So this bill allows us to create a market that today is zero zero-tenths and must have an appropriate volume.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-21-m1.u27	Please finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-21-m1.u28	To be competitive. I propose that this bill be adopted on a basis, during the first second reading, to work fundamentally, to take all the amendments into account, and then to take them into the hall. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-21-m1.u29	Thank you, Your Honor. Please, National Deputy Mishchenko Sergei.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-21-m1.u30	Sergei Mishchenko, 98th District, Kyivshina. Clearly, this bill needs to be supported because it is the future of Ukraine, because it is ecology and so on. But to be honest, I didn't see in Kiev those people who drive electric cars that would run under the Supreme Council demanding zero rates for such imports. And the people who are shelling today are the money lenders, and somehow their bills are in the end, and today they won't be in this room unless we put them in place now, reviewed and implemented. So let's not hide our heads in the sand, but let's pay attention to those who are really suffering right now, who are being driven out into the street by suicides that are now requiring us to make the right decisions. So make the next law.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-21-m1.u31	Dear colleagues! I propose to move on and make decisions by law. Please, Yuri Timoshenko, People's Front, then Igor Green, Peter Dustenka Block.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-21-m1.u32	Friends, everyone, please pay attention to the simplest of circumstances. I'm just going to say military, and I'm going to make it clear that every car that's driven into Ukraine is figuratively saying, "hit in Putin's liver." Friends, in the state of war, against Putin, and who for Ukraine, are behind electric cars. Please all support and vote. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-21-m1.u33	Please, Igor Green, Peter Dust Block.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-21-m1.u34	My friends, I propose that we look at the laws -- first of all, we remember that they were chosen by the Ukrainian people. And they didn't care about electric cars or oil or gas producers, they cared about the Ukrainian people. Clearly, this law is for the benefit of the Ukrainian people. Because all of us need to make sure that pollution is reduced, first of all. And the overall trend of the world is to fight for less pollution. And this law, first of all, calls for stimulating, buying clean cars, and this is actually the key purpose of this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-21-m1.u35	Thank you. Dear colleagues! I suggest we move from talking to voting right now. Everyone is absolutely convinced that this is an important bill that has the right to support. Therefore, 1912 draft Act amending Chapter XX "Transitional Positions" of the Ukrainian Tax Code on the characteristics of import taxation and the supply of vehicles equipped with electric motors. I think it's absolutely appropriate to adopt this draft law on the basis of working it out with proposals announced by Aunt Ostrich. So we don't have to be here at the bends. So there's a proposal to vote on this bill as a basis. Please elaborate on the proposals that were announced by National Deputy Ostrikov. Please vote on the basis, colleagues, we vote on the basis. Based on the base. On the basis of that, colleagues. [[16:33:02]] For 245 Thank you, 245, decision taken. Next, we have the draft of the Ukrainian Customs Tariff Act, the amendment prepared by the National Deputy Yuri Lewchenko. There is an offer without discussing it. Yuri Lewchenko, please. There is a proposal for a reduced procedure to be considered. Please, the author. Please consider the simplified procedure. I'd like to make a statement. [[16:33:42]] For a hundred and Without discussion, it was a proposal from the national MPs. But not the author. The author insists on speaking. Please come in. Please report. Yuri Lewchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-21-m1.u36	Lewchenko, Freedom, 223 District, Kiev City. Well, first of all, for the protocol, I would like to point out that I didn't propose to discuss the short-term procedure because I think that the short-term procedure for reviewing the bill is harmful to the state, and the result of the short-term procedure is the terrible bills that we have with you, unfortunately, here most people accept every day. That's why we're never going to go through this procedure -- this time. As far as the bill is concerned. Well, actually, there's already been a lot of talk about canceling VAT. It's a similar approach, a similar situation. This bill suggests that we cancel the import duty on an electric car. So it doesn't have to be what it is now, 15 percent, and zero percent of the car's car. It's very simple: In Ukraine today, such electric cars are not produced. The fact that Vasadze was trying to start something there, and that's why we put a lot of budget money in his pocket, but really before the serial production of electric cars, unfortunately, we haven't gotten there yet. We always speak, the "Freedom" union, for the protectionism of the state, because if we have producers of a product, there must be certain import duties to protect it. But when such a manufacturer does not exist in nature, we have these import duties to cancel in order to maximize our dependence on oil from our invader from the North. It's very simple, there's been a lot of different conversations, someone's been talking about tax policy, but it's very simple, actually. Unfortunately, the oil in Ukraine is very small, unfortunately, our oil refineries are not ours, they are oligarchy and are controlled by Moscow. And most of the electricity we have is ours and we can make it. So if we want energy independence, we have to do everything we can to have as many electric cars on our street as possible. It's very simple, obviously. I call on all conscious deputies to vote for this. Thank you. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-21-m1.u37	Ladies and gentlemen, please report from the committee. Nina Petrovna, if there is no need to add, simply inform the committee about the decision and let us proceed to the vote, colleague.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-21-m1.u38	Ladies and gentlemen, I will not repeat the benefits of this bill, I want to say what decision the committee has taken. We also had quite a discussion about the subject. The committee decided to recommend that the Supreme Council of Ukraine accept it as a basis for further consideration. Exclusion from the text of the Bill of Positions, which introduces a zero import duty rate on trolleybuses under UKTZED code 8702909010. Non-proliferation of tax duties by import duties on vehicles with hybrid power planting of hybrid cars I mean, turn it off. leave exclusively cars equipped with an electric motor. So thank you for your attention and please support the bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-21-m1.u39	Thank you. Please, the People's Deputy of Doubenkov is a minute and we are preparing for the vote. Please, just a minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-21-m1.u40	Thank you, Your Honor Vladimir Borisovich, honourable colleagues, I would like to explain the position of the political party "The Opposition Block" on voting, in particular the lack of support for this legislative initiative, both in the 1912 bill and in the 1674 bill. It has to be noted that the actual bill does not support the demand for the specified production, namely electric cars. We're actually creating tax benefits for some importers who just took up the right niche and would do their business. Using the practice of foreign countries, it actually provides for targeted subsidies, such as allocating to each buyer, not to an importer, some of the funds to stimulate the purchase of electric cars. These are Lobby Bills, no matter what they say to the people of Ukraine, it's all nonsense. In fact, this is a lobby for business interests, not for ordinary citizens who intend to buy these electric cars. So do not change your mind. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-21-m1.u41	Honorable fellow national MPs are obviously important. Therefore, 1674, on the basis of the vote, I am voting on the draft Law amending the Ukrainian Customs Tariff Act on Cancellation of Imports on Electric Vehicles. That's the derivative law to the one we just approved. Please, 1674 as a basis, colleagues, please vote 1674 as a base. [[16:39:09]] For 218. We didn't make it? Stop! Stop! Stop! Okay, okay, okay, okay. Please return to your seats. I'll make the offer for return to 1674, return to 1674. Colleagues, about electric cars, based, by the way, on a base. Let's return, please. Return. Return. To return. [[16:39:47]] For 227 We're back. On the basis, colleagues, on the basis of this, please, based on 1674. Vote! 1674 based. [[16:40:10]] For 217 The bill did not get the required number of votes. [[B in m in s a l in]] Let's do it again. Attention, colleagues! We accepted 1912. This law is also important for adoption, and they are put together for adoption. Please reconsider your offer to return to 1674! - and vote him on the ground. And when we prepare for second reading, we settle all the technical issues that the National Deputies have. Please, offer 1674 as a base. On the basis of that, please, colleagues. [[B in m in s a l in]] To the return! To return, yes. Listen, the voice is slit. To return. [[16:41:26]] For 204 [[B in m in s a l in]] One minute. Victor Halasyuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-21-m1.u42	Dear colleagues! Dear colleagues, I'd like to speak again. Dear colleagues, look at the motivation not to vote. Pick up who, as they voted in favour of the laws on the country's massive energy engineering, you'll understand who's giving the argument. Who wants the real energy independence of the country and moves on to at least a small step, who rejects it by some form of formality. Dear colleagues! I urge you to support this bill in the first reading. Look at the position of the Opposition Block! Look at how they voted for massive power generation! Don't you find that strange? Dear colleagues who share such a position, please express themselves.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-21-m1.u43	Come on, guys, one more time! We're going to meet up with you now, concentrate and give you green light, first reading on the basis of electric cars. Please, motion for return to 1674, return to voting, pending consideration. Please, colleagues, let's support it. That's a nice, easy offer. To return. Please vote. [[16:43:18]] For the 220. 220. All right, Yuri Lucenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-21-m1.u44	Dear Mr. Head, dear colleagues! I just got off the phone with one of the candidates from the People's Front. I don't think they did the right thing. These are related two laws. These are not two alternatives. These are related two laws. The one we voted on and the one we just didn't have enough votes for. Please, not only do we need to make a decision that we have already made on electric cars but we also need to change the Customs Code in this regard. So, dear colleagues, vote, please. This is going to be a joint victory over dependence on the Russian Federation. Vote in favor.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-21-m1.u45	Colleagues, another clarification. Clarification. The clarification made by Yuri Lucenck is objective enough, I understand. 1674, for your return, please vote. 1674, for your return, please vote. It's not an alternative, it's an complementary law. [[16:44:57]] For the 220. Let's do it again, fellows. Again. To return. Let's focus, let's get ready! It's not an alternative law, it's being supplemented. 1674. To return. We didn't have six votes. I didn't get six votes. Let's go, colleagues, vote back, 1674. Please. Vote for the return! I'd like to support you, colleague. [[16:45:51]] For 247 Thank you. I beg your pardon, colleagues. We're voting on the ground. 1674, based on. Let's vote on the basis. That's how we vote. Based on the base. [[16:46:10]] For 242 Thank you, colleagues. Draft Law (Registration No. 2743), Draft Law amending the Ukrainian Budget Code on the Construction of Institutional Capability of the National Bank of Ukraine. First Deputy Head of the National Bank of Ukraine, Pisaruk Alexander Volodymyrovich, reports. There is a proposal to consider the draft law in a simplified way. Please identify yourself. Please support the offer. Please. For the shorter procedure, please. [[16:46:54]] For-183 Please report.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-21-m1.u46	Dear Head, honourable national deputies, Bill 2743 provides for amendments to the Code of Budgets. These changes are closely related to changes to the National Bank Act, which were included in Bill 2742 and supported by you as a whole in the first reading of last Tuesday. The bill was also developed jointly with experts from the International Monetary Fund and the adoption of this law is a structural beacon of the IMF’s expanded funding programme. The basic principles of this bill are 2. The first relates to the change in the distribution mechanism of the National Bank’s income. First of all, it is envisaged to target the National Bank's income, first of all, to replenish the National Bank's general reserves to a level of 10 percent of its monetary and credit liabilities that meet world standards. Secondly, it is envisaged to prohibit and make available an advance on the National Bank's income to the budget only after the National Bank's financial statements have been approved by external auditors. Thus, the future census will take place from April to May each year. The second element of the bill is the abolition of the mandatory norm, which obliges the National Bank to provide forecasts of the exchange rate and the income of the National Bank during the budgetary process. I want to point out that this doesn't mean that the National Bank is being removed from responsibility for these indicators, it's just saying that we're trying to avoid excessive pressure on the National Bank, which could lead to it being morally obligated to carry out and comply with these indicators. And that could lead to a suboptimal and independent monetary policy. I want to stress that we are working productively and will continue to work productively with the government on macro-prediction and will give our advice on this. I want to point out what we had yesterday.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-21-m1.u47	Please finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-21-m1.u48	A very fruitful discussion of this bill on the budget committee, so I look forward to your support today. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-21-m1.u49	Thank you. Please, head of the Committee on Budget Affairs, Constantine Ischeykin. Please report.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-21-m1.u50	Dear Volodymyr Borisovich, distinguished colleagues! The Committee on Budget Issues at its meeting considered a bill submitted by the President to amend the Budget Code. This bill is derived from another 2742 presidential bill. Thus, in order to ensure consistency of legal rules, the final decision on Bill 2743 must be taken only after the adoption of the entire Law 2742. During the consideration of the bill, a number of comments were made to the individual provisions, which are also indicated in the conclusions of the Chief Scientific and Scientific Administration and the Ministry of Finance. In particular, proposed by a bill to exclude from the Budget Code rules on the provision of the necessary information to calculate the budgetary indicators will complicate the process of drafting the State Budget and lead to a decrease in its credibility. And the lack of information on the volume of income to be allocated to the NBA will create some risks for the formation of an income and expenditure portion of the State budget. According to the explanatory note, a bill has been drafted to implement the IMF-Ukraine Memorandum on Economic and Financial Policy. However, this memorandum does not provide for the repeal of the rules regarding the involvement of Nazbank in the development of software and forecasting documents. Moreover, with the adoption of the bill, it will be virtually impossible to predict the State Budget revenue figures in part of the budget that is counted by Nutzbank. According to the GNEU’s general conclusion, the bill can be adopted on the basis of the government’s conclusion. The Ministry of Finance supports the bill, subject to the exclusion of sections I, 1 and 2. In view of the above, the Committee on Budget Issues concluded the following decision: recommending a bill to the Supreme Council (2743) to adopt on the basis of the deletion of paragraphs 1 and 2 of Chapter I, and by entrusting the Committee with questions.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-21-m1.u51	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-21-m1.u52	To finalize the bill, taking into account the proposals made by the people's deputies for second reading, and to submit it to the Supreme Council after the adoption of the 2742 bill as a whole. So please support the committee's decision to adopt the bill on the basis of the draft submitted by the committee. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-21-m1.u53	Thank you. Please, two for, two for against. National deputy of Gordjeev. Doubenko, please, People's Deputy Dovbenko, Peter Dustenka Block.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-21-m1.u54	Dear colleagues! This bill is in motion, two days ago a bill was considered in our country, so serious arguments were made "for" and "against" as we know in the hall won the arguments "for." So I will not repeat, I want to say that the signed Association Agreement with the European Union obliges us to implement it in that part to allow our institutions to develop institutional capacity in the state, including the independence of the National Bank. Given all this, I think we need to support this bill and vote in favour. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-21-m1.u55	Thank you. People's Deputy Masorin, People's Front.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-21-m1.u56	Please pass the word to Maxim Polakov.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-21-m1.u57	Please, Maxim Polyakov, People's Front.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-21-m1.u58	Dear colleagues! We voted 2742 this week, and until we get through the second reading, we can't pass this law. Because there are some warnings in the first part that we need to work on. Unfortunately, there are such questions as the lack of participation of the National Bank in budgetary planning. And unfortunately, if we vote, in principle, the National Bank will be removed from budget planning at all. The second question is profit distribution. There are also big questions about what an international audit is, how much it will go through. And in general, then the National Bank will not accept this participation either. So the proposal, the colleagues, first to get to the mind of 2742 in the second reading, we're going to get the amendments given to the bill to get to work, we're going to work it out on the committee and then we're going to vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-21-m1.u59	Thank you. Please, Kostenko, a national MP.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-21-m1.u60	Oleg Lavrick, please give me your word.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-21-m1.u61	Oleg Lavrick, Self-help.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-21-m1.u62	Dear colleagues! Bill 2743 is a derived bill of 2742, and we have talked about this more than once today. Two days ago, we had a very long discussion of many parts of 2742 and the question of what format of wine would be accepted and what would be the standards in it. We cannot vote today for 2743 until we clearly adopt their standards of the previous law and the question of whether it will be adopted at all? No budget changes can be made, based on bills that have not yet been adopted by the Supreme Council. So the Self-Help faction calls for the Hall to send this bill to the committee. And after considering 2742 in the second reading, go back to this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-21-m1.u63	Alona Shkrum. Sergei Sobolev, Fatherland.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-21-m1.u64	Your Honor, is this a bill or is there gonna be an uncontrollable issue? Will money continue to be printed and we wonder why prices are rising? Why does inflation increase? Why do we have bracelets on the consumer market that are pressed against unspent goods and products? Or we'll stop at the end. I honestly don't understand my colleagues telling me that let's take the last draft of the previous bill and just go back to that. What does this bill regulate? If the National Bank, which under the Constitution is responsible for the stability of the national unit, sees that there is an uncontrolled emission, which is an uncontrollable release of the bracelet. He has the right to hold back the bracelet mass. And so to make this decision solely on the basis of the financial year. I understand that any government wants to go into the pocket of the National Bank and continue to dictate its terms. This bill regulates the position that, without the conclusion of the National Bank, we can't go into the next year's National Budget project. What's wrong? This bill regulates that without monetary policy and the forecast of monetary policy, we have no right at all to predict the budget next year. What's wrong? I believe that this bill should be adopted in the first reading. We have to set a standard by which we stop an uncontrollable emission, so we don't wonder why the rate is 40, then 30, then 24, and then 40 again. And this will enable us to address the key issues that rely on the National Bank's core responsibility, which is the stability of the national monetary unit. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-21-m1.u65	Thank you. Please, from the Oleg Lazko faction, one minute. Please, national deputies, take your seats. We will now vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-21-m1.u66	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. The Radical Party faction will not support this bill. We agree with the National Bank reporter who goes out and talks about success. Your success is a pain in the ass. 22 dollars a dollar, your successes are covered by the central streets of Kiev, your successes are unrestructed loans, your successes are undervalued savings and people's investments, and wages and pensions. That's where your success is! With such success, the Radical Party faction has been insisting for a long time on the release of the head of the National Bank from office, Valeria Gontareva. That's why we're always asking President Prashenko to file a motion for release to Parliament of the Hontareva from office of head of the National Bank. The destruction of hundreds of thousands of jobs, the loss of savings, the loss of salaries and pensions is all the responsibility of the National Bank, and you have to be responsible.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-21-m1.u67	Yuri Lucenko, Peter Dustenka's Block.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-21-m1.u68	Dear Mr. Head, distinguished national MPs! Now that we're talking about the activities of the National Bank, I'm going to repeat the figures you discussed here during the deepest financial crisis. Of course, there may be claims to be some kind of Nazbank leadership, but it should be remembered that the National Bank has printed 150 billion dollars for government social expenditure in recent years. And now it's very common for someone to run the economy during a printing press. But this is the way to nowhere and today a faction wants to continue an uncontrollable broadcast to the President: And another faction wants to act like the old Ukrainian anecdote: I'm going to poke my eye out so that the mother-in-law can have a one-legged son-in-law. Don't translate the question into a person! Think about Ukraine and the system, the system needs balance. This law ensures.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-21-m1.u69	Finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-21-m1.u70	balance of financial resources without populism and parasites on the printing press. Voting "for" means finally stabilizing the Ukrainian bracelet and stopping the bard from populism statements.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-21-m1.u71	Thank you. Victor Mikhailovich Pinzenik, please. Victor Pinzenic. Victor Pinzenic, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-21-m1.u72	The honourable chairman, the honourable national deputies, let's make two distinctions: the position of heads and the status of the institution are different things. I share many of the charges brought against the National Bank, but in this case the law is not about that. This is about the institutional capacity of the bank to carry out its main task: the stability of the national currency. Unfortunately, the situation in the country -- the National Bank became one of the main taxpayers in the budget, 65 billion dollars in the budget this year is to be paid by the National Bank of Ukraine. I would like to point out that the nature of the money coming out of the National Bank of Ukraine is smelly, and I don't want to use a second word. And in this situation, we must give the tools for the National Bank to be independent. Does this mean that the National Bank used it? No, it doesn't. But without the independence of the National Bank, it is impossible to talk about restoring stability. So I urge all my colleagues to vote in favour of both laws: both this one and the next one related to him.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-21-m1.u73	Thank you, Your Honor. I think we need to move away from emotion here, but we need to go to institutions and take a professional look at these draft laws. It seems to me that the position of two fellow national MPs – Sobolev and Pinzenik Viktor Mihajlovich – is completely professional, and it's about looking at 2743 today as a basis, working together with 2742, coming up with the right instrumental decisions that will allow for financial stability in our country. That's what I think is important. That is why I urge today to vote on the basis of this bill, 2743. Ladies and gentlemen, please prepare yourselves. Everyone, please prepare, Your Honor. 2743. I think we're about to make a signal vote. Without the signal? Vote. Okay. So please, colleagues, on the basis of this, I stress, on the basis of 2743: the draft Law amending the Ukrainian Budget Code on the Construction of the Institutional Capability of the National Bank of Ukraine. Please, Your Honor, vote, support this bill as a basis. Based on this, colleagues, based on 2743. Please vote, Your Honor, as a basis. Vote. [[17:04:07]] For 223 Colleagues, 223, lacked three votes. Let's go back. I see, I see, I see, I see. 2743 for the return. Concentrate, please, dear colleagues! Come into the hall, people's deputies. Please, 2743, return to this bill. What's more, it's about the foundation. One minute, one minute, one minute. Please, distinguished national MPs! Invite people's deputies. 2743: Draft Act amending the Code of Budgets for Ukraine to build the institutional capacity of the National Bank of Ukraine. Vote, colleagues, for your return. Please be supportive. Back to the draft law. Please, let's go back and take a look. Vote please, colleagues. [[17:05:17]] For 225 It's all better! Treyakov. I've seen it. To return. I see, I see, I see. For the return, colleagues, we vote. To return. 2743. I saw two deputies. 2743 for the return. Let's make it quick for the return. Vote please, colleagues, 2743. For your return, colleagues. Please vote. [[17:05:49]] For 213 All right, guys, let's do it again. Careful! Attention! No, attention, colleagues. Attention! Other national MPs have arrived. Come on, 2743. Are we focused? Let's vote for the return. Please vote. On his way back to 2743. Come on, fellows, let's back it up. Please support me. [[17:06:26]] For 223 That's better. Let's do it again. 2743. Vote. Please be supportive. Come on, let's vote for the return. [[17:06:49]] For 218. 218. [[B in m in s a l in]] Shall we make it to the committee, colleagues? There is another proposal to vote for the return. All right, dear fellows, we'll be right back. We have to go back to the study, don't we? You should. When we get back to the consideration, we'll determine what we're going to do next: either we're going back to work, or we're going to take the basis and we're going to work together. I don't see any problems here. There is an offer by Jaroslav Dubnevich to return to the vote because he failed. Well, we get it. Again, colleagues. 27, ready, right? Colleagues ready to vote for the return? We need to go back and see what to do with this bill. Please, Your Honor, return 2743. Please support the return to the consideration of this bill. Then we will determine what to do with them. 2743, please. 2743, this is a return, it's just a return, colleagues. [[17:08:52]] For 222 222, no votes, right? Let's get him back to the committee. Okay. There's a consolidated position of two factions -- the Peter Prashenko Block and the People's Front -- to return to the debate. Back to the discussion was announced by Ivanchuk and the Cubans. Let's get back to it. Come on, let's get back to the debate and now we'll talk about it again. Come on. Please. Otherwise, it will be difficult for us to continue working, friends, and there are many new laws that matter. Please, colleagues, we'll be right back, and then there'll be suggestions, well, what are you. We'll go back and there'll be suggestions. 2743, colleagues, prepared, calmed down, focused. 2743 for the return, and then I'll give you a chance. Then I'll give you a chance. To return. To return. We're going back. Now let's go back and figure it out. [[17:10:50]] For 239. Okay. We're back. And so from the factions, so Oleg Lazko, a minute. Offer. Well, they supported the offer to come back to that. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-21-m1.u74	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. Dear Volodymira Borisovich, honourable fellow MPs, the Radical Party faction will now support the bill to return to the committee for further work, instead, we ask the entire room to consider a bill on the restructuring of monetary loans -- 1558-1 for the next bill. It's a very important bill. That's why we're going to meet, we're supporting the return of the National Bank bill, the next on foreign exchange loans. Thank you. Vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-21-m1.u75	My colleagues, I would like to draw your attention once again that this issue of this law is about accepting it as a basis, not some other decision. And what's more, we took 2742 out of 2743. This is the first reading, not the second reading. If there was a second, obviously there's a table, there's a vote, there's no vote, there's a dot, there's a second read. This is about voting for him as a basis. Colleagues, using your offer, put 2743 to the vote as a basis. We're making a signal vote. On the ground! Based on the base. We're voting on the basis. Based on the base. This is a signal vote on the basis of the vote. [[17:12:57]] For 226 Decision taken. Now, let's vote on the basis. We're voting on the ground. We're voting on the basis. Please. We're voting for it, Igor! Vote, fellows! We're voting on the basis. [[17:13:22]] For 216 Again, colleagues. Please take your seats, colleagues. Are you busy? Have you calmed down? We've taken it and we've calmed down. There's just been a question about the vote, everyone hasn't been able to vote, I understand. Let's do it again for the return of 2743. Ready to vote for the return? We're voting for the return. [[17:14:14]] For 221 All right, colleagues, no votes. We move on: draft Law (Registration No. 2670), draft Act amending certain laws of Ukraine to improve legislation in the field of heating and housing services (2670). There's a proposal, it's a government draft of the law, to vote it out, to consider it as a reduced procedure. I'd like to make up my mind. [[17:14:52]] For 171 Decision taken. Please, Hennady Zubko, please, Deputy Prime Minister Hennaday Zubko.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-21-m1.u76	Dear National Deputies! I would like to turn to you about supporting the bill (2670), which amends three laws relating to the heat supply of residential services and the state regulation of the utility market. We had a whole package of bills that involved getting out of our housing market crisis in general, providing heat to enable businesses today to deliver quality services to economically-based services. There is a constant definition of a subsidy or a subsidy that prevents our businesses from working in the marketplace. And this applies to regulation in the internal market, why? Because you know that there's a lot of businesses and water and heat from international financial organizations today, and it's an investment that's being put into tariffs, but not putting them at an economically sound level doesn't make it possible to put them in the right financial situation at all. On the other hand, an international financial organization, namely the World Bank, as well as a Japanese government, is willing to fund in the form of unreturned 800 million aid in this area, with the support of heat and utility enterprises, in order to understand that these investments can undermine business returns and can be used specifically to reduce energy consumption and to improve the quality of services. That's why I'm addressing all the representatives of the Supreme Council, as well as everyone we've discussed this bill with, both on the committees and when we're looking at cooperation with the World Bank with the Government of Japan in support of this bill. I think this is going to be the end point in our negotiations to open up the market first.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-21-m1.u77	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-21-m1.u78	To open up the market for investment, the main thing is to make our citizens get the quality of services. Therefore, honourable national MPs, please support the whole. Because there's literally one sentence written in these bills. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-21-m1.u79	Thank you. Please, Alona Babak, deputy head of the profile committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-21-m1.u80	Dear National Deputies! The Committee on Construction, Urban and Housing considered the bill of government number 2670. This bill really aims to make it impossible to continue setting tariffs below the level of economic-based costs. And so it proposes to amend the three existing laws of Ukraine -- the Housing Services Act, the Heat Supply Act and the National Commission Act, which regulates utilities. We think it's the right step from the side of the government that will allow for increased investment in urban infrastructures and urban, populated sites. So we think it's worth supporting. But the committee at the entrance determined that the law was to enter into force no later than September 1, 2015. Why? Because today there is unliquidated debt to enterprises that provide water, water, and heat services. So if we prepare for the second reading changes and propose that it enter into force only on September 1st, and in this time that debt is repaid, which is today, we will create conditions for further normality. The work of these companies. In addition, we support the committee's endorsement of the Antimonopoly Committee, which said that it should be clearly defined, which means the level of profitability that is expected to be included in tariffs. Today, it is simply stated in the bill that profitability is being compensated. We think this concept needs to be clarified because we're dealing with monopolies. But with respect. These comments can be taken into account and processed in the second reading. That's why the committee's offering to accept it.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-21-m1.u81	Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-21-m1.u82	as a basis and prepare for the second reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-21-m1.u83	Thank you. "For" is "against", please two "for", two "against". Natala Krávsky.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-21-m1.u84	Respectable colleagues who are present, the “Opposition Block” does not categorically support the bill. And we're addressing the deputies in the session room with a proposal. The first thing to do is to introduce a moratorium on raising tariffs, and we need to stop being cynical about people today. What's going on now? The tariffs have raised, subsidies and the reform that the Government has promoted, have really failed, people are in line, subsidies cannot be formulated, errors in declarations. Please stop making fun of people. We therefore insist that the opposition bloc bill be first considered and that a moratorium be adopted on raising tariffs. Then they raised people's pensions and salaries. Without a review of the tariffs, it is in no way permissible to lift. Without revision of the social standards, tariffs cannot be raised. And the bill will bring the problems down again to local budgets, and then again people will be trapped by the crazy tariff prices that the Government is offering them today. We have appealed to the court, and tomorrow, the people's deputies, will be court-martialed. And people demand that the court order abolish these shameful tariffs. We therefore appeal to all: firstly to index pensions and salaries, to impose a moratorium on tariffs, to introduce an adequate subsidy system, to introduce an energy savings programme and only then to consider weighted, economically sound tariffs and to remove the colossal corruption that has been discussed here today. People make money on tariffs today. That is why we do not support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-21-m1.u85	Thank you. Please, Oleg Lazko, Radical Party.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-21-m1.u86	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. The Radical Party faction certainly supports all the bills aimed at implementing large-scale energy-generating programs for housing and utilities. Because the level that we have today, the absolute price and the tariffs that we have, is precisely related to the fact that we use an enormous amount of energy, that we heat the air in winter, that the pipes heat the snow instead of building modern boilers like this all over the world, instead of introducing a massive energy-generating country: the reconstruction of the weeds, the reconstruction of the heat line, the warming of the driveways, the windows, the doors, and so on. So we're going to support this bill. But at the same time, taking the opportunity that there is a Deputy Prime Minister in charge of housing and utilities, we have a question. We worked in a task force, representatives of our faction, after tariff cuts. And we've seen that there are ways to lower these tariffs. I ask, when will the government meet our requirements, when will the government meet millions of Ukrainian citizens and finally start a tariff reduction programme? We demand that the government take real steps towards lowering housing tariffs. We are asking the government to introduce a bill to Parliament that will allow for indexing, increasing wages and pensions for millions of Ukrainian citizens. Drug prices are rising, housing services are growing, food is growing, and wages and pensions are actually falling. By the first quarter of 2015, the budget was over 21 billion dollars. Give this money up to raise wages and pensions. Give this money for real tariff cuts and people will thank you. We're demanding.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-21-m1.u87	Sergey Eutuszek, Fatherland.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-21-m1.u88	Dear Volodymyr Borisovich! Dear National Deputies! Dear Ukrainian people! Just before the leader of the Radical Party there were representatives of the Opposition Block, who clearly testified that they wanted a moratorium on tariffs. So from April 1st, the fare is 7,200 Where do you want to pick it up? Where to go? 7.200 But not until then. According to the social warming in our society, in Ukraine, in terms of tariff formation, the Fatherland faction has led to the creation of a working group, which has been joined by all members of all the factions of Parliament. So it would be appropriate not to support this today. And we demand to do so! Not supporting this bill, but waiting for the conclusions of the working group, which will clearly justify and publish every element in this room, its economic justification, and then talk about tariffs. And you could also say that now you have to throw out a word of association like "the property of the tariff." What is the cost of the tariff? And this is the pay for the offices of such a corrupt monster as NAC Naftogaz Ukraine. These are their expeditions. All of this is part of the component tariff. That is why we demand once again immediately after the report of the working group, hearing here in Parliament's walls, only then to go to the consideration of such bills. And now we're going to postpone the debate in Parliament. Glory to Ukraine and glory to the Ukrainian people!
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-21-m1.u89	Rosenblatt Borislav Solomonovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-21-m1.u90	Dear colleagues! There is a good saying: Rich is not the one who earns much, but the one who spends little. Sadly, in 23 years we did not learn to spend as much money as we have. Today, Ukraine consumes gas three times as much as any other European country. Today the tariffs that we're talking about don't depend on the cost of the gas, they depend on the quantity that we consume today. I want to talk about something else. The housing and utility complex in our country needs a lot of energy efficiency at all. And today, despite our economic situation, Germany has allocated us 800 million euros. This money has to go just to raise the level and make the energy-generating of our businesses, our dwellings, all we really need. Today in our country it has happened that subsidies, and I know it, will not be enough. We pay them all equally. And instead of going to the job creation, they're just going to the incinerator or our, in general, neighbor who's fighting with us. I want to support the programs that the government has put together today, you know, to compensate 30 percent and 40 percent of OSBB for modernizing them. for energy efficiency programs. But for today, I have 40 applications in the district, and, Hennady Grigorovitch, I'm addressing you, 40 applications today from the OSBB, who want to upgrade today, but there's not enough money. I want to ask all my colleagues again, please support this bill. It'll give us a chance not to start talking at last, but to finally do the thing that we're here to do today. Make the Ukrainian people pay as little as possible for tariffs and utilities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-21-m1.u91	Thank you. Kodola People's Front. Turn on the microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-21-m1.u92	Alexander Kodola, Montenegrin, People's Front faction. Well, you know, respectable colleagues, a very important government initiative with this legislative act will provide the only approach to setting economically sound tariffs in the area of heat and water supply. This, in turn, will allow for rational planning of government and local budgets, especially to improve the quality of services, and create conditions for investment, development and technological renewal of heat and water systems. That's why the People's Front faction supports this initiative and calls on all colleagues to support and adopt this bill as a basis. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-21-m1.u93	Thank you. Please, Nasalik. Then there's the Picker. Then there's Lechchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-21-m1.u94	Dear friends, let's not mix tariffs and today's bill, because they're as far apart from each other as two different poles. However, in protecting the government on tariffs, the following should be said: (a) housing tariffs, not the government’s quarterly payment, but the authorities of local self - government. With regard to water, plumbing, and others, the government has nothing to do with this either, since a bizarre structure, called NCRE and KP, has been created. Today, we need to know how legitimate it is and why it creates such tariffs. That's how you ask the question. And you don't have to blame the government for what it's practically not involved in. Thank you. I ask you all to support this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-21-m1.u95	Thank you very much. Please, Snatcher. And then there's Lechchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-21-m1.u96	Dear colleagues, the “will of the people” faction supports the proposal of the “Paternity” faction that tariff-related issues can be considered only after the conclusions of the working group. In addition, we would like to invite representatives of the Ministry of the Interior and the Security Service to be heard in the working group, the working group. And look at how many cases are being set up today for money laundering for so-called leased TECs that are virtually all over Central Ukraine, and each problem has a name, a name and a father. We said in February that the Government was acting wrong, raising tariffs thoughtlessly. There is therefore a specific Deputy Prime Minister of Zubko, take a decision by the coalition: in two weeks, he will not make a proposal to reduce tariffs, make a proposal to withdraw it, and we will support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-21-m1.u97	Thank you. Please, Yuri Lewchenko. Turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-21-m1.u98	Lewchenko, Freedom, 223rd District, Kiev. Well, for the first time, it was said that there can't be tariffs below the economically sound level. And the people who say that, they get salaries and pensions, they get 800 dollars, 1,000 dollars, 1200 as the majority of Ukrainians? Or do they live in properties under Kiev and ride on Lexus? Maybe in this situation in the country and sometimes below the economically sound level, tariffs should be set and compensated by taxes on oligarchs. Haven't you thought about that? This is one moment. And second of all, it feels like you haven't read this law. And I quote you that it says, "Ensure a sufficient level of profitability." What is "sufficient level of profitability"? For whom is Ahmat’s level of profitability sufficient, and for another oligarch the level of profitability is sufficient? Is that what you want to vote on right now? So you can get an oligarhat of any kind out of your head and then take it from a poor Ukrainian? Have a conscience! Surrender!
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-21-m1.u99	If not. If we've finished the discussion, we've heard all the thoughts expressed by the people's deputies, and we can now put the committee's proposal on the ground. Yeah? So, dear colleagues, I ask you to come into the hall and prepare for the vote. The bill amending some of the Ukrainian laws on improving legislation in the field of heating and housing services, number 2670, is on the basis of the vote. Please support me. Vote. [[17:34:39]] For 190 The proposal did not receive the required number of votes. We have either an attempt to return or return the subject to the legislative initiative. Let's exchange thoughts, maybe how to act better. Return to the vote of the subject? Let's go back to the debate, if it doesn't work out, I'll put it to the vote, I'll return the subject to the legislative initiative. I remind you of Fatherland yesterday four times he passed your bill until he was accepted. So once again, I ask you, carefully to return to your seats and now we are voting once again for a return to the debate. So please vote in favour of the return of the hearing (2670), please vote. [[17:35:50]] For a hundred and Thank you. There are no votes needed. Then I make the next proposal under the Rules, to return the subject to the legislative initiative is the next position under the Rules. So I'm asking you very much, let's consistently support this proposal by checking that there are enough votes to work in the room. So I'm voting on the proposal to return the subject of the legislative initiative to the draft Act amending certain laws of Ukraine on improving legislation in the field of heating and housing services number 2670. Please support me. Vote, Your Honor. [[17:36:52]] For 232 Thank you for your support. The draft Law amending certain laws of Ukraine concerning the final beneficial owner of a legal person (2896) is now under consideration. There is a request from the rapporteur to consider it in a simplified manner. Please support the reduced procedure. [[17:37:56]] For 178. The reporter, Ukrainian national deputy, sells Oxana Petrovna, is invited to the floor.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-21-m1.u100	Mr. Andrey, thank you very much. Dear colleagues, now without exaggeration, hundreds of thousands of enterprises are in line to provide information about their beneficiaries. Bill 2698 was carried out by five factions and groups. He worked with the Ministry of Justice. I ask you very much to support and do two things: release them from the queue for another four months -- those who really have legal persons in the founders. And those who have solely natural persons should be relieved of their obligation to provide information about their beneficiaries. Please support as a whole. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-21-m1.u101	Dear colleagues, there is a proposal to support the bill as a whole. Me, too. There's no one who wants to perform, is there? (Noise in the hall) All of this, then I ask, to vote on the draft Law amending certain laws of Ukraine regarding the final beneficial owner (controller) of a legal person (number 2896) as a basis and as a whole. Please support me. Please vote, please support. [[17:39:34]] For 267 Thank you for your support. [[B in m in s a l in]] I would like to vote on the following draft Act: amending certain legislative acts of Ukraine (No. 2679). I ask the rapporteur to now vote in favour of the simplified procedure for addressing this issue. Please vote in favour of the summary procedure. [[17:40:30.]] For a hundred and Thank you. First Deputy Justice Minister Sevostyanov Natalija Ilarionovna is invited to the report. Please come to the rostrum, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-21-m1.u102	Dear colleagues, good evening to all. Once again, we're going back to this bill for the first time. He worked with all the representatives who were interested. To do that, I want to thank Oksani Prodan and the Self-Help factions who participated in the work of this law. Briefly about the novels that are offered. Shorten court decisions from 6 to 4 months. Launch electronic auctions on arrested land. Expand the circle of persons entitled to issue extracts from the State Land cadastre. Obligate arbitrators to disclose information about the debtor on a specialized website. [[B in m in s a l in]] Grant creditors the right to participate in the agreement of significant rights with respect to the debtor's property. This is a bill that will allow us until the end of this month. The organization that counts Doing Business ratings in the country raises to 13 positions in total. Each position is $500 million of investment in the country. We're currently in 96th position. It's a disgrace. Give our country the opportunity to make additional investments. Please support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-21-m1.u103	Thank you so much for the report. The report is invited – please pay attention! – Head of Economic Policy Committee Ivanchuk Andry Volodymyrovich. I'll have you in the rostrum. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-21-m1.u104	Dear Mr. Head! Dear National Deputies! Bill 2679 of the government is brought to your attention. We've been trying to simplify business procedures for the third time. You know, we need this bill to improve our rating on the world list of business economies, by simplifying business. The bill is also envisaged as part of Ukraine’s cooperation with the International Monetary Fund. On April 21, the Economic Policy Committee reviewed the bill and decided to recommend to the Supreme Council the adoption of the bill in the first reading as a basis. I would like to very much ask all the deputies to accept it in the first reading. And all the remarks that the MPs have, we can discuss in a professional way during the second reading. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-21-m1.u105	Thank you. Please sign in two for two, two against. Please log in. Please, Gerasimov. Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-21-m1.u106	Please pass the word to the People's Deputy Sold.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-21-m1.u107	Dear colleagues, Sir Andrew, we have considered this bill at a faction meeting and have decided not to support it because it is little different from the previous draft of the same bill. Unfortunately, this bill does not specify how electronic auctions are to take place, but there is no procedure. Regrettably, this bill provides for the creation of conditions for corruption in land allocation and design. Similarly, there are many questions about procedures that are envisaged regarding the work of the executive service. Therefore, we ask that we decide to put to the vote a decision on the return of the drafter to the draft. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-21-m1.u108	Thank you. From the People's Front, Berez Yuri Mikolaiovich. Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-21-m1.u109	Please pass the word Krishina Oleg Yuriovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-21-m1.u110	Dear colleagues, I do not think that this bill can be pushed forward. If we are to attract investors to the country, we must first and foremost create an appropriate investment climate for them. I call on all my colleagues to vote in favour of this bill, and I think that if anyone has any comments that this bill can improve, we will finalize the bill. Let us therefore vote and proceed to the vote for other important bills. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-21-m1.u111	Thank you. Pavlov Constantine Yuriovich. Turn on the microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-21-m1.u112	Dear Presidium! Deputies! Colleagues! You know, I want to address the members of the democratic coalition. Dear colleagues, now considering that you are creating an attractive investment climate for foreign investors, while you have completely destroyed the economy of the State and are not engaged, and do not even look at the need for consideration of Law 1558 by people under Parliament today. This is your attitude toward those who trusted you. We request that it be considered, now put to the vote (1558).
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-21-m1.u113	Please, Self-Help Bird Victoria Yurievna, from the rostrum, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-21-m1.u114	Dear colleagues! I had to go out to the rostrum because there was so much noise in the hall, and unfortunately. You know, our faction can't support this bill either because it doesn't, it's not about improving the investment climate. I would like to point out that the bill increases the mandate of the State Executive Service. And you all know what the situation is with the executive service. In particular, with regard to the State Executive Service, the Head of the State Executive Service has the right to self-detain from the arrested property if there is a breach of the arrest procedure, how can this be manipulated? It is possible to artificially executer of state, perhaps artificially disrupting the procedure of arrest, in order for the Chief of State Executive Service to change it in his simplified order by his one - person decision. So far, we have, I'm reminding you that this procedure is going on in court. We want to point out that when we give any government authority additional powers, there has to be a balance. If additional responsibilities are given, it is appropriate to establish an additional responsibilities, and we cannot support them. Similarly, as Oxana Prodan faithfully pointed out, an electronic trade procedure is being introduced. But it's not foreseen, at all, by the bill. That's why we think he is. The bill requires further work, and we are accordingly in favour of returning its subjects to the legislative initiative for further development. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-21-m1.u115	Thank you. Have they all given their thoughts? Also, please, Head of the rostrum. Let's get out of the way, Head, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-21-m1.u116	Deputies! Mikhail Golovko, the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union. I suggest that we not discuss the following bills, but simply vote to be able to vote 1558-1, because people are tormented all day and for months on the streets. They're practically getting them into a heart attack, into a hospital. Now some people are hospitalized. Let's hear it! The whole country stands on its ears. This is a bill that applies to hundreds of thousands of Ukrainians. And in the end, we have to go back to people's faces. I urge you, let's just vote to be able to look at 1558-1. Thank you. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-21-m1.u117	Please ask the Justice Minister for one more minute. Please enable the Minister of Justice.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-21-m1.u118	Good afternoon, dear fellows! Today is a very important day, for many decisions are being made today. We started the process of reforming law enforcement today. We're doing things today that have to do with improving the business climate. And, in fact, any of them. An assessment of the authorities ’ actions is how many jobs there will be, how many people will receive wages, how much they will be able to feed their children and their families. Rating Doing Vuses is a global rating that gives an index to every investor in different countries, whether you can come to that country or not. If we can make a decision to improve the country's situation by 13 points and actually invest $6 billion over the year, it's just a disgrace and a crime against the Ukrainian people, if we don't do it now. And when this bill was developed by public activists, experts in the community. And he went through the expertise, and they clearly said that he gives us a positive and gives us additional investment. You and I are about to enter into an incomprehensible discussion. I'd also like to ask you. There are a lot of laws that are needed: and those that deal with the restructuring of credits, and there are other bills still on the table, such as a bill on the judiciary, which allows for the abolition of our tax and law enforcement authorities when they make unfounded appeals to our entrepreneurs. We can't really deal with them right now because of these misunderstandings. I ask Parliament, please: vote in favour of this bill. And go to other bills, particularly Bill 2668, which deals with a court-martial that will take away the aberrations of our state authorities, which make unfounded lawsuits against our entrepreneurs. Dear Head, I ask that this bill be put to the vote now, as well, about the court assembly. This is a very important bill. Along with the ProDoing Business bill and all the other bills that are now requesting national MPs. You're welcome to work. We're asking you to work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-21-m1.u119	Dear colleagues, there is a proposal for the committee to take a stand. We will be able to make all the adjustments in preparation for the second reading. Dear colleagues, I will be the first to make a proposal to the committee, and I ask the deputies to support it. Please enter the hall, which is in the living room. Please prepare for the vote. Please, everyone in the living room, come into the hall. And I'm voting on a bill amending some of Ukraine's legislative acts (to improve the business climate in Ukraine), No. 2679 as a basis. Can I have your back, please? [[17:52:09]] For-136 Thank you. No number of votes required. I evidently make the following proposal under the Rules: To return the subject to the legislative initiative. Is such an offer supported, society? Please, Yuri Lucenko, one minute. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-21-m1.u120	Dear Mr. Head, distinguished national MPs! I propose to make a decision ad hoc on the subject of 1558-1, on which to exchange thoughts. And in order not to go out on the rostrum again, I mean. I and I personally advocated the adoption of this law in the first reading. Unfortunately, after that, instead of a professional review, the law was filled with populist slogans that were unacceptable to any economy. For example, counting credits at $5 is absolutely impossible. We talked about this with organizers and with the public, with professionals. Therefore, I propose that we consider Law 1558-1 and move it to 3 readings to the budget committee in the light of the controversial rules, as required by the budget. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-21-m1.u121	Thanks for the offer. But I want to remind you. Attention, in the hall! We have to finish our consideration of the previous question. And so I am asking you very carefully now, I am voting on the proposal to return to the subject of the legislative initiative the draft Law amending some Ukrainian legislation on improving the business climate in Ukraine 2679. Please support and vote: return the subject to the legislative initiative. Vote, Your Honor, please. [[17:54:21]] For 219 It's like they just didn't make it. All right, let's move quickly to the next question. I'll bet you a return to the vote. Please return to the vote. We're voting for the return, please. Please vote and support. [[17:54:49]] For 211 No number of votes required. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-21-m1.u122	Colleagues, we've heard Yuri Lucenka's proposal for consideration for. on consideration of 1558-1. Please offer Lucenka a moment. Please, Oleg Berezuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-21-m1.u123	Your Honour, Mr. Head! We have two laws that we need to consider today: the first is 1558 and the second is Law 2069-1. Dear colleagues! Since June 1, the first group will not be able to drive and is a crime. And so, Mr. Head, please continue the session to consider these two laws.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-21-m1.u124	Thank you. Dear fellow national MPs! I want to inform you that the government has decided to continue the course of the debt, so that's not the case, there will be no problem with the taxpayers, there will be no decision by the government to continue until the end of the year, so there will be no problem. Colleagues, there's a proposal by Yuri Lucenko, please, to vote on the proposal by Yuri Lucenka, please. [[17:56:37]] For 204 There was a suggestion to postpone the consideration, and now to start looking at it for the purpose of preparation, please concentrate. Colleagues, what you're yelling at is only absolute. Please, colleagues, there was an offer by Yuri Lucenka to begin a review of the draft law now under registration number 1558. Please vote. [[17:57:20]] For 262 Please, Your Honor. Dear colleagues, please invite the deputy head of the Committee on Financial Policy and Banking, Lavrik Oleg Vasilovich, to report. Ah, Sergey Fisherman, 1558-1. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-21-m1.u125	Dear colleagues! You all know how long thousands of people have been waiting to solve the currency loan problem. You can see mass rallying under the parliament and the National Bank. Some foreign exchange lenders have already begun to starve under the walls of the Supreme Council. The authorities have no right to resort to this problem for so long. Unfortunately, a memorandum signed by the National Bank and a number of banks is not mandatory. For the sake of the matter. It won't make things any better. Our Committee on Financial Policy and Banking has repeatedly called on Nazbank, Kabminu representatives, ministers and banks to find a compromise. We're sure we can make a deal, even with IMF representatives. I'm very sorry that all of our calls to the NBA and the government to work on this project, along with IMF experts, have gone unanswered. On April 9, you and I approved this document on our first reading. We worked on a lot of amendments on the committee, and a lot of them were removed. At this point, we have 54 proposals, 17 of them counted. A large number were held. A great deal of work involving representatives of the financial field and other representatives. Our committee believes that the solution to the problem of monetary lenders cannot be further delayed. The majority of the votes are recommended by the committee to adopt 1558-1 in the second reading. I want to emphasize that this is the opinion of representatives of all factions. The Radical Party faction will fully support this bill. And I would also like to add, if there is any opinion of our colleagues that there is a need for budgetary money to be allocated and solved, no amount of budget money is required, and a solution to this issue cannot be put in a long box.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-21-m1.u126	An important project. We can go to the repairs, but I think we should. Please, colleagues, let's do some repairs. Amendment number 4. Don't you insist? Five? Six? Seven? Eight? Nine? 9 is rejected. National MP Melniczuk, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-21-m1.u127	Dear Head, distinguished national MPs! The bill should be adopted, but I would like to say that the committee has not yet considered the amendment to the ATO, according to the ATOs. There are four children on the street, one of whom died in the ATO. And she's already been taken from her house. So the request is still going to fix the atoms. We've adopted a lot of drafts today that are lobbying some. industry, but we must always remember our people, first of all. So let's just keep our minds together and still accept this amendment bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-21-m1.u128	Please, it's a replica.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-21-m1.u129	I really understand that there are issues relating to ATO and that is really important. But let's look at this as a separate bill, because there are different opinions. For example, it's those loanholders that need to be credited. Private entrepreneurs are also included in this law. Therefore, I propose that we do not make this any more industry than we do now.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-21-m1.u130	Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-21-m1.u131	This is the decision of the Committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-21-m1.u132	10th Amendment, Melniczuk. Is he insisting? Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-21-m1.u133	I insist on this amendment. You can't put entrepreneurs and attachés in one of these. That's it.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-21-m1.u134	Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-21-m1.u135	Not exactly.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-21-m1.u136	So Melniczuk insists on this amendment. And that's why amendment 9 of Melniczuk's authorship is put to the vote. Please vote. [[18:02:53]] For-164 Thank you. Next amendment 10 Melniczuk. Is it insisting? 10th, insists? Turn on Melniczuk's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-21-m1.u137	He insists.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-21-m1.u138	Oh, the vote? Okay. Amendment number 10 shall be put to the vote. Will the committee comment? Attention! A representative of the committee, can you hear me or not? [[B in m in s a l in]] Can you be careful when considering? Are you going to comment on the 10th amendment or not?
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-21-m1.u139	Wait a minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-21-m1.u140	10 revisions.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-21-m1.u141	All right, we got a deal. For those borrowers who have taken loans in dollars, all are in the case of all physicists. If this person is an ATO participant, that is indeed true of course to him.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-21-m1.u142	So the position of the committee is supported, right? Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-21-m1.u143	We have 10 amendments rejected, because they're a person of preference. We believe that all individuals who today take credit, if they are participants in the ATO, are also subject to this law.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-21-m1.u144	Thank you. So continue to pay attention. The vote is amended as number 10, by Melniczuk. Please vote. [[18:04:16]] For 155 Thank you. I didn't get the required number of votes. Amendment 11 Kugel. Does Mrs. Kugel insist? Don't insist. 12th, Kugel. Don't insist. 13th, Kugel. Don't insist. 14th, Lensky. Does Lensky insist? No, it doesn't. 15th, Kugel. Don't insist. 16th, Kugel. Don't insist. 17th, Kugel. Don't insist. Three more to go, Kugel. Don't insist. 20th, Lensky. Don't insist. 22nd, Kirsch. Or insists. No, it doesn't. [[B in m in s a l in]] So 21 is counted.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-21-m1.u145	Declined.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-21-m1.u146	That's what it says in the document, 21st is Babak, "accounted for."
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-21-m1.u147	21st, I've got Kugel.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-21-m1.u148	Please comment on the 21st amendment, taken into account.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-21-m1.u149	21st, I have Kugel, and it's rejected, "It's expanding around the subjects to which the law applies." Declined. It's Kugel I got.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-21-m1.u150	Declined. Then Babak. Does Babak insist? Babak doesn't insist.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-21-m1.u151	21st Babak, accounted for. Let's get this confirmed.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-21-m1.u152	So I'm asking for the position of the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-21-m1.u153	The 21st amendment, we have 21st is Kugel. If that's what this is all about. Babak, accounted for.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-21-m1.u154	There is a proposal by the People's Deputies of Lechchenk to confirm 21 amendments.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-21-m1.u155	There's an offer for confirmation. Set it up?
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-21-m1.u156	Let's put it on confirmation.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-21-m1.u157	21st Amendment to Confirmation.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-21-m1.u158	So Babak is the 25th Amendment. What are you giving me? 25th. Well, you do. Look at this. 21 amendments to me is Kugel. The cone is rejected. [[18:06:22]] For 114 Not accepted. Next. 22nd.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-21-m1.u159	Cooge.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-21-m1.u160	Kirsch, 22nd.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-21-m1.u161	Declined.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-21-m1.u162	Don't insist. 23rd. Don't insist. 24th. 24th.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-21-m1.u163	Let's put it on confirmation, I have different data, let's put it on confirmation.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-21-m1.u164	The 25th amendment is not. We'll all get through. 26th Levchenka for confirmation.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-21-m1.u165	Lechenko, or Lensky? Let's get this confirmed.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-21-m1.u166	Please, Lechchenka, I say, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-21-m1.u167	Thank you. Lewchenko, Freedom, 223rd District, Kiev. Like the 21st amendment, and the 26th amendment that we're now asking for confirmation is that it's impossible to write in this law right now for a second reading, that if you restructure people, they might want to raise interest rates, because that completely nullifies the essence of this law. People restructure their debts, and then they get 10 times the interest rate, and what do they get out of it? They won't get anything. Therefore, let us place this amendment on record, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-21-m1.u168	Dear Mr. Head! If there's such a desire to put on confirmation you're going to put, but we're taking into account on the committee that it's going to be an average rate, not a fixed rate. Stand by for confirmation.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-21-m1.u169	Please, 26th, for confirmation. 26 amendment for confirmation. [[18:08:23]] For 181 This amendment was not found. Let's move on. 27th.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-21-m1.u170	28th, Gordjeev, does Gordjeev insist? Don't insist. 30th, Kugel, don't insist. 31st, Kugel doesn't insist. 34th, Kugel doesn't insist. 37th, Head? See if the Head insists.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-21-m1.u171	Don't insist.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-21-m1.u172	The head doesn't know if he insists. I've got it, I've got it. Would you comment to the committee, please?
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-21-m1.u173	Let's put it on confirmation.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-21-m1.u174	First a minute head, yeah.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-21-m1.u175	Come on, Head.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-21-m1.u176	Yes, let him explain the point of his proposal and then the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-21-m1.u177	Ladies and gentlemen, I would ask you to put my amendment into account. The substance of this amendment is rejected, but I recommend that it be voted on. Because it still offers the responsibility to divide and take over the government, the government, and the Nutzbank and the lenders who gave these loans. So put it on the stand.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-21-m1.u178	Dear colleagues, the committee's decision was that the bill was not a burden on the State budget. That's why we turned it down. If there is a question, we can insist. [[B in m in s a l in]] The state budget won't hold if there's more pressure on it. He will make a commitment on this matter.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-21-m1.u179	Thank you. Amendment 37 of the authorship of the People’s Deputy Golovka shall be put to the vote. Please vote. [[18:10:23]] For 124 Thank you, I didn't get the required number of votes. The 38th Amendment, Kugel, does not insist. 39th, Kugel, doesn't insist. 40th, Kugel, don't insist. 41st, Kugel, don't insist. 43rd, Melniczuk. Does Melniczuk insist, 43rd? Don't insist.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-21-m1.u180	Is that the whole ATO? Yes, Mr. Melniczuk?
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-21-m1.u181	43rd. Do you need to explain your position? No, it's not. The committee is required to explain?
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-21-m1.u182	There's no need.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-21-m1.u183	Then I'll put it to the vote right away. 43rd amendment of Melniczuk's authorship. I ask those who support it to vote. Please. [[18:11:13]] For 131 Thank you. 44th, Melniczuka. Is he insisting? 44th. Does it insist? Melniczuk insists. Give him a minute. Microphone, please turn it on. Melniczuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-21-m1.u184	Dear colleagues, I want to remind you that we need to vote on this bill. And with the enthusiasm that we're looking at right now, and as the number of deputies in this room is gradually decreasing, well, we can just take this bill to a dead end. And the ATOshniks who are at war will be left without adequate benefits, and they will be asked to support this amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-21-m1.u185	Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-21-m1.u186	Dear colleagues, once again, the position of the committee: this law applies to all individuals, including those working in the ATO zone.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-21-m1.u187	Thank you. Thus, amendment 44 of Melniczuk’s authorship is put to the vote. Anyone who supports it, please vote. [[18:12:34]] For a hundred and Thank you. 45th, again, Melniczuk's correction. Is 45 Amendments Urged? Don't insist. 46 amendment, Gordjeev. Is it insisting? Don't insist. 47th is Kugel. Don't insist. 48th is the People's Deputy Levchenko. He insists. Please turn on Lechchenko's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-21-m1.u188	Lewchenko, Freedom, 223rd District, Kiev. Society, this law is very right, if we do approve it, but there is one point that this amendment is trying to correct. The point is that it does not yet apply to those who have already restructured their debts before the law was passed. Accordingly, they could do this on very unfavourable conditions for them, and they lost a lot. So my amendment allows that if a person has already restructured his debt, after entering into force of this law, he has the right to restructure it, according to the rules of this law, so that they are all equal. So please support the room for this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-21-m1.u189	As a result of this amendment, esteemed colleagues should return the money to those lenders after the revaluations. So the committee rejected the decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-21-m1.u190	Then we have 40. 46th, 47th, 48th, 49th. 48th, Levenchenko. Please confirm. With the support of this amendment. [[18:14:31]] For-126 I didn't get the required number of votes. Next. 49. Don't insist. 50, accounted for. 51, don't insist. 52nd. Don't insist. 53rd, don't insist. Counting 54th. Don't insist. We only have 52nd Head left. Please, 52nd Head Michaela.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-21-m1.u191	Deputies! The point of this amendment is as follows. You know that many people today have lost their homes because of court decisions that have failed to pay off their credit commitments. Thus, according to this amendment, these decisions must be annulled. So I urge you to support, to support the entire law as a whole. Because hundreds of thousands of Ukrainians today expect this from us. So please do not be indifferent. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-21-m1.u192	Dear colleagues! You all know that we respect this law and we need to vote on it. But to reverse the court’s decision, the committee decided that this was unacceptable. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-21-m1.u193	Are you insisting on 52nd? Don't insist. Colleagues, we've had 21 revisions. Please, Alona Babak.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-21-m1.u194	Ladies and gentlemen, 21 papers were taken into account by the committee and I would insist on taking it into account. Why? Because the point of this amendment is that we still have to restore some justice, a balance in terms of people who took credit in bracelets today because they pay today at market rates for loans in bracelets. It was suggested from the beginning that interest rates for those who now took loans in foreign currency should be paid at the same rates in foreign currency today. Well, you guys, you don't. If we're transferring loans to the bracelet, the rates should be the same as the market rates in the bracelet. So there was a proposal that there should be interest rates of what is on the market today, but there is a clear limit: not above the average rate of borrowing of financial resources, as determined by the National Bank of Ukraine on the date of implementation.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-21-m1.u195	Thank you. This is Amendment 21. She's just not. They just didn't count it.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-21-m1.u196	Let's put this amendment to confirm that it's really an amendment that was not included in the transcript, but there's a question for representatives of credit and society. Let's put it on confirmation.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-21-m1.u197	Colleagues, we have to go back to 21 amendments because it wasn't voted on. Who's in charge of getting back to the 21st Amendment? Please vote in favour of the 21 amendments. We heard the argument. On returning to consideration of the 21 amendments. [[6:17:44]] For-174 They didn't get the necessary amount. Okay. Thank you. Dear colleagues, we went through this decision in the second reading, in the Committee's version of the second reading. A proposal is made for the second reading of the draft law 1558-1. In the second reading, please vote on the second reading. [[18:18:18]] For 227 Dear fellow national MPs, please give me a minute, a minute, a minute! We commended him on his second reading. Now there are a number of comments that have not been taken into account, including colleagues, which means that I have to put Yuri Lucenka's proposal to the vote for the third reading, to take into account the proposal. Now we put it in, and in the second reading we praised it. Now the proposal is to approve it as a whole in the way it is, but many amendments have not been found in the committee's version. Is that understood? Please, then, in general, please determine the vote on. In general, determine the voting on the whole, colleagues as a whole. Please. About the whole thing. [[18:19:45]] For-191 No, I didn't. Wait, there was an offer, attention, colleagues, it's a very important law, we don't have the right to lose it on the road, and you realize that. Be responsible, therefore, was the offer of Yuri Lucenka, who was supported by the deputies to send him to the third reading. Colleagues, just a minute. One minute, colleagues, you listen to me. Stepan of Cuba, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-21-m1.u198	Dear fellow MPs, today the MPs have demonstrated their responsibility, and we have seen it in voices. But besides wanting to solve this question, when we talk about foreign exchange loans, especially the majority deputies, when they go to the districts, they also have to understand about currency deposits. Me and Yuri Lucenko, members of the Ukrainian National Bank, representatives of the Finance and Banking Committee, formed a working group, and we held legal consultations and meetings accordingly. Today. [[B in m in s a l in]] Ma'am. [[B in m in s a l in]] Thus, there is today a specific proposal made by Yuri Lucenka, who is in the following. In order to make the difference, tens, hundreds of billions of dollars, must be the source. I propose, thesis first.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-21-m1.u199	Let me finish, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-21-m1.u200	Thesis one.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-21-m1.u201	I'm sorry, Stepan Ivanovich. Please don't yell up there, let me speak to the deputy.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-21-m1.u202	Thesis one. From the representatives of the profile committee, the lawyers of the National Bank of Ukraine, the Association of Commercial Banks, also invite an initiative group and expand the lawyers that worked with us today, and we see the result. Take into account the 56 axles that many of us have been completely professional today, and work on the document, and send it to the third reading room, and take it to the session room. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-21-m1.u203	Dear fellow members of the national MPs, the offer has come. Calm down! Calm down, I'm telling you! Please come up with an offer that might be a consolidated proposal. The question is that we should approve of him in the second reading. In the second reading and in general, he did not get the number of votes. There is an offer that we have just heard to send it up for consideration in the third reading. And I'm going to put this proposal to the vote. So as not to lose this law. Well, there's actually no votes to vote on it in general right now. You want to lose the law? All of it! Calm down. Please be sure. Vote. Right on to the third reading of the law. Please vote. Correct for third reading. You'll bury him now! Please vote. On the third reading according to the law. Please vote for the third reading. Now, if he doesn't, then the law is no longer approved. [[18:23:32]] For-167 The law is not approved, my friends. [[B in m in s a l in]] Friends, friends, friends, colleagues, respectable colleagues! There's another offer. To vote him in general, I got it right, didn't I? Once again, I got it right, didn't I? All over again? Please identify yourself in your second reading and in general. Please. Wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait. There is an offer to return to the consideration of it as a whole. It didn't pick up the number of votes. Please, dear fellows! Who wants to go back to the second reading of this project as a whole? Go back to the study, go back. Please. In general, we did not accept it. It's about coming back. [[18:24:42]] For 202 None. Do you want to do it again?
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-21-m1.u204	To return. To return to consideration in the second reading. Look, we're coming back now, we've accepted it on second reading, then we've accepted it, I've put it to a second reading vote, and in general, it hasn't gotten a number of votes. I've got to send for a third reading. I didn't get the number of votes. Now we have to go back to the second reading. Please. And I'm going to put it all over again. Please vote. Vote. As for the second reading, now. [[18:25:31]] For 257 We're back. Now let's give it a minute from the factions. Please, Oleg Lazko.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-21-m1.u205	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. Ladies and gentlemen, I'd like to reassure you all: Act 1558-1 on the restructuring of foreign exchange loans that we have adopted in general. Read the Rules! In accordance with the Rules of Procedure, only individual articles can be directed to the third reading. Since you and I voted 227 votes in the second reading, we did not determine which articles for the third reading, let the Legal Office of the Supreme Council tell you -- the law is passed in general. And no one needs to worry about it. If we have not sent him to the third reading, the law is not rejected, it is adopted in the second reading and in general. Mr. Head, sign!
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-21-m1.u206	Thank you. No, colleagues, I actually respect Oleg Valeriovich, but he told you a lie. In fact, he was accepted only in second reading and should be accepted in second reading as a whole. Am I right, Secretariat? Right? That's right. So, Oleg Valeriyovich, I'm sorry, but this is an attempt to overthrow the law. Please, Stepan Kubi.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-21-m1.u207	Dear fellow MPs, we've made 85-90 percent. If we don't vote to create a working group and return on the third reading, we're going to shut down all of this work that we've done. I'm asking each of you that the task force will allow you to study the revisions, find the source, solve the issues and the currency deposits that today have the same problem and then solve the issues in general. Please support Yuri Lucenka's words and suggestions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-21-m1.u208	Thank you, colleagues! Please, Andrew Ivanchuk People's Front, please. Ivanchuk People's Front.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-21-m1.u209	Dear Sir, your head! Dear National Deputies! Ladies and gentlemen, welcome to the Supreme Council! I want to remind you what we did right now in the second reading: very many amendments that form exactly the law that people demand and are not included in. The People's Front therefore supports these amendments as a result of the third reading of the bill. And I ask you, Mr. Head, to put a bill on the third reading.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-21-m1.u210	My colleagues, in fact, I think this is completely objective. Please, Oleg Berezuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-21-m1.u211	Ladies and gentlemen! In our person of the country’s superior legislative body, the State must learn to correct mistakes and to bear responsibility. These are the mistakes of the governments of 2006-2007-2008 when the states responsible stopped allowing banks to issue loans because they expected economies to fall. And today, Canada, Switzerland, Germany had no crisis or crisis. That is why nations today have to take responsibility in our person, we vote on the law as a whole, and if it is already voted on, someone has to be responsible for us standing here and cheating people.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-21-m1.u212	Thank you, colleagues. So the language goes as follows, there's two proposals: one that's announced, we're back in general if we don't get the number of votes now we put on the third reading. All of it. We're voting in general, who's in favour? In general, in the second reading. Although I agree with the fact that many rights are not counted. In general, in the second reading, please. Let's vote. [[18:30:15]] For 184 Thank you. Dear colleagues, let's not break the files, but let's do a nice job so we don't. You listen to me carefully so that I don't lose this bill right now, I understand what's going on to help real people, not from the rostrum to talk, I'm making an offer to send it to third reading, to take into account all the suggestions that have been made to make people easier. Get ready or you're about to overthrow this law. People are waiting for this decision, and I would ask you to support it if you can't vote in general, send it out for a third reading. Please vote in third reading. Let's vote, colleagues. Correct for third reading, colleagues. Please support this proposal. [[B in m in s a l in]] I'll give you my word. Please send for third reading. [[18:31:18]] For 172 Colleagues, 1672, no decision taken. Do you know what's going on? Now the law will be broken. [[B in m in s a l in]] I'm officially telling you that the law has not been passed in general. And I'm stressing that you want to break the law by your actions right now -- you can't do that. There is a perfectly reasonable, compromising offer to unite the hall now. I think that would be the right thing to do. [[B in m in s a l in]] Prepare him for the third reading by the reduced procedure, take into account all the suggestions and make the decision in the hall. So, what are you guys talking about? Otherwise, we're going to take it all down now, and people are waiting for decisions. Well, why? Let's go back to the third reading, we're going to vote for the third reading. Preparation for the third reading by the reduced procedure. Please prepare, please vote. Let's support it. Let's support this, this is going to be a normal decision. We have to support the people. [[18:32:35]] For 249 That's right, there is. 249. In fact, the people on the balcony who are filming: if we didn't make that decision now, the law would be rejected. I just need to know the procedure. And one more thing. Those corrections that the colleagues said were not taken into account, so they were failed. And that law you put in the hall, it would be very different now. You must consider this, my dears! Please, Yuri Lucenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-21-m1.u213	Your Honor, gentlemen of the MPs! When saving a certain category of people, we should always think about the country. But I now propose to vote further in the text of the third reading decree also another very important thing for people. A moratorium on eviction from the homes of all those who have foreign exchange credits to adopt the law as a whole. I think this proposal should satisfy those who have suffered and move banks to compromise as quickly as possible. Mr. Head, I'm sorry to interrupt the procedure, but I'm asking you to make this amendment to our order.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-21-m1.u214	Colleagues, I propose that Yuri Lucenka make a separate decision. Will you support me? Do you support this decision? Please, Oleg Easy, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-21-m1.u215	Dear fellow national MPs! I want to remind you that we voted with you in Bill 1610, where a moratorium on evicting people was established. The President vetoed this law and, unfortunately, we did not beat it in the Supreme Council Hall. So, as we support the proposal to introduce a moratorium on evictions, this must be done not by decree but by law. You don't make decisions like that. It's a fraud. It's a decision. Only the law! As we did in the case of 1610. As far as voting for this bill is concerned. Let's do that, because Parliament has adopted 242 votes for third reading, if you think that it has not been accepted as a whole, although I think that second reading vote was a general vote, but Parliament has already adopted it. So let’s work on it soon, take it out and adopt it as a whole and the moratorium, and the Loan Restructuring Act! Problems need to be solved, not hidden from their solutions.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-21-m1.u216	Guys, look, we're gonna study this proposal, hear Yuri Lucenka's offer. Listen to people not to be evicted from their homes, and this is the right thing to do. If it's legal, we'll take the law, but it's important. One more thing I would like to say, across the country, is now to quote a few articles of our Rules, honourable friends of the national MPs. 123 Article “Decision on the outcome of the second reading of the bill”. Item 1. Adoption of the bill in the second reading and commission of the Main Committee. What is the result of the decision and commission of the committee to prepare it for the third reading. [[B in m in s a l in]] Listen. A rejection of the bill. Deviation, you listen. You listen to me. Rejection of the bill, adoption of the bill in second reading and in general (which has not been done), adoption of the bill in second reading, with the exception of separate chapters, chapters, articles and so on (what has not been done), return of the bill to the Main Committee and so on. That is, there is in the third article 123, the issue of the adoption of the bill in the second reading and in general, which we have not voted on. So I welcome the fact that political ambitions have not allowed anyone to lose this important bill. One. Second position. I welcome the fact that today Parliament has jointly voted to send it to the third reading on a reduced procedure. This means that all the proposals that are there for him to actually start working can be taken into account. So I urge all my colleagues from what my colleague, our colleague Stephen of Cuba, has said to unite immediately, today, tomorrow and to work on this law so that it does not go out in such a way that 170 to 180 votes, but that we approve it by the necessary majority and it really helps people. Thank you, Your Honor. At this meeting of the Supreme Council, I declare closed.
