ParlaMint-UA_2015-10-08-m0.u1	Please enter the hall, prepare for the start of our work. I ask the secretariat of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to inform the deputies of the beginning of the work and ask the heads of factions to call the deputies into the Chamber. Good morning, distinguished national deputies and guests of the Supreme Council! People's deputies, please prepare for registration. I'm asking the national deputies to come into the hall and prepare for registration. Dear colleagues, if you'd like to register, please include the registration. [[10:06:09]] There were 281 deputies registered. Thus, I declare open the morning plenary session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Dear colleagues, today is the day of the lawyer. Dear lawyers, please accept the warmest greetings on the day of your professional holiday. Perseverance, Success! And we're moving on to our agenda. The first bill we have is Bill 2382a, a bill amending some Ukrainian legislation on payment to the court. Number 2382a, submitted by the President of Ukraine. And there's a request from the reporter that we consider it as a reduced procedure. So please, colleagues, come into the hall again, prepare for the vote, and please support the proposal by the rapporteur, Stepan Kubi, to consider the issue of a reduced procedure. Ready to vote? I ask you to support the consideration of the reduced procedure. Please vote in favour of the summary procedure. Please, everyone, please take part in the vote, we vote. [[10:08:12]] For-98 Thank you. Dear colleagues, once again I ask everyone, I see that not everyone has voted, not everyone has reached the workplace, not everyone has yet entered the working atmosphere. That's why I'm calling again and asking the MPs to come into the hall. Dear colleagues, you will be able to speak to the government after the vote. Once again, I ask everyone to prepare for the vote. Ready to vote? So once again, I'm voting on the summary procedure of the Presidential Bill 2382a. Dear colleagues, may I vote in favour of the reduced procedure of 2382a. Please vote. Please take part in the vote. [[10:10:06]] For 118 118 – no decision taken. Dear colleagues, we have a very important day today, we have a whole package of visa liberalisation laws, and I'm asking you to adjust to active and productive work. Now, once again, I'm going to make a proposal for a reduced procedure, if it doesn't work, we're going to go over the full procedure, but it's going to put a whole range of very important issues at risk, we just might not be able to deal with them. I want to remind you that on October 20, there is an interim report by the European Commission on visa liberalisation, and for us, every vote and every bill is very important. I ask the deputies once again to prepare for the vote and take up the job. Whoever's in the towers, please come into the hall. I ask the factions to call the deputies into the Hall and ask the faction secretariat to announce the beginning of our work. Dear colleagues, may we vote? I ask you to prepare for the vote, and I put once again to the vote the motion for a reduced procedure of 2382a. Please vote, please support. Vote, summary procedure, vote. [[10:12:25]] For-127 127 is "for", no decision taken. Let us turn to the full procedure of Bill 2382a. I invite you to the report of the President of Ukraine on the Supreme Council of Ukraine, Mr. Stepan Ivanovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-10-08-m0.u2	Dear Mr. Head! Dear colleagues! Your attention is drawn to the draft Ukrainian Act amending some Ukrainian legislation on payment of court fees (registration No. 2382a, dated 16.07.2015, introduced by the President of Ukraine and defined as urgent. Under the Ukrainian Law on Amendments to Certain Legislative Acts on Payment of the Court of Justice since 22 May 2015, the authorities of the Public Prosecutor's Office, the authorized persons of the Fund for Guarantee of the Investment of Natural Persons, the Antimonopoly Committee of Ukraine, the Ministry of Justice of Ukraine, the public organizations of persons with disabilities, the veterans of their enterprises, institutions and organizations since 1 September 2015 are exempt from the payment of aid to the court. Not only can it make it difficult, but in some cases it can also block the work of the state authorities in protecting the interests of the State, but it can also prevent the Fund from guaranteeing the investments of individuals in protecting the rights and legitimate interests of bank investors, ensuring an effective procedure for the withdrawal of insolvent banks from the market and the liquidation of banks. Moreover, the provisions of that law will make access to justice more difficult for public organizations of persons with disabilities, veterans, businesses, institutions, and organizations. In view of the bill introduced by the President of Ukraine, it is proposed that the authorities of the Public Prosecutor's Office should be exempted from the payment of the court's fees in the exercise of their powers, the authorized persons of the Fund to guarantee the contributions of natural persons, the Anti-Monopoly Committee of Ukraine and its territorial department in matters that are decided on the basis of legislation on the protection of economic competition and legislation on the conduct of public procurement. The Ministry of Justice of Ukraine has filed claims for damages caused by the State budget of Ukraine as a result of the execution of decisions of the European Court of Human Rights against Ukraine. Public organizations of persons with disabilities, veterans, their businesses, institutions, and organizations for lawsuits that they apply to court. The project also proposes to amend the procedural codes accordingly with a view to harmonizing their rules and rules of the Law on the Judicial Assembly in the area of the exemption of persons from payment by the court for filing an application for review by the Supreme Court of Ukraine of a judicial decision in the event of the establishment of an international jurisdictional institution recognised by Ukraine. violation of Ukraine’s international obligations by the court. In view of the above, I ask you to support the legislative initiative of the President of Ukraine to pay the court and accept it. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-10-08-m0.u3	Thank you. Please remain in the rostrum. I'm asking you to sign up for a question to the reporter. Please record the question. Please. Husak Vladimir Georgievicz, "The Opposition Block".
ParlaMint-UA_2015-10-08-m0.u4	Please pass the word to Deputy Dudenkov.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-10-08-m0.u5	Thank you. President of the Supreme Council of Ukraine! In fact, you have registered a bill that is not positive enough for society, because in no way does the bill, apart from the exemption from payment by a court of civil organizations of persons with disabilities, bring any positive meaning to the community of ordinary citizens. Instead, what do you suggest? All you are proposing is that the public authorities be freed from the payment of the court’s fees. I have a question. Why don't you introduce a bill that would change the disgrace that has entered into it, effective as of September 1st of this year, to increase the size of the courtroom for ordinary citizens, to increase the size of the court council for appeals, to file an appeal, to appeal? By nearly 50 percent, you have increased these judicial congregations for ordinary citizens. Will the President take the initiative? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-10-08-m0.u6	You know, it's a question that really gets resonant in society. But I want to deny your question, which is where you started, because public organizations of disabled people, veterans, businesses, institutions have also turned, and these are the corresponding citizens and voluntary associations of citizens, the law has no improvement in the full sphere and any proposals that will be studied by the committee, and the President of Ukraine will be taken into account accordingly to improve the process. No law can exhaust all the problems that society is facing today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-10-08-m0.u7	The same as Ostap Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-10-08-m0.u8	Please pass the word to Oleni Sotnik.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-10-08-m0.u9	Thank you. In fact, I have this law that raises the only question. Tell me, please, what time are we going to create an inequality of property, an inequality of organs? By what time will the State authorities actually use the possibility of filing a lawsuit free of charge without any liability? I think that, first of all, this law doesn't hold equality, it doesn't follow the principle that other government authorities, by the way, don't get fired, actually, they don't get that opportunity. I want to know, what is the principle that you're going to do with these state authorities, and why are they getting rid of them? How will you guarantee that they will not abuse this right? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-10-08-m0.u10	The first is that the committee and the committee responsible for the initiative by the President of Ukraine take the best wishes into account for today. And these are the structures that are defined, these organs of the state, which are properly accounted for today, depending on the possibilities, because we're talking about the budget. And the second block I spoke of today is that it is the social organizations of disabled people and veterans, who are voluntary citizens’ associations, that take the position into account. I realize that the law is not perfected in the maximum plane, but it has considered the maximum possible solution to today's issues. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-10-08-m0.u11	Kugel Alexander Volodymyrna, last question.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-10-08-m0.u12	Dear Mr. Stephen, I thank you for your opportunity to ask a question, but I would like to emphasize the previous speakers. That's what voters are talking to every MP today. Please tell me, have you analyzed these references today? The President's, I think they are, too. Today no one, for example, is now in Dnipropetrovsk's Dniproenergo shut down -- and for a week there is no water in some areas. How can people go to court? The minimum cost of referring to a court is 1,000 500. Where can they take it when it's enough of a decent pension? I understand that if we were to say with you that the Antimonopoly Committee could apply to all of the Ukrainian representative public bodies, then maybe there should be a 50 percent discount. I think we should take it on the first reading. But what I want to tell you is that our faction will vote in the second on just one condition: when the stake for humans is reduced. And please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-10-08-m0.u13	Mrs. Alexander, thank you. Indeed, questions are vital to society today. The position has been studied because the appeal of a fellow MP from the Hall has just been discussed before the adoption of the bill on the committee. And taking into account the decision taken and the committee to recommend adoptions in the first reading, it will allow further comments to be learned and taken into account in the voting of the law as a whole. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-10-08-m0.u14	Question time's up. And I invite the head of the Committee on Legal Policy and Justice, Prince Ruslan Petrovich, to report. Please, Mr. Knazevitch.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-10-08-m0.u15	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Honorary colleagues, as instructed by the Head of the Supreme Council on 16 July 2015 by the Committee on Legal Policy and Justice at its meeting on 26 August 2015 respectively under Protocol No. 30, the draft Act amending certain legislative acts relating to the payment of court fees submitted by the President of Ukraine further considered the bill. According to the explanatory note, and once the President's representative has transferred the basic bill, I only recall that it was designed to create legislative conditions to ensure that the authorities of the Public Prosecutor's Office and the authorized bodies of the Fund guarantee the contributions of individuals, the Antimonopal Committee and its territorial departments, the Ministry of Justice of Ukraine, the protection of the rights of persons with disabilities and veterans, and to ensure the exercise of the electoral rights of citizens. In order to achieve this objective, it is proposed to amend the Law on the Judicial Assembly to clarify the list of entities to which the benefits of non-payment by the court are still extended, complementing part of the first article 5 of this Law with new paragraphs 6, 20, which are intended to be exempted from payment by the higher public authorities, as well as organizations of persons with disabilities, veterans and their businesses, institutions and organizations. The project also proposes to amend the Procedural Code accordingly in order to ensure that their rules and rules of the Law on the Judicial Assembly are reconciled in part of the exemption of persons from payment by the Court of Justice for filing an application for review by the Supreme Court of Justice in the event of the establishment of an international judicial body of jurisdiction recognised by Ukraine, a violation by Ukraine of international obligations in a court of law. In considering the bill, the committee came out of this. Under the Basic Law of Ukraine, a system of taxation, taxes, and congregations is established exclusively by law in Ukraine. This is part two of article 92 of the Constitution of Ukraine. In accordance with the Ukrainian Law on the Judicial Assembly, the legal principles governing the administration of the judicial assembly, the payers, the objects and the size of the fees of the court, the order for payment of the payment of the payment and the return of the court. In terms of the principles of proportionality, legal certainty and social justice, it is considered appropriate to propose; and, taking into account the special status and conditions of social protection of disabled persons, veterans as a retirement category of citizens, appropriate and worthy of support. There is a proposal to complete the list of reliefs from court fees in all courts by such entities as public organizations of disabled persons, veterans, associations, and other associations of social organizations, enterprises, institutions, and organizations of disabled persons and veterans. Also in view of the new Procuratorial Act, the primary function of representation in the civil court is the discharge of the public prosecutor's organs from the payment of a court order for the performance of their duties. The exemption from the payment of the court fee of the authorized person of the Fund to guarantee the investments of natural persons in cases involving the temporary administration and liquidation of the bank will create additional guarantees for the proper protection of the rights and legitimate interests of bank investors in the courts of different institutions without the inclusion of additional budgetary resources, the inclusion of an effective procedure for the withdrawal of insolvent banks from the market, and the liquidation of banks. In this context, it should be noted that the Fund for Guaranteeing the Contributions of Individuals in its letter to the Committee supports its acceptance as a whole. With a view to prejudiceing the non-rational costs of the State Budget General Fund, it is proposed to exempt the payment of the Court’s fees to the Antimonopoly Committee, its department, and the Ministry of Justice from filing claims for damages incurred by the State budget, which will allow for a greater efficiency of the late work of the designated public authorities, taking into account the specific tasks and functions. At the same time, the committee points out that any exemption from payment by public authorities from court fees will result in a slight decrease in the level of judicial funding. It is therefore appropriate at the legislative level to point out that the comprehensive nature of the list of entities being held by the judicial congregation and to foresee the inability to extend such an extension to the credit categories of the parties to the trials. The absence of an indication of the completeness of the payment of the aid to the court may in the future result in an inextricable expansion of the circle of such entities that will free the court from payment. Although the principle of equality of the parties to a legal proceeding established by the Constitution does not preclude the granting of appropriate benefits at the expense of the court. Inadequate funding of the judicial system from the state budget is like this. is to be partially compensated for the redistribution in favour of the judicial authorities of the budget, which is paid in the order of the court, including in disputes where the subject of the proceedings is the subject of authority. At the same time, the Committee on Legal Policy and Justice notes that, despite the release of individual state bodies from payment, the State must provide funding at the proper level for the functioning of the courts and the activities of the courts. In view of the individual comments on the content of the project, the Chief Scientific and Scientific Administration believes that the bill can be adopted as a basis. On the basis of the Committee on Legal Policy and Justice, it decided to recommend a draft proposed by the President to amend the legislative acts on the payment of court fees. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-10-08-m0.u16	Thank you. I'm asking you to sign up for a question with a co-rapporteur. Please hold the recording. Alexander Kugel.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-10-08-m0.u17	Good afternoon! I want to tell you, first of all, that we don't support you in the part where you give an explanation about the percentage of women in the party lists, you don't have the right. And to understand that you are now under the supervision of the entire female sex in Parliament. And secondly, you have the same responsibility, the same responsibility for extending the bill to raise the judiciary. Mr. Ruslan, I respect you very much as an expert. You're a very decent man. Give us a word here, that, with your head, if we support you in the first reading, on the second reading, you will take seriously and we will discuss the question of lowering the judicial congregation for the population. Because we put them in a position to defend ourselves. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-10-08-m0.u18	Can I answer that? Well, first of all, I want to disprove public information about the fact that, as if I was present at the Supreme Administrative Court, I was giving some kind of demonstration and these demonstrations affected the position of the court. I was abroad at that time. I have, like, an alibi. My presence there was a great idea of some women who must have exercised control over my activities. But I'm glad they're tracking my movements, too. But essentially. Mrs. Alexandro, paradoxically, in this case I fully agree with your position and explain why. There may still be some aspect of this problem that has not been explained today, but it is vital. The main objective of the adoption of the Law on the Judicial Assembly, when we eliminated the benefits in general, was to have equal access to justice. And this is from the International Monetary Fund's point of view, because this law was a beacon, it was going to double the court's revenue to the budget. But we do have a problem that, given the rate rise, the number of applications and complaints to the courts fell sharply, and we didn't decide.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-10-08-m0.u19	How long? Please, 20 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-10-08-m0.u20	We essentially didn't solve that question. Therefore, when we consider the matter in the second reading, we need to consider the matter quite thoroughly. Because, unfortunately, it wanted as much as possible, and it worked out as ever.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-10-08-m0.u21	Thank you. Please, Sergey Leschenko, Peter Dusty Block.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-10-08-m0.u22	To fulfill my colleague's words that "under the special supervision of women," I pass on the word of Natalia Novak, the faction of Peter Prashenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-10-08-m0.u23	Dear Russian Petrovich, indeed, the bill is very important. And that's my question. Look, after all, the judicial congregation has been greatly enlarged, and we have narrowed down access to the common population, to the judiciary. Given that our state is not yet legal, this is an important enough time for us to review the rates of the judicial assembly for the population. And the second. How do you feel about putting local authorities on the list and freeing them from paying the court fees? Why? Because the city of Kiev, when it is robbed — land, municipal property, illegal construction — we must support local self - government authorities so that they can defend their rights. Sadly, local authorities today do not have such funds. Is that why you feel this way?
ParlaMint-UA_2015-10-08-m0.u24	On the first question, let me not answer anymore, I've just voiced my position, I'm supporting logic, I have to work on it. My friends, let me explain in one sentence why, as far as I am concerned, the President has taken such an initiative in Parliament. We have deprived, all without exception, of the public authorities, of the benefit of access to the judiciary. But as a result of the implementation of this law, we have seen that, for example, a whole range of bodies that, through appropriate referral to the court, filled the budget, and we in other articles of the budget were filled out, for example, by the Deposit Guarantee Fund. Now, given the impossibility of accessing the court, it's just that these findings don't work, and that's why there's some distortion. So does the Antimonopoly Committee, and so does the other organs. In view of these considerations, certain organs need to be isolated. And as for what you're saying, my position on perspective, I think the most correct option would be to put enough expenditure in the budget for each year to carry out these powers with all, without exception, the organs. But if there is a need to consider it specifically.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-10-08-m0.u25	Please, 30 seconds, finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-10-08-m0.u26	Because by way of, you know, decentralization of the budget, they have some funds in their local budgets that they could redirect. If you feel that you need to discuss this in more detail, I do not personally deny it.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-10-08-m0.u27	Thank you. Question time's up. Thank you, Mr. Ruslan. And now please sign up for the factions, and please record. Barna, Peter Dusty Block, turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-10-08-m0.u28	Dear friends, this bill will enable us to create and provide conditions that will prevent any obstacle to the protection of the interests of the state and healthy economic competition, which will reduce corruption risks and allow us to lose goods. In addition, it protects the interests of social organizations of people with disabilities, veterans, and their businesses. And it will also allow us to remove any obstacles to the judicial protection of the interests of Ukrainian citizens, especially investors, through the funds to guarantee the investments that ensure the return of assets. So I ask my colleagues to vote on this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-10-08-m0.u29	Thank you. Please, Kugel.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-10-08-m0.u30	Dear colleagues, we understand with you and we support the President in part of what really appeals to so many community associations to fight the monopolies. It's primarily monopolies that we're here with you on the pain, it's on the tariffs; it's monopolies that operate in different markets: it's both fuel, it's also cigarette sales, it's liquor. But you and I have always stood in the defense of the Constitution. And the Constitution states that all property rights are equal. And we can't create that we've raised the citizens to inability to defend themselves, anyone, the police are going to pin you down -- you can't turn. Security, IRS, firefighters, yes, their 67 bodies that all work against us. And we can't go to court because there's over a thousand 500 bucks. Please tell me if we let the Antimonopoly Committee and other state authorities judge us for free and take our last cents. This is a violation of human rights and we have no right to do so. The "Fatherland" faction proposes to vote on this bill in the first reading, but we warn that before the second reading, this bill will not be voted if an article of the Constitution is not implemented on equality of rights and we will not protect our electorate with you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-10-08-m0.u31	Thank you. Nechayev Alexander Igorovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-10-08-m0.u32	Please pass the words to Dusk Alexander.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-10-08-m0.u33	Debt.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-10-08-m0.u34	Dear citizens of Ukraine! Dear colleagues! I would like to draw your attention to what is currently happening in the plenary room, what is the coalition currently doing to support the bill? In some ways, yes, it's positive, but it's positive, unfortunately, percent by 10. The other remainder, the 90 percent, is negative what is now being proposed? It is now proposed that the authorities of the Public Prosecutor's Office, the authorized persons of the Trust Guarantee Fund, the Antimonopoly Committee, the Ministry of Justice should be released. This is the next step in the so - called policy of shaping available justice, which has been initiated by effective authorities. What was the first step? And the first step is the changes that were made in July this year to the Ukrainian Law on the Judicial Assembly, which took effect on September 1st of this year. What is the point of these legislative initiatives? And for good reason, I asked this question to the representative of the President of Ukraine. What is now in the hands of a valid authority — the interests of ordinary citizens or the interests of authorities — such as prosecutors, the Ministry of Justice, and so forth, when they turn to judicial authorities? It has to be noted that in July, dragons, antisocials, unconstitutionals were introduced, I'm not afraid of that word, changes. There have been substantial increases in the size of the court’s case when the first instance is brought before the court. There were significantly increased court hearings (if there were 50 per cent, now 110 per cent), a cassation complaint (if before 75 per cent, now 120 per cent) that the Supreme Court had a hearing (if there were 100, now 130 per cent). So on the face of 30 percent minimum, as a minimum, increase in the size of the courtroom. Would it be easier for ordinary Ukrainian citizens to adopt this bill? Probably not. So the faction of the Opposition Block, concerned with this problem, registered Bill 3174, which returns to, as in the previous edition, reduced rates of the court to create, not in words, favourable conditions for an adequate size of the court, which could be paid by ordinary citizens. I would also like to draw attention to the current coalition, the government and the President, that when drafting legislation on the judiciary, in fact tax disputes were likened to property disputes. At the time of tax evasion, substantial amounts are now added. And as a result of these changes in the judicial congregation, sadly, taxpayers are deprived of the possibility of filing administrative appeals to administrative courts. Because they have to pay one and a half percent of the price.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-10-08-m0.u35	Ten seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-10-08-m0.u36	From the price of the lawsuit, and that's what we need to correct. So the Opposition Block faction calls for lowering the size of the judicial assemblies, not for the authorities, but for ordinary citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-10-08-m0.u37	And the last performance, Zubak Lubomir, Self-Help is delivered by Olena Sotnik. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-10-08-m0.u38	Dear colleagues, I'd like your attention. In fact, the question is really important. Because look what we're doing: we initially created a level playing field for everyone to defend our rights in court. To this day we know that the State is not a proper defender of human rights. I think all the people who are listening to us right now can confirm that clearly. We create prerequisites for the state to continue its pressure on people. As an excellent example: Look, we have introduced 1.5 percent of the law to challenge tax notices and decisions. This means that if the tax returns, for example, for a company of 2 million dollars to be charged, this company has to pay one and a half percent of that amount to go and charge this tax return. Today, in the face of an economic crisis, this is a huge sum for most businesses. So we're giving the opportunity to destroy the still-increasing business in Ukraine, and at the same time we're allowing some other bodies, like the Antimonopoly Committee, to push this business. In addition, we give, for example, the Ministry of Justice of Ukraine free of charge in an unlimited number of cases involving decisions of the European Court of Human Rights, and I remind Ukraine today is unfortunately a negative record of failure to implement these decisions, many of them. So by this bill, you and I are further strengthening the terror of the state against people, we are not premeditating the protection of a person in a court of law. So the Self-Help faction insists that this bill can only be adopted in the first reading, on just two basic pretexts: first, we reduce people's rates in court, and secondly, we reduce those rates for business, because business cannot compete with tax today, it's finally pressing it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-10-08-m0.u39	Thank you. I'm asking you, colleagues, to enter the Chamber of Deputies. Wait, now. I ask you to come into the hall and prepare for the vote. Now from the factions, we're still Sergey Melniczuk, and that's where we end up with factions. Please, Sergey Melniczuk, turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-10-08-m0.u40	People's Will Group, Sergey Melnichuk. Yeah, it's a very interesting bill, but all you have to do is leave public organizations, associations, and the government authorities have to get out of here. Because in view of what's being taught here, in fact, the government authorities want to step away from the responsibility that there are patriots in the S.I.S. and prisons, and those people who got there on purpose, well, for whatever reason. And the public authorities want to move away from this. So you have to go into traffic -- increase these amounts for them, and then each official will be able to answer for that. I think there'll be a lot of feedback calls and everyone has to answer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-10-08-m0.u41	Thank you. So now we have the final word of the reporter, the co-rapporteur. I ask first of all to give Ruslan Knyazevich and ask him to step into the hall again, prepare for the vote. Ruslan Knyazevich from the rostrum, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-10-08-m0.u42	Thank you. I still want to put some emphasis on it. I may have misinterpreted my position to the end or may have been misunderstood. With regard to the Ministry of Justice, the language goes the other way around – if a citizen has won a decision before the European Court of Human Rights, then the Ministry of Justice is freed from the possibility of representing a citizen in the Ukrainian courts for the execution of decisions by the European Court of Justice, that is an important thing. Not like you said, instead, against the execution of the European Court of Justice, read the law. Secondly, Mrs. Alexander can't hear me, but the Antimonopoly Committee, he has nothing to do with actions against citizens, he does a little bit of work for others, let's take a look at his constitutional powers. And the third is about the Attorney General's Office. My friends, I'll remind you that in parallel with the drafting of this law, we have drafted a new Law on Public Prosecutions, in which we have deprived the Public Prosecutor's Office and written that it can only be done through representation of citizens' interests in the courts. And in order for her to exercise this kind of authority, she needs to be able to do it by granting the right kind of aid right in this part, in order for her to fulfil the requirements of protecting citizens, not against citizens, as she has just been told. So let's be correct, let's finish reading what's in the bill. Let's vote on the basis, and I promise you, before the second reading, we will have a comprehensive and professional, serious committee discussion that will allow us to adopt this law in general, taking into account all the interests and positions that have just been expressed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-10-08-m0.u43	Thank you. Now, Sergey Mishchenko, one more minute. Stepan of Cuba. Please, Sergei. Please turn on the mishchenkov microphone for the performance.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-10-08-m0.u44	Sergei Mishchenko, 98th District, Kyivshina. Well, you know, when the Law on Raising the Congregation for Our Citizens was passed, I told the committee that this issue would not be resolved and the budget would not be filled, because people don't have the funds to pay these dragon trials. This is the same question as tariffs. It's just that people aren't going to pay for these congregations -- and the budget, so it's not going to be implemented and it's not going to increase. What do we propose in this bill? We're proposing the "sorok-woron" principle: I gave it to you, and I didn't give it to you. So some authorities will be entitled to benefits and sue dozens, hundreds against people, and others will not have that right. Yeah, maybe we'll go back and change the essence of this law, lower the stakes for people and the government.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-10-08-m0.u45	Thank you. The final consultations have been concluded, and I ask for the closing word of Stepan Kubeva, and please come into the hall. And prepare for the vote. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-10-08-m0.u46	Dear colleagues, you know, first of all, thank you for the constructive presentations by the representatives of the deputies. The other one. The constructive proposals made by Fatherland and Self-Help, given that these are the Presidential Initiatives and the Presidential Bill, which is submitted as an urgent one, will be passed on. Given that this is the first reading, please support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-10-08-m0.u47	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I ask you to prepare for the vote. I'm going to put the vote on the ground now, but taking into account the constructive proposals of Self-Help and Fatherland. Please prepare for the vote. Please enter the hall, take up jobs, colleagues of honor. I ask the factions to call the deputies into the hall and prepare for the vote. So I'm betting on the vote. So the first signal is to see if we've mobilized enough. So, the draft Act on Amendments to Certain Legislative Acts of Ukraine on Payment to the Judicial Assembly (number 2382a), with proposals for Parenthood and Self-Help. Signal vote. Please take part in the signal vote. Let's vote, colleagues. [[10:48:58]] For 212 So I'm asking more deputies to come into the hall. The potential is high, but it's not enough. As long as the MPs come in, please, 30 seconds, Kugel. 30 seconds, Kugel, and please come into the hall.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-10-08-m0.u48	Dear National Deputies! In fact, there's a proposal from the President, but I think we have a parliamentary-presidential country, and we can decide with you right now, if we put in the bill on the first reading the interests of the people too elected here, we say that we are voting in the first reading, taking into account the proposals of "Fatherhood" and "self-help" in the section of the review of the court for the population and in the portion of the tax ruling that wrote a half percent for the business, which is just destroying it. It's our right to adopt a bill. And so I'm asking the chairman to put it to a vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-10-08-m0.u49	Thank you. 30 seconds, head of the Knyazevich Committee. And I'm asking the deputies to come into the hall who hasn't come in yet. Please, Knyazevich, 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-10-08-m0.u50	Mrs. Alexander can't hear me. But what I'd like to say is that we don't understand what it means to write something like this. There's no editing. When it comes to the fact that two factions are willing to vote if such conceptual ideas are perceived and implemented when the law is passed in the second reading, I'm in that position. But now redrafting the first reading can only be done by replacing the subject of the President’s legislative initiative. Parliament cannot do that. Friends, let us do as provided by the Constitution and the Rules. There's a second reading. I guarantee that these two conceptual things will necessarily be discussed and made the decision that everyone will make. I just said that from the rostrum. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-10-08-m0.u51	Thank you. So, once again, we're going to have a signal vote. The chairman of the committee promised that these initiatives were involved. I ask once again to take part in the signal vote on the draft Act amending certain legislative acts of Ukraine 2382a. Please vote. We're voting 2382a. [[10:51:19]] For 202 Please. No, there's not a lot of votes needed to make a decision. Let's go to the next bill. Let's leave this one. Is there anyone else I can talk to? I, company, will do it again. But I'm going to do it the way the Rules allow. The draft is adopted as a basis between the first and the second readings. Introduces. And the committee head promised that these amendments would be introduced. I'm going to vote again. Please come into the hall. Once again, the bill amending certain Ukrainian legislative acts on payment to the court (2382a) was voted on as a basis. Signal vote. Please take part in the vote. Please vote. Please. [[10:52:33]] For 208 Not enough voices. We will vote later, after discussing the next question. [[B in m in s a l in]] Dear colleagues, well, let's follow the Rules, then let's vote now. Then please, colleagues, step back and prepare for the vote. Please, Lucenko, 30 seconds. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-10-08-m0.u52	Dear Chairman, distinguished national MPs! I'm proposing a bill. And just to understand that the Self-Help faction doesn't support it, that's all! Said one wise man, "There's nothing worse than formal justice." Yes, you can say formally, put these costs into the budget and you don't have to vote for it right now. But the real city can't fight the MAFs, the prosecution can't fight the violators. Because, you see, someone has a formal right! With what we welcome the Ukrainian people and move on.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-10-08-m0.u53	Your proposal to put it to a vote, Mr. Yuri, right? Please, the reporter for Stepan Kube, your proposal.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-10-08-m0.u54	Dear colleagues, we are moving to a practical and legal level. What is more, today is a lawyer’s day, with which we welcome all lawyers and lawyers. We can write many articles today, but each article is budgeted. We realize today that war is coming, we realize that $5 million is being valued, and we understand the other side, the Rules. According to the Rules, the President of Ukraine made an appropriate proposal. We are right between the first and the second readings to take into account the proposals of both Fatherland and Self-Help and the right of the President's legislative initiative in the second reading on the basis of the Committee's consideration and the rules of procedure, to set up the proposals. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-10-08-m0.u55	Thank you. Beresuk, one minute, and we'll go to the vote. Please, Yegor Sobolev.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-10-08-m0.u56	The first thing the Attorney General can't and what he can do is ask two national deputies. The name of one is Kluev and the name of the other is Mosiyczuk. When the Attorney General is unable to do so, there is a fine way to sign for the resignation of the Attorney General. Self-help supports the ideas of laws that allow citizens to exercise the right to a fair trial. But to do for the prosecutor's office, for tax purposes, for the antimonopoly committee in their present form the right to write a thousand complaints and then make a profit on their closure, we won't.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-10-08-m0.u57	Thank you. So I'm betting on the vote. Everyone please come into the hall, the discussion is over, company. I ask you to come into the hall and prepare for the vote. Dear colleagues, we discussed everything we could discuss under this bill. So I ask you to prepare for the vote. And I'm voting on a draft law amending some of the Ukrainian legislative acts on the payment of court fees, number 2382a, on the basis of a proposal by the committee on the basis. Please vote. Vote, Your Honor. [[10:57:00]] For 217 Is there someone who has not been able to vote, or are we putting off and leaving? [[B in m in s a l in]] There are those that haven't arrived. We'll try to get back, society, if there's not enough votes to go back, we'll just put it off. Please allow me to return to consideration of 2382a. Please prepare for the vote and vote in favour. Please vote for the return. [[10:57:58]] For 205 There are no votes needed. We're moving on to the next bill. The bill is considered to be rejected. The next bill, 2506a, is a draft law on organs and persons who enforce judicial decisions and decisions by other bodies. The rapporteur is Minister of Justice of Petrenko. And I ask you to vote in favour of the summary procedure. Please support the proposal for a reduced procedure. Please vote. [[10:58:43]] For 177 Decision Adopted I invite you to report to Justice Minister Petrenko Pavel Dmitrovic.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-10-08-m0.u58	Good afternoon, distinguished national MPs! Let us from this rostrum welcome all Ukrainian lawyers to a professional festival, a festival of justice, legality, and the rule of law. Plato once said that extreme injustice is to seem fair without being so." And in fact, the main task of the state is that it defends justice through the judicial system, through a guarantee for every Ukrainian that when he gets a court decision, he will do it exactly, and directly through the court's decision, justice will be restored in one case or another. Unfortunately, over the course of the 20 years, the Ukrainian State does not fully fulfil this constitutional duty, and so there are real examples and real statistics when only 20 percent of the decisions taken by Ukrainian courts are actually implemented. It's a mad figure, and it's really a problem that concerns all authorities, all institutions of power. In this regard, a large, wide - scale working group was formed that included representatives of the legal community, the public, the Ministry of Justice, and Parliament. And on the site created by the President of the Judicial Reform Council, we have worked out a number of laws that relate to reforming the system of enforcement. The main objective of this reform was to ensure that a Ukrainian citizen who had obtained a court decision, having undergone very complex bureaucratic procedures, had been given many months of court hearings, could get the right and guarantee that the decision would be implemented. I would now like to present to you two major complex laws relating to the reform of the enforcement system and the Enforcement Act itself. We've taken the models that are in the countries of the European Union, we're cleaning up a lot.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-10-08-m0.u59	Please, 30 more seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-10-08-m0.u60	We're cleaning up a lot of bureaucratic procedures that are defined in the current legislation, we're introducing a mixed system of court decisions, and we're introducing a private executive institution. I want to dispel two basic myths right now: the private performers' institute is in no way the introduction of any collectors. Private executives, as well as private notaries, will make judicial decisions in business. Second, these socially sensitive issues and socially sensitive decisions, such as social benefits, such as.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-10-08-m0.u61	Please, 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-10-08-m0.u62	As issues related to family disputes, questions related to the implementation of decisions regarding the State will be dealt with by governmental executives. I'm asking you, let me get some simple statistics. When Poland and the Baltic countries introduced a private executive institution, the level of enforcement of judicial decisions and the level of justice in this system increased at the same time. Nearly 80 percent of all court decisions are now being made in Poland. I would like us to vote on these historic laws and today.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-10-08-m0.u63	How much longer, Minister? One more minute, please. Turn on another minute, please let him speak, let him finish the minister.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-10-08-m0.u64	So that we can adopt this package of laws and finally put in place a system of judicial reform. You and I have a lot of work to do, which is to reform the courts and the judiciary directly. These tasks need to be changed to the Constitution, but we can now improve the lives of Ukrainians in making the decisions they get. I believe that we are working on these laws before the second reading, together with all the factions of the coalition, but it is now very important that we adopt them in the first reading and start this reform, so that the requirement for the adoption of these laws is one of the requirements of the International Monetary Fund to obtain a new tranche. But that's not even the main thing. The main thing is that we will really change the lives of Ukrainians and improve their right to a just decision and to execute that decision. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-10-08-m0.u65	Thank you. The co-reporter, Head of the Committee on Legal Policy and Justice, Knyazevich Ruslan Petrovich, is invited to the floor.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-10-08-m0.u66	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues, I'm very sad that we're at the front of the law, which, to me, is completely technical, we've spent how much time and we've discussed it fully. And now this law, which, to me, is, well, extremely revolutionary -- it's a really historic moment -- we're in a reduced procedure, in two minutes, once, we're taking it further. And no one cares, no one even listens to what's going on. I'm basically two words. The thing is -- indeed, the minister of justice said, I don't know if they noticed -- we have a huge statistics on the execution of court decisions. We feed the rear not only in Europe but also far among other continents. This stat -- it wanders in different settings, but it rarely exceeds, there, 10-15 percent. Frankly, the institution of private contractors is a requirement of Ukraine after the signing of the Association Agreement. Sadly, we were forced to mature only upon the demand of our European partners. But, thank God, we approach it. And there's nothing to be afraid of. An active effort should be made to implement this institution, which has had unexpected effects on European and many other countries, while increasing the possibility of enforcement. Indeed, I will not repeat what the minister has said. It's only about farm things, it's about business. There's been so much talk here today that we're in trouble. It is the initiation of such an institution that provides opportunities such as private notaries, private contractors, to protect business interests. Therefore, the committee is fully unanimous in its support of this idea. He proposes to adopt this bill as a basis. And in the second reading, taking into account the suggestions that have been made today, I am convinced that we are going to make an extremely important historic mission in Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-10-08-m0.u67	Thank you. Please sign up: two pros, two against. Please record. Ivan Krulko, "The Fatherland" faction. Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-10-08-m0.u68	Please pass the word Shkrum.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-10-08-m0.u69	Scum, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-10-08-m0.u70	Colleagues! Good for you, colleagues. Well, we really agree that the execution of court decisions is the most painful problem. In fact, we have a pathetic absolute performance statistic, 20 to 15 percent. But this problem needs to be solved in a complex way. We need to talk about reforming the judicial system and reforming the state executive service. Minister, you understand very well that we leave, not only do we create a private executive institution, but we also leave the state executive service. At the same time, Mr. Minister, I am addressing you, and while the state's performers remain on the same rights, they have different access to professions. Some criteria for private performers are serious, qualified exams, work experience. You don't change it for government contractors, and state contractors don't do it. In doing so, I point out that there is now a major reform of the public service. So when we talk about government officials being assigned to the competition, government contractors are government officials. And you leave for everyone the selection and the assignment, and the release from the competition. So far, you've left it in the law and you've put it in the law that the government's executives are older, ordinary -- they're all appointed and relieved of their position as chief of the Chief Field Administration of Justice, no competition, and no qualified exams. So why are we making a new institution but not reforming the old what we have left? And I'm also pointing out that the science and expertise department said to turn this bill back into work. There are things that cannot be fixed in the first reading. Well, for example, why do you divide it into two laws instead of one on executive conduct? Why do we now consider the law and consider the following? Why do you also want to put private executives' fees under the control of the Cabinet of Ministers, and the Cabinet of Ministers will determine the pay? So we have a lot of warnings, a lot of observations. Let's talk about this in detail. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-10-08-m0.u71	Thank you. Sidorovich Ruslan, Self-help.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-10-08-m0.u72	Dear friends, this bill has gone through a very serious and thorough process of preparation at the level of the expert environment, at the level of involvement of various experts and international, and certainly there is something to work on. Yet, I want to pay attention to the following thing. This is a very serious fundamental reform. It should not be considered explicitly for a reduced procedure. Because we've gone to prepare this bill for a reduced voting procedure, we can't either have a full relationship with the minister of justice or have a full relationship with the committee that discussed it, the bill. And all the positive points contained in the bill are actually left out of the session room. This bill certainly needs to be supported in the first reading. But I am addressing the chairman of the plenary. I ask you very much to return to full consideration. a full consideration of the bill so that we can bring to all the people's deputies who are the subject of the bill. Because it's not just the introduction of private executioner institutions, it's those changes in the status of state contractors. So that we can figure out where there's a valid criticism from the Fatherland representatives and where it's groundless. In order for us to be able to make a decision, consciously and consciously, and to vote, in fact, in favour, with an awareness of what adjustments we need to make to this bill between the first and the second readings. And one more thing. There will be no need to support the simplified preparation procedure for the second reading. The bill must go through all the steps required by the Rules to prepare for its adoption. But we will support him in the first reading. Once again, please return to the full procedure for the consideration of the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-10-08-m0.u73	Thank you. From the Opposable Block of Sphen's Dmitry. Turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-10-08-m0.u74	Dear colleagues, I support previous speakers that this bill cannot be dealt with in a categorically concise manner. Yes, executive work is not just bad, but disastrously bad. Reforms are urgently needed. But the bill essentially legitimizes collectors. In addition, reductions are planned in all public services and also in the Executive Service. The bill created two problems at the same time. First, we will reduce the number of executives and make them unemployed. Secondly, we will create a paid executive service, and citizens will be forced to pay considerable amounts to implement the court's decision. I mean, we're actually legitimizing bribes. Our reform faction. But against those who lead to even greater problems. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-10-08-m0.u75	Litvin Volodymyr Mihajlovich, "Will of the People".
ParlaMint-UA_2015-10-08-m0.u76	Dear Chairman, dear colleagues! We're joining up with proposals made by factions. That system laws, whole laws, obviously have to be considered in full procedure. In order for both national deputies and society to understand what they are talking about. Now essentially the bill is being proposed. Bill 2506a needs to be considered in close, in conjunction with the next law on executive conduct. It is evident that the introduction of such a law is evidence that the authorities have signed up in their powerlessness to ensure that the conduct is carried out. With regard to the introduction of private court officials. This looks like it's legally attractive. But apparently there is a threat that the state, when it signs in its powerlessness, employs collectors, legitimizes such a racket. So it's obvious that the law requires serious work in preparation for the second reading, so that all the risks that exist and talk about are simply destroyed. That's why it's an offer. When considering the adoption of this bill and the following, it is only on the first reading, without a reduced procedure for preparing it for second reading, and a broad discussion to avoid the risks posed in this bill. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-10-08-m0.u77	Thank you. So, respectable colleagues, from the non-faction Mishchenk, turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-10-08-m0.u78	Dear colleagues, if this law is adopted in this way, you realize that private executives will be used by people who have money. And the average person will go to a government performer who, unfortunately, does not perform his duties today. Now, we've consulted our colleagues today, and what is the point that the amendment to this bill, and we've come to the conclusion that it would be very nice, would be a nice readjustment that would sound like, "The instrument for the performance of its functions as a private notary is a baseball bat, a peach, a pate and a crowbar."
ParlaMint-UA_2015-10-08-m0.u79	Thank you. Hence, all those who wanted to speak. I'm asking the people's deputies to come into the hall, and I'm asking them to take up their jobs. I'm asking you to ask the deputies to come into the hall and take up jobs. I'll put up a vote first. I am voting on the draft Law on Organs and Persons who Force the Enforcement of Decisions and Decisions of Other Authorities (2506a). Signal vote. Please take part in the vote. [[11:14:25]] For 234 Thank you. I'll put it to a vote. Please come into the hall and prepare for the vote. The draft Law on Organs and Persons who Force the Enforcement of Decisions and Decisions of Other Bodies (number 2506a) on the Basis. Please vote for base 2506a. Vote. [[11:15:04]] For 246 Decision taken. Thank you. Colleagues, we move on to the next law of the day, the draft law on executive conduct (2507a). Dear colleagues, I will again make a proposal for a reduced vote. There are warnings in the room, so I very much ask you all to make a decision while voting carefully on this issue. On the one hand, we have extremely important bills, and on the other hand, we have an extremely important agenda, where we have a huge number of laws on visa liberalisation, without which on 20 October we will not be able to go through the interim report that we have to have. Therefore, this proposal will be made, but let each member who decides to take the vote take the stand on his own. Thank you. So I'm voting on the proposal to consider a reduced procedure bill of 2507a. Whoever supports this proposal, please vote. I explained to the hall, let the hall be defined. [[11:16:42]] For-167 Thank you. But, as the Head of the Supreme Council has said, anyone who wants to make a statement will be able to speak during the discussion, anyone who wants to have a word and give his suggestions will be able to make a statement. So I invite you to the report of Justice Minister Peter Dmitrovic. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-10-08-m0.u80	Dear colleagues! In fact, this bill is directly related to the previous bill. They were developed in a complex way. And I am grateful to many of the national deputies who are now in the room, who are members of the relevant working group. I also agree with Vladimir Mikhailovich's position that before the second reading without any short procedures, this law needs to be worked out, discussed on committees and, indeed, went to the final version of extremely high-quality, complex laws. Because these laws are actually going to define the system of execution of court decisions for many, many years in advance. These are not dotive laws that are technical in nature, these are laws that define new philosophy and new approaches to ensuring justice in the judicial system, right in the execution of court decisions. This is the first full step towards full judicial reform. So please support in the first reading, and we promise you that a widest possible platform will be created to discuss and develop these laws for the second reading. We're the first ones interested. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-10-08-m0.u81	Thank you, Pavel Dmitrovich. Please report to the committee head, Knyazevich Ruslan Petrovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-10-08-m0.u82	Thank you. Dear Mr. Head, dear colleagues! Indeed, I want to support the Minister of Justice in that these are inseparable two bills. And I very much hope that this alone will not be limited to these two bills, but in fact these bills, which are the beginning of a proper reform of the executive service, and here, the absolute right of Alona Skrum, that we need to synchronize in some way with the State Service Act. But until it seems to be as synchronized as possible, because the law has not yet been passed. If he is accepted, he will certainly have to respond. I hope that the second reading, or immediately thereafter, will have to make appropriate changes. Because it was written on an old basis of the State Service Act, so we have those standards that are valid at the moment. As far as this bill is concerned, it is a matter of enforcement, in which case if it refuses to do so voluntarily, conditions and proper mechanisms are provided to ensure that decisions are duly enforced in order to ensure that the final stage of the trial is enforced. It is about the execution of those judicial decisions and decisions, both by officials and by officials, respectively, by State bodies that are subject to compulsory enforcement in the event of a failure to carry out a voluntary order. The committee's decision is unanimous: to support the basis. And I am attached to the idea expressed by the Minister of Justice, on the basis of the committee in preparing for the second reading on a full-time basis, we are prepared to organize a discussion site that, as I think, is capable of finding the right framework, that right mechanism for implementing this law, which will allow us to adopt it as a whole and not just accept it, but to start and give life-giving powers to this institution and to reform in general as a phenomenon of the Executive Service in Ukraine, which, to me, is extremely morally outdated and requires such reforms for a very long time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-10-08-m0.u83	Thank you. Please sign up: two for, two against, colleagues. Ivan Krulko, Fatherland, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-10-08-m0.u84	Ivan Krulko, "The Fatherland" faction. Dear National Deputies, an extremely important law, I am in solidarity with those colleagues who say that this law is truly revolutionary because it introduces a new institution for Ukraine, an institution of private executives. And even if it were legal day, such a law could be considered in full procedure. You know, it's totally wrong when we look at these laws: "two for", two against." This is a law that requires a very detailed and balanced decision. Because this law will affect how relationships will be regulated, including by the enforcement of judicial decisions. With regard to a specific law, there is no doubt that it must be voted for. And to those who are skeptical of private performers, I would like to remind them that in this room, they were skeptical about the introduction of a private notary institution. Now this institution is working successfully, many lawyers have been given a profession, and they have been given the opportunity to work as notaries. The same will be true of private performers. But at the same time, I would like to say that this law needs a very serious revision to the second reading. I'll just give you one rule in the law that allows the contractor to determine how the owner of the property will use the property. That's wrong. This is what the court should do. And there are still several points that can be set by corruption factors in the law. I think we're going to fix these shortcomings in the second reading, but the law in the first reading has to vote, by full procedure, to prepare this law for the second reading, to allow working groups to work, and to put in place this very necessary mechanism for the country. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-10-08-m0.u85	Thank you. Please, Oleg Barn, Peter Dust Block.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-10-08-m0.u86	Colleagues are not a secret that many people, ordinary citizens, complain about the activities of the executive service. This law makes it possible to organize these activities, to ensure that their activities are properly secured, and to ensure that decisions are implemented. In addition, we remember how many complaints were made by collectors. Thus, this law allows for the regulation of the activities of private contractors and puts the enforcement of court decisions at the level of European level that allows people to return to their faces, to trust the judicial system. So I ask my colleagues to vote in favour of this progressive bill, which will allow for the enforcement of fair judgements. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-10-08-m0.u87	Please, People's Deputy Doubenkov, Opposition Block.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-10-08-m0.u88	Thank you, Your Honor Chairman. Dear citizens, of course, the bill is excessive, because the availability of a court decision is not a guarantee of the promotion and restoration of justice as set out in the judgment. The enforcement procedure is too important. But what is suggested for us to accept? And what bill has already been voted on by coalition representatives and non-fractional deputies, who will now vote? It's proposed in parallel with the state structure to create a commercial structure with similar and broader powers, as we have heard from the presentation of the Fatherland faction. But the structure noted will, of course, lead to what? There were parallels of private notaries and government notaries. What did this lead to? This led to our notary being an elitist array of lawyers who receive considerable money for exercising their powers. Instead, what do government notaries have? They have a naked government salary. A similar situation will be in the public executive service. I want to make it clear that the adoption of this law will lead to the final destruction of the State’s executive service. This law is adopted in the interests of creditors who have substantial debts that have sufficient financial resources to pay for the services of private contractors. What about ordinary citizens? And ordinary citizens need to be prepared for the arrival of private performers with an unlimited circle of powers, which will be very motivated, because it's finally a very good profit, the business will be. In fact, it's the legalization of collectors. So, your fellow citizens, prepare yourselves, and private artists will come to you. And the government’s executive service will be ruined and involved in minor matters. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-10-08-m0.u89	Please, Victor Bondar, team of Rebirths.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-10-08-m0.u90	Dear Volodymyr Borisovich, distinguished colleagues! Probably an extremely important law on security and enforcement. But what are we talking about, which executive conduct is private, if today state executives are unable to enforce two legal decisions of the court in Dnipropetrovsk, the Odessa courts on the re-election registration? The territorial election commission just doesn't meet, there's no quorum. The absence of a quorum provides precisely the factions that today speak of high executive values, that decisions should be made by the courts, and so forth. Together, the Opposition Block, the Peter Prashenko Block and where even self-help joined them ensure that there is no quorum at board meetings. Here comes a double of our candidates from the rebirth of the mayor, and so on, saying that he was given 10,000 dollars, that he was a refugee from Dokuchayevsk himself, that he no longer wants to take part in the election, to him. The committee's not meeting for three days, says go to the election. However, our candidates, real ordinaries, the leaders of the most powerful enterprises do not register or register. Court decisions are not implemented. No one wants to make these decisions. What private executive services can we talk about today if the governing coalition itself breaks down the executive system, does it not? Next. What is more, there is a separate new decision by the Dnipropetroval Administrative and District Court that the CLP should not be allowed, in general, to change the composition of the commission, to take the head of the commission, to change and so on, to live. And the same judge, Stephenenko, immediately filed a vacation, closed the case in the safe, and ran. So is this a conspiracy? I don't know how Self-Help joined this important company, the Petra Poroshenko Block, in such a conspiracy under non-democratic procedures. What are they going to tell Lviv about this coalition with the Opposition Block in Dnipropetrovsk, Odessa? Think. The voters think they see it all today.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-10-08-m0.u91	Thank you. Please, Ruslan Sidorovich, Self-Help didn't take part in the discussion, has a minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-10-08-m0.u92	Dear colleagues! I listened to the statement by the representative of the Opposition Block. I mean, I agree. We need to eliminate the private notary. Actually, we need to get the Soviet Union back in the first place, and it's probably gonna be great. And seriously, Ukraine today is among the most questionable leaders in bringing Ukrainians to the European Court of Human Rights on issues of non-execution. I, as a national MP, am absolutely convinced that everyone here in this room exactly, in the same way, is getting a lot of references from our citizens about the inability to make court decisions. Moreover, the European Court of Human Rights has reached its decision and cannot enforce it! This is a direct violation of article 6 of the Convention on the Protection of Human Rights, which states that the right to access justice is illusory if a court decision cannot be executed. There is really something to work on in this bill. That is why I insisted on the full procedure, and I insist on the full procedure.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-10-08-m0.u93	Please, 20 seconds, finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-10-08-m0.u94	Therefore, this bill needs to be supported in the first reading with the involvement of an independent professional expert environment. To refine it, to foresee that we support procedures to avoid corruption that are already prescribed there.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-10-08-m0.u95	Thank you. Please, People's Will Group, People's Deputy Melniczuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-10-08-m0.u96	People's Will Group, Sergey Melnichuk. Yeah, a bill to work on. And the will of the people will support it in the first reading. But there's a lot of buts. First. In order for it to take effect, judicial reform and reform of the Public Prosecutor's Office must be carried out. And only then enter. Because corruption will be very significant. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-10-08-m0.u97	Thank you. Please, Sergey Vlasenko, Fatherland. One minute, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-10-08-m0.u98	Dear colleagues, we forget one simple thing when we discuss this bill. The executive activity, the enforcement of judicial decisions, is derived from the judicial decisions themselves. So it's not a single activity. So here the comparison with notaries is completely inappropriate. As long as we have in the same court, in the same office, the judges make the opposite decisions directly, as long as the judges make the apparently illegal, unjust decisions, as long as the state blocks the execution of the decisions of the European Court of Human Rights that we do not make here after the change in the structure of the executive service, this will not do anything, this is "Martiq's work." As long as we don't have it (the minister spoke as in Poland) until we have a court ruling as in Poland, there will be no execution of court decisions as in Poland. As long as there are corrupt court decisions, illegal court decisions, apparently unfair court decisions, we will not do anything. So first court reform, then everything else. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-10-08-m0.u99	Igor Alexeyev, please, People's Front. Colleagues, please take your seats. We will now proceed to the vote for this bill on the basis.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-10-08-m0.u100	Dear colleagues! The People's Front will unanimously support this bill, it's extremely important. What we have now, for the time being. By the end of the year, some 3 million outstanding court decisions had an objective effect on confidence in the judicial system. Therefore, the reform of the executive service is extremely timely. Here, individual colleagues have been saying separate "fears" about us implementing a private executive service and private performers. Indeed, without reforming the system itself, without reforming this procedure, there could have been abuse. But what is important: At the same time, with the introduction of private performers, an updated execution system is being introduced, the risks are being eliminated, the shortcomings and abuses that the performer can make. So this system is balanced. I call on all colleagues to move the discussion into working groups, to develop this bill for the second reading, to complete the procedure, and to put to a high-quality vote an extremely professional one for the state, and for the country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-10-08-m0.u101	Thank you. Please, Victoria Bird, one minute. And let's move on to the vote, dear fellows. Please take your seats.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-10-08-m0.u102	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I would also like to emphasize the relevance and importance of the introduction of a private executive institution. Because you all know that no fair judgment will make sense if we're with you, we won't be able to make it work. But, at the same time, I would like to go to the Minister of Justice and stress the importance of reviewing the system of government executive services. Because when we put in place a private executive system, we don't really need this huge number of government contractors. So we have to review the numbers so that the government contractors, the ones that stay in place, their numbers go down because these are the budget costs and our expenses for them. And to those of you who say that first, let's do the judicial reform and then do the execution, let's not do the subterfuge. Because everyone knows that judicial reform should begin with changes to the Constitution of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-10-08-m0.u103	Please finish, 10 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-10-08-m0.u104	And let the national MPs stop putting pressure on the judges, go to court, and use the legal procedures that are foreseen, to address, in particular, the Higher Qualifications Commission of Judges.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-10-08-m0.u105	Thank you. Dear colleagues, please come into the hall and prepare for the vote. The Prime Minister's closing statement. Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-10-08-m0.u106	Dear colleagues, I really want to state once again that the Ministry of Justice has become the initiator of this reform. In fact, this is a rejection of a huge amount of authority. And what we're going to do to reform the performing service is basically the reason that it's not effective today, it doesn't perform the functions that these performers are actually employed by Ukrainian citizens. Thus, first, the Institute of Private Executives is established. Second, the system of government executives is being substantially reduced. It's going to be a small number of civil servants with good salaries, good motivation, good material and technical security. And that's the answer to the question that if a simple Ukrainian doesn't have money for a private contractor, he's going to go to the state office, and the quality of the service isn't going to be worse. Thirdly, we really give up the monopoly of those functions that the Ministry of Justice has always imposed on itself. And this is not only a reform of the state executive service, it's a real estate and business registration system. I hope that in the next plenary week you will be voting on our laws in general for the transfer of these powers to the local authorities. We want to create a fully updated Ministry of Justice, whose main objective is to protect ordinary Ukrainians. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-10-08-m0.u107	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I think they were exchanging thoughts about this law. Everyone knows he's important. I would like to emphasize that we are now going to consider the draft law as a basis. This will mean that under full procedure it will be prepared for second reading, and accordingly everyone will be able to make the necessary positive changes in this draft law. I ask everyone to take their seats, prepare for the vote. Please. Please take your seats. Are you ready to vote, colleagues? Please, 2507a: draft law on executive conduct. I emphasize that this law is proposed as a basis for adoption. Please take your seats and vote. 2507a on the basis of a complete procedure, we prepare it for the second reading. Please vote, colleagues, on the ground. 2507a is the base. [[11:37:48]] For 249 The law was passed on as a basis. I ask you to form a high-quality working group, work it out so that we can harmonize the quality of the law into the second reading, according to the procedure. Fellow national MPs, draft Law 2505a: draft Law on the characteristics of access to information in the areas of electricity supply, natural gas, heating, centrally supplied hot water, centralized drinking water supply and water supply (2505a). A representative of the President of the Supreme Council, Stepan Kube, reports. There's an offer to consider it as a reduced procedure, colleagues, please identify yourself. As far as the procedure is concerned, colleagues. We've got plenty of order in our daytime friends, we have to work very hard. [[11:38:41]] For-161 Decision taken. Report to Stepan Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-10-08-m0.u108	Dear Mr. Head, dear colleagues! Your attention is given to the draft Ukrainian Law on Access to Information in the Areas of Electricity, Natural Gas, Heating, Central Hot Water Supply, Central Drinking Water and Water (Registration No. 2505a) introduced by the President of Ukraine and defined as urgent. The bill is intended to regulate the mechanism for consumers to access information in energy markets and utilities. The need to adopt the bill is due to the need to ensure transparency in the activities of the operators involved in the supply of electricity, natural gas, heating, centralized hot water supply, centralized water supply, and water supply, and consumer access to information on goods, jobs and services provided by the listed subjects. The draft law proposes to define at the legislative level a comprehensive list of types of information that is accessible to the consumer on a free and unhindered basis. The other one. Set the periodicity of such information to the knowledge of consumers. Third. Distribution between government authorities and operators involved in activities in the relevant fields, functional obligations regarding types of information and method of proof. Four. Provide access to information about investment programs planned to be implemented and oblige licensees to publish information about the implementation of programs. It should be noted that the adoption of the bill stems from Ukraine’s international obligations to adapt Ukraine’s legislation to European Union legislation. Dear colleagues, the adoption of this bill will create a legal basis for access.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-10-08-m0.u109	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-10-08-m0.u110	Please support the legislative initiative of the President of Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-10-08-m0.u111	Thank you, Stepan Ivanovich. Please, Your Honor, head of the Committee on Fuel and Energy, Nuclear Policy and Nuclear Security, Alexy Rybchin. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-10-08-m0.u112	Honorable National Deputies of Ukraine! Alexy Rybchin, the Fatherland faction, and the head of the Energy Efficiency and Energy Committee, Donetskin. Your attention is given to the draft Ukrainian Law on Access to Information in the Field of Electricity, Natural Gas, Heat Supply, Central Hot Water Supply, Central Drinking Water and Water Management, registration number 2505a, submitted by the President of Ukraine. It is designed for the purpose of implementing the European Directive 2006. 32. The EU of the European Parliament and the Council on the effectiveness of the end-use of energy and energy services. It aims to give consumers the right to access free and free access to information on pricing in the areas of electricity, natural gas, etc. Respectable national MPs, transparency and availability of information in the areas of electricity supply, natural gas, heating, water supply and water supply for consumers are fully in line with European practice and are an important step in building and operating energy markets in Ukraine. The need for information transparency of energy and population tariffs was noted in the conclusions of the working group on the reasons for the increase in prices, electricity tariffs and utilities in Ukraine’s National Deputies, parliamentary factions and groups, which were commissioned by the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine from April 8 to May 25, 2015. Therefore, legislation on access to relevant information is very relevant. The main scientific and expert office considers that the first reading of the bill can be adopted as a basis. But the Fuel Energy Committee unanimously supported the foundation as a whole. Please support the committee's decision on the basis and in general. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-10-08-m0.u113	Thank you. Dear colleagues, please sign in: two for, two against. Mikola Tomenko, please, Peter Dusty Block.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-10-08-m0.u114	Dear colleagues, as co-author of a series of bills to increase public access to information, I support this kind of legislation. But at the same time, if we're going to be working on the laws, obviously we're going to be working on them and for the second reading, we need to think about getting citizens not only information about how they've been deceived by the authorities or business, but how tariffs are formed, how the pricing system is shaped. Look at the parameters that a citizen gets before winter. He gets information about what the price is, what the tariffs are, who pays, who doesn't pay, who owes it, who owes it. And I think the consumer is interested in how Oblgaz or Oblenergo defined this price and the tariff that this price is set, whether there's a shipping trip or there's been repairs, or there's another problem, which is interesting to the average citizen, not that they've created that price. Now the question is that, well, to know that, as I've said before, Oblenergo has put such a price and even Obelenergo and requires you to pay a month or two ahead of time, so it's not a very good story either. So it seems to me that we are in the system of bringing our legislation into line with European legislation, we must take account of Ukrainian realities. Ukrainian realities are such that we just fix, well, believe that power and business is honest in making decisions and responsible, and in fact we learn the results of this responsible action -- not quite right. Obviously, we need to influence our knowledge of how decisions are made, which decision - making structure, and then control how this is done. So I support this presidential bill in the first reading, and I think that until the second reading we need to expand the information we need to get.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-10-08-m0.u115	Thank you. Please, Alexander Danchenko. Somehow there was no "against" position, they didn't sign up. Olena Babak, please. I'd like to make a counter-record.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-10-08-m0.u116	Ladies and gentlemen, the situation is this: once again, the bill that is being put into the room has not been discussed properly and has not been given a decision by another committee of profile, which relates to this bill, such as the Committee on Construction, Urban and Housing. We don't have a committee decision on this bill. The second question. The thing is, if I say yes now or against this bill, I want to say the following. Self-Help supports the idea of transparency in tariff formation and consumer access to information. This is an absolute priority today, and we support it, and we support the President's initiative. But the way it is suggested today to implement this concept, unfortunately, cannot be supported in the way it is proposed. Dear colleagues, there are two things that are mixed here: regulatory procedures, such as validation and consideration of investment programs by operators operating in monopolistic markets, and access to information. There's mixed stuff here, you know? If it's about putting information on the investment program, it's one thing. And when it says the procedure "to provide the appropriate local self-governance of investment programme projects to make proposals, notes, these are already regulatory procedures for the consideration of investment programs. You can't mix it all up in the same law. Moreover, it is not divided here, which local self-government authority, for example, should give its investment to an energy provider or gas supplier to whom it should give these investment programs. And if it's a water canal or a heat power plant, it's actually a local self-governance body that owns water and heat systems, and it doesn't have to provide any information about the investment program. Because he is, the authority of local self - government that orders this investment program.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-10-08-m0.u117	20 seconds, complete.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-10-08-m0.u118	So please return the bill to work with a clear definition of what tariffs are involved. When it comes to gas supplies, electricity supplies, their mechanisms should be to provide information. If it's about water supply and water supply and heat supply, it's about mechanisms. And it is clearly pointed out that the local government is responsible for, for which Nazcomisi is responsible.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-10-08-m0.u119	Thank you. Please sign "against", two "against". Valérie Paccan. And then there's Matvienkov.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-10-08-m0.u120	Please give the word to your colleague Yuri Solovia.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-10-08-m0.u121	Yuri Solovay, Peter Dustock's Block, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-10-08-m0.u122	Yuri Solovay, 89th constituency. Dear colleagues, it's very important when we open up access to information, especially on tariff issues. And I'm kind of surprised by the position of our self-help colleagues when there's a perfectly normal bill, even if there's some detail, between the first and the second readings, we can correct these details. Because today people don't have the information that's in the structure of any tariff on utilities. And I want to stop separately. Honorable colleagues, Obelegas, and Oblenergo are now applying an entirely unfounded fee for accession. No citizen or enterprise has information on this issue. This law, which we work on between the first and the second readings, will reveal this information, make it public. And he's going to take these corrupt things about joining fees that set up our monopolies. I urge all my colleagues to support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-10-08-m0.u123	Thank you. Please, the People's Deputy of Matvienkov, the Opposition Block.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-10-08-m0.u124	Matvienkov, 57th District, Opposition Block. Dear colleagues, this bill is probably one of those bills that you can refer to, you know, because of what you choose to do. Right now, we need to prepare a number of drafts to make us look good and beautiful. But unfortunately, the deep problem that exists here does not solve it. And when we talk about opening up information, well, good stuff, probably, but it's done by 50 percent. Information is information. What do you want to do with her? Any consumer must understand that he must not pay for the water that runs through the streets, he must understand that he must not pay for the heat of the atmosphere, he must not pay for the unserviced and other things. He must not pay for the water in the basements, for the fecal sewers that flow through the basements. All of this is on the consumer's side today. And since we're gonna let him know that he owes someone, I don't think that's gonna make him feel any better. That's one question. Second question. We have been in possession of a bill for more than a month that we propose that the exclusion from the provision of services to the population should be effected only by a decision of the court. The barrage that exists today with the exclusion of services to the population that is being created today, when they came in, shut down, he got information, went out to understand, in the end he was right, maybe in this situation. But still, you pay for the connection, go through all seven circles of hell to get permission to connect, so that you can then be right, let's say, stand up. So if we're talking about what we want to do for the population, for the people, so let's do this step for the population, for the people, not to do the "whatever you want to do" gesture to show that we've adopted some kind of law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-10-08-m0.u125	Thank you, Your Honor. Please, Oleg Barna.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-10-08-m0.u126	Dear friends! Each of us and every single person has faced the problem of inefficient services on several occasions, especially those related to inefficient electricity supply, inefficient gas quality, which has very low calories, including water, not to mention water supply. But now we have the opportunity to ensure citizens' right to information about the quality of these services, which will provide people with the Services and Individual Contracts Act significantly reduce the value of inadequacy services that are provided by non-faithful providers of these services: archerga, fraud, utilities, and that will encourage these providers to improve services. Therefore, I ask you to vote in favour of this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-10-08-m0.u127	Thank you. Rosenblatt National MP. Then Leo Podlisecki.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-10-08-m0.u128	Good afternoon, dear fellows! I want to go back to my self-help colleagues and just explain. It's a very simple bill aimed at accessing information. Everyone today wants to know how the budget is being allocated, how the city’s money is being spent, how the water will be improved, how other sources that today still provide for the lives of our citizens. So I don't see any obstacles today to adopting this law in the first reading and allowing people to have full information about how the government uses citizens' money and taxes to the taxpayer.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-10-08-m0.u129	Thank you, Your Honor. Please, Yuri Derevyanko and let's move on to, uh, Leo Podlisecki, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-10-08-m0.u130	Dear colleagues! I support anyone who advocates disclosure, namely, tariffs, about the issue of publishing all the information. Sadly, though, this law has only a very good idea. If I read the first article listing all the information to be disclosed, I'm ready and the Self-Help faction is ready to vote in favour with two hands. But if you look further, deeper, and look at the technology and disclosure of information, and who will reveal it, and how it will reveal it, we see that it is a law that is unrealistic to enforce. And accordingly, all this information can't be revealed. Let's say that we look at it specifically. I'm going to read literally a few points. "Targeting tariffs across Ukraine and with other states," "Targeting tariff changes and justifying the need for change," "The Dynamics of the Historical Cost of Ingredient Tariffs." And these are all very important things that have to be revealed and reported.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-10-08-m0.u131	Please give me a minute, Yuri Derevyanko. Take your seats, dear fellows. We will now proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-10-08-m0.u132	Dear colleagues! Today, before every Ukrainian citizen pays a high price for gas, for electricity, for utilities, it is very important that all owners of olenergo, obelisk, as well as all utilities that provide water services and other services, so that these tariffs are open and the information is available. All the oligarchs who are not interested today in having these tariffs available, and information on the cost of each service has been provided. We are obliged, by law, to force them to provide a detailed calculation, a detailed cost of each component of such a tariff. We have inadequate power services when the voltage goes down in networks, in peak voltage, we have huge costs to reconstruct these networks that are set up in each tariff, but we don't have access to that information. We simply have to support this bill now in order to give people the opportunity to know where they are being spent.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-10-08-m0.u133	Thank you. Dear colleagues, we take our seats, please. I want to focus your attention, colleagues, for example, on this law: the law has the title "On the characteristics of access to information in the areas of electricity supply, natural gas, heating, central supply, hot water, central drinking water supply and water supply." All the questions that have been pointed out are correct, but they are not arguments not to consider this law. Because, see, article 1 that "people have free and free access to information about.".. For example, I only bring in: prices, tariffs, their ingredients for all consumer categories; changes in tariff prices; the share and cost of electricity produced by the generating power; the share and cost.; pricing and tariffs, i.e. analytical information; forecasts of changes in prices and tariffs for residential services; price dynamics and so on. So what we're talking about is that we're opening up access to citizens to get information, and that's very important. That's why there's an offer, respectable colleagues. 2505a now vote as a basis. If they want to improve it, we can do it together, the committees and no questions for second reading. But what we're opening up data for Ukrainian citizens is important, and this is a measure of confidence, to the formation of tariffs in Ukraine. Once again, I stress that this is the basis of the draft law. Please, Your Honor, we take our seats, we prepare for the vote. Let us now try to vote in favour of this law as a basis, because it is extremely important and I think it is Parliament's duty to adopt a law that opens up data for Ukrainians. Please, colleagues, 2505a as a base. Signal vote, colleagues. Please use the 2505a signal for opening prices and tariffs, information. Please. [[11:59:38]] For 239. Yes, 239. I'm going to be the base of 2505a. Please vote, please support the openness of data for Ukraine, for the Ukrainians. 2505a based, my friends. [[11:59:56]] For 256 Thank you, Your Honor. I have an offer. Shall we do it in general? All of it? Look, the profile committee as a whole. Let's, if there's a denial, work on the second reading. There are colleagues who deny it, we will not violate the procedure. Dear colleagues, I have an offer. Friends, careful, colleagues, I have an offer, only I will say so very, very quietly about it. Why don't we work without a break for lunch? Please, come on. The Prime Minister of Ukraine is involved in our work. Let's welcome him. And we are starting to consider laws related to the visa-free regime, respected colleagues. 2540a: Draft Law (Registration No. 2540a). Before we begin the block of these laws, I give the floor to Prime Minister Arsenija Petrovich Yatsenyuk of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-10-08-m0.u134	Your Honour, Mr. Head! Honorable National Deputies of Ukraine! Today, a number of bills have been introduced for introducing a visa-free regime for Ukrainian citizens. I would like to brief you on the measures that have been taken by the government, Parliament and the President to ensure that Ukrainian citizens are granted the right to travel to the member states of the European Union. There were a few things that needed an immediate response from the government, and what were we able to do? First of all, I remind you that we had a question about issuing biometric passports. And since last year, we've been able to get the right equipment, configure it, teach people. And this year more than 660,000 biometric passports have been issued for Ukrainian citizens. The second question that we've done is we've finally joined the Interpol system, now 39 checkpoints have a direct connection to the Interpol system, and any person who's logged into Interpol is immediately reported to the central office and being detained by Ukrainian law enforcement agencies. Third. Thanks to Parliament's efforts, a number of anti-corruption laws have been passed – primarily the National Anti-Corruption Bureau Act and the anti-corruption prosecutor's appointment was launched yesterday, which is a key prerequisite for Ukraine to both receive visa-free treatment and receive financial assistance from our Western partners. The National Anti - Corruption Agency Act was also passed. I would like to remind you that together with civil society and our partners in the European Union as a government, we have completely changed the composition of the National Anti-Corruption Agency, the Competition Commission to choose the leadership of the National Anti-Corruption Agency. And it's also an agency that acts as a preventive agency and checks the activities of government officials, their declarations, they start to work. During the last few months, Ukraine has visited eight European Union missions in four directions. In principle, significant progress has been made on all issues. But in order for Ukraine and the citizens of Ukraine to have our new biometric passports, we need to adopt the package of legislation that you are looking at. First of all, of course, it's about fighting corruption. And the debates that are taking place in Parliament on the anti-corruption package should, of course, continue. But these laws must be adopted. These laws were drafted by the government and individual members of Parliament for participation and direct recommendations, both to the OECD and to the European Union. Without these laws, a visa-free regime cannot be obtained. I'd like to take a separate look at the geopolitical situation. Our task with you as a parliament, government and president is to meet all the technical criteria for ensuring the introduction of a visa-free regime. So there's no effort and no attempt to say that it was Ukraine that failed to meet a technical criterion. You have to realize that migration is now quite difficult in the European Union. Russia’s military operations in Syria and hundreds of thousands of migrants who flocked to the European Union do not add political certainty to the fact that all political forces in the European Union will stand unanimously for the introduction of a visa-free regime for Ukraine. That's why our joint task with you is to carry out all the laws, complete all the technical procedures, and not to give any chance to blame Ukraine for failing to implement any technical procedure or any other criterion that prejudges the introduction of a visa-free regime. That is why, the country’s distinguished national deputies, there is a great request to you, to all those who really want Ukrainian citizens to feel free in a large united Europe, to vote and adopt the necessary package of legislation and to allow Ukrainian citizens to feel themselves, indeed, part of the European Union and a great united Europe. That's why I'm asking for your support. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-10-08-m0.u135	Dear colleagues, 2540a, the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Criminal Procedure Code on Certain Matters of Incarceration for Property with the aim of eliminating Corruption Risks in its application. I think that now, in fact, we have a very responsible moment with you when we need to support a visa-free regime. I think it's enough for people to stand in line with the Ukrainians in embassies in different ways to get visas to visit Europe. This, I think, should stay in the distant past. So it is up to us, including making decisions that will allow us to get rid of such rudimentary visas in general. Colleagues, there's a minister's proposal, a reporter to look at 2540a in a simplified procedure. I'd like to make a statement. [[12:07:51]] For 169 Decision taken. Please, Paul Dmitrovitch, report.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-10-08-m0.u136	Honorable Fellows, Honorable Ukrainian People! Indeed, one of the most important issues of our commitment under the visa-free regime is the real and effective fight against corruption. Indeed, in this direction Ukraine has done a great deal in recent times both through the introduction of legislation and through the actual criminal conduct that is now being investigated by law enforcement agencies. Over the past two months, more than 500 government officials have been held accountable and criminally prosecuted for corruption. But there is such a position that justice is worse than justice without a kingly sword. And if the state does not have an effective mechanism to bring to an end those criminal acts that have been committed by corruption, it is indeed a problem of the state apparatus and the state system. The law that I'm about to present to 2540a provides for new mechanisms for our updated anti-corruption authorities in the area of confiscation and arrest. I'm going to solve a few myths that exist in the towers and that were discussed on the committee that those laws allow without a court decision or a court sentence to make a specific confiscation that those laws can be used to take away foreign property, there is no such provision in those laws. These laws allow law enforcement authorities to arrest property in criminal cases. For example, a state enterprise, through well - founded companies, spends on offshore funds, does not have a specific figure at the beginning of the case, who is the ultimate owner of these funds. But there is solid evidence in the investigation that these funds were withdrawn by breach of procedure and were stolen. The following would have the right to arrest only through an appropriate court decision on these funds in order to ensure that they are not further withdrawn and not lost to the Ukrainian State and the budget. So you can't do that now, if there's no specific suspect, then you can't arrest property. We're perfecting for it.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-10-08-m0.u137	Please finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-10-08-m0.u138	On the recommendation of our international experts, we are improving our criminal procedural legislation in order to really be the real mechanisms for the completion of criminal investigations, and it is essential that there be real mechanisms to preserve and return to the state budget those hundreds of millions of dollars stolen by corrupters. I propose that we support these bills on the basis that they can be improved for the second reading. But I would like to emphasise that today's vote on the basis and support of these bills is a very correct signal to our European partners that Ukraine is ready to really fight corruption. Please be supportive. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-10-08-m0.u139	Thank you. Please, Andrew Anatoliyovich Cosemyakin, head of the profiling committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-10-08-m0.u140	Good afternoon, dear chairman, distinguished colleagues. Your point is to propose a bill amending the Ukrainian Criminal Procedural Code on Certain Matters of Incarceration for the purpose of removing corruption (this key word in any law for visa-free treatment) risks in its application (No. 2540a), submitted by the Cabinet of Ministers. This bill has been drafted to give the party the opportunity to ensure effective enforcement of criminal measures that may be applied to legal persons in accordance with the Criminal Code of Ukraine and to ensure compensation for the damage caused by criminal offences. The main scientific and expert office is proposing that the bill should be returned to work. Members of the committee, after reviewing the bill, came to the next. It has been noted that the most perfect work is subject to the provisions of the bill: firstly, it is possible to apply the arrest of property to any person, based on the fact that it relates to a criminal offence or to a person suspected or accused of a crime; and secondly, a simplified procedure for the arrest of property is established on the basis of any information, any information that indicates the presence of such property in the possession, use or disposal of persons. Thus, the committee, after considering the bill, concluded that the bill should be rejected during the first reading of the plenary session. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-10-08-m0.u141	Thank you. Please sign up: two for, two against. Sign up. Please, People's Deputy Kiral. Olena Sotnik, Self-help.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-10-08-m0.u142	My colleagues, thank you. The Self-Help faction has actually been very difficult to discuss these bills. We'll return to confiscation a little later. It's even more, let's say, unprepared and raw than the bill. Indeed, this bill contains a number of risks. In particular, we know how the Public Prosecutor's Office is submitting its documents to the court today. Generally, they do not contain any facts, and they contain only general standards or general references. And in no way does it prove the circumstances that the prosecution is referring to. Thus, there are shortcomings in this bill regarding the non-definition of specifics, as the prosecutor's office will justify, which is the property of a third party to be arrested, and on what grounds. So in this part of the bill, it really needs a lot of work to be done in order to be able to provide for people, to ensure human rights and to give them. gave people the opportunity to defend themselves in court. Because there may be cases where the prosecutor's office will actually use this bill and then these standards to just push on individual subjects. And simply link them formally to some suspects or defendants. So the Self-Help faction can only support this bill because this bill is actually required under technical conditions for liberalisation. But we will work very hard on it. And if he's not properly developed for second reading, then in the second reading, we won't be supporting him. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-10-08-m0.u143	Please, Peter Pearcenk's Block, National MP Pober. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-10-08-m0.u144	Please pass the word to Yuri Solovia.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-10-08-m0.u145	Yuri Solovay, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-10-08-m0.u146	Ladies and gentlemen. Yuri Solovay, 89th constituency. Dear colleagues, this is a very big step forward in part that the government is introducing a number of bills aimed at simplifying the visa regime. Since this is a question that we are considering today, it is not a thousand, tens of thousands, but millions of Ukrainians who cross our border each year. And that's why I'm surprised at the position of some national MPs who don't care about the fate of these people. But at the same time, given that there is a Ukrainian Prime Minister Arseny Petrovich Yacenuk present in the room, I would like to draw your attention to one question. Daily, tens of hundreds of thousands of Ukrainians cross the border crossings of Poland, Slovakia, Hungary, or Romania. What they're waiting for is shame and humiliation. I have one request for you. To improve the work of the customs, foreign service, both on our part and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of Ukraine, to work on the part of our neighbouring countries so that the queues and the humiliation, and the disgrace they feel about themselves in Ukraine, I realize that even if it doesn't go away, it will go away much less. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-10-08-m0.u147	Please, Sergey Vlasenko, Fatherland.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-10-08-m0.u148	Thank you. Dear colleagues! The Fatherland faction certainly supports visa-free liberalisation, visa-free regime for Ukraine. But you know, we have to stop manipulating the concept. You know, a visa-free regime is being broken, not by someone who's questioning a bad law, but by someone who puts in parliament a bad, unprepared law. And then he blackmails the whole country that you didn't vote on, which means you're guilty. This Kabmin's tactics have been constant, unfortunately, all the time. Then vote for a budget that no one has seen, and now vote for a bad law. This law is totally related to the following law, and it is not that simple. This law completely expands the concept of arresting property in criminal proceedings, respected colleagues. Not in the civil process, in the criminal process. As the minister of justice said, there is no suspect, and we are already confiscating property. That's the first one. Second, the possibility of confiscation is introduced to provide a special confiscation. And what is a special confiscation is the next law that the government proposes to apply to all crimes, to all of them, to all of them! What attitude does petty bullying have to fight corruption? What is the attitude of the special confiscation toward petty hooliganism? Thus, by covering up beautiful names, beautiful slogans, we are offered, sorry, inadequacy. On this very day, you know, everybody here was celebrating Lawyer's Day. Thus, to the jurisprudence of these two laws has nothing to do with anything at all! Once again, the Fatherland faction strongly supports visa liberalisation. We absolutely want to give our citizens the opportunity to drive, but not because of manipulations, not because of indignation and implementation.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-10-08-m0.u149	Ten seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-10-08-m0.u150	And certainly not by introducing an unwarranted reprisal! We've been asked to pass the law on ocular sentences. "So take it, you've got it." Show at least one sentence in absentia! None. That's why.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-10-08-m0.u151	Thank you. Please, Sergey Melniczuk, "The will of the people."
ParlaMint-UA_2015-10-08-m0.u152	The "will of the people" group is categorically in favour of this and will not vote in favour of this law and the next. Because this law, both of them, restricts our citizens. It is this law that simplifies the procedure for all services, for fiscal, for the courts, for prosecutors. So that our citizens, both physical and legal, can be confiscated and processed. That's why we're against it, and we're not going to support these bills. And we haven't even seen the visa regime around here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-10-08-m0.u153	Dear colleagues, the 2540-a discussion is over. I think we're going to go through another 2541a, then we're going to go to the vote. Minister of Justice, please. 2540a.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-10-08-m0.u154	Dear National Deputies! I want to thank you, for the very tolerant and professional position of my fellow Members of Parliament, who are also lawyers, and really, very nice to hear those words, honestly. As for the professionality of these laws, I want to say that these laws were prepared by the best experts involved by the European Commission. These laws are in fact an implementation of the European Union Directive (since 3 April 2014) "On the arrest and confiscation of criminal activities and incomes in the EU." If our fellow national deputies feel that European legislation is inconvenient, they may not want to go to the European Union and want to fight corruption. As for the objects that were bugged. First and foremost. These laws are distributed in relation to the arrest and confiscation of persons solely for intentional crimes. Let me give you an example. If the prosecutor's office is investigating a separatist crime, would it be fair to have a special confiscation in those companies that support the separatist, their money and property? I think it'll be fair. If the prosecution investigates a crime against national security and defence, will it be fair to have a special confiscation of those who undermine the constitutional system in the country? He'll be fair. With regard to warnings that arrests will be used arbitrarily. On the contrary, in the current Criminal Procedural Code, the investigator should not now justify arrest if he is a suspect. In our proposals, we suggest that there be a justification for arresting the offshore company's property, which confirms that it has received these funds through intermediaries, from the budget. I propose that we calm down, vote these laws on the ground and not break, in fact, apart from the visa-free regime, the very right rules that are in the European Union. Or it's fair to go out and say, "We don't support European legislation aimed at fighting corruption." Indeed, it is hard, but such a reality in Europe -- there is no support for corruption! I want that to be the reality in Ukraine. Thank you!
ParlaMint-UA_2015-10-08-m0.u155	Thank you. Dear colleagues, since the second draft of the law is also related, we discussed 2540a, and I propose that we now discuss 2541a and continue to vote as two related laws. There is a proposal for consideration, draft law (registration number 2541a). Draft Act on Amendments to the Criminal and Civil Codes of Ukraine on Improving the Institute of Special Seizures to Eliminate Corruption Risks. There is a proposal by the rapporteur to consider this draft law in a simplified procedure. Please specify for the review of the reduced procedure 2541a. Vote. [[12:23:55]] For-160. Decision taken. Please, Minister, report.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-10-08-m0.u156	Dear colleagues, allow me to present a second bill, which is actually related to the previous one, is a change to the Criminal and Civil Codes of Ukraine to improve the institution of special confiscation with the aim of eliminating corruption risks in its application. In fact, there are two major novels that are actually proposed through the implementation of European legislation. I have already called the directive that we are obliged to include in our national legislation. The first novel. The issue of confiscation should be applied to crimes of the mind, not just three or four corruptions, but to crimes of the mind. And I've been giving you examples of why people who have committed a serious intentional crime involving separatism, in violation of territorial integrity, should avoid special confiscation? That's why this law settles this issue. The second question. This law lays down the obligation to prove that a person who has a certain property acquired by a criminal means must be confirmed by the investigating body itself, to prove that he has acquired it in a criminal way. This is a mechanism for the protection of property law. And so unfortunately, the argument that we have an imperfect judicial system is that they can't be accepted here. We have no right to wait in the implementation of this anti-corruption legislation when it becomes a perfect judicial system. And asking Parliament to speed up the process of constitutional reform in order to make this judicial system perfect. So I ask you to support this second law as a basis. I think we'll do a better job of reading it by the time we read it. And this will, in principle, be a serious step towards combating corruption and implementing European legislation into our anti-corruption legislation. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-10-08-m0.u157	Thank you, Your Honor. Please, Andrew Anatoliyovich Cosemyakin, head of the profiling committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-10-08-m0.u158	Dear colleagues! Your view is on the draft Ukrainian Law on Amendments to the Criminal and Civil Codes of Ukraine to Improve the Institute of Special Seizure for the Purpose of Removal, the Key Word, the Corruption Risks of Application (number 2541a). The bill was designed to improve the existing criminal code of the Ukrainian Institute of Special Confiscation by removing contradictions in the use or acquisition of special confiscation of assets that are the subject of criminal activity. The Chief Scientific and Expert Authority of the Supreme Council does not support this bill, members of the committee have discussed, studied, and noted that the proposals for the improvement of the existing Criminal Code of the Institute of Special Seizure are correct. But they need final processing, editing, and refinement on the basis of suggestions and comments. As noted by members of the committee, the most perfect work is subject to the provisions of the bill, which are proposed to extend the scope of the application of the special confiscation. Extending the boundaries of a special confiscation creates contradictions between individual law rules, general principles of law, and so forth. Moreover, the widespread introduction of a special confiscation paves the way for abuse during criminal conduct, forcing pressure on those involved. As you all know, we have enough in Ukraine to be honest, in paws, and quite professional courts and prosecutors. The committee therefore decided as well as the previous bill, when the Supreme Council considered the first reading to reject. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-10-08-m0.u159	Thank you. Please sign up: two for, two against. I want to emphasize that this is about two bills as a basis. And as part of the implementation of the Plan of Action on the visa-free regime. That's something to consider, dear colleagues. Irina Heratchenko, Peter Poshenko's Block.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-10-08-m0.u160	Thank you, Your Honor. We've had quite a bit of a timbre in our faction, and we've come back to this discussion on these two bills several times. And we're completely dividing the positions here and my colleague from the Self-Help faction by the Euro-Inclusion Committee, or really these laws, they need Ukraine to fulfil our commitments in the context of the visa liberalisation action plan. But there is a question to the government about the need for more careful preparation of these bills. And really, if we're talking about the norms of European law, we need a special confiscation procedure, but when we talk about applying its limits, in the European Union, human rights and the right to self-protection are key. And we cannot, in solving one problem, question another problem. It's a human right to defend your stand in court. And so our political power, our faction, will support these two bills, but only in the first reading. And we share the warnings of all colleagues who today say that a government for which, as for us today, the implementation of legislation into European norms is a key task, should do it more carefully. And here we have, by the way, to go to the Prime Minister of Ukraine and remind him that during the time of Janukovic in the Ministry of Justice there was actually an extremely short office, the department that was doing the monitoring of legislation in relation to its compliance with European norms and standards. It's time to increase this department, find funding for it. In order for the Ministry of Profitability to be able to prepare the bills more carefully, and for that we can, in fact, then in the session room not do double work, get more quality bills and here more support them. But the session room is urged to vote in the first reading. We won't get another chance to get a visa-free one.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-10-08-m0.u161	Thank you, Irina Volodymyrno, that's objective. Please, Oleg Lazko, Radical Party.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-10-08-m0.u162	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. Dear fellow citizens, honourable fellow MPs, we now have at least 10 governments in Ukraine fighting corruption. Do we have less corruption? No, on the contrary, all these bodies are now being used by authority to deal with political opponents. When we have an illegal, unconstitutionally appointed president of the Anti-Corruption Bureau, whose teams will he carry out? When the commission is formed today to elect an anti-corruption prosecutor, where the majority of the President and the Attorney General's Office have it, whose teams will it execute? When you're today. The Minister of Justice, it turns out, tells you about the special confiscation, you don't have a law on absentee justice, you don't have a law, a prosecutor's office, courts and everything else to bring corruption to justice? You create, create and create organs, they make a zero, you just use them to deal with political opponents. You're telling me, the court needs to be reformed, I'm calling on the Justice Minister and the Prime Minister to go to the Kyiv Court of Appeal now, where the People's Deputy Mosiyczuk is on trial. When we filed a complaint against Groysman’s decision, the Supreme Administrative Court, within three days, was not appointed to this day. Moses ’ appeal was to be heard, pending a month’s notice, and a person was illegally detained. Are you telling me we have independent courts? You're creating tools, like in 1937, to deal with opposition and to deal with political opponents, that's what your authority is doing. You're telling me there are such mechanisms in Europe. You do like in Europe, the independent court and the independent prosecutor's office, and then you'll tell us about Europe. So the only real reform that the country needs today is the release of everyone to one judge, the release of everyone to one prosecutor, that's the real reform of justice and the reform of the law enforcement system, not the imitation that you're doing today.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-10-08-m0.u163	Ivan Grigorovich Kirilenko. Sergei Vlasenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-10-08-m0.u164	Thank you. Dear colleagues, once again, I repeat the key thing: I do not support the visa-free regime, not the one who questions the wrong laws; I do not support the visa-free regime of the one who imposes such short laws. Special confiscation is why it's called "special," because it has to be defined in terms of a perfectly clear set of crimes, clear, not as it says: all, any crimes of a particular part, except those of indiscretion. Once again, bullying is a crime of mind? Of course he is! Is there going to be a seizure? It will be! What does this have to do with corruption? Nobody! I agree with my colleagues that confiscation is both weapons, it's a micro-surgical weapon, it needs to be put into the hands of an absolutely independent professional court, a professional prosecutor. In our situation, it's a monkey with a grenade, an ape with a grenade, when a court has a stealth trial, when a court has a special confiscation of all kinds of crime. And when corruption in the higher echelons of power is not investigated at all. This is a special confiscation: friends are everything, and enemies are the law. Such a "law" (in paws) is impregnable. So once again, this law has nothing to do with fighting corruption. I say again, how many high-level officials have been sentenced in a year and a half? Zero. Zero! Zero! These are the results of the fight against corruption and the report on the fight against corruption. Here one colleague pointed out, the previous one, that we have judicial reform, that it didn't even start, but it will only start with the introduction of changes to the Constitution. What is the law regarding your just judgment? What's that? Where are the reforms? Did you change the composition of the High Council of Justice? Where's the referee's application? This is a real fight against corruption, not imitation, not simulations of the dates on which we are based.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-10-08-m0.u165	Ten seconds, complete.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-10-08-m0.u166	For which we are put to rest by the European Union. And now the government is trying to stretch the hall -- and say, "If you don't vote, you're guilty of millions of Ukrainian citizens not getting visa liberalisation.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-10-08-m0.u167	Jaroslav Markevich, Self-help. Some people here, because they don't know, see how Parliament works, say that Groisman is making decisions. The decision is taken by the Ukrainian Parliament by a majority of its members. Just so we're clear. Please, please, Olena Sotnik, Self-help.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-10-08-m0.u168	I'll do the gig, I'm after Markevich. Yes, thank you. Colleagues, I am addressing the Minister of Justice in fact. Because I'm sorry, but stop replacing and manipulating ideas. Because the European Union requires us not to adopt laws, and the European Union requires us to implement laws and results. For a year and a half, nothing was done! Therefore, the adoption of laws will not mean for the European Court of Justice that Ukraine is ready for a visa-free regime. So we don't have to lie to people right now. That's the first one. The other one. As far as the law is concerned, excuse me, if he is illiterate, he is illiterate. In the Criminal Code, each article is to be issued as a sanction for a special confiscation. Special confiscation around the world is a special criminal action that does not apply to the accused. What does that mean? The judge sits down and has to pass a sentence in which to write an appropriate punishment for the accused. He sees that he has a special seizure of 2, 3, 5, 7 years in addition to sanctions. He has to write it down. This means that each time he makes a decision about a connected person. And what does he have to confiscate: these connected persons? This is Brad, if you'll excuse me. [[B in m in s a l in]] Or so, of course. And the last. Of course, right now, people are looking at us and thinking that the Justice Department is offering us a rescue and an opportunity to finally take responsibility for all the corrupts and collect the billions that have left the country. But that's not true, because there is a special confiscation today. If you want to improve it, improve the KPC, not modify the Criminal Code. To date, Law 3229 has been registered, my law, in which the Criminal Procedure Code is applied in accordance with European legislation. And you don't have to put pressure on people, because it's not about the corrupts, it's about the simple people that you are.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-10-08-m0.u169	Thank you. Please, Yuri Lucenko, one minute. Yuri Lucenko, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-10-08-m0.u170	Dear Mr. Head! Dear National Deputies! In fact, the bill that we are currently considering has many flaws. And I have no doubt that all that is said here must be taken into account in the second reading. However, blaming the government, demagogically speaking of political repression, by those whose prices are known by the whole country for parliamentary requests, is not appropriate. It was our job to propose the same and better law. Today, international experts have provided us with such assistance. We need to take this assistance as a basis for voting and putting an end to the situation when a smuggler on Zakarpatta takes out the forest and his truck cannot be taken away because it is registered to a third party. When poacher destroys, in fact, lakes with dynamite, but it cannot be confiscated because they are on the third person. When a civil servant hangs all his belongings for his mother - in - law, he cannot be taken away because, you see, the court has no such authority.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-10-08-m0.u171	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-10-08-m0.u172	Today's the lawyer's day. I'm not a lawyer. I worked with lawyers on both sides of the barbed wire, as it were. But I think it's demagogy today to say that we have a bad trial and a bad prosecutor's office. Then we do not go to the European Union! Then step out of the European Ukraine coalition. The one who wants to make Europe will vote. Those who do not want will always find a reason to defend their non - European beliefs. The BP faction votes in favour.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-10-08-m0.u173	Thank you. One minute, Vladimir Parasuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-10-08-m0.u174	And now I want to say one phrase that applies to some of the people of this House. The revolution is made by romantics, defeated by fanatics, and used by villains. This is Yuri Lucenko coming out and telling us about the bright ideas. He's the first lobbyist to ever become a substitute for the head of the U.S.S.A., the first corruption of the Lviv region, called "Antibiotic." You know what "Antibiotic"? Because he can make up his mind. Three sheets of generalized his smuggling schemes and what he's covering up, it's just generalized. Do you want to pass these tools on to the vassillas? Shame on you! You know, we've expelled Yanukovich, and we're going to expel that power that's already led those people to poverty.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-10-08-m0.u175	Colleagues! Colleagues! Please, Anton Yatzenko, one minute. Then Oleg Berezuk, and then we're done, colleagues. I'll turn off the microphone if you discuss other issues. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-10-08-m0.u176	Dear colleagues, the fact is that today is the day of the lawyer, but the government has forgotten that the rule of law is in place in Ukraine. And all of these laws that have been introduced today, under beautiful so-called "European Union" and all that sort of thing, I want to remind you that we've already adopted one Law 4556, a year ago, exactly that name. And then they said all these questions were solved. So today, in fact, the red thread goes through the raiding of laws that are actually meant to be taken away without a court order. In principle, it is not a new phenomenon in Ukraine, but it is very sad that this disgraceful phenomenon is being pushed through parliament under the aegis of Euro-integration. In fact, this law is grossly contrary to the Constitution and international conventions, and that is why the Rebirth faction will not vote in favour of this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-10-08-m0.u177	Please, Oleg Berezuk, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-10-08-m0.u178	Parliament is transformed into a legislative body that produces paper that no one then considers. Mr. Prime Minister, fantastic law on transfer pricing. A beautiful law, zero execution, and cash are coming out of Ukraine. Customs Act. None. A fair trial. None. And this law will be the same. But people next to the TVs are sitting there thinking, what are they doing? I want to tell you that I will personally vote in favour of this law as a symbol. Although my lawyers, who are now sitting in this faction, will not vote for it, because it is a humiliation of human dignity by double accounting in Parliament. So I call upon the Cabinet of Ministers, the lawyers of this Supreme Council, to adopt laws that will protect people, not to deceive them with smoke checkers that are regularly thrown into parliament.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-10-08-m0.u179	Finish up. That's it, I'm done. Thank you, Your Honor. Minister of Justice. Then the Prime Minister. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-10-08-m0.u180	Dear colleagues, when there are any anti-corruption laws in this room, there is a very heated discussion. Because each member of Parliament understands that these laws can apply to us, including you. There's one thing I want to say to my colleague, Mrs. Sotnik. I have a lot of respect for you as a specialist and a professional. The distribution of power is in place in Ukraine. The government and the Ministry of Justice do not investigate crimes. The Ministry of Justice prepares laws that meet the requirements of the European Union. The Public Prosecutor's Office, the courts and other law enforcement agencies should implement these laws. And now to make a reference to the fact that we have bad courts or law enforcement agencies, and so we don't have to change legislation, it's at least irresponsible. I've read your bill, which you're proposing. He's really good. It can be included in our draft for second reading. But there is one problem. These criminals, who commit willful smuggling crimes, after being transferred through the zone, for example, to Donbas, after the destruction of our incursions, after terrorism, they are not held accountable for the confiscation. And that's not fair! You are not expanding the list of articles of the Criminal Code to which this mechanism can be applied. So I'm asking you to calm down and really accept this law as a basis. And it is clear that each one of us has a responsibility in his or her work — a heavy but vital responsibility. Please do your job and we'll do our job. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-10-08-m0.u181	Thank you. Please, Prime Minister of Ukraine. Arsenius Petrovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-10-08-m0.u182	Honorable Ukrainian National Deputies, as always, have a heated discussion within the walls of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. I'll try to answer a few questions that are asked here. First, who drafted this law? This law was developed by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, along with experts from the European Union and OECD experts. Second: Why does this law fit? This law is fully and fully in line with the relevant directives of the European Union. Third: What is the purpose of this law? This law is designed to prevent corrupters from hiding their belongings in brothers, marriages, women, and distant relatives. And so that the court has the right to confiscate property acquired in a criminal way, not only from a corrupter, but also from third parties who have hidden the property obtained in a criminal way. Four. This law and other laws fully conform to European standards. Without the adoption of these laws, without a real fight against corruption and the implementation of these laws, no one will give us a visa-free regime. If these laws are not voted on, this means only one thing: Ukraine is denied the chance for Ukrainian citizens with biometric passports, which are Ukrainian biometric passports, to move freely through the European Union. I ask members of Parliament to vote in favour of these laws in the first reading. And put all your genius ideas into second reading. Allow Ukrainians to get visa-free mode. Vote for these laws! Because these are laws, not for Parliament, but for millions of citizens of the country! Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-10-08-m0.u183	Dear colleagues, please take your seats, prepare for the vote. We've discussed two bills with you. Attention! 2540a and 2541a. These two draft laws are now only being considered as a basis. If, in preparation from first to second reading, we see the norms of this legislation that do not meet the European directives, European legislation, we're going to bring it into the room or immediately, we're going to define it in committee consideration. But today, not to support this decision on the basis, I emphasize, and to become the reason that Ukrainian citizens can leave their right to travel across Europe without a visa, we have no moral right with you. So here's the deal. We now vote 2540a and 2541a as the basis. Then I am ready to create a united working group with the government, if necessary, to involve European experts, and on the full program for second reading, we will consider each letter of this law and come out in a completely open position. And one more thing, colleagues. Yes, whatever bill the government has not introduced, we have the possibility of introducing alternative bills with you. And he came in at the end of August, and we could do it with you, unfortunately, we didn't. But I think we're going to take this into account in our future work. So, my friends, I'm asking you to support this and not be an obstacle to the introduction of a visa-free regime. We're concentrating, please, colleagues. There are no factions or political colors on this issue, and the flag is one of the Ukrainian and the other of the European Union. Colleagues, please take our seats. The 2540th draft of the law is voted on the basis, colleagues, on the basis only, and I ask you to support it, my friends. Vote 2540a. Please be supportive. Based on the base. On the basis of that, please support. [[12:50:33]] For 210 210 votes. Dear colleagues, I think this will be a completely unacceptable decision for us. Colleagues, let's look, let's look for an understanding on this issue. On February 20, we're going to have a technical mission on this. Please, colleagues, there is an offer to return to the consideration of this matter, fellow believers. And then we're going to see if we can redo the first reading. Guys, I'm asking you to support this proposal. If there are questions in preparation for the second reading, we will consider them objectively. I'm asking you to back me up. Let's return, fellow citizens, 2540a, back to this issue so that we don't lose this bill, I ask you to support it. Colleagues, I'm asking you to support me. The return of 2540a. 2540a. Guys, let's go back, we're voting friends! Vote, colleagues, for your return. [[12:52:07]] For 223 Friends, once again, were offered to return to this draft law. I ask you to put her to the vote. I'm putting her to the vote again. Attention, comrades! For the return of 2540a. Please vote back, 2540a. Vote, colleagues, return. So what do we do now? [[12:52:46]] For 231 Thank you. We're back. Now, dear fellows, can I lay the basis again for this bill? [[B in m in s a l in]] On the ground! Friends, please concentrate, we have no right to allow or vote on this decision. 2540a, signal, based on the base. Signal's on the ground, please support, folks. 2540a. It's just the basics. Please be supportive. 2540a, please support the base. [[12:53:27]] For 228 The signal went through the vote, the colleagues, 228 votes. An extremely responsible question of a visa-free regime. I'm asking you to back him up on the ground. Please vote, base, 2540a. Let's vote, colleagues, on the ground. [[12:53:51]] For 232 Decision taken, friends, 232 votes. Thank you, Your Honor, for taking this as a foundation. But under the transcript, I confirm that we are creating a joint working group together with the Ministry of Justice, we will involve professionals from Europe, and we will go through every letter of this law to fully match the best European practices that fit European legislation. Do you have a deal? [[B in m in s a l in]] Guys, thank you for understanding. Friends, 2541, this is a derivative law, they're being considered together. The same procedure, and we'll consider them together. 2541a, please vote for the base. We're making a signal, I understand? Signal? Based on the base. Vote! Based on the base. Please support, 2541a, on the ground. Based on the base. Please support, please vote, colleagues. [[12:54:57]] For 224 Friends, two votes. [[B in m in s a l in]] So that was the signal on the basis. But please, colleagues, please, two votes is very important! [[B in m in s a l in]] Signal is based, you've heard it. Well, you'll have to listen later. You'll have to listen to the transcript. Colleagues, please, 2541a, we have a signal vote of 224. Concentrate, please, and please support 2541a, the issue of visa-free treatment for Ukrainian citizens. Friends, well, they don't have diplomatic passports for anyone, it's true. Let's support 2541a, vote, colleagues, 2541a, based on the same common procedure, friends. 2541a vote, please support all colleagues. Please, colleagues, we're voting, every vote on the bill. Vote, colleagues, please support 2541a, vote, colleagues, on a basis, only on a basis. [[12:56:07]] For 229 The law's been passed. Thank you. Same procedure -- based, based, based. Next, the bill (registration number 2542a) is also made of a visa-free package. Please, Justice Minister Paul Petrenko. There's an offer: a reduced procedure. Please vote. Friends, I thank you for supporting this decision and we can process it for second reading. Please proceed with the reduced procedure. Please vote. [[12:56:53]] For-167 Decision taken. Please report to Paul Petrenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-10-08-m0.u184	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to present to you a draft law amending the Criminal Procedural Code to implement the recommendations of the European Union to implement Ukraine's action plan on visa liberalisation by the European Union as part of clarifying the relevance of the judicial investigation bodies. What I'm saying is that this law right now is we're making three recommendations for the last monitoring report. First of all, the European Commission is recommending that we clear up the overlap between our law enforcement agencies. Second, to eliminate the so - called alternative investigation of crimes against terrorism by transferring these crimes to the C.E.A. Third, limit Ukraine’s Security Service to the authority to investigate relevant crimes only those relating to national security and terrorism. In fact, this bill is important in view of the fact that we are preparing to adopt the Law on the State Bureau of Investigation. So on the committee, we suggested that these two bills go in parallel. And the request is now to vote on the basis of this bill: making changes to 216th. In fact, this would be the basis for us to define a clear division of the caseload between the different law enforcement agencies. The main recommendation is that when we have an alternative, it implies a delay and a misunderstanding between those responsible for investigating a crime or other crime. I would like to ask you, if possible, to support these bills. And for the second reading, we'll work it out with you. I hope that we will adopt both this law and the law on the DBR, and this will, in principle, complete the reform of the authorities that are responsible for investigating criminal conduct. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-10-08-m0.u185	Thank you. Please, Andrew Anatoliyovich Cosemyakin.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-10-08-m0.u186	Dear colleagues, God forbid the old authorities return to pass such laws. Dear colleagues, this bill has been considered by the committee, and, indeed, it has no key word in comparison with these projects: the words "corruption." Here, indeed, the technical law is clearly stated by the European Union in order to liberalize the visa regime for Ukraine and to clarify the traceability of law enforcement authorities. Short of what's going on. The mandate of the SBA to investigate exclusively crimes related to the national security of the country, the extension of the investigative competence of the tax enforcement authorities is limited to that of the law; the recognition of the State Bureau of Investigation, which is not yet available, is unfortunately, but we hope that it will be created and adopted by a bill, which is followed by the competence to investigate a number of categories of crimes related to the sphere of public administration; and the determination of the procedure for introducing a change to article 216 of the CPC, which is linked to the modification of the law enforcement competence of the relevant law enforcement authorities in the area of conduct, termination, transfer, in appropriate cases, of powers to investigate the case of an organ that loses or acquires the relevant competence, taking into account the proposed changes to article 216 of the Code of Criminal Procedure. The Committee has carefully reviewed and recommended that the Supreme Council accept it as a basis for its consideration in the first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-10-08-m0.u187	Dear colleagues, please sign up: two pros, two against. Please, Alexi Muschak, Peter Dust Block.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-10-08-m0.u188	Good afternoon, dear colleagues, good afternoon, representatives of Kabmin. Of course, the question of visa liberalisation is what concerns all of us, yes. This is particularly true of Western Ukraine’s representatives, who travel as quickly as possible and many as possible abroad. At the same time, with the support of these bills, I would like to say the following. We've just voted on two bills that stated that corruption must be combated, that many good things must be done. And the responsibility for these things has been transferred to Parliament. On the other hand, I want you to just read Cabinet Order 763 of September 30, which says wages to a specialized anti-corruption prosecutor. So, according to the Cabinet Order, and today, Mr. Yatsenuk tells us how important it is to fight, the prosecutor of the specialized anti-corruption prosecutor's office will receive up to three and a half thousand dollars, the investigator will receive two 200. So I have a question, how do we say that these things were agreed with our foreign colleagues, with our partners. May I ask? I'd like to hear the answer. If they were to be told that a prosecutor who would fight and who specifically was assigned to fight corruption would get $100 a month; how soon would any conversation with European partners end? Because they're clearly and clearly going to say it's propaganda and imitation. Thank you for your attention. Pos_05322_002_073
ParlaMint-UA_2015-10-08-m0.u189	Thank you. Please, Igor Alexeyev, People's Front.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-10-08-m0.u190	Good afternoon! Dear colleagues! The People's Front faction will unanimously support this bill. On the one hand, as has already been pointed out by a representative of a profiling committee, it has a technical character and defines a clear division of the link between the law enforcement authorities and, on the other hand, I'm paying attention to all colleagues, it's cleaning up a number of criminal conducts from the Ukrainian Security Service. To ensure that the Ukrainian Security Service investigates exclusively crimes against national security and terrorism and does nothing else. In addition, the State Bureau of Investigation has clarified the subordination of the State Bureau of Investigation. And it's very important, this initiative, it, I believe, will push us all to develop and adopt a bill on the State Bureau of Investigation, which is extremely important, and is also within the European Union's requirements. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-10-08-m0.u191	Master Sergei, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-10-08-m0.u192	Thank you, Your Honor, Mr. Chairman! In fact, this law is much more technical than the previous two. However, we also have a number of questions. You know, when I hear from the people who drafted this law about alternative criminality, I'm getting dizzy because the Ukrainian Criminal Procedure Code does not provide for alternative jurisdiction in principle and cannot provide for it -- it's the principle of the existence of the Ukrainian Criminal Procedure Code. On the one hand. But on the other hand, there is a standard in this law that we should get rid of when preparing for the second reading. Well, especially in the Transitions. In the Final Situations, paragraph 2 states that criminal conduct initiated by the investigating authorities of internal affairs, security and the prosecutor's office, pending the entry into force of this law, continues to be carried out by the investigators of these bodies. So we're re-emerging the colossals. We need to transfer these matters according to the new investigation rather than to keep them in the old bodies that investigated them, so to speak, according to the previous distribution of the case so that we do not have duplicates. You know, from the point of view of procedure, things can separate from each other. In order not to produce the same double investigation by the same law enforcement agencies, this rule will have to be corrected. But it's a completely editorial thing. Therefore, this bill must be supported in the first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-10-08-m0.u193	Please, Irina Heratschenko, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-10-08-m0.u194	Dear colleagues! I take the floor as chairman of the Committee on European Integration. I want to say that this bill was also considered at our committee meeting. And we want to support all those colleagues who rightly pointed out that this bill has a technical character. Indeed, it is in line with the European rules and recommendations contained in Chapter III of the Fifth Report of the European Commission. And it's very important, in fact, to really narrow down the powers of the Ukrainian Security Service, bring them into intelligence and counterintelligence. And we will support the vote. And please support the voting room for this very important bill. We want to remind the capture that indeed, the recommendations of its European Commission on granting Ukraine a visa-free regime will be done in November, in December. And that's why it's really our chance to carry out our debt as a parliament by voting on the laws. But you, Mr. Chief of the Supreme Council, are asked to include representatives of the European Integration Committee in the committee for the drafting of the bills that have now been put to the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-10-08-m0.u195	Ladies and gentlemen, please take your seats. Prepare for the vote, dear friends, please. Colleagues, once again, 2542 is one of the draft laws that we consider to be the basis, and this is the question of implementing the Action Plan on the visa-free regime. Draft Act amending Ukraine's Criminal Procedure Code to implement the recommendations of the European Union to implement Ukraine's Action Plan on Liberalisation by the European Union of Visa Procedures for Ukraine on clarifying the traceability of pretrial investigation bodies. Again, on the ground. Are you ready to vote, colleagues? I see the MPs are still coming. Please prepare for the vote. Prepare for the vote, please. 2542a from a package of laws on visa-free treatment, colleague. Please, let's try the alarm. 2542a signal, based on the base. Please, colleagues, let's assess the availability of votes. 2542a is based on the implementation of European recommendations, this is a signal vote and there are voices. [[13:08:59]] For 232 Friends, 232. Please vote on the basis of 2542a. We're voting on the basis, colleagues. Please vote. Please be supportive. [[13:09:20]] For 256 The law has been approved. Colleagues, draft Law (Registration No. 3040), draft Law on the National Agency of Ukraine on Detection, Search and Management of Assets from Corruption and Other Crimes (3040). There is a suggestion that the reporter should consider the reduced procedure. I'd like to make up my mind. Proposal for consideration of the reduced procedure, colleagues. Short-term review procedure. [[13:09:59]] For 158. Decision taken. Please, Minister Petrenko, report.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-10-08-m0.u196	Dear colleagues, you have before you the bill 3040 on the National Agency of Ukraine on the detection, search and management of assets obtained in a corrupt way. I want to say that this bill has had the most debate in committee preparation and consideration, and when it's presented on factions, we really see that there are a number of, firstly, issues and a series of myths that exist under this bill. I will begin by drawing up this bill on the clear requirement of the fifth report of the monitoring mission of the European Commission, which clearly shows that Ukraine is obliged to create an independent asset tracking and management agency. The other one. What does this mean from an application point of view? To date, our law enforcement agencies, which are investigating, have a rather limited ability to search for assets, especially if these assets are exported abroad. They have to use appropriate legal aid tools, and it's easier to ask questions from different countries of the world that are being considered for months and years. This means that these criminals and those who form criminal groups on asset withdrawal are more technological, they use different jurisdictions, including offshore ones, to raise funds. And the law enforcement system doesn't have the capability to quickly block these funds from abroad. That's why the European Union. I'm asking you, I'm gonna need a little more time because this is an important bill. Therefore, the European Union has created on the ground all countries that are members of the European Union, special bodies called "ARO", "AMO". These are offices for the search and detection of assets acquired by criminal means. And we've given these bodies the opportunity to exchange information in an operational order. This means that during one period, if the Ukrainian Asset Management Authority, for example, applies to the same body in France.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-10-08-m0.u197	Please finish, Minister.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-10-08-m0.u198	In Germany or in other countries of the European Union, he gets all the information about a person suspected of committing a corruption crime, about the companies where he is a beneficiary, about the assets that are actually recorded in one country or another. This mechanism will allow for the rapid display of such property abroad. This mechanism will allow for the arrest of such property abroad. And this mechanism will allow this property to be returned to Ukraine to the Ukrainian budget. Therefore, the European Union has been very scrupulous in preparing this law. A technical task was written, and the law was prepared by OECD experts together with experts from the European Commission. I want to dispel immediately the fears of the national MPs that this body will actually be controlled by the Minista or some other ministry. The basic requirement, and this is the rule of law that this body is independent, and it is subordinated directly to the Cabinet of Ministers. The second myth is that this organ performs law enforcement functions. No, this body is not a law enforcement body, and we are not yet producing any additional law enforcement. The third is the main one. This body should assist our investigators by identifying the assets, their fixation and their management. Four. The claim that a special fund would form 25 percent of the body’s employees ’ wages. It's not true. Indeed, this body has an appropriate fund that goes towards the recovery of funds, if a justifiable sentence has been given to the individual, to the cost of searching for property, and to the cost of maintaining property. But we are ready to form a working group, together with Parliament's deputies, to work on the second reading of this law. I've cleared up all the points on which there are issues. And together with you, we ask you, together with you, have convinced the experts of the European Union that there is a need for some change to this law that is not acceptable to the hall or that is not perceived by the Ukrainian society. But in summary, I ask you, today we need to support this law in the first reading to signal that Ukraine is ready to create an effective mechanism to find assets that are derived from corruption crimes. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-10-08-m0.u199	Please, Yegor Sobolev, report to the committee head.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-10-08-m0.u200	The Supreme Council Committee against Corruption recommends that Parliament adopt this law in its first reading. Including colleagues from parliament, experts have pointed out that there are rules in the law that can lead to abuse. In particular, the big discussion is about the standards of 25 percent that should remain in the agency, the creation of a special fund, where interest will come from managing these costs. I also share the concerns of colleagues on this subject. I think that by the second reading, these standards need to be corrected. And in the whole creation of a professional agency, which will be fast, immediately upon the request of the investigator to find assets, immediately arrest them and continue to be responsible for keeping them out of the loop, which we often have, including in the last year, is a good idea that is not implemented in one country. If we can choose a strong leader of such an agency, everything will be fine. Therefore, the committee recommends that the first reading be adopted and that it work well for the final adoption of the law.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-10-08-m0.u201	Please, two for, two for against. Please sign up. Please, National Deputy Massorin, People's Front, Olena, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-10-08-m0.u202	Please pass the word to Leonid to Yemen.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-10-08-m0.u203	Please, Leonid Yemen.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-10-08-m0.u204	Leonid Yemen, People's Front faction, city of Kiev. Dear colleagues, what distinguishes a corrupter from an honest man? This is his possession of Mercedes, he has a five-story house, he has a yacht, he has a multimillion dollar bank account. What distinguishes our prosecutors from the real law enforcement agency? It's an incompetence or faster, I'd say, an unwillingness to fight corruption. As responsible legislators, what should we do to the representatives of the Ukrainian people? If the prosecutor's office is unable to detect and arrest a corrupter, we have to change this situation, and that's why we're proposing to support the bill proposed by the Cabinet of Ministers, to create a new body that will be composed of honest, professional people, specialists who will be able to detect a corrupter, to discover his property and to return it to a Ukrainian citizen. I understand that there are questions, and I understand that experts are making comments. This is a perfectly fair discussion, and that's why our faction is proposing to support this bill as a basis for implementation. We can't give up this body right now, do this -- we've left property to corrupt people, we've taken away Ukrainian citizens from the possibility of justice. That's why, once again, reminding us of justice, there is another bill proposed by our faction, a bill proposed to return property to Ukrainian citizens, plundered by Yanukovic's original environment, Bill 3025, and we will return to it today. And now I call on our voters to support the establishment of the National Bureau for the return of corrupt looted property to the Ukrainian people. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2015-10-08-m0.u205	Alexander Kugel, please, Fatherland.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-10-08-m0.u206	Dear friends, you know, this feeling of "the more we fight corruption, the more we have corruption." You know what we're about to create, listen! – the fourth body in Ukraine to fight corruption? Tell me, which one of you knows what body to address? Glacier, where you take information, you don't fight corruption. I mean, listen carefully! Please tell me, why can't we create departments with you at the Anti-Corruption Bureau? It's a very important question, but it's very narrow, and it's when we cut off the aid. Mr. Yacinuk, you promised to index all the poorest, but you didn't index the third group of people with disabilities. They're receiving 949 dollars from the state today. We're talking to you, there's no money to pay off the dying niggers, we're telling you that there's no money to pay off the children of war, but we're creating an organ at the top and we're predicting 25 percent of it to pay. And the last question, here's a lot of comments, say, Mr. Petrenko, do you need a separate register of the property you've been arrested with today? Would you please tell me we've already had an independent tariff audit? And here we predict that three people from the President, three from the Kabmin and three from us will conduct an independent audit of this commission. Excuse me, there's an account room. So the point is, well, the important thing is, if you remake this bill, it's 90 percent. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-10-08-m0.u207	Anton Yatzenko, Rebirth Party. Then there's the line.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-10-08-m0.u208	Dear friends, the point is, Mrs. Kugel says, is already the fourth organ created by taxpayers, and all social programs, such as medicine, are circumcised. For example, Kabdin didn't buy joint endotheliosis -- there's no money for people. And to create another ministry, essentially, there's money for that. And so this really is a wonderful, wonderful function that the National Anti-Corruption Bureau can do, which is going to work. And the thing is, unfortunately, in this bill, again, we have a contradiction with the Constitution of Ukraine because the asset they arrested can be implemented without a court decision, that is, in fact, the language goes, again, about the raiding approach to property in Ukraine and contradicts the harsh Constitution. Thus, according to our group, this law must be rejected. And let him create an appropriate structural unit of any law enforcement agency. And I'm going to remind you that there's a Derzcominmonitoring in Ukraine, which is also tracking all the flows, and he could also be tracking the property. I mean, you don't have to have bureaucrats at the expense of taxpayers. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-10-08-m0.u209	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-10-08-m0.u210	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. Of course, many national deputies do not know how people live. I would recommend to those who adopt and introduce laws here, declare a fight against corruption, simulate this fight against corruption, I recommend going to any district court, to any court of appeal, or to an administrative court -- and you will see where corruption is. When corridors have been killed, when people have been unable to enforce court decisions for years. Go to the executive services, go to the subsidy departments, go to the pension funds, and you'll see people who are 70 years old and 80 years old. Go to the registration services where people want land or property to register, and you will see months of time and years when they cannot decide their rights to register. When you want, the honourable authority, is it not, because there can be no respectable authority that has led to the poverty of millions of Ukrainian citizens, answer me a simple question: what are these reforms that make people beggars, what is the purpose of these reforms: to reduce the population of Ukrainian citizens to 10, to 5, to 3 million? What are these reforms?Oh, my God! When you want people to believe that creating another so-called anti-corruption body will allow more to fight corruption, lies! We have enough law and authority today to fight corruption. I told you before, the law on absentee justice. Can't you get Yanukovich out of the border? Why hasn't the Attorney General started the trial in absentia? Why is it that Janukovich and his gang have not yet been confiscated on the basis of the verdict? Why do you allow the Cloaks to flee and the political prisoners to be imprisoned? Because you're corrupters! And so when you want to convince all society and Europe about fighting corruption, start with yourself. Today is the biggest corruption in the government. You're just using law enforcement today to deal with political opponents. And you guys don't sit around, and you don't do music. And in the fight against corruption.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-10-08-m0.u211	Replica, Sergey Lechchenka. Colleagues, we will now proceed to the vote. Please provide a package of laws related to visa-free treatment.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-10-08-m0.u212	Thank you for mentioning my last name. I'll tell you a story about why the lady who mentioned it is being insulted. Because I wrote, based on the documents of the U.S. Department of Justice, about how one political power, which is very eager to take office as Prime Minister, sent its leader to the United States. And for that, she paid $200,000 to American lobbyists from accounts of unknown origin. And this political force has spent $1 million in total on lobbyists over the last four years, and it's paid off offshore accounts, including. That's about why a colleague insults me. As for the bill, I support it. And I also remind you: yesterday's call by the European Commission, where they say that the adoption of this bill is one of the steps towards the liberalisation of Ukraine's and the European Union's visa withdrawals. So our citizens can travel to Europe without restrictions. And to do that, we need Ukraine to fight corruption and return the assets that have been stolen and, God forbid, they'll be stolen in the future.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-10-08-m0.u213	Thank you. Colleagues, please take our seats. I think you can put the same system in place here, this package of laws. I'm going to sign an order today to create such an interfractional group. We will continue to prepare them according to European legislation for second reading. And we're going to have everything clearly defined, what are the standards that meet European legislation that don't fit. And how these laws can be improved. But what I want to stress is that this package of laws, including the 3040 that we're looking at right now, is the law on the implementation of the visa-free regime. Please take our seats, colleagues. And I'm stressing that this question is about accepting it as a basis, not as a whole. This is just the first step. Please, colleagues, take your seats. Let's go. Let's go. Let's go. Let's go. Now I'm going to announce the vote. 3040 on the ground. We're creating a group. We work together. We're preparing for the second reading. Please give me a signal vote, 3040 on the ground. Signal. Please vote, please support, colleagues. Signal. [[13:28:06]] For 208 Well, almost. We should invite the deputies straight to the hall. Please, colleagues.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-10-08-m0.u214	Dear colleagues, honourable deputies! I'm asking you to come into the hall. We're finishing this actual block, which is not just a visa liberalisation block, it's also a mechanism to fight corruption and create a mechanism so that we can give confiscated property to the government of the state, not to those who are involved in cracking similar schemes. Dear colleagues, this is the first reading. And when the minister was speaking, and the committee head, they said, 25 percent of the questions we're going to be able to adjust to the preparation for the second reading. All the warnings that the MPs have, we'll be able to adjust, so we have the first and the second readings. But most important of all, if we are not to start protecting corrupt people in this room by rhetorical protection, we need to concentrate. Let all anti-corruption laws in our hall be difficult, but they've always passed. And we have to demonstrate this once again now by voting for Bill 3040. I very much ask all the deputies to enter the hall, prepare for the vote and vote on the basis of bill 3040. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-10-08-m0.u215	Thank you. Please, Yuri Lucenko, a minute away from the faction. Yuri Lucenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-10-08-m0.u216	Dear Mr. Head, distinguished national deputies and distinguished Mr. Andrew! It's not about whether there's an MP in the room. The idea is that there is a strategically wrong position in this law that restores the tradition of Azarov and his tradition of rewarding government officials except for wages and extra-budgetary flows. Only Azarov, in fact, did 10 percent for the professional fund. This law offers 25 billionths of a billionth of a billionth of a year. We find it fundamentally unacceptable to re-establish these State spending traditions outside the budget. Ready to hear the minister say that in the second reading it will be removed. But I want to hear from the Prime Minister who promised to take all the passports into bad MPs, what will be the measures that will be taken to those who have prepared this law in that form? If they take away their salary, their bonus, their passports and all the other benefits, the ones that put Azir's law in this Parliament, then I'll also understand that something is changing.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-10-08-m0.u217	Thank you. Colleagues, it's a visa-free regime, I'm stressing again. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-10-08-m0.u218	It's a short line.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-10-08-m0.u219	Please, Paul Petrenko. As long as the MPs take their seats. Let's be as tolerant and considerate as possible to prepare for the second reading as we speak.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-10-08-m0.u220	Dear colleagues, I want to give you an answer and undo the myth again. Any individual salary and salary fund is not even included in this law. I'm quoting from article 24 of the draft law that determines where these funds are going. First. Return the owner if there is a decision or justifiable verdict. The other one. Reimbursement of expenses associated with asset management Third. Returning assets derived from corruption and other crimes to a foreign state if there is a request from this foreign state for their persons. Four. Attention! Ensuring that criminal justice is more effective. In particular, the conduct of indiscretions, the protection of witnesses, and those who report corruption. These are the requirements that the European Union has laid down for us that we did not have any funding at all for these measures. Therefore, there is no question that any special wages or rewards will be paid to these coworkers of this body from this Spetzfond. The other one. If you are upset about 25 percent, it can be corrected and agreed with the European Commission. Third. It's about drawing on responsibility. I'm going to quote the European Commission's statement again. The EU emphasises that the Supreme Council should support government bills on the creation of the Agency from asset recovery rather than their alternatives. And once again, I'll tell you that these laws were developed by the government, the Ministry of Justice, together with OECD experts and the European Commission. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-10-08-m0.u221	Thank you. Please, Arsenius Petrovich Yacenuk. And let's go to the vote. Colleagues, take your seats, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-10-08-m0.u222	Honorable National Deputies of Ukraine. And the noble Lord, the head of the Peter Dusty Block. I don't think you need to worry about your diplomatic passport, because I see that you are voting for all the bills for the introduction of a visa-free regime. And as for the question of who needs to get paid, I'll tell you. So this legislation on the creation of appropriate asset recovery bodies exists in all member countries of the European Union and the United States. The bill was first developed with the help of these experts. And the statement of the European Union, which was published yesterday, clearly states that this law is in line with European standards and European directives. So if you have the opportunity to take wages from members of the European Commission and redistribute them for members of the Ukrainian Parliament, try it. And with regard to this law, I would like to support it. And in the second reading, to refine and thus to enact this law as a whole. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-10-08-m0.u223	Thank you. Dear colleagues, another very important detail. Guys, we're working on a logical system that we've discussed with you. That is, we now adopt them on the basis and continue working together with European partners for details and preparation for second reading. And this will be a very important step towards implementing the visa-free regime plan. Nobody wants to, and I want to, create some mechanisms that won't produce results. So, my friends, please take your seats, prepare for the vote. Draft law. Based on, colleagues, based on. Colleagues, this is just for the basics, please. Now it's just a foundation. Colleagues, please, it is we who are enacting laws for all citizens of Ukraine and for the visa-free regime. After all, listen, this curtain has to be lowered simply, these lines on the borders of the kilometers have to be lowered. Please, colleagues, 3040 is a draft of the Ukrainian National Agency for the Detection, Search and Management of Assets From Corruption and Other Crimes Act. I ask you to support this bill on the basis of a bill implementing the visa-free regime plan. Let's do a 3040 vote again. Colleagues, I'm asking you to support everyone. Please support 3040, we vote for the signal base. I'd like your support, colleagues. [[13:36:08]] For 203 Colleagues, please tell me what I have to do to support this bill? Yuri Vitaliyovich, I very much ask you to support this project for the second reading, we will prepare together. I'm just as worried as you are, please, as a colleague. Please, Yuri Lucenko a minute, please. I remember the line.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-10-08-m0.u224	Mr. Volodymira Borisovich, honourable Arsenija Petrovich, I know that this law has been passed under the signature of a citizen not of the EU but of Ukraine, and prepared by his officials of the Ministry of Justice, who, as civil servants, receive a salary and a bonus. The minister of the rostrum just said that this law is imperfect, and in the second reading it supports the removal of contentious things. I think it's for those who prepare such provocative things as getting 25 percent of the confiscated property out of the budget. And I'd understand what the normal manager would say, yeah, let's figure out, we'll conduct a service investigation. In response, they say no, vote because it is the EU. This is Ukraine, which wants to join the EU. But he also wants discipline, responsibility for the result, not just for the slogan.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-10-08-m0.u225	I support you, Yuri Vitaliovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-10-08-m0.u226	I urge the BP faction to vote in the first reading now. And I urge the Prime Minister to still bring to justice the real authors of the law, which is causing such a violent reaction in the hall.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-10-08-m0.u227	Completely, Yuri Vitaliyovich, I support you. Colleagues, 3040, please 3040 votes. Signal voting on the ground. I'd like you to support my colleague. And I think we'll deal with the performers, including. Yuri Vitaliyovich, let us deal with the performers, including them, and listen to them. Please, for the basis. 3040, please, on the ground. It's a signal vote, now colleagues. [[13:38:15]] For 218. I think we're now able to vote 25 percent off as a basis. Yeah? Who can formulate this position? In condition, let's do this, if you're looking at the norm. if the standard is cancelled, 25 percent. Arsenius Petrovich Yacenuk, form.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-10-08-m0.u228	Dear National Deputies! I'll do it again. Now I'm asking you for your support and your help. Norm for the creation of a special fund, not on wages, as the Minister of Justice has read to you, but on the formation of a separate fund is fully in line with OECD standards. And that was the requirement of our European partners. What are we talking to you about? As part of our working group, which will prepare all the laws on the adoption of these bills in second reading, together with European experts, sit down and, together with the government, convince them that this rule will not pass through Parliament, regardless of what it is in European legislation. Please let's do this together. Because this is a direct directive from the EU and the OECD. If you bring us along, thank God, we're changing this rule of law. If we do not prove it, then we must adopt laws that are consistent with European practices that work in Europe and should work in Ukraine. So let's work together on the second reading.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-10-08-m0.u229	Please, Ivan Krulko, Fatherland. Then there'll be Lucenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-10-08-m0.u230	Ivan Krulko, "The Fatherland" faction. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to say that it is time for us to conclude with the special funds in which the funds go, which are then allocated on our own, on our own initiative. Everything has to go to the general budget fund, and they all have to have the same forms in order to pay wages and bonuses. That's why I have an offer. We can vote in favour of this law if, in the first reading, we delete a 25 percent rule that goes to the special fund.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-10-08-m0.u231	Please, Yuri Lucenko. There's a faction manager, colleagues.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-10-08-m0.u232	Dear Mr. Head! Deputies! I, of course, am not the genius of fiscal politics, either in Minfin or in Minsk. Nevertheless, the proposal is quite clear: 25 per cent of the confiscated assets recovered come from the state budget of Ukraine for the development of a law enforcement system that seeks illegal assets from Ukraine. Period. And I'm sure the Europeans will understand that the special funds that go in. For example, improvements in operational search activities are unacceptable. We went through it, it was called "professional," and it ended in "azareland." We all remember that. So this rule needs to be removed. Formulate along with European Union experts, while Minust cannot, here, on the profile committee. Continue to adopt a normal European law, but not a corrupt law under Ukrainian conditions. The BP faction votes in favour of Mr. Krulk's amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-10-08-m0.u233	The law is passed as a result of the first reading, taking into account John Krulk’s amendment, as a basis for the vote. Please, colleagues, on the basis of the amendment I announced, it's a signal. Vote. Please support your friends. Please be supportive. [[13:42:11]] For 231 We now vote on the basis, colleagues, on the basis of the vote. With John Krulk's amendment, we vote on the basis. Please support, colleagues, we vote, with John Krulk's amendment. [[13:42:30.]] For 237 Thank you, colleagues, 237. The law was adopted as a basis for consideration in the first reading. Let's move on. No, listen, I have an offer, guys, let's finish the visa-free regime. [[B in m in s a l in]] In the first reading, that's right. Please, please, let's keep working. 3041 is a draft law amending the Ukrainian Budget Code on the implementation of the recommendation made in the framework of the implementation of the EU Visa Liberalisation Action Plan for Ukraine and so on. Is there a need to discuss it? Is it? None. [[B in m in s a l in]] 3041, please, with a reduced procedure, please. Colleagues, let's not waste time where we don't have to, because let's say that if it's a derivative of 25 percent, we're just going to vote now. [[13:43:25]] For-174 Please, Paul Petrenko, make a suggestion regarding this law. Colleagues, we're going to vote now, because it's related to the law that we just passed -- 3040.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-10-08-m0.u234	Dear colleagues, the bill is technical, it is adopted in conjunction with the previous bill. There are no references to this bill by 25 percent, and I ask it accordingly to be accepted as a basis, and we will work on it together, with the final text of the original bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-10-08-m0.u235	You got it, fellas? All of it. Thank you. Please take your seats. 3041 is based on the law we passed first. Does that make sense? Please, colleagues, 3041 on the basis of your support, colleagues, please vote. 3041 please vote on the basis. It's a technical draft of the law. On the basis of that, please support, on the basis of that. Colleagues. [[13:44:31]] For 209 Then let's get him back to work -- that's the same thing -- to redesign the subject of the legislative initiative. It's going to be this one, and you're going to bring this one in as a derivative technical. Is it accepted? [[B in m in s a l in]] We'll take it as a base. Colleagues, he's on schedule, we're voting for him on the basis, and then when we're preparing 3040 for second reading, and we're taking into account the proposals of 3041. Is that the position taken? Fellows, let's go back, 3041, back to his consideration. Please be supportive. We still have one law left. Please, colleagues, 3041, return to his consideration. Now let's talk about what to do with it. Let's go back. On our way back, we'll be back. [[B in m in s a l in]] Please, 3041 for returning to him. Colleagues! Please support me. For a return to his consideration, we will now advise you on what to do with it. [[13:45:58]] For 197 The technical law, it is not approved. Thank you, Your Honor. Huh? To further develop the subject of the legislative initiative to prepare for the re-reading of the first reading. Are we working? Let's do it again. Please re-direction first. Colleagues, please support. Rerouting first, please vote. Please, back up, one more time. Please support your colleagues. [[13:46:29]] For 222 Colleagues, for re-reading Project 3041. Suggestion: Reread first. It was a subject, we can send it to the committee. Let's give the subject a legislative initiative. Re-reading, colleagues, please support. Vote. Rereading the first reading, returning to the first subject. I'd like your support, colleagues. Vote. [[13:47:08]] For 219 Ladies and gentlemen, may I make a request to the faction leaders? Can we not migrate? Please, let's vote back for rereading, preparing for the committee. This proposal has not yet been made. Again, in preparation for the re-reading committee. Let's vote, colleagues. To the committee. Vote, colleagues, please. [[13:47:49]] For 227 Thank you. We're going back, then we're going to put it together in the project. 2330, colleagues. Draft Law on External Labour Migration Paul Rosenko, Minister. There is a brief proposal to consider it. Please vote on the summary procedure. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. [[13:48:17]] For-163 Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-10-08-m0.u236	Dear National Deputies! The signing of the Association Agreement between Ukraine and the EU creates new opportunities for Ukraine and, in fact, gives impetus to reconstruction and progressive integration, including the Ukrainian labour market. The bill, first of all, is normally a framework, but it is called upon by law to determine and for the first time on a national level to recognize the category of citizens as labour migrants. There have been at least 30 years of problems. But in no way was such a standard defined in Ukrainian legislation. There was no such term as a migrant worker. From 3 and a half million Ukrainians to 5 million Ukrainians work abroad, but they are not adequately protected by employment or social rights today. The bill strengthens, in particular, the rights of migrant workers and members of their families. First, under proper working conditions, social insurance, and family reunification. The State is under an obligation to promote the right to work, social insurance, remuneration, and recreation by means of interstate agreements. The bill also strengthens the right to education and confirms the results of informal learning. The satisfaction of national and cultural, spiritual and linguistic needs of migrant workers is confirmed. Reparation for damage caused during work abroad To get social services and help. I would like to say immediately that a bill has been drafted with experts from an international labour organization, an international organization on migration. This bill is agreed upon and is actually a joint development, including with experts.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-10-08-m0.u237	Finish up, Mr. Minister.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-10-08-m0.u238	The European Union will also be the basis for the development of effective legislation that will extend the rights to social protection of migrant workers. Please support this bill and we are ready to continue working on it on the Committees of the Supreme Council.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-10-08-m0.u239	Thank you. Please, the Committee on Social Policy, the head of the subcommittee, Alexander Drozdik. Please report.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-10-08-m0.u240	Dear colleagues! Dear Chairman! At its meeting on September 2, 2015, the committee considered the bill (number 2330a). The draft new law is designed to implement a plan for the liberalisation of the European Union's visa regime for Ukraine, and the project proposes to identify the rights and social guarantees of migrant workers and their families, as well as to establish organisational legal arrangements for the implementation of labour activities in the State of residence. Members of the committee at their meeting address. As they considered the bill, he pointed out that the bill that was tabled was, unfortunately, declarative and framework. This is evidenced by the fact that since the 21st article of the bill, in fact, in most cases, at eleven, there is a reference to other legal acts. And there are incomprehensible many provisions of this law, the bill. In particular, article 16, which refers to the definition of a circle of subjects who have the right to work as a migrant worker. Also regarding the conclusion of an employment agreement with a foreign employer, the issuing of an employment contract before going abroad, which promotes employment. In addition, members of the committee at the meeting stressed that there were no provisions in the project to monitor the movement of persons abroad as migrant workers, to establish procedures to monitor the existence of a contract of employment. It is also important to protect migrant workers, migrant workers, and their families. The main scientific and expert office has identified a number of observations and proposes to send this bill for further work on the comments and suggestions made. The committee took a decision at its meeting, taking into account the stated need for the bill to be sent to the Committee on Social Policy.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-10-08-m0.u241	Ten seconds, complete.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-10-08-m0.u242	The committee decided to refer the bill to a committee to prepare it for re-reading. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-10-08-m0.u243	Thank you. Colleagues, please sign two for, two against. I believe that today we are making the right decisions from the point of view of personal responsibility for the implementation of each MP separately, for the conduct of a visa-free regime. Next on the committees, we can work on anything that is debateable. Please, Heratschenko Irina Volodymyrna, "Peter Dust Block."
ParlaMint-UA_2015-10-08-m0.u244	Dear colleagues! I would like to point out that our commitment to the Plan of Action for Visa Liberalization in the Migration Area, today, is really taking on special importance, taking into account the complex migration situation that is now in the countries of the European Union. And so before this bill is a special attention from the European Commission's Special Monitoring Mission, which works in the fall, in Ukraine, is a framework document, and really, it needs a lot of work. And once again, from the Committee on European Integration, we appeal to the Head of the Supreme Council to the working group to include not only representatives of the committee of profile, but also representatives of the Committee of European Integration. We also ask all the ministries of profile to send your findings and expertise to the Committee on European Integration in a timely manner, not the post facto when the law has been considered. And we ask the first reading session hall to support this bill, which is relevant, including for Ukraine and for our relationship, and to fulfil our commitments in the context of the visa liberalisation plan. But to prepare, indeed, serious, between first and second reading, changes to this Law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-10-08-m0.u245	Please, Ivan Krulko.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-10-08-m0.u246	Ivan Krulko, "Fatherland" faction, interfractional association of "World Ukraine". Ladies and gentlemen, is this bill about the settlement of labour migration important? Yes, this is a very important bill. But where did he come from? This is a bill that, for the sake of "consent," prepared by the government of Azarov, and without any change, submitted here, to Parliament, by the government of today. This bill is not just a framework – it is empty. It has no real mechanisms to protect Ukrainian citizens who are forced to work abroad because there are no jobs here. Please tell me how you can look at the draft labour migration bill without asking those who work abroad for labour migrants. Without asking questions or consulting an organization representing the largest Ukrainian diaspora with the World Congress of Ukrainians. I have a letter signed by the Ukrainian World Congress, where they criticize the bill and say that it does not solve the problems that it should solve. I'll draw some of them. This bill does not settle in any way the issues of our Ukrainian citizens working abroad, but their status is not settled there. Please tell me, are these citizens of Ukraine like this for the Ukrainian State? Yes, they are. But why do we pretend that they don't exist if they go abroad and have no regulated status? The second question. There is absolutely no settled issue in this bill regarding the will of Ukrainian citizens abroad. And this is the urgent issue that needs to be addressed by this complex law. What should we do? I would like us to vote in this room on the first reading. But I would like the Minister of Social Policy to confirm that before the second reading, this bill will be filled with real meaning and we will be able to address the issues of our multimillion-dollar citizens who have had to go abroad properly. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-10-08-m0.u247	Thank you. Oleg Lazko, Radical Party.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-10-08-m0.u248	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. The Radical Party faction will support the draft law on external labour migration, as millions of Ukrainian citizens today are forced to earn their living to feed their families and are forced to leave abroad. The Ukrainian authorities forgot about these people. In Italy, for example, we have almost a million Ukrainians, three polling stations throughout Italy, and thus a million Ukrainians are deprived of the right to choose power to defend their interests. Ukrainian citizens in Italy are forced to redevelop, pay two and a half euros each, to obtain Italian driver’s licenses. And Ukrainian authorities are doing nothing to ensure that in Italy, France, in other countries where Ukrainian driving licences are not recognized in order to make interstate agreements or intergovernmental agreements and legalize these driving licences. For Asian workers in Europe, driving licenses are acknowledged. Ukrainians do not recognize what the authorities should be concerned about. Instead, what does she do? They come up with tax initiatives that make money abroad. I mean, people don't help, people in Ukraine make money abroad, and then they want to pay taxes. We have to support it, not take the last one. And most of all. The government takes care of external labour migration. Of course, our people need attention behind the codeon. And who will make sure that Ukrainians who do not go abroad are able to work here and feed their families so that they do not beg when they retire for their thousand dollars of pension without knowing how to live? So the Radical Party requires a radical change in the economic policy of the government. Instead of taking care of migrant workers abroad, it is necessary to create jobs inside the country so that Ukrainians do not go abroad in search of a better fate, so that Ukrainians can earn a living instead of divorcing their families. That is why we demand the power of radical economic change.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-10-08-m0.u249	Mikhailo Humil, People's Front, please. I invite the MPs to the hall, colleagues, to proceed to the voting of this law.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-10-08-m0.u250	Dear Lord Chairman! Dear colleagues, national MPs! I want to remind you that the history of this bill has been going on for about two years. And there were examples that because we now have labour migrants in Italy, Spain, in other countries, and I want to ask, are there letters of acceptance, supporting this bill by these communities, these Ukrainians? It was called a letter from the World Congress of Ukrainians, saying that it was not supported in such an edition and in such a way that the bill, which does not solve most of the problems of migrants, was not supported. And this is about voting abroad, education, recognition of diplomas and other social insurance, too. If it was possible to make changes to the second reading during the preparation period for the second reading, it could be agreed. But it's not possible to make any changes, because there are no sections where these changes can be made. So I would suggest sending this bill for preparation, for re-reading to the committee, and preparing a normal bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-10-08-m0.u251	Thank you. Please, Minister and please take your seats. We will vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-10-08-m0.u252	Dear colleagues! I'm asking you not to make any mistakes about rejecting this bill right now. Because someone knows international law, he is well aware that there are two factors that govern such a relationship. First, it's an internal legislation that doesn't consist of just one law that it has. You've got to push anything. We already have an Immigration Act today, and we have a law on licensing employment abroad. Today there is a normative basis. But the second important component of this process is bilateral international agreements between Ukraine and other countries around the world to address specific labour migration issues. And today we're blocked by any possibility of having such bilateral agreements, because the countries of the European Union are telling us, "Boys, you don't even have a definition of labour migrants in the law that we're going to talk about." So, dear friends, once again, I stress, this is a framework bill that will be the basis both for the development of other legislation and for the conclusion of specific agreements with Italy, with Spain, with Greece, with Poland and so on and so forth. So I'm asking you very much, with public organizations, we have a dialogue. Today, I spoke to a representative of the World Congress of Ukrainians who sent letters. They agreed that in the process of preparing for second reading we could complete this bill, extend it. If additional laws are needed by the Ukrainian national deputies to resolve this issue. But this bill cannot be rejected today even for the rereading of the first reading. Because he's in agreement with the European Union, and we worked with them on all these things.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-10-08-m0.u253	Thank you. Dear colleagues, please take your seats. I think there's been a number of very important things going on here from the people's deputies in Ukraine. But first, this visa-free regime plan is part of the bill. But what really needs to be addressed is labour migration and the protection of migration rights and the protection of the rights of those who are outside of Ukraine and who are forced to be outside. So I want to fully support Irina Heratchenko's offer to this group that will work. We now have a package of Laws on the visa-free regime that we've adopted as a basis. We're doing a group together, and we're proving these decisions, and it's still going to be on the committees all the same, and we're leading this decision to a final vote in the second reading to fit, including European legislation, so that no one can manipulate it. Do you have a deal? The same will be true of this bill. So please take your seats, dear colleagues. Question 2330a, the Law of Ukraine. draft Law on External Labour Migration. I'm going to put it on the ground, and we're going to join public organizations on this issue to prepare as much quality law as possible. Do you have a deal? Please, based on that, we're going to do a 2330a signal right now. Please support him. And so we're going to have a package formed, and we're going to work together. Please, 2330a, on the ground. Based on the base. And this is a signal vote, and I'm asking you to back everyone up. Please. Based on the base. Friends, on the basis of that, please support. This is a signal vote. [[14:05:51]] For 217 217 votes, respectable colleagues. Colleagues, I'd like to support everyone at last. Please enter the Hall of Honor. Colleagues, please, let's focus again. On the basis of the 2330a signal vote, the issue of labour migration. Based on the base. We'll continue to work on the committees as a package of visa-free regimes. Questions. Well, everyone has a personal responsibility for not doing what we don't do, not having the law passed to execute the plan. Vote? Let's base it on 2330 a, signal vote. I'd like your support, colleagues. Let's support, 2330a. Please support, this is an emergency. Please be supportive. [[14:06:56]] For 218. Colleagues. [[B in m in s a l in]] Let's talk about, well, well, we've discussed it, we'll go back to his vote. But, colleagues, we still have the Law in our second reading on political parties. Let's talk about it. In the second part, in the evening session, it's good. All right, I get it, all right. My colleagues, I want to thank you. The morning session is closed. The evening will take place at 4:00 p.m. Thank you.
