ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-24-m0.u1	Good morning! Dear colleagues, I'm asking you to come into the hall and start our work. Please take up jobs. The Secretary of the Supreme Council, please inform the deputies that our work will begin in a few minutes. And I'm asking the factions to mobilize their factions for active and productive work. Please, welcome! Thank you. Dear fellow MPs! Two minutes from now, we're starting our work, and I'm asking very, very persistently and convincingly of the people's deputies to enter the hall, to take up jobs. Once again, I appeal to the factions' heads to invite deputies to the Supreme Council of Ukraine. And the Supreme Council's apparatus is also to report on the beginning of our work. Dear colleagues! Self-help, self-help and team leader, please come into the hall and take your jobs. Peter Dustock's Block, please self-organize. Look at how the People's Front sits disciplined, you know? I forgive everyone so much that we can start our work. The government is in place, ready to work. I'm asking you to come into the hall and start our work. Dear colleagues, we're not enough to get started. Please call your friends, call your colleagues to come into the hall. Faction leaders, surely the heads of factions! Please inform the secretariat of the start of our work. And I'd like you to come in and take your jobs.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-24-m0.u2	Good afternoon, distinguished national MPs! Please take your seats. We can start our work. Please prepare for registration. Please. Prepare to register, please. Dear fellow members of the national parliament, please take your places of employment. Please include the "Council" system for the registration of Ukrainian national deputies. Please register. [[10:19:57]] Registered -272 I declare this morning's plenary session of the Supreme Council open. Today, dear colleagues, before we begin our work, I would like to welcome our colleague, Alexander Alexander Zholobecki, to our birthday. Let's welcome our colleague. [[Applause]] And I would also like today, on behalf of all the parliamentarians, to personally welcome the fine member of the Cabinet of Ministers, the decoration of the Cabinet of Ministers with the fullness of the Minister of Finance of Ukraine, Natal Jaresko. Let's say hello. [[Applause]] Dear fellow national MPs, this bouquet of flowers from yours, our common name at the address of our noun. [[Applause]] The right proposal is that we don't ask the Minister of Finance today. Dear colleagues, before we move on to "the hour of questions to the government," our colleague, the head of the committee, Mikola Knajicki, asks for the floor. Please, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-24-m0.u3	Dear colleagues, today is a tragic day in the history of the Armenian people and in general in the history of mankind. On that day, 100 years ago, from the eviction of Armenian elites, the actual destruction of an entire nation or nation began. Armenians and Ukrainians lived nearby for centuries, even before this tragedy. Armenian was the first to die during the Dignity Revolution. 52 members of this friendly Ukrainian people were killed during an antiterrorist operation. I now propose to honor the moment of silence of all the victims of the great tragedy that began 100 years ago and all those who gave up, all the Armenians who have given their lives for Ukraine now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-24-m0.u4	Dear colleagues of the National MPs, the Prime Minister of Ukraine Arsenius Petrovich Yacenuk and the Cabinet of Ministers are present at the "hour of questions to the Government". Let's say hello. [[Applause]] Before inviting the Prime Minister to say a few words, I would like to say, "Dear colleagues." You know, yesterday, our vote, in fact, including the effective one, confirmed once again that you and I have a question of internal organization and discipline. Unfortunately, we don't do the tasks that we're assigned to, that's, the plenary work, the voting, the discussion, the discussions, and, I think, the primary responsibility of faction leaders. And so I would very much like you and I to find understanding about the discipline in the hall, about the attendance of plenary meetings, the visit of committees, the appropriate decision-making, not to repeat what we had yesterday, when the more important laws, which are reformist, are necessary to rebuild the post-Radians system that we have today, barely gets 226 votes. This is totally unacceptable. So, dear colleagues, today I'm going to sign an appropriate organizational order, where it will be determined that all the visits of the national MPs, the votes of the national MPs on the front page of our website will be published online. I'm going to keep society fully informed about who's missing for no good reason in plenary meetings. We were chosen here for what? For us to work in order to make decisions, we did so publicly and openly. But when we work in the hall instead of working in the press, instead of working on the committees, we don't come to their meetings. And yesterday, Igor Nasalik, a colleague of ours, brought this sad statistic, so what can be said when we do not carry out our obligations directly? I understand that we have MPs who are untouchable. But there are our responsibilities, there is our responsibility to society, and in the end, the conscience of each of us and the responsibility that we have to get inside. Including the question of not voting on MPs. Sometimes we have a card, and the MP doesn't just vote "yes" or "against" or "resist." More than five such ballots will also be published in order for people to know that the right, please explain to society that it is your right not to vote, but you are present. This information should be public, because Parliament's position, Parliament's work must be open and public. I ask your understanding of this, fellow members of the national parliament. Thank you. Today, dear colleagues, today will be an important issue of the decentralization of power, and the Prime Minister will speak. There will be other representatives of the Cabinet of Ministers who will be appointed. And then I'm going to inform you about the decisions made by the Ukrainian Parliament and what we have to do together to make the process of decentralization of local self-government work productively enough. One thing I can say is that what you and I have adopted, what was done jointly by the Government, the President's Administration, the Parliament before making changes to the Tax Code, the Budget Code, has introduced mechanisms for real financial decentralization into the budget. We need to do everything we can to speed up our work in this regard and to develop a proper system of self - government in Ukraine. We've made a decision with you to change the city's sphere and we've delegated these powers to places -- that's our responsibility with you, and we've voted for it. I hope that in May we, together with the Cabinet of Ministers and the Ministry of Justice, will vote for change to the administration. Services that will be provided in places rather than by government authorities. The new Service Law in the Local Self - Government Offices, we accepted it with you yesterday as a basis that was prepared by the Government and we will work together. We have a number of tasks to do with you, including what we talked about, and the Land Act, which will give authority to local communities. And I would also like to point out that today there's a huge work going on in the formation of the New Constitution, a constitution that will allow communities to really experience and actually be effective, and to do the tasks that their electorates put before them. Dear colleagues! I would like to invite Prime Minister Arsenius Petrovich Yatsenuk to the floor.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-24-m0.u5	Dear Mr. Head, the distinguished national deputies of Ukraine! First of all, on behalf of the Government, I would like to express my thanks for the series of laws adopted by the Parliamentary Coalition and I would like to make a request. Yesterday, the 2670 bill was broken -- this is the Law on Improving Legislation in the Field of Heat and Housing Services. If today we can raise 226 votes and vote in favour of this law, because today is the last day that allows us to get $500 million from the World Bank and $300 million from Japan's macro-financial assistance -- that would be very important. This bill is no longer voted by Parliament three times and does not vote in favour of this bill is minus $800 million for the Ukrainian economy, to create jobs. Therefore, I ask the members of Parliament to return to this issue and to vote effectively and effectively in favour of the adoption of this bill. Today we have a few questions that will be answered by the government of Ukraine, the first question of decentralization, without going into the details of decentralization, reminding us that three months ago there was a rather serious criticism, on the ground that the laws adopted on decentralization were true. This was a change to tax legislation, it was a change to budget legislation, it was a result in three months. Compared to the first quarter of the current year and the first quarter of last year, local budgets grew by 35 percent, these are specific facts and figures. We finance 100 percent of all local budgets. In principle, this has not been the case since 2010, despite the fact that the economic situation and the financial situation are both difficult and difficult. But, plus 35 percent of the income of all the country's local budgets, it's the result of fiscal decentralization. Administrative and political decentralization is necessary in order to continue this right course. Both the President's decision and the Parliament's establishment of the Constitutional Commission should be an important step towards giving real authority to local authorities and local self-government. Concentration, excessive concentration of functions in Kiev, does not allow the country to develop. Therefore, along with the transfer of responsibility, the transfer of rights and vice versa, along with the transfer of resources, is also needed to transfer those objects that need to be financed, and the local authorities should realize that they have sufficient financial resources, but they have considerable responsibility for all that comes in their area, village, city, and area. I would like to announce the order of the day next week. The next week, Ukraine will hold a summit "Ukraine – EU". Both Juncker and Donald Tusk, the president of the European Commission and the president of the European Council, and European Union seniors, will come to Kiev. Three issues on the agenda to be considered: first is the macro-financial assistance of the European Union, economic assistance; second is Ukraine's support against Russian aggression; and third is preparations for the Eastern Partnership's Risk Summit. As part of the summit, the next day, we will have a large conference on Ukraine's support. As of today, 270 international partners will attend this great conference, and Jean Claude Juncker will also open the conference. The task of this conference is to get an assessment from our Western partners of the reforms undertaken in Ukraine and those supported by the Ukrainian Parliament and prepared by the Ukrainian government along with the President. As part of this conference, we will also have four panels, four panels where both Ukrainian ministers and foreign experts are invited. This is the restoration of the Eastern Areas, the first panel. The second is business climate and investment opportunities in Ukraine. The third is agrarian politics and reforms. And the fourth is energy and energy efficiency. Faction leaders received appropriate invitations to participate in a conference to support Ukraine. This conference is the first in a series of conferences in 2015, next, we're going to hold investment conferences, it's going to be held in the United States in July, and it's already being prepared -- it's on July 12-13. Also after my talks with the Chancellor of Germany, Angela Merkel, Germany is also holding an investment conference. In September, we are planning to make a major investment conference in Kiev to involve as much private capital as possible in modernizing the Ukrainian economy, and to get Ukraine out of the economic crisis, to create jobs, and to advance the Ukrainian economy forward. Our government delegation returned with a delegation from the National Bank of Washington, and they participated in the annual meetings of the International Monetary Fund and the World Bank. I would like to commend all of our international partners for the extremely complex but correct reforms that have taken place in Ukraine. May 29, the International Monetary Fund will arrive in Kiev to review the program. I would like to point out once again that if we, when the government is introducing drafts, it means that these bills are needed for the country and must be voted for, as is our common plan for reform. And that's why I'm again, and again and again, I'm asking you for the support of the relevant laws. Today, too, you will be informed by members of the government and personally by the minister of internal affairs of Ukraine about the security measures the government, along with the entire law enforcement system, is using for May. And I would like to comment only now on the fact that the government has approved a plan of action to commemorate the 70-year-old victory over Nazism in World War II. So there's no "colored" and no other kind of Soviet-Russian flair. Ukraine, thanks to the Ukrainian Parliament, has decided to establish the 8th of May as a Day of Reconciliation and the Day of Grievance. And we've come to a joint decision that we are celebrating the victory over Nazism with the same symbols that Europe and the European Union are celebrating, and this is Mac. Also next week we will have a presentation on the government walls, in the walls of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, in fact short historical roles about Ukraine's role and place in Victory in World War II. I would call this the first serious step towards truth and justice as to who fought in World War II. And that there would never have been a victory in World War II without Ukraine. Let Vladimir Vladimir Putin reads encyclopaedia and history. So the government has now published a plan to commemorate the 70-year-old victory over Nazism. And we also ask that members of Parliament take the very active part in celebrating the 70th anniversary of the Victory of Nazism. Dear Mr. Head! Honorable National Deputies of Ukraine! Would you mind if I asked you, Vladimir Borisovich, if there are any questions about the members of Parliament, because I now have a big council on the solstice, on the APC. If one of the members of Parliament has a question. [[th m in s a l i]] Let them ask questions then.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-24-m0.u6	Thank you. Please, Your Honor, let's take 10 minutes to ask the Prime Minister and the answers. Please sign up for the questions, and there will be further questions for members of the Cabinet of Ministers. Please, non-faction, Suprunka.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-24-m0.u7	Good afternoon! Please give the floor to Deputy Rudik.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-24-m0.u8	Dear Arsenius Petrovich, I am concerned about the question that concerns the absolute majority of the adequate part of Ukrainian society: when will you voluntarily resign? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-24-m0.u9	Dear Lord of the People, take a note of the letter, a pen, and write it down so that you do not forget that you will never lead me astray from the path I have taken. We're going to change the country, we're going to reform, we're going to do everything we promised 15 months ago. 15 months ago, I took responsibility for the country’s fate into my own hands, and I will be proud to bear this responsibility!
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-24-m0.u10	Please, Ivan Krulko. [[B in m in s a l in]] No, no, no, no, no, no! It's okay! What are you doing? Please, Ivan Krulko.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-24-m0.u11	Please pass the word to Dmitri Vasilovich Schlemk.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-24-m0.u12	Dmitry Schlemko, Fatherland.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-24-m0.u13	Dear Arsenija Petrovich, according to the government's statements, we have some financial well-being: there's budget surplus, there's a lot of income taxes, there's an increase at all levels of income, about what you just said, it's very good. At the same time, with high inflation, devaluations of bracelets and increases in municipal payments, wages, pensions, and other social standards have been frozen until December 1. The question is, Is the government now thinking about indexing them or not?
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-24-m0.u14	Mr. People's Deputy of Ukraine, thank you for asking, it's very important. And I'd like to answer it next. It's not just a difficult situation; it's too complicated. And the challenges faced by the economy in Ukraine and Ukraine as a whole have not been met by any European country in the last few decades. Having fought with the Russian Federation, lost 20 percent of the Ukrainian economy, thousands of victims of Russian military aggression, it is very difficult for the country to live. But she's alive and she's moving forward. During these 15 months, we did not retain any social benefits. We paid all the pensions, we paid all the wages, we paid all the social standards, we fulfilled all the social obligations to the country. I realize that the level of such social obligations certainly needs to be raised. And I'm telling you the same thing: you can give money when you make it. Now we have about 20 billion in the treasury account. Last week was 30 billion. Let me remind you that a year ago, when you were in the same way in the walls of this Parliament and when we all, together, together, in the Dignity Revolution thanks to the Ukrainian people, defeated the Yanukovich regime, then, in fact, all the piles stuck, and now we can't help but bite each other. As we go to power, all of them united, all of them noisy, and that's how we come into power and share responsibility, starting, as always, to argue with each other. I think we need to overcome this kind of problem of Ukrainian democracy, including in terms of the middle of the coalition.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-24-m0.u15	Thank you. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-24-m0.u16	I'm not finished yet, Vladimir Borisovich, if you don't mind.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-24-m0.u17	Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-24-m0.u18	So back to the question of social standards. People can't cheat and they can't lie. You can't give away what you don't have. So let's add up, I'll give you a guarantee: let's divide and add social standards. But let's start the economy first. Not start a printing press and inflation! For those who are underfunded. We have 24 and a half billion dollars that go to low-income subsidies. Because I understand that now the main blow is going to be on tariff. We've already sent almost 100 percent. Well, knowing our Ukrainian statistics, if they wrote 100 percent, that means 90 exactly sent out applications and declarations for Ukrainian citizens for subsidies. This is an unprecedented program when every Ukrainian citizen, all the Ukrainian households, received a simple application, not 90 questions, but 15 questions, and a very simple declaration that a person can fill out a declaration and receive a grant. I ask from this high rostrum once again to fill out the declarations and send them to social services. Social services automatically have to grant a grant within 10 days. We're now concentrating these costs on the poor themselves, on the well-provided. To compensate them for the costs, objective costs associated with rising energy prices and tariffs. So that the poor family will not feel that way. That's why we're here. Stabilize the financial sector once. We get all the extra money our Western partners promised us, two. Conduct external debt restructuring. Remember, we put $23 billion under restructuring and the government will move towards restructuring. Creditors want more, we want to pay less. We're going to do everything we can to make the Ukrainian economy stable. And the fourth. Start the economy and the income that comes from economic development, send it to the social sector. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-24-m0.u19	Thank you. Please, Kodola Alexander Mikhailovich, People's Front.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-24-m0.u20	Alexander Kodola, Montenegrin, People's Front faction. Dear Arsenija Petrovich, before May 9, we all understand certain dangers and risks. So the question is to you. How do you appreciate the war situation today before such an event? And what's the financing situation today for military programs? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-24-m0.u21	Thank you for asking. I think in the media you've read about what's going on in Donetsk, Lugansk. In addition to the information in the open sources, I came up with a series of information on classified sources, intelligence. There's an incredible concentration of living power and technology by Russian terrorists. Russian military aggression is far from stopping. Similarly, according to the public figures published by the Pentagon and NATO, the rate of concentration of Russian troops and Russian technology has increased several times over the last period. It's a very difficult situation. Russia does not want peace. We and the Ukrainian Parliament have done everything we can to fulfill the Minsk Treaty. When the president of the country made a decision regarding the signing of the Minsk Agreement, he was responsible for the need for peace in the country. Let me remind you that it was you who made the decision to grant special status to Donetsk and Lugansk that all the decisions that the President of the country had proposed to implement Minsk were made here. But there is no compromise on the part of Russia, and there is no understanding of the deescalation of the situation. We need to prepare for a further fight for peace in order for diplomatic means and methods to be effective, then Ukraine needs to have a strong army and a strong Armed Forces, which makes it much easier for diplomats to speak. We've foreseen 5.2 percent of GDP for military funding this year. So just so you know, we've made about 5 billion dollars in advance, which means we've made advance payments for the acquisition of new technology and weapons. No payment issued by the Ministry of Defense or General Staff is more delayed than the day, only it came and we pay everything. So in summary, I would like to point out the following. Russia has not given up its plans to destroy Ukraine and take away Ukraine’s European future. We believe that the conflict in Donbas must be resolved by full and unconditional execution by the Russian Federation of the Minsk Agreement. We believe that Ukraine's diplomatic efforts and the whole world should be strengthened by the military forces of the Ukrainian Armed Forces. We have been addressing and addressing our Western partners with this. What the Ukrainian army needs help, the Ukrainian army needs weapons to protect Ukraine. And our Western partners need to hear, today Ukraine is not only fighting for itself, we are fighting for the peace and stability of the European Union, we are fighting for peace in the world against Russian aggression. We have become a strong nation, and we must here, including in Parliament, demonstrate unity, demonstrate our common will to win, demonstrate our responsibility to the country and the future, and then victory will follow us, and it will be behind us. The glory of Ukraine and thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-24-m0.u22	Thank you. One question is from the Self-Help faction, here, ask you a question. Please. You've already talked about non-faction. You're going to set up a government right now. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-24-m0.u23	Thank you. My colleagues, thank you. The Self-Help faction will hand over the word to the MPs from Freedom, I promise. Mr. Prime Minister, no question, no request. First, a meeting of lawyers is now taking place to draw the attention of the minister of the interior. You know that this is one way for a terrible system of injustice to preserve its influence, including by placing the real people of Yanukovich on the Supreme Council of Justice. They don't let delegates in there with huge violations, just like they did in Zacharychenk's day. Second, of course, we all need to help the Commander-in-Chief. You are asked to draw the attention of the heads of the administration to the construction of protective structures around Mariupul. There's a lot of work on paper. You need to help both the Secretary of Defense and your other colleagues to take on more responsibility. And a third, a question and a request at the same time.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-24-m0.u24	Ten seconds, complete.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-24-m0.u25	Make the government a priority in implementing two laws: the opening of budgets and the creation of a National Anti-Corruption Agency. It is now very important to make these laws effective.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-24-m0.u26	Thank you to the Self-Help faction and to the reverend Yegor Sobolev for asking. According to the National Anti - Corruption Agency, the government has taken the appropriate decision, launched a competition for the direction of the National Anti - Corruption Agency. I'll remind members of Parliament that this is a preventive agency. It's not a law enforcement agency, it's a preventive agency that, by the way, has the authority to check all the revenue and expenditure of government officials, national deputies of Ukraine, judges, prosecutors, all those who receive money from Ukrainian taxpayers. Similarly, it is an agency entrusted with the authority to maintain the Single State Register of all tax declarations and all government officials' declarations. Similarly, it is an agency entrusted with the authority to verify the lifestyle of a public official in accordance with the declaration of that public official. That's why we invite Parliament to submit its bid to the competition commission, and we invite you to hold an appropriate meeting of the competition commission quickly. After the fortifications were built, the government’s task was to find the money and allocate the funds. So the total amount of money that the General Staff invited us to build fortification buildings is about 800 million dollars, so we've already made a prepayment and I've made a decision last week, 300 million dollars have pushed out the prepayment. The appropriate decision of the government is taken, meaning the Secretary of the National Security and Defence Council in the past seems to have been on the appropriate front line. Gennady Zubko as the professional vice-premier responsible together with the heads of the district government authorities for the construction of appropriate tariff facilities. So it's a big question, because it's going to cost a lot of time. Once again, the military situation is extremely complex and in our fight against Russian terrorism, the first task is to restore and arm military technology. And the second task is to build fortifications, the government has funded. And for everything else, the General Staff has to be responsible and, I'm convinced, they're doing their job as it is now taking time.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-24-m0.u27	Thank you! Time's up. Thank you!
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-24-m0.u28	Thank you, dear friends! See you later!
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-24-m0.u29	See you later! Thank you! We're working on it, dear colleagues, please. Now, according to the order that we have determined, the report will be 10 minutes, Deputy Prime Minister Gennady Zubko. Then he was Minister of Internal Affairs Arsen Avakov. We're still working on the writing of the one that's formed. Thank you!
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-24-m0.u30	Dear fellows, national deputies, dear Mr. Head! Thank you for being able to communicate with one another today on the most crucial reform that concerns Ukraine today. The question of decentralization as a tool leading to regional development is now crucial. And I want to address you, most of you here, the national MPs, who are the majors, who are the people responsible for their territories, many of you from local self-government, many people today who were city heads, here are very famous people, starting with the Speaker of Parliament Vladimir Groysman, Mr. Fedoruk, Mr. Nasalik, all those who understand how today Ukraine can move towards European values and the building of democracy in Ukraine. I'm not going to repeat all the questions that have already been discussed by the Prime Minister, from which I started speaking to Parliament, but I would like to give you a few figures. You, along with the government bill, were adopted early in the year with fiscal and financial decentralization, and now we have the first results. I would like to point out that today our budgets have received 21 billion revenue in the first quarter. I could say that, compared to 2014, we had an increase of 5.5 billion in local budgets without those areas that we lost during the occupation by separatists and bandits. But it's all just numbers and you can talk about what inflation is, it's still an increase in money today. But I would like to point out that according to the budget that we adopted with you today, the coming is 28 percent. The first quarter has always been about 21-22 percent, and that's why we see that there's actually a movement today, there's a possible budget surplus today, and what both the Prime Minister said and what the government will do, if there's really money left in the budget, we'll look at it to make up for the social benefits and losses that we can pay. That's what budget policy is all about. With regard to the possibility of local self - government today, there is a great potential today for fiscal policy that can be carried out by local self - government. I'll give you two figures, only the excise tax was the local self-governance collected in the first quarter at the level of 2014. This means that there is potential to collect, to date, and to administer taxes, and to increase the local budget. According to excise taxes, more than five areas have already implemented 50 percent of the annual plan, and the Kyiv region has already raised 243 percent. And this is also about tax administration and what is now the potential to move forward in order not only to fill the local budget, but also to increase opportunities, to increase the authority of local self-government. Now it's about Treasury. I would like those people who communicate with local self-government to ask their city heads, and how are payments made today from the Treasury in the development budgets and budgets of cities made? I'll tell you, I've been in a meeting with the city heads, we have such a city head from Illyivsk who's been there for many years, and he says for ten years we haven't felt that day-to-day payments are coming today. And this is also very important because the effectiveness of each bracelet at this time is very important for us, for local self-government. So I'd like to make another note? For today, why am I addressing you as national deputies? You must be the key leaders of decentralization reform today. You're given each one of you, practically such a route map, and how to do it. I'd like you to join this cause because it's almost today that the movement that brought Poland, France, Germany to the countries with the most advanced economies begins. But most importantly, for the possibilities of creating the investment attractiveness of each region, when local elites today take responsibility for taking not only money from fiscal decentralization but also authority. And these are the people who should come to the elections in autumn, come to their electorates, be elected and continue to govern their regions. I believe that it is the Constitutional Council, headed by Mr. Volodymyr Groissman, that will take this step and we will adopt a Constitution in which we will specifically establish in life the powers that apply today to the transfer from central authority to the local level. And that's what the whole country is going to do today, and that's what all of Europe is going to do. And I'll tell you that today many European parliaments are united around the issue of Ukraine. France, the National Assembly, the Senate of France, the Bundestag of Germany, when the question of Europe arises today, two words:The Union and solidarity is unity and solidarity. And I would like to see that in our Parliament right around the question of decentralization, regional development, expanding the authority of local self-government, there are always two words: unity and solidarity. I would like to report on what was done by the government except for those bills that were passed in Parliament, and I thank you for that. There is now a methodology on which the question of uniting communities on two principles is already practical: self-sufficiency, efficiency and volunteering. And the question is, how do we learn how to do that? Last week we signed with the Council of Europe a memorandum with Mr. Yagland about what we are creating in every area of the reform office. The heads of these offices should be offered by the public, and each deputy head of the district administration today has been given additional powers to draw up forward plans. And I'll tell you that almost five areas already -- Kyivska, Odessa, Kirovogradska, Lvivska -- come up with those promising plans to create powerful territorial communities that can support themselves and offer investors a future development plan. So for today, I would like the people's deputies to join this process as well. And I'm going to tell you one more moment where you would be very actively involved and not let go of your perspective. The 2015 government budget, supported by Parliament today by the 2015 budget, which set aside 3 billion dollars for the State Regional Development Fund. The government issued a decree, and it was voted, and it was finally signed that it would be these three billion on the district competition commissions that would be transparent with the participation of deputies to distribute certain social objects that today require solutions in the fields. And the Cabinet of Ministers, and the budget committee of the Supreme Council, all they have to do is confirm this issue in order to distribute this money. It is in this State Fund for Regional Development that there are also issues that are important, and I take into account that they will support the community’s territorial unity. So I would like our national deputies to be actively involved in this process and also to participate. I would also like our local self - government to be actively involved in informing our regional leaders (both district councils and village councils) of what needs to be done, step by step. To that end, we have a very powerful information policy to tell people what decentralization will give them, what opportunities will be new to them, how we will move, and how decentralization will allow deregulation to take place, which will allow energy-efficient measures that will allow us to participate in every council today, practically, in the money that Europe today offers to implement powers. And that's the movement that needs to be. I would like to thank the people's deputies separately today for the very two very important bills that were voted yesterday in the Supreme Council -- this is the State Service Act and the Local Self-Government Service Act. These are the projects that are now being voted on in the first reading that need to be worked out, but this is the start that launches reform and approaches to public service. I'm going to say that we have an agreement with the French government today to reform the training of government officials, because someone needs to do this work in places. And the fact that we're here in the Supreme Council, we're adopting laws, and the government's making decisions, it doesn't determine that reforms will move in places. That's why we need to prepare people, so we need to teach them, so we need to choose those responsible people who can learn, who can carry out and carry out reforms on the ground together.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-24-m0.u31	Finish up. 30 seconds. And then the Minister of Internal Affairs.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-24-m0.u32	And that's why I would like to conclude on the very note that today's Ukrainian Parliament is making very important decisions, decisions that are being made by our boys in the East today, who are winning this time every day, so that we can adopt laws here, so that the government can make decisions, and that we can make reforms, so that we can prepare for the fortifications, so that we can make these structures.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-24-m0.u33	Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-24-m0.u34	Put them on time to defend the borders, and finish this hard job. That is why I call for unity and solidarity in the implementation of reforms and national security. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-24-m0.u35	Thank you, Hennady Grigorovich. Thank you. Please, Minister of Internal Affairs Arsen Borisovich Avakov.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-24-m0.u36	Ladies and gentlemen of the national parliament, the honourable presiding officer! Almost all questions from the national deputies who have come to the Ministry of Internal Affairs have to do with security during the upcoming May festivals. I report that the Ministry has developed and implemented measures both of a preventive nature and aimed at ensuring an effective response to the complexity of the operational environment. In their preparation, we first analyzed and considered factors that have a negative impact on the socio-political and criminogenic environment in the state. One of the most dangerous is the rise in the level of diversification and terrorist threat in all without exception in areas related to events in eastern Ukraine and the aggression of the Russian Federation. The aim of such actions is, of course, to destabilize the situation, to intimidate the population, to create a climate of panic and chaos, to discredit government, and to provoke mass unrest. Another factor is the flow into the illicit circulation of large amounts of firearms, explosives, and ammunition. This led to active ones. The criminal element, part of which is actively involved in separatist movements, is involved in diversions, terrorist acts and other serious and particularly serious crimes. During the first quarter of this year, 2,000,700 illegal weapons were discovered by internal affairs authorities, and nearly 800 firearms were removed. Including 46 grenade launchers, 220 rifles and pistols, 586 grenades, 35,000 rounds. The political aspect should also be mentioned. Because future festivals are likely to be used actively for the purpose of suppressing political opposition. What may have unexpected consequences, taking into account the large number of people who will share in them. According to our estimates, about one and two tenths of a million people will participate in the planned numerical arrangements, one and two tenths of a day, on May 1, 2, and 9. The most numerous measures are expected in the capital, in the Dnipropetrovsk, Odessa, Kharkiv, Mikolayivsk, Cerkaske, Kirovograd. Special attention will also be paid to Lviv on that day, with Lviv, Ternopil, and Raven in the area of special attention. I want to remind you that on May 2, there was an anniversary of the events that took place in Odessa last year. It is extremely important for us not to allow any provocations to be allowed to do so when marking the anniversary of this tragedy. Clearly, then, security measures in the Odessa region will be very serious. In general, nearly 42 and a half thousand police personnel, members of the National Guard and representatives of the public will be involved in law enforcement throughout the country. The internal affairs authorities now have a proper interaction with local authorities and local authorities. Special attention is given to alternative measures that are a potential source of conflict. There is a continuous monitoring of social networks in order to detect calls from radically organized organizations and citizens to participate in them. In the event of such information, the organizers of such information are meeting with them in order to avoid wrongdoing. The question that came from the factions. Question: "Is the government considering the issue at the level, for example, recommendations to local authorities regarding the prohibition of mass action in Odessa and Odessa District on 2 May, in other cities on the anniversary of tragic events of the place. Answer. The Constitution of Ukraine provides for the possibility of restricting and implementing the right of citizens to meet peacefully, unarmedly, to hold assemblies, rallyings, marches and demonstrations, which are established only by the court in the interests of national security and public order. The issue of public order during May was discussed at a video selector's meeting, with the participation of the regions under the chairmanship of the Prime Minister of Ukraine this week. Among the tasks assigned are the leadership of the local authorities, including the Odessa region, to analyse the social situation and the socio-political situation. And a safe situation. If there is a need for a real threat to the court, there is a need to deal with restrictions or bans on appropriate measures. At present, I see no reason in Odessa to ban action. But the local authorities of Kharkiv have appealed with due concern to the court, and such a ban on mass stock in Kharkiv exists. Next question. Will security measures be taken during the May 9 celebrations of the Ukrainian Armed Forces within the framework of the Ukrainian Armed Forces mandated by the current legislation on countering terrorism? Answer. The Ministry of Internal Affairs does not plan to involve the military forces of the Ukrainian Armed Forces in the protection of public order during May. Next question from the Self-Help faction. Will there be an enhanced pass at the entry and exit points from the occupied territory of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea, a separate territory of Donetsk and Luhansk region? If so, what legislation will it regulate? Answer. On 21 April 2015, an enhanced regime for the passage of persons, means of transport and cargo was issued at the entry-exit checkpoints in the occupied area of Crimea and the area of Lugansk and Donetsk. The plans for interaction with law enforcement authorities and control services of the U.S.S.A. have been clarified. In the event of joint tasks aimed at preventing the import into Ukraine of means of terror and diversion for the commission of terrorist acts, the detection of persons who are wanted. Age restrictions on entry into Ukraine of male citizens from 16 to 60 years of age, owners of domestic passports to Ukraine of provocative Russian media, who use and distort the real situation in Ukraine, have been strengthened. The entry will be denied to citizens of the Russian Federation who have received passports in the temporarily occupied territory of Ukraine of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea. There is a need for a photo, video, and audio-fixing of the detection of persons from areas of combat and international conflicts, conflicts, and nonstandard situations, and the detection of objects and materials banned across the state’s borders. In addition, strengthening the enforcement of the rules of the border regime in conjunction with the regional authorities of the southern and eastern regions. This applies to Odessa, Herson, Zaporozhye, Donetsk, Luhansk, Sumskia, and Chernigian regions. Additional temporary restraints have been introduced in the border strip since April 1st of this year. In general, I want to assure the audience that we will fully ensure order and order in the state on May 1st to May 9th. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-24-m0.u37	Thank you, Arsen Borisovich. Thank you. Please take your place in the government's bed. Colleagues, is there an offer to re-register?
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-24-m0.u38	No, it's not. Yuri Lewchenko. Question, Yuri Lewchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-24-m0.u39	Lewchenko, Freedom, 223rd District. The second time in a row, you have to go to an empty place. You know, I remind the honourable chairman, and I remind Arsenija Petrovich, who has escaped from the deputies, that we have a "hour of questioning to the government" and especially the Prime Minister, not the Prime Minister's benefit with a twenty-five-minute personal speech about how "space ships are going to swarm into the big theater." Do you understand? And you have to actually give this time to ask him a question. Because he was asked a few very interesting questions here, he said nothing about it, and let him answer, let him say, where did the billion dollars he himself reported, which he passed on to the DNR and so-called LNR, when he tells that he doesn't have any pension money, he pays social money. Where did that billion dollars go? Let him answer when he imposes taxes on luxury because he tells us that he is responsible for social justice. When he personally pays 10,000 dollars from his belongings a month, a tax on luxury. Let him answer these questions.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-24-m0.u40	National MP Marchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-24-m0.u41	Please give the floor to the People's Deputy Golovk.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-24-m0.u42	Mikhail Golovko, the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union. Honorable deputies, colleagues, well, there is really no one to associate with, because the Prime Minister ignored us in turn, showed his attitude toward Parliament that he was not interested in hearing questions from MPs, national defenders. I wanted to ask exactly what Arsenius Petrovich told us that we have new loans to take first, first of all. And the Ukrainian state is already in debt, and today 1.6 trillion, that's almost 90 percent of GDP. In a year, we doubled our total government debt. I have a question, and how does the Prime Minister feel that the Ukrainian State and Ukrainians should deal with those debts? Why don't the holes close? Why don't the offshores and the schematics close? Why do the envelopes, tax holes, and so forth continue to work? It's billions. Over 400 billion a year. We see that there are no completely reformed, no shadow economy, simple conspiracies.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-24-m0.u43	People's MP Moroko, Opposition Block.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-24-m0.u44	Please pass the word to Matweenkov.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-24-m0.u45	Matweenkov, 57th District, Mariupol City. I have a question, the Prime Minister doesn't, I'd like to ask the First Vice Prime Minister. The city of Mariupol, our hometown, which became a parable in tongues. There's a lot of talk and thought around this town today. Sadly, though, the city needs specific help, and the city needs help. The city of Mariupol is not just a settlement, it is a large industrial cent, which gives almost 30 per cent of the production of the Donetsk Region. The monthly amount of the city is 4 billion dollars. Today, the city is virtually isolated: railway transport, which provides the largest industrial enterprises, breaks through with difficulty, people are forced to get out of the city of Mariupola by some translation means to get to Zaporozhye to leave Zaporozhye. The road they're taking is a place around.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-24-m0.u46	Ten seconds, complete, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-24-m0.u47	The road is the place around which they travel, not the road. Convincing request: Let us, in the end, return to this city in person and do our utmost to ensure that business is not diverted from there, nor from the population, nor from there.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-24-m0.u48	Please, Hennaday Zubko.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-24-m0.u49	I thank all the patriots of Mariupul today who are united around the city’s protection. And I'm going to tell you that in the last week, right next to Shirokino, and near Mariupol, I've seen that every enterprise in the city today is taking part in building fortifications and helping our military. But on the other hand, everyone should understand that today there is military aggression against Ukraine and towards Mariupul. That today the Ministry of Infrastructure, along with those companies that work, is today restoring the railway connection that is now being broken down virtually every day. And you know how many bridges have been damaged since the new year, how many bridges have been destroyed, and how many infrastructure objects have been rebuilt. You know that today, at a time when the blocked roads of the DNR and where it is impossible to plant both products and humanitarian aid, our humanitarian organizations today must travel 500 miles [500 km] around these things in order to deliver this humanitarian aid. And these goods have gone through these circuit shortcut roads that are not intended for heavy technology, nor are they intended for such mass delivery. Today, everything is practical in order to ensure a normal life - style for the city. So I would like once again to thank the mariopolitans and unite all the patriots around this city. Thank you!
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-24-m0.u50	Thank you, colleagues. Please, there's five minutes left, time taken. National Deputy Osuhovski.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-24-m0.u51	Oleg Osuhovsky, the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union, the city of Raven. I have a question for the Minister of Energy and Coal Industry. Please confirm, or correct the information that NAC Naftogaz Ukraine is a member of the Naftogaz Ukraine, and has about 50 per cent of the shares of the joint ventures, has produced, in 2014, more than 1.3 billion cubic metres of natural gas, but not for the population, but for the market price industry at a total of more than 5 billion dollars? At the same time, the Crushing Company, under the joint venture agreement, was paid only 45 million dollars, which is less than 1 percent. This information is also needed for a working group that investigates government corruption. Please give me an answer.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-24-m0.u52	If you don't mind, I'll answer. We have a wholesale buyer of gas, import gas, the one that's being extracted is NAC Naftogaz Ukraine. We're willing to give this information, I'm just saying that we have a wholesale market, it's practically working, the market, Naftogaz is buying up all the resources and it's distributing, and it's selling. At your request, we will prepare such a reference and submit it to the commission. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-24-m0.u53	Thank you. Please, Illenko Andrey.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-24-m0.u54	Andrew Illenko, the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union. Excuse me, is the Minister of Internal Affairs still present at the meeting? Not present, as you can see, we have a very interesting "hour of questions to the government." I would like, after all, to ask the Minister of Internal Affairs, because this question has already been raised by my colleague Sobolev at the address of the Prime Minister, but there was no answer. Right now, in these moments, in the center of Kiev, in the Kino House, on Saxegan Street, there's a meeting of lawyers at which lawyers are elected to the Supreme Council of Justice. Now the aunts have locked down the entrance, they don't let the delegates in, they ignore all the laws. And most importantly, the police, which is what's interesting, is what's happening in the Pechersky district, and the police from the Obolonian region, somehow, have blocked it, and along with the aunts, don't let the delegates into the lawyers' assembly. I mean, the Portuguese people are now in the centre of Kiev having an anti-revolutionary, counter-revolutionary coup. I ask that this situation be resolved immediately. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-24-m0.u55	Thank you. Please, Oleg Barna.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-24-m0.u56	Barney, turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-24-m0.u57	Good afternoon! Dear government officials! I'm very happy that the Treasury budget has gone beyond 20 billion dollars, unfortunately not at the expense of economic development, but rather at the expense of devaluations of bracelets. And maybe filling out the budget by trying to sell profitable state-owned enterprises is not the right move, but perhaps better by developing the economy. And it's possible that the problem isn't so low in the cost-effectiveness of state-owned enterprises as it is in the inefficient work of the ministries of profile, or maybe the government. And so, I would very much like to ask the Prime Minister, unfortunately he's not here, if he's trying and so forth to follow this path, which is where more years and nothing has been done, how long does it take for him and your team to finally have a breakdown? Is it better to move on to real, not populist reforms? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-24-m0.u58	Thank you. Please answer, Gennady Grigorovitch, please. Please, Secretariat, please invite the National Deputies to the Hall, we are moving on to making the decisions that are defined. Please let's thank the government for an hour of questions, for the answers. Thank you, colleagues. We wish for success. Please, colleagues, come into the session room, and we'll begin our consideration of the agenda. Please, we're taking our seats. Please. Please, Your Honor, we are taking our seats for the completed Year of Questions to the Government. I'm asking you to take your seats. Please sit down, colleagues. Please take your seats, fellow officers. Please, colleagues, take your seats. We're starting to work. Please, colleagues, come into the session room now we will continue to work in voting mode. Let's do as much vote as we have. We'll make a signal vote. Signal, colleagues! It's a magical sound! Let's have a vote! Not everyone, I see, can vote. Not everyone's back. Please. [[11:26:41]] For-191 Colleagues, this is going to be a signal vote right now, please press pros, and we'll see how many deputies we have. Please, colleagues! There's a signal vote. Please vote. Signal vote. [[11:27:10]] For 218. Well. That's better. No, well, I can see visually that there are more people. And here they come! Please, dear fellows. Please! Please, colleagues, come in! Vote, vote! [[11:27:55]] For 234 That's better. That's better. Colleagues will be coming back soon. Please, colleagues, take your seats, distinguished national MPs. Please. Please, colleagues! [[B in m in s a l in]] Dear colleagues, please! Come on, let's vote. It's a signal vote, it's just a signal vote. [[11:29:05]] For 245 That's better. Dear colleagues, we're working. [[B in m in s a l in]] Your consideration, Your Honor, is now under way. Dear colleagues, we'll postpone the vote of questioning, we'll move on to the rulings. Yeah, what we are, colleagues, what we are. The questions that have been supported, we will now vote. Dear colleagues, we have a question. We have 8 numbers to hold a celebration of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Yesterday, in the organizational calendar, where it was defined: the 6th -- parliamentary hearings and the 8th -- a solemn meeting -- we didn't vote. So there's an offer from all the faction leaders that we should vote and be able to hold a May 8 celebration. Please, Your Honor, concentrate on the vote. These are organizational issues that we need to vote with you and determine. Calendar plan, calendar plan, colleagues, focus! 2590 is a calendar plan, draft regulation. Ready to vote? Let's base it on the whole so that we can hold 8 numbers. On the basis of a total of 2590. Please vote, 2590. Vote. [[11:30:52]] For 214 Who didn't make it? [[B in m in s a l in]] Come on, colleagues. 2590.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-24-m0.u59	Dear colleagues, please come to the hall. It is about us being united with the entire civilized world on May 8th as the events of the end of World War II. This is our solidarity with the entire civilized world. For the first time, the Ukrainian State at the level of Parliament will hold such a solemn session. And it can't be that because there's no discipline in the room, we can't make such an important decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-24-m0.u60	Come on, colleagues, we're voting 2590. Colleagues!
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-24-m0.u61	Come into the hall and take jobs, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-24-m0.u62	2590 is the basis and overall calendar plan, colleagues! Calm down, please, we're voting. Did you hear what Andrew Volodymyrovich said? Vote. [[11:32:01]] For 232 Decision taken. Thank you. Let's move on, fellows. I ask you, don't separate, we have very important questions, dear colleagues. Many important questions need to be considered today. Your consideration is being made. We've made up our minds. 6 – Parliamentary hearings. 8th is a special meeting. You will be presented with a draft decree of the Supreme Council of Ukraine amending the Supreme Council of Ukraine decree of 2 December 2014 on the formation of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. The reporter is Natalia Vasilovna Novak. Huh? Colleagues, we have decided that we are holding parliamentary hearings. And now we're going to vote on the subject and then we're going to vote on Novak. Draft Decree 2087 on the holding of these parliamentary hearings by six. Please, Ludmila Denisova is the chairman of the committee. Let us vote in favour of the summary procedure for the ruling. Colleagues, pay attention, let's not break up, please! Short-term consideration, please. As far as consideration is concerned, the reduced procedure is concerned. [[11:33:35]] For-173 Thank you. Please report. Attention, colleagues! It's about holding parliamentary hearings.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-24-m0.u63	Dear Mr. Head, dear fellow national MPs! The draft Supreme Council of Ukraine Resolution on Parliamentary Hearings on State Policy on Social Protection of Internally Moved Persons is proposed for your consideration. The project proposes to hold parliamentary hearings with a view to forming a public policy on the implementation of the rights and freedoms guaranteed by the Constitution of Ukraine, which have become internally displaced persons as a result of the temporary occupation of a part of the territory of Ukraine or who have left their place of residence as a result or with the aim of avoiding the negative effects of armed conflict, acts of violence, mass violations of human rights and an extraordinary situation of a natural or technological nature. To include 8 committees of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on human rights, national minorities and international relations; national security and defence; social policy, employment and pension; veterans and persons with disabilities; health issues; public building, regional policy and local self-government; legal policy and justice; budget issues; and to make proposals on Parliamentary hearing recommendations to ensure the necessary arrangements for organisation and medical care. It should be noted that on February 18th, at the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Human Rights, National Minorities and International Relations, a hearing was held on the subject of "Stand to uphold the rights of internally displaced persons and citizens of Ukraine who live in a temporarily occupied territory." In this regard, therefore, I make a proposal and ask the transcript to take such changes into account. Change the title of Parliamentary Hearing Order on "State policy on social protection and the protection of the rights and freedoms of internally displaced persons". The other one. Paragraph 1 is worded in this order. "Encourage May 6, 2015.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-24-m0.u64	Please finish for 10 seconds and we'll vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-24-m0.u65	In the plenary hall of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, such parliamentary hearings will be held. In paragraph 2, change the date of preparation and submission of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-24-m0.u66	Please do not limit yourself to reading the changes to the decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-24-m0.u67	On April 27th, determine who is responsible for holding the above-mentioned parliamentary hearings of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Social Policy, Employment and Retirement. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-24-m0.u68	Colleagues, please, let's prepare for the vote a draft regulation of 2087, taking into account what was reported to the head of the profile committee, Ludmila Denisovova. Are you ready to vote, colleagues? This is about holding parliamentary hearings of the sixth number according to our previous decision with you. Please, colleagues. Please. Vote, Your Honor. 25.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-24-m0.u69	Vote. 2087 draft decision taking into account the proposals made by the head of the profile committee. 2087. Please vote and please support. Please be supportive. [[11:37:21]] For-188. Guys, let's do it again. Come on, colleagues, we haven't been able to vote yet. 2087, please. Please vote. Please vote. Yeah. Please vote. That's the subject. Again, they didn't make it. Well, I see they just don't make it. [[11:38:05]] For a hundred and Everyone didn't make it. 194 is better. Colleagues, we return and vote on the subject of parliamentary hearings. Now. 2087 as a whole. 20. You can't. 2087. Because you can't. Please, 2087. Please vote. Let's support it, colleagues. [[11:38:41]] For 205 Yes. Again. We did some training with you yesterday, please. It's about what we're talking about in order to conduct thematic parliamentary hearings. We talked about it, it's an important question. Please support him with the vote. Let's vote, colleagues, please support. [[11:39:34]] For 207 That's better. Faction leaders, I'll put it to the vote later. I'm asking you, my friends, to consult. Because, I guess, yeah, they just don't understand each other. Let's move on. Please, Andrew Volodymyrovich, conduct. 2057, Novak Natalia Vasilovna Set a short - term offer. As far as consideration is concerned, the reduced procedure is concerned.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-24-m0.u70	The draft decree amending the Ukrainian Supreme Council Order of 2 December 2014 No 2057 is under consideration. Please support the consideration of the reduced procedure. Please vote in favour of the summary procedure. [[11:40:23]] For-160. Thank you so much for your support. The report invites the head of the Committee on Legal Policy and Justice, Novak Natalija Vasilovna. Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-24-m0.u71	Ladies and gentlemen, on December 2, 2014, we voted in favour of a decree on the formation of the Cabinet of Ministers. However, taking into account the President’s decree of December 2, 2014, No. 905, 906, which was accepted into Ukrainian citizenship, Abromavitchus Ayvaras and Jaresko Natalia Ann, as well as the passports issued to them by Ukrainian citizens. So it was necessary to correct their names, namely Abromavichus Ivaras and Jaresko Natalia Ann, which is essentially a technical amendment, please support.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-24-m0.u72	Thank you so much! Please tell your colleagues, is there a need to discuss it? We're voting, aren't we? We're talking. So let's say we give the word to those who insist. Could it be? Please, Vlasenko, give me two minutes. Turn on the microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-24-m0.u73	Dear colleagues! Without any objection in principle to this decision, I would like to point out the following. When these two honourable ministers spoke on the rostrum of the Supreme Council, they stated that they would renounce citizenship in other countries. Two weeks ago, the media reported that Ivaras Abrahamavichus was still a citizen of another country. We need confirmation that this person is a "parasactist" or he's here to work for Ukraine and honestly, and he's willing to give up another country's citizenship. As is the question of the citizenship of Mrs. Jaresko, regardless of her birthday today. And then I'd like to hear the answer: Are they deprived of citizenship in other countries, or have they filed statements as to the outcome of these applications? Thank you!
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-24-m0.u74	Thank you so much! But I understand that you support this decision as a whole. Other factions. Well, John, one faction is one person. No one else insists on the performances? All right, one minute, John Krulko, please, one minute for the lineup.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-24-m0.u75	Ivan Krulko, "The Fatherland" faction. Dear colleagues, Your Honor Chairman! I just wanted to pay attention to this. We are voting by the Supreme Council for appointment to the highest positions, to the positions of ministers, and whether it is possible for those submissions coming to Parliament to be properly drafted at an elementary level, so that we do not have to make a separate decision to change where the name should be, or add a name and a parent. I think it's completely wrong for Parliament to do such things in time of war. Thank you!
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-24-m0.u76	Thank you! Please, Knazevitch, Ruslan Knazevitch.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-24-m0.u77	Thank you very much, Your Honor! Dear colleagues! All submissions accordingly, if you recall, were distributed the days before the appointment of members of the Cabinet of Ministers. But then the Supreme Council's apparatus was prepared a name, a name, a father's claim for office, just from the documents they presented. You realize that this is a matter of translation, of transcription, and so on. Then, once the decrees of the President of Ukraine had been issued to them, the Ukrainian transliteration had been clearly written, and in accordance with these decrees, we are changing our ruling. This is more our fault than those people's. Therefore, Mr. Chairman, we put the vote to a vote and remove the gap we have caused. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-24-m0.u78	Thank you very much. All speakers supported the adoption of this decree, with warnings about other aspects, in this case technical changes. And so I ask very much that we support this determination. And I invite the deputies who have just left to return to their workplaces. We have a limited number of votes, I very much ask all the national deputies to prepare for the vote. Ready? Then I put to the vote a draft decree amending the Ukrainian Supreme Council Order of 2 December 2014 "On the formation of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine" number 2057. And at the conclusion of the committee, please accept it as a whole. Please vote and I ask you to support this as a basis, and in general, please. [[11:45:31]] For 186 I see not all deputies have made it to their jobs. Please get to your workplace. We have the power to put a draft decision without going back to the vote. And I very much ask, once again, this is the technical drafting of our government's document, for which we are responsible. And I'm asking you very much to support our government, and I'm asking you to come into the Chamber of Deputies who have left the Hall for serious negotiations. Please prepare for the vote, Mr. Yuri. Prepared to vote, everyone in place? Once again, I am putting the draft Amendment Order of the Supreme Council of Ukraine since 2 December 2014 number 2057 on the ground and in general. If you'll excuse me, I'd like to vote. Please. [[11:46:49]] For 193 Thank you. It does not take the necessary number of votes. Let's talk about how to be, we have important bills, do we have the potential to consider them, do we move on to questions and speeches? Let's make a signal vote so we can see what the situation is in our room. I very much ask all members of the people to prepare for the signal vote, and I ask you to vote. Please, we're all in favour, this is a signal vote. Please. [[11:47:37]] For 201 Dear colleagues! I think it's fair and fair if we go to the MP's questions, but I remind you of one important thing, we have a few Fridays in a row that we have a call to the President. These are three references, there are not many, they need a vote. I'm very, very insistent, colleagues, that we now settle for three votes without, without, underlining once again, a discussion. We have already voted in favour of the request on those questions, and we have not had enough votes to send to the President of Ukraine. To me, by the way, was Vladimir Parasuk speaking, where is he to? There is, yes, to actually support these questions. I therefore strongly urge all our deputies to enter the hall for three ballots that are very important. And I'm asking you to concentrate right now, so I'm going to read them. So Vladimir Parasuk's request to the President of Ukraine to withdraw the name Hero of Ukraine from a group of national MPs. We'll go through the full procedure, first by supporting the request, and then by directing the President. First, I'm putting a vote in favour of this request and asking the people's deputies not to leave the room, I'm just asking. Vote in favour of this query. Please vote, first vote. [[11:49:38]] For a hundred and Thank you. Now we have to vote in favour of sending 226 votes to the President. So once again, I ask the deputies to return to their posts and prepare for the vote. So, please vote in favour of sending President Vladimir Parasuk to withdraw the name Hero of Ukraine from a group of national MPs, please vote. [[11:50:22]] For-138 Thank you. Paul Kiskar's next request to the President of Ukraine to receive state awards for the Second Battalion Special Assignment "Donbas", military section 3027, First Brigade of the Operational Assignment of the National Guard of Ukraine. The first vote in favour of this request, please vote in favour of this request. Please vote. [[11:51:06]] For-160. Thank you, we're in. Request support. Now to the President, it needs 226 votes. So I'm putting to the vote a request from the President of the People's Deputy Paul Kiskar (to receive the State Prizes for our Donbas Battalion). I'm asking everyone to support me. I'm asking you to vote. Please vote. [[11:51:44]] For-170. Thank you. This is a responsibility to our brothers on the forerunner of each of us, society! Thank you! The most recent appeal to the President of Ukraine by Ukrainian national deputies Lapin Igor and Teteruk to the President of Ukraine for the award of the 24th Idar Volunteer Battalion for Courage is postmortem. I would like to point out that on May 5th, there will be an anniversary of the creation of the Idar Heroic Battalion, indeed, that heroic battalion that has contributed enormously to our counterattack and the deterrence of the invaders in eastern Ukraine, where many of our brothers and the Maydan Self-Defense have died, and volunteers. I ask you very much to support this request, to vote first in favour of the request, and then to refer it to the President. First, I am in favour of supporting this request. Please vote, please support. [[11:53:39]] For-182 Society, I want to tell you that if we don't get 226, that doesn't mean that the queries are off. We're going through the first stage, we're going to vote when there's enough voices in the room. But I want to stress the important thing: we are voting for the rewards of our brothers who died there posthumously in a battle that their families today expect the state to evaluate their actions, their heroism. And the irresponsibleness of the hall is not simply irresponsible – it is a contempt for our fallen and living brothers who are on the Ukrainian front. I will no longer put to the vote requests because there are no votes. We went through the first stage -- 150 votes. And we're moving on to reading MPs that don't need a vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-24-m0.u79	Good afternoon, dear colleagues. Let's move on to the MP's questions. Such requests were made by the national MPs. Groups of National Deputies (Lapina, Teteruka, and others) A total of 26 deputies) to the President of Ukraine for the award of the 24th Idar Volunteer Battalion by the First Grade Medal of Courage. Vladimir Parasuka to the President of Ukraine on the withdrawal of the name Hero of Ukraine from a group of Ukrainian national deputies. Paul Kiskar to the President of Ukraine for receiving State awards for the Second Battalion Special Assignment "Donbas", military section 3027, First Brigade of the Operational Assignment of the National Guard of Ukraine. Helen Sotnik to the Prime Minister of Ukraine about responsible persons, the total cost and the amount of expenditure spent on the implementation of the "Wall of Europe" project. Viktor Razwadowski to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the use of measures to restore the entire property complex of the State Enterprise "Agricultural Enterprise" of the city of Žitomir to state ownership. Viktor Razwadowski to the head of the Žitomir district council, prosecutor of the Žitomir region, is temporarily acting as head of the Ukrainian Ministry of Internal Affairs in the Zitomir region to ensure the implementation of the constitutional right to housing of residents of the residential area of Stanišovka, Žitomir district. Groups of National Deputies (Romanov, Matkovsky and others) A total of 8 deputies) to the Ministry of Infrastructure of Ukraine on the list of road routes of general use of local value, which will be repaired in 2015. Helen Sotnik to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the number of transferred prosecutors of the district prosecutors of Kiev City, the Prosecutor's Office of Kiev, another position in the relevant prosecutor's office or other prosecutor's offices of the same or lower level, including the National Academy of Prosecutors of Ukraine, from January to April 2015. Sergey Sakka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, Prosecutor General of Ukraine, Head of the Ukrainian Security Service, Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine, on the investigation of the situation of contracting damages for electricity supply. Vitalia Stasuka to the Kiev City Head on the urgent use of measures to restore the operation of buoyant water supply complexes in Kiev. Alexia Honcharenko to the Attorney General of Ukraine, the Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine, for the installation and punishment of customers, organizers, instigators and performers of the demonstrative mass massacre of supporters of Euromaidan and journalists under the Odessa District Administration, which took place on 19 February 2014, and has signs of intimidation of Ukrainian configured Odessa, initiated by the leaders of the then-established local government, which was carried out for the organizational support of the leaders of the law enforcement agencies of Odessa. Groups of National Deputies (Dublica, Rosenblatt and others) A total of 5 deputies) to the head of the Supreme Qualifications Commission of Judges of Ukraine on the issue of legal evaluation have been handed down by the Court of Appeal of the District of Žitomir on a deliberate violation of the law that has led to illegal decisions. People’s Deputies ( The beak, the Rosenblatt, and others. A total of 5 deputies) are under the temporary responsibility of the Head of the National Fiscal Service of Ukraine to initiate special checks and analyse the financial and economic activities of the Paradise plant and its cooperative market. Vasil Gulyav to the executive responsibility of the Head of the National Commission, which regulates the state’s energy and utilities regulations on the appropriate application of the calculation of the amount of electricity consumed at new tariffs. Alexander Abdullin to the head of the Ravenna District State Administration on the inaction of the Dubrovnik District State Administration and the Dubrovnik District Council of the Plains Region on the repair of the road in Dubrovnik. Alexander Abdullin to the head of the Ravenna District State Administration for the creation of artificial obstacles during the consideration of the privatisation of the land by a citizen of Roman Ladik of the village of Transbrovice of the Plain region. Alexander Dehtyarchuk to the Director General of the Military Trade Services Concert, Ministry of Defence of Ukraine, on the transfer to the property of the territorial community of the city of Dubno to the construction of a combination of household services, which is on the balance sheet of the concert "Whitstorgservis". Valentina Nichiporenka to the Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine for the verification of compliance with legislation by persons responsible for the proper water supply of a village of the city type East Lviv district. To the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the restoration of a continuous, proper water supply of a town-type village of the Lviv Region. Jurija-Bogdan Suhević to Prime Minister of Ukraine on the annulment of the Cabinet of Ministers Decision No. 429 of 18 April 1996 on the order of accounts with rehabilitated citizens, according to which the rehabilitated citizens have been paid a sum of 50 copies per month, i.e. 25 copies per day of illegal imprisonment, which is in direct contravention of article 5 of the Law on the Rehabilitation of Victims of Political Repression in Ukraine, which states that the rehabilitated citizens are paid a minimum wage for each month of deprivation of liberty. Vladimir Aresonkov to the head of Korostišev District State Administration of the Žitomir Region on the settlement of rent relations by Korostišov District State Administration with the private company Kamyanobridské and the reduction of social tension in the village of Kamyaný Bred Korostišov. Dmitri Andriyewski to Prime Minister of Ukraine for the preservation of the State Enterprise "Civil Aviation Plant 410" as a State-owned national security provider of Ukraine, and related to aviation and missile and space industries that are strategically important to the economy and security of the state. Andrija Vadaturski to the Minister of Health of Ukraine regarding the receipt of a child with disabilities on an extended basis. Vassil Petovka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine regarding the transfer of the state-owned company Tečivska Zenit from state to municipal property. John Balloga is to serve as Head of the National Property Fund of Ukraine for the transfer of part of the premises of the Zacarpathian customs office in the area to the joint property of the district communities of the winegrower district. John Baloga is acting as Head of the National Property Fund of Ukraine for the transfer of part of the premises of the former Agrobusiness Share Bank "Ukraine" to the joint property of the territorial communities of the winegrower region. Vladimir Katsuba to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, Vice Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Regional Development, Construction and Housing of Ukraine, Minister of Environment and Natural Resources of Ukraine, Head of Kharkiv District State Administration to ensure the use of measures for the capital repair of clean-up facilities of the town of Mala Danilovka and the village of Karavan Dergachev district of Kharkiv. Vladimir Katsuba to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, Deputy Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Regional Development, Construction and Housing of Ukraine, Head of the Kharkiv District State Administration, on the implementation of urgent measures for the reconstruction of the water supply system with the introduction of a water treatment station on the underground watersheds of Dergachi Dergachi district of Kharkiv. Vitalia Gudzenka to the head of the Road Service in the Kyiv region on the emergency status of the bridge across the Ros River at the Tetievsky and Voddar regions of the Kyiv region. Valery Lunchenko to the prosecutor of the Zakartat district for the prompt and objective investigation into the acquisition of municipal property in the city of Uzhgrad. Jury Pavlenko to the Minister of Justice of Ukraine on the provision of information on the state registration of births of children born in the areas of Donetsk and Lugansk, temporarily unsupervised by the Ukrainian authorities Jury Pavlenko to the Minister of Health of Ukraine on the non-implementation of the National Plan of Action for the Implementation of the UN Convention on the Rights of the Child by 2016, and complex programming measures. Vladislav Buharjev to the full - time service. Yes, Vladislav Buhareva is acting as Head of the National Commission for State regulation in the areas of energy and utilities for the establishment of fair housing and utility tariffs, electricity and water supplies for residents of the Suma region. Vladislav Buhareva to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for the allocation of funds from the State budget of Ukraine for the capital repair of the bridge across the Vorskla River in the Sumskie region. Groups of National Deputies (Fridays, Balogs, and others) A total of 10 deputies) to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, the Minister of Infrastructure of Ukraine, the Head of the State Agency for Motorways of Ukraine on the allocation of construction and reconstruction of roads of the Zakarpatsky region within the budget programme "Development of the Ukrainian part of the Carpathian region of the Euroregion (in particular the Mukachevo-Lviv roads, Tatarov Kamyanec-Podilski, Stry-Mamaliga)". Alexia Kirichenko to the Prime Minister of Ukraine to increase the financing of military hospitals for which the rehabilitation of anti-terrorists is based. Victor Krivenk to the head of the Dnipropetrov Regional Public Administration for failing to execute a court order and for violating the rights of the Private Enterprise Material Services. Mikoli Palamarchuk to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the implementation of measures to remove obstacles to the investigation of criminal cases against corrupt workers of the District Attorney's Office of Bilgorod-Dnistrovska (Odes Region); the destruction of raid schemes for the seizure of property by prosecutors and the return to the State of the Geologist and Topaz bases they have stolen in the village of the Odessa Bay of Bilgorod-Dnistrov region. Ruslana Knazević to the Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine on the illegal actions of the first deputy city chief of Suma Vladimir Wojcienka. Ruslana Knazević to the Attorney-General of Ukraine for the provision of unreliable information to the employees of the State Agency for Land Resources. Groups of National Deputies (Vojciecki, Podlisecki and others) A total of 4 deputies) to the Head of the National Shareholder Company Naftogaz Ukraine regarding the participation of the Public Shareholder Society Ukranafta in joint venture agreements with private legal entities. Victoria Vojcitsky to the Minister of Ecology and Natural Resources of Ukraine, the Minister of Energy and Coal Industry of Ukraine on the participation of the Public Association of Ukrnafta in joint activities agreements with private legal persons. Anton Herashchenka to the Head of the National Bank of Ukraine for receiving information from the National Bank of Ukraine on domestic government debt. Alexander Villkull to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on ending the shameful practice of mass school closing, which greatly complicates the general education of rural children and leads to the release of qualified teachers. Michael Dovbenko to the Minister for Agriculture Policy and Food of Ukraine, Acting Director of the State Enterprise Ukrespirt for the failure of the State Enterprise Ukrespirt to fulfil the terms of the contracts for the supply of grains to the Society with limited responsibility for Stern Agro. Michael Golka to the Head of the National Commission of Securities and Stock Market on the illegal inaction of authorized persons of the Central Territorial Department of the National Commission of Securities and Stock Market. Sergia Labazyuka to the Minister of Social Policy of Ukraine on the restoration of the group III disability pension. Andrea Shipka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the use of urgent measures to protect the social and material rights of citizens affected by the Chernobyl disaster. Andrija Shipka to the Attorney General of Ukraine, Minister of Justice of Ukraine, for the execution of the judgment on the damage caused by the injury (a leg amputation) of the village of Čkalov in the region of Dnipropetrov, Nini Sokolovy. Alexander Suprunka's executive responsibility as Head of the Ukrainian Antimonopoly Committee to provide information on the verification of the economic justification of the rise of the fares for travel in the metro and ground-based municipal transport of the city of Kyiv. Igora Artushenko to the National Environmental Investment Agency of Ukraine on the implementation of the UN Framework Convention on Climate Change and the Kyoto Protocol. Igora Artyushenko to the Deputy Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Regional Development, Construction and Housing of Ukraine, Prosecutor General of Ukraine, on the signs of criminal offences in the actions of officials, violations of the right to information and housing rights of a multi-child family. Alexander Tretyakov to the head of the Kyiv City State Administration for the cessation of the violation of the housing rights of Svetlana Roslakova. Andrija Illenka, head of the Kyiv City State Administration, Director General of the Kyivzelenbud Communiqué, head of the Dniprovsky District Office in Kiev of the State Administration for Square Management in the area of illegal construction on the street of Peter Vershigora, 9-H in the Dniprov district of Kiev. Andrija Illenka to the Attorney General of Ukraine, Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine, Kiev City Head, Director of the Department of State Architecture and Building Inspection in Kiev, Head of State Environmental Inspection in Kiev, on the verification of the facts and on the implementation of measures for the restoration of the rights of the territorial community of Kiev as a result of the illegal blockade of the Dniper coastline at the address: Mikilsko-Slobidska Street, 1 in the Dniprovi district of Kiev. Gregory Times to the Head of the National Bank of Ukraine on the provision of information and clarification on compensation for damages and non-compliance with obligations of the Public Shareholders Association of the City Commercial Bank to the Czernovec District Social Organisation of the Bukovin Art Centre for Reconstruction and Promotion of Romanian Traditional Culture. Gregory Times to the Attorney General of Ukraine, Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine, on the use of response measures to protect the legal rights of civil servants of the Bukovin Art Centre for Reconstruction and Promotion of Romanian Traditional Culture, because of the failure of the Public Shareholder Society of the City Commercial Bank to fulfil its obligations. Ruslana Demczak to the Minister for Economic Development and Trade of Ukraine on the admission of enterprises to participate in specialised auctions for the sale of compressed gas for the domestic needs of the population. Ruslana Demczak to the First Deputy Minister for Regional Development, Construction and Housing of Ukraine for the grant of a grant for the financing of the All-U.S. National Competition for Local Self-Governmental Development Projects. Alexander Suprunenka to the Minister of Ecology and Natural Resources of Ukraine, in charge of the Head of the State Service of Ukraine, in exceptional circumstances, head of the Kiev City State Administration for the adoption of measures to prevent an environmental disaster in the Dniprov district of Kiev. John Melniczuk to the Attorney General of Ukraine regarding the investigation into Igor Kaletnik and his associates. John Melniczuk to the Ministry of Internal Affairs of Ukraine on the provision of a legal assessment of the facts concerning the obstruction of the activities of the Ukrainian National Deputy by officials of the Bar District Department of Internal Affairs of Ukraine in the Winnick region. John Sporish to the Minister of Agriculture and Food of Ukraine, Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine, on the critical situation that has taken place in recent years around the Kyrnassian sugar plant. Vladimir Parasuka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Infrastructure of Ukraine, Head of the State Agency for Roads of Ukraine, for the allocation of funds from the State Budget of Ukraine for the construction of the capital repair of the road maprov-Nemirov) - Nemirov-Grushov. Edward Matviychuk to the Ministry of Regional Development, Construction and Housing of Ukraine, Odessa City Council, Odessa City Department of the Ministry of Internal Affairs of Ukraine in the Odessa region, on the need to take effective action to address the collective appeal of the inhabitants of the Tairov Mass of the Kyiv district of Odessa on the order of the secondary raw material point and the integrated well-being of the instigation area on the streets of Academic Williams. Vitalia Cupria to the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the inadmissibility of being found within the Constitutional Commission of former President Leonid Danilovich Kuchma of Ukraine. The State of the Land, the State of Ukraine, the State of Ukraine, the State of Ukraine, the State of Ukraine, the State of Ukraine, the State of Ukraine, the State of Ukraine, the State of Ukraine, the State of Ukraine, the State of Ukraine, the State of Ukraine, the State of Ukraine, the State of Ukraine, the State of Ukraine, the State Specialised Budget Institution, the State of the State of the State of the State of the State of the State of the State of the State of Ukraine, the State of Ukraine, the State of Ukraine, the State of the Kingdom of Ukraine, the State of the Union of the State of the State of the State of the State of the State of the State of the State of the State of the State of the State of Ukraine, the State of Ukraine of Ukraine, the State of the State of the territory of the State of the State of the State of the State of the State of the State of the State of the State of the State of the State of the State of the State of the State of the State of the State of the State of the State of the State of the State of the State of the State of the State of the State of the State of the State of the State of the State of the State of the State of the territory of the territory of the territory of the State of the territory of the territory of the territory of the State of the territory of the territory of the territory of the territory of the State of the State of the State of the State of the State of the State of the State of the State of the State of the State of the State of the State of the State of the State of the State of the State of the State of the State of the State of the State of the State of the State of the State of the State of the State of the State of the State of the State of the State of the State of the State of the State of the State of the State of the State of the State of the State of the State of the State of the State of the State of the State of the State of the State of the State of the State of the State of the State of the State of the State of the State of the State of the State of the State of the State of the State of the State of the State of the State of the State of the State of the State of the State of the State of the State of the State of the State of the State of the State Ruslan Solvar to the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, State Architectural and Construction Inspectorate of Ukraine, Kyiv District State Administration on the need to verify compliance with the requirements of city legislation by the Energy Corporation in the village of Tarasovka Kyivo-Svetoshin region of Kiev. Ruslana Solvar to the Ministry of Internal Affairs of Ukraine, the Prosecutor's Office of the City of Kiev, the Prosecutor's Office of the Kyiv Region regarding the improper conduct of an investigation into the facts of fraud in the city of Fastovsk. Alexander Kodola to the Prime Minister of Ukraine to provide for the needs of the Pristina City Council to finance specific sectors of agriculture in connection with the reform of inter-budget relations. Alexander Kodola to the Minister of Justice of Ukraine, temporarily acting as Head of the State Fiscal Service of Ukraine, for the use of full-featured measures to ensure the full functioning of the State Enterprise, the "Nižinska Repair Plant of Engineering." Igor Alekseieva to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the verification of financial transactions and the legality of the sources of the origins of the assets of individual companies and persons associated with Dmitr Firtasch on the existence of signs of money laundering and terrorist financing. Igor Alekseieva to the Minister of Education and Science of Ukraine, the head of the Kyiv District State Administration, the head of the Regional Regional Administration of the Kyiv Region, for not allowing the closure of the air in the village of the city type Master of the Kyiv Region. Oleg Kulinić to the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine for the provision of military equipment to the ATOs for the conduct of the inhabitants of the Poltava region. Oleg Kulinić to the head of the commission of the restructuring of the State Agency for Land Resources, the first deputy head of the State Service for Geodesy, Cartography and the cadastre for the allocation of land under pastures and haystacks in the village of Dubiuk in the region of Poltava. Bogdan Dubnević to the Ukrainian Defence Minister about the cost of repairing the roof of housing building No.163 on the street of the Glynnian Tract in Lviv. Bogdan Dubnevich to the Minister of Social Policy of Ukraine for the purchase of a special transport bus for the needs of residents of Lviv's geriatric boarding house. Natalia Katser-Buchkovsky, head of the Lviv District State Administration, on taking urgent action and correcting the situation of lack of food provision for children's children's children's institution No.5 in the village of East City. Jurya Derevyanka to the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine on the speedy resolution of the issue of removal from the further transfer of land to the Carpathian National Park area of 1,057.3 ha in recognition of the territorial communities of the Jaremcan City Council of the Ivano-Frankiv region to implement the decree of the President of Ukraine "On the Extension of the Carpathian National Park" No.215/2010 of 23 February 2010. Jacob Besbach to the Attorney General of Ukraine, Minister of Interior of Ukraine, Prosecutor of the Vinnitsk Region, Head of the Ministry of Internal Affairs of Ukraine in the Vinnitsk Region, on the need to control the criminal conduct of the disappearance of 12 tons of sugar sand held at the warehouses of society with limited responsibility for "Podilski sugarvarni" for the purpose of its full, comprehensive and objective investigation. Jacob Besbach to the Attorney General of Ukraine, Minister of Interior of Ukraine, Head of the Ministry of Internal Affairs of Ukraine in Kiev, Chief of the Pecher district administration of the Ministry of Internal Affairs of Ukraine in Kiev, on the need to monitor criminal conduct concerning the seizure of funds by the Society's officials with limited responsibility for Sudnoservice for the purpose of its full, comprehensive and objective investigation. Natalia Kraljevska v Prime Minister of Ukraine on the use of measures to restore the rights and basic social guarantees of miners, including through the repayment of arrears from wages. Alexia Lensky to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the use of response measures to implement the constitutional rights and social guarantees of the Kosovo military personnel who took direct part in the ATO and to grant ownership within the framework of the free privatization rules set out in article 121 of the Ukrainian Land Code of 2 hectares for the conduct of private agriculture. Alexia Lensky to Prime Minister of Ukraine, Secretary of the Council of National Security and Defence of Ukraine, Prosecutor-General of Ukraine on the use of response measures to reduce social tensions in society, pay wages to miners, prevent the closure of Ukraine's mines in conditions of energy collapse and the direct threat to the energy security of the state, use to the full potential of Ukraine's energy potential and prevent the deterioration of Ukrainian-Polish relations through Ukraine's anti-State energy and trade policies during the purchase of coal from the aggressor State. Groups of National Deputies (Bloods, Yemen, and others) A total of 7 deputies) to the Minister of Interior of Ukraine, the head of the Kyiv City State Administration, the first deputy head of the Head of State Architectural and Construction Inspectorate of Ukraine for the verification and implementation of the necessary measures for the construction of land in Kiev. Vasil Janicki to Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Social Policy of Ukraine for the settlement of unjustified expenses in the form of a congregation for compulsory state pension insurance by fixed agricultural tax payers. Vasil Janicka to Prime Minister of Ukraine, Deputy Prime Minister of Ukraine - Minister of Regional Development, Construction and Housing of Ukraine for the implementation of the Project "Recreation-Health of the Nation" of the Kuznetsov City Council of the Plains Region as the winner of the All-Ukrainian Project Competition and Program for the development of local self-government in 2014. Sergia Soboljeva to the Attorney General of Ukraine, Head of the Supreme Administrative Court of Ukraine, Head of the Court of Appeal of Zaporozhye Region, Head of the Zaporozhye District Court of Zaporez Region, on the final return to state property from the illegal private ownership of the land of the pristine Rosemow forest located in the Zaporozhye district of Zaporez. Paul Rizanenka, under the temporary responsibility of the head of the State Financial Inspectorate of Ukraine for the implementation of state financial control over the use of the funds of the State Budget of Ukraine in the financing of the restructuring of the swimming pool "Kupava". Paul Rizanenka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine to ensure the realization of the right of citizens to enter into the operation of buildings built without permission to carry out construction work under simplified procedure. Andrija Šinkovič to the Minister for Agriculture and Food of Ukraine on the urgent need to set up a recalculation of land rations, taking into account sharp inflation and devaluation of bracelets. Andrija Shinkovič to the Minister for Agriculture Policy and Food of Ukraine on the need to raise the purchase price for milk. Oleg Osuhovski to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the invocation of responsibility for obstructing the activities of the Ukrainian National Deputy. Oleg Osuhovski to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the threat of environmental disaster in the city of Broda Lviv. People’s Deputies (Semeniahs, Overlords, and others) A total of 4 deputies) to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, acting as head of the Ukrainian State Property Fund, to ensure the effective administration of corporate rights by the State in the open-ended Turboat company. Roman Semenha and Paul Kiskar to the Chief of the General Staff, Commander-in-Chief of the Armed Forces of Ukraine, for the conduct of the rotation of the 11th Special Motorcycle Battalion of Kiev Russia. Natalia Katser-Buchovsky to the Minister of Economic Development and Trade of Ukraine, Minister of Energy and Coal Industry of Ukraine on the current status of implementation of the project Research into the possibility of synchronized integration of Ukrainian and Moldovan energy systems with the continental European energy system. Olesia Long to the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine on the need to take action to preserve the infrastructure of the village of Mironyovka in the Lightwater region of Kirovograd. Olesia Long to the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine on the need to take action to protect the rights and legitimate interests of airlifters on the Chernobyl AES. Anatolia Denisenka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the establishment of a fair mechanism for calculating the total income of the family to calculate the allocation of subsidies. Anatolia Denisenka to the Minister of Interior of Ukraine, Director of the Public Shareholders Association “Kretelekom” for the restoration of the telephone connection of the members of the Public Shareholders Association “Krkow” in the city of Kharkiv. Vladimir Aresonkov to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the non-reduction of the number of workers in the structural units of the Department of Labour and the social protection of the population of the Žitomir District State Administration. Dmitry Timchuk to the Ucroborprom State Concert about the situation at Ucroborprom, which is located in the Odessa and Kharkiv regions. Dmitry Timchuk to the Minister of Economic Development and Trade of Ukraine on the situation in state enterprises, institutions, organizations that are part of the administration of the Ministry of Economic Development and Trade of Ukraine and are located in the Odessa and Kharkiv regions. groups of people’s deputies (Sapovalova, Jeremeyeva, and others). A total of 11 deputies) to the Ukrainian Defence Minister on the urgent need to take urgent action in the restoration of the Kremenchuck Air Force Department of the National Aviation University. Tarasa Batenka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for the adoption by the Cabinet of Ministers of the Ukraine of a legal act that would oblige economic operators to provide thermal energy free of charge to set up housing units for thermal energy, which would allow for the saving of substantial public budget costs allocated to subsidies to the population. Taras Batenka to the Attorney General of Ukraine regarding the proper response to the information put forward in the parliamentary request regarding the strong takeover of the Public Stock Exchange Society's premises on 19 March 2015 by a group of persons headed by the Supervisory Board, Alexander Savchenk. Igor Shurma to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the insufficient supply of vaccines, which threatens Ukraine's national security. Igor Shurma to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the use of urgent measures to prevent the abolition of the youth symphony orchestra "Slobožanski". Eduard Matviychuk to the Ministry of Social Policy of Ukraine, Ministry of Health of Ukraine, on the need to provide assistance for the provision of adequate and comprehensive treatment and rehabilitation for the resident of the Kyiv district of Odessa Mikoli Dorofieva. Irina Suslowy to the Minister of Justice of Ukraine about providing information and paying off the pension debt to citizens who had been unjustifiably subjected to political repression and were later rehabilitated, and to members of their families who had been forcibly displaced. Alexander Dombrovski to the Head of the Ukrainian State Service for Geodesy, Cartography and cadastre, the State Agency for Land Resources of Ukraine, acting as the Vinicki Urban Head, the head of the Vinnicki District State Administration of the Vinnicki Region, the head of the National Administration of the State Land Agency of Ukraine in the Winnicki Region for the provision of anti-terrorist operations to participants in the Donetsk and Lugansk areas by land ownership of state and municipal property. Alexander Dombrovski to the Head of the Supreme Court of Ukraine, the Head of the Supreme Court of the Ukraine for Civil and Criminal Affairs, the Minister of Justice of Ukraine, the Head of the State Judicial Administration of Ukraine for the initiative of the civil organization "Fathers of the Killed Children of Winitzki" to compensate for the damage caused by the State and the judicial decisions that have brought material and moral damage, in connection with the commission of particularly serious crimes. Groups of National Deputies (Bublica, Marchenka, and others) A total of 5 deputies) to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, the Prosecutor-General of Ukraine, the Secretary-General of the Council of National Security and Defence of Ukraine, the Head of the Security Service of Ukraine, the Minister of Internal Affairs for the use of urgent measures to respond to the facts outlined in the media regarding the spending of budgetary resources and the organization of corruption schemes on the grain market by the Minister of Agriculture and Food of Ukraine, Alexia Pavlenko, and other high-level owners, who is causing billions of dollars to be lost to the State and undermines the image of Ukraine in the international arena. Vitalia Gudzenka to the Minister of Health of Ukraine regarding the abuse of office by the leadership of the Tarostian geriatric boarding house. Igora Lucenka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the inadmissibility of being in the leading positions of the defence industry of persons who were drawn to criminal responsibility. Groups of National Deputies (Krivoshei, Stasuka, Yemen) to the head of the Kyiv City State Administration regarding the illegal actions of officials of the Pecher State Administration. Mikhail Golovka is acting as Head of the National Commission for State Regulations in the Field of Energy and Municipal Services, Head of the National Stock Exchange Company Naftogaz Ukraine, on the review of the appeal of the executive duty of the city's head, Shepetevka Hmelnicka Hmeljna District of Michael Polodjuk. Oleg Petrenko to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the allocation of planned volumes (limits) of natural gas for the utility of the Heat Network Cercasitecommunergo. Oleg Petrenko to the State Fiscal Service of Ukraine regarding the application of the State Fiscal Service Regulations on local taxes in the territory of Cherkasa. Mikoli Tomenka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the need to preserve "Ukrainian History" and "Physical Education" in higher education institutions. Mikli Tomenka to the Ministry of Internal Affairs of Ukraine on the verification of the legality of logging in the forest area of the Cold Yar Forest Massive (Cherchishina). Alexander Gorbunov to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for the execution of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine's decree of 16 January 2012 No.60, "Some questions about the preparation of civil aviation pilots" with a view to the practical preparation of pilots by the Kyrovograd Air Academy of the National Aviation University. Sergey Kaplina to the Ministry of Internal Affairs of Ukraine on the use of urgent measures to issue certificates for the participant of the Anti-Terrorism Operation to employees of the Ukrainian Home Affairs Authority in the Poltav region who participated in the anti-terrorist operation, ensuring its conduct and protection of independence, sovereignty and territorial integrity in areas of anti-terrorist operation in the Donetské and Lugansk regions. Sergey Kaplina to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the use of urgent measures to prevent the spread of poverty among the working population and the rise in social tension in the labour community as a result of the rapid increase in debt from wage pay. Sergey Rudika to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the invocation of responsibility for the adoption of dictatorial laws on 16 January 2014. Sergia Rudika to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, the Ministry of Agriculture Policy and Food of Ukraine on an unwarranted reduction in prices for the purchase of milk in rural areas: Makyivka, Samrodok, Shepherds, Tashlik of the Smiljan region, Red Sloboda, Cerkas region and Olene, Radivanovka of the Kamyan region of the Cherkas region. Vadim Nesterenka to the Supreme Council of Justice, Head of the Supreme Qualifications Commission of Judges of Ukraine, Head of the State Judicial Administration of Ukraine, Attorney General of Ukraine, on the facts of the violation of effective law by the judge of the Krasnogvarsky District Court of Dnipropetrovska Victoria Samsonova. Alexia Rybkin to the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine on how to use special registration accounts with higher and professional and technical educational institutions. Alexander Sugonjako to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the verification of the irregularity of the real estate trade at the address: Sumska oblast, town of Trostyanec, street of Gorkok, house 32. Anton Kisse to the Ministry of Education and Science of Ukraine on the non-admission of physical culture and sports by higher education institutions in Ukraine during the formation of curricula in 2015-2016. Olga Cervakovy to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the elimination of the National Expert Commission on the Protection of Social Morality. Alexander Marchenka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for information on tariff issues. Vasile Nimchenk and Yuri Voropeyeva to the Attorney General of Ukraine, Head of the Ukrainian Security Service for the preparation and assistance of Dmitry Vizschenk, instructor of the Donbas Battalion of the Ministry of Internal Affairs of Ukraine, for the terrorist acts and killing of political and public actors. Jaroslava Dubnević to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Finance of Ukraine, on the allocation of funds from the State budget with a goal to complete the work on sites to protect the population from flood floods by the waters of the Dniester River in the territory of the Sambir district of Lviv. Jaroslava Dubnevic and Bogdan Dubnevic to the Ministry of Defence of Ukraine, the Minister of Social Policy of Ukraine, the Minister of Economic Development and Trade of Ukraine on the introduction of electronic governance and on ensuring the proper cooperation of all adjacent authorities (services) involved in the process of granting martial law status and the provision of social and material benefits. Robert Gorvato to the Minister of Justice of Ukraine regarding the maintenance of the State Register of Real Estate and Taxation of Real Estate and Real Estate. Jury Levchenka to the Attorney General of Ukraine, Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine, for the criminalization of officials of the Department of Urban Construction and Architecture of the Kiev City Administration, who abused power and service, exceeded their powers in the interests of offshore builders and registered "City conditions and restrictions on land construction" for the construction of a residential and office complex within the 100-metre coastline of the Dnipro River on the Mikilska Slobek Dniprovi district of Kiev. Yurya Levchenka to the director of the Department of Urban Planning and Architecture of the Kyiv City Public Administration for a call by the Department of Urban Construction and Architecture of the Kyiv City Public Administration to the construction of a residential complex within the 100-metre coastal protection strip of the Dnipro River on the Mikil Sloby Dniprovi District of Kiev, such as the construction of the city's active urban legislation, with obvious signs of corruption. Jury Bublika to the first deputy of the Head of State Architecture and Construction Inspectorate of Ukraine on the recall of the National Architectural and Construction Inspectorate of the House Building of the Terra Capital complex within the 100-metre coastline of the Dnipro River on the Mikil Strait of the Dniprovi district of Kiev, which is issued in violation of current urban legislation, with clear signs of corruption. Alons Schkrum and Dmitr Dobrodomov to the Attorney General of Ukraine, First Deputy Attorney General of Ukraine for open criminal conduct for abuses at the Ukrainian State Postal Service. Groups of National Deputies (Laška, Skuratovsky and others) A total of 6 deputies) to the Attorney-General of Ukraine, Minister of Interior of Ukraine, Head of the Security Service of Ukraine, temporarily acting as Head of the State Fiscal Service of Ukraine, Minister of Finance of Ukraine for tax evasion of ABB companies. Paul Kishkara to the Minister of Social Policy of Ukraine, Minister of Finance of Ukraine, Minister of Infrastructure of Ukraine, regarding the appeal of the village community of the Great Trieste of Poltava region, the Poltava region, with a request for funding for the completion (construction) of the kindergarten. Olga Cervakovi to the Attorney-General of Ukraine on the exercise of authority and authority by officials of the National Expert Commission on the Protection of Social Morality, as part of the restriction on access to public information. This request was completed when reading from the server. Before I go to the "different" section, I'd like to make some announcements. The head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine was given a statement by Nechai, a national deputy from Nechai, or Nechai, I do not know. Nechai, a statement about the exit of the Petra Dusty Block faction, and Him, I'm sorry. I'll read again then, a statement by Negoya's deputy to exclude him from the "Peter Prashenko" faction. I'm also reporting on the creation of the 8th Interfractional Tourism Union of Ukraine in the Supreme Council of Ukraine. The head of the inter-fractional parliamentary association "Ukraine Tourism" elected the national deputies of Ukraine Romanov Anna Anatoliyevna and Tomenko Mikola Volodymirovic. Now let's move on to the Miscellaneous. People's deputies please sign up for the performances. Welcome to the word of Illenck Andrew.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-24-m0.u80	The All-Ukrainian Freedom Union, 215 Qiiv District. Respectable Society! Dear National Deputies! You know, today and yesterday in our Parliament there are some very strange events, in the country an extremely difficult economic situation, in the country continues military aggression against our state. And at this time, the Ukrainian Parliament, which millions of Ukrainian citizens have chosen in elections, is demonstrating absolute irresponsibility. When is it necessary to put 10 votes, a signal vote, in order to understand that there is anyone in this room at all? When most MPs are allowed to go somewhere, the weather is kind of good, so they probably have other things or they're sitting on suitcases somewhere, or they're flying to some warm country. We see that now again Friday is a plenary session and there are no deputies in the hall, literally a few dozen deputies sitting. You know, it's totally unacceptable. I got a call all day yesterday from my voters and not just from my district, and they were shocked by it. They asked the deputies that such work was not appropriate, that there could be no ignoring their direct responsibilities. But the same thing I'd like to say about today's "hour of questions to the government." I would like to say that we have in Parliament an hour of questions to the government, not a beneficiary of a government that says what it wants, then we can ask it two or three questions, but usually the answer is not on the subject. And right now, the high-ups want to run away so they don't have to answer these questions. I believe that as a parliament, if we respect ourselves, we must put an end to this. Parliament should be the body that controls the government's activities and that should have proper respect for itself. But this respect will only be if we respect ourselves and if we really give effective work. And then, literally, one thing I was going to say. A very critical period of May Day is approaching. We realize that the enemy will use this to distract the situation. There's an official statement that the so-called Communist Party is meeting on May 1st with the Communist Party of Russia to hold some shares in Kiev. I am now calling on our respective seniors to do their utmost to ensure that such actions are completely banned in court, because if they are not banned in court, there may be extremely negative provocative consequences. These similar provocative actions should be banned, and, indeed, peace in the streets of Ukrainian cities should be guaranteed in these days. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-24-m0.u81	Thank you. I'd like to invite you to the words of Melnick, the People's Deputy.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-24-m0.u82	Dear Chairman, distinguished MPs! When they meet their voters from the 193st constituency, where the city of Kamenec-Podilski, Kamenec-Podilski and Novouszicki district, they call one of the main problems the state of roads. For no one is the secret that our roads are in a terrible state, and in certain places, particularly in the territory of Zelenokurilovecka, Vachnovecka, Brezov village councils of the Novouszycke district and Kalachovecki, Zalisko, Zavali village councils of Kaminec-Podil Region, they cannot even be called roads. But that's not surprising, because the roads of regional and local importance were essentially built 20 years ago and weren't designed to move cars by a total weight of up to 20 tons, while they are now moving between 40 and 80 tons. This largely led to the complete destruction of separate sections of the road. I am asked: How can such roads ensure quality and safe transportation of children to schools and kindergartens, and how to ensure timely arrival of fire protection, and how to ensure timely delivery of emergency medical care? We can start a lot of reforms, but as long as we don't solve the road problem, we don't get a positive result. The roads are the arteries of the state. And even in war, we should not forget them. Many of us know the saying, "All roads lead to Rome." The point is that the roads of ancient Rome were designed to unite all provinces with the capital of the empire. This ensured the prosperity of the Roman Empire, and primarily enabled the military to move quite quickly, guaranteeing the security, power, and power of the Romans. People who are familiar with history know that when the Great Depression and the mass of the unemployed were inundated in the streets of cities in the United States, U.S. authorities took a pretty literate step: President Roosevelt decided not only to pay unemployment aid, but rather to start a national road construction program. And not only did he solve the problem of unemployment, but he also provided a powerful infrastructure that became the foundation of US prosperity. So I'm asking you, Mr. Arsenija Petrovich, honourable members of the Cabinet of Ministers, to consider the problem of road repair, because without the quality of the reform, we are doomed to failure, without which we can not invest, develop tourism and industry. On my part and on behalf of my constituents, I ask you to pay great attention to this critical problem, which will definitely help Ukraine to come out of the crisis. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-24-m0.u83	Thank you. I would like to invite you to the floor of the national deputy Yuri Babia. None. Is it? The People's Deputy of Kryvoshea.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-24-m0.u84	Please pass the word to the People's Deputy.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-24-m0.u85	Good afternoon, dear fellows! Good afternoon, reverend Ukraine! Gennady Kryvoshea, faction of the People's Front. Dear friends, it's a shame to talk about this and hear it, perhaps, to you what I'm about to talk about. At first glance, there is little problem at the level of Ukraine, but this small problem is the problem of every local authority in our country. What are we talking about? Last week, I officially discovered corruption in the Pecher district in the city of administration, particularly in the Pecher district education department. What this corruption is all about. On April 7, 2015, a protocol was opened for the price proposals for competitive child - feeding, child - feeding services in the Pecher district education department. During which it was established that the public utility KP School, which worked for more than 10 years in the Pecher region, was denied participation in the tender allegedly as an interested party. No questions asked. But this competitive offer is won by a company that claims for its services and asks the state for a million dollars more. It's a private company called Children Product. It has asked for 6 million 700. The Cave district administration and the Pecher district education administration are doing everything they can to ensure that the private enterprise is able to win a competitive offer. He's refusing the utility that feeds our children so far, and he's doing everything he can to get his own pocket company to win this price proposition. As a result of my appeal, as a result of my personal visit there, to this education department, I was categorically denied the original of the protocol, all copies of the corresponding disclosure of the protocols of the proposal. As a result, MPs from the People's Front factions send a parliamentary request to the Kiev City Head with specific requirements for action. That is, we demand that the officials of the Pecher District State Administration and the relevant persons be checked at the Caver district education department. The other one. We demand the removal of the head of the Pecher District State Administration, as well as all the persons involved in the Pecher District Education Department. Third. According to the results of the test, appropriate decisions should be made on the personnel matters in the area concerned. Dear friends, over the last seven months.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-24-m0.u86	Ten seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-24-m0.u87	During the past seven months, the Pecher district education department has appointed six executive responsibilities of the Pecher district administration.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-24-m0.u88	Please, please finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-24-m0.u89	It's a disgrace to the head of an administration who can't handle personnel issues. This is the central area of the city. And we cannot dishonor our city and dishonor our country worldwide. Thank you, dear friends.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-24-m0.u90	Thank you. I invite you to the floor of the People's Deputy Vitaly Stasuk. Leonid Yemen, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-24-m0.u91	Leonid Jemetz, People's Front faction, Majority District, Kiev City. First of all, I'd like to support my colleague Hennady Krivoschei's speech, because it's about my hometown of Caversky. Abuse of this character is a criminal offence and is to be held accountable by officials, including the head of the Caver district administration. If there's been an abuse, if our children are trying to steal more than one and a half million dollars from their parents, and in such a transparent and stupid way, these officials have to be punished irrevocably and urgently. So I fully support this appeal, and I will also sign it so that the Office of the Attorney General can find out and conclude and punish those responsible. And another issue that also applies to the locality of the Pecher region, and in general to the entire community of Ukraine, because any citizen can get into the same situation where he will be completely defenseless from the claims of prosecutors, militias, judges. This is about Nina Ivanovna Moskalenko’s famous work. If you remember, it is a situation where the raiders are taken to the pensioners, the teachers of the Suvorovsky School of Land, the lasagna, from their point of view, near Botsad. In fact, for several years now, this case has been investigated by both the prosecution and the investigators, and it has come to trial, and WHO, I'm sorry, is still in the same place. Therefore, given that the Januković regime, along with centralized control schemes for corruption prosecutors, judges and militias, had been overthrown by the Ukrainian people, the situation had to change for the better. Sadly, though, there are those prosecutors who continue to work, not on the staff of an official from above, but on their own. That is why we appeal to the Attorney General to investigate the activity and inaction of prosecutors in the city of Kiev and in the district of Pecher. We refer to the Attorney General for the verification of violations of the law by judges such as: Tsarevich, Kitchuk, Volkov and Wolf. Excuse me, these are the judges in parts of which are criminal and targeted arrests, and these judges continue to stubbornly refuse to do justice. We also appropriately refer to the minister of internal affairs regarding the inactivity of the militia and to Justice Minister Peter Paul Dmitrovitch for the verification of the activities of the district administration of justice, as well as other facts set out in this reference. That's the question.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-24-m0.u92	Let me finish. Yeah.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-24-m0.u93	is under the control of the public and the people's deputies, and it will place a point, namely, protecting the right of Nina's citizen Ivanovna Moskalenko to a fair trial, an honest prosecutor's office and an honest militia. This will be done.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-24-m0.u94	Thank you. I'd like to invite you to the floor of the People's Deputy, Mikola Knieżicki. He did not pass on the word. I didn't. Princey didn't talk to me. [[B in m in s a l in]] Yes, but Princey didn't tell me about it. [[B in m in s a l in]] Well, we just have to stick to one, too. Well, I mean, you can't just pass on the word to each other. Thank you. National MP Yuri Lewchenko
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-24-m0.u95	Thank you. Good afternoon, distinguished TV setters, distinguished radio audiences! Leuchenko, Freedom, 223 County. I'd like to go to Parliament today, look to the executive branch, look to the local self-government authorities about the issues that affect the lives of every Ukrainian. This is about the destruction of every Ukrainian’s living space today in cities where there is a total vachanal of illegal forgetfulness. I am now speaking as a Kiev Majorate, of course, from the Shevchenkov district of Kiev. But this problem is happening all over the country right now. The point is that the executive power that is supposed to control and fight for the preservation of the living space of the people is actually subduing the building mafia. And the State Department and the local authorities of self-governance, self-governance, executives on the ground are doing nothing to combat this vacchanal. A strong example today is the question of the Mikil Slobidka in Kiev, where the city's construction conditions and restrictions on the construction site in the Dnipro coastal strip were completely unlawfully issued, motivated by the fact that Dnipro is the middle river. Imagine cynicism. So Dnipro has already been called the middle river and cut the strip from 100 meters to 50 meters in order to be able to build a completely autonomously complete city, destroy coastal areas, restrict community access to coastal areas. Today the Kyiv community is fighting against it. There's always a rally going on. There's aunts shooting people, fences rolling around, and the builder puts up new concrete fences. But the question is that the local authorities and the central authorities are doing absolutely nothing about it. The mayor of Kiev Klitschko "breathes" this illegal building, he has the ability, all authority to recall the city conditions and restrictions, thereby allowing permission to be revoked and to stop the building, but he doesn't. He's telling the truth, or it's easier to lie to the cameras, saying that he can't do anything and everything there is legal, covering up his supporters in this illegal building of MPs from the hit-and-run in the Kiev City Council who are directly involved in this building. And when the community appeals to Klick, he basically does nothing about it completely. Similarly, none of this is done by the Derbybudinspection, which has granted illegal permission to build the shores of Dnieper, and can cancel this permission now, because there are all the legitimate reasons for it, and it also does nothing about it. That's why I'm now calling on the executive power, the parliament, the mayor of Klick to finally carry out their direct duties to protect the community's living space, so that Klitschka will specifically protect the life space of the kyans, not "cross" his fellow builders. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-24-m0.u96	Thank you! I'd like to invite you to the floor of the People's Deputy Alexander Marchenka.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-24-m0.u97	Good afternoon, distinguished viewers, good afternoon MPs present! According to the decision of the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the basis of the Committee on Construction, Urban and Municipal Economy, on April 8, a working group was set up to investigate, analyse and argue the economic justification of tariffs for municipal services. And today, standing on this rostrum, when it's almost 20 days of work, I want to go to the Prime Minister, who heads all the executive services and departments of profile, and the National Regulatory Commission, once again, to give the task force all the necessary materials. In order for all of you, the esteemed society, the national MPs, to be able in general to learn the soundness of economic tariffs, to make decisions, and to report to our electorate. And in general, having such an optimistic speech today by the Prime Minister, who was today, who reported that we are with you, society, have now plus 20 billion. I want all the coalition representatives present to support the bill that we must honor those who participated in the elimination of the Chernobyl disaster. On April 26, a day later, this unpleasant date will be prepared, and a bill will be prepared on the basis of the Committee on Ecology and Chernobyl. And I'm calling on all the deputies present, members of the coalition, to have you on the Conciliation Council jointly support the inclusion of this bill in the agenda and so that at the next plenary meeting we can consider the issues and problems that have been removed by the adoption of the budget on December 28, 2014. That's also the return of food, that's help in the treatment of group I and group I liquidators, that's also for people with disabilities, that's also for children. I would like to invite everyone again, and I would like you to contact the heads of your factions, and I would like you to include the committee heads in the agenda, and we need to consider this bill immediately. Thank you for your attention. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-24-m0.u98	Thank you. National MP Anna Romanova.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-24-m0.u99	Honourable Ukrainian citizens, honourable colleagues, have just been informed that the Ukrainian national MPs have joined the "Ukraine Tourism" interfractional association to develop the tourism industry in our country. In this tourist industry, about a million Ukrainians have been involved and have suffered recently because in 2014 alone, the number of tourists in Ukraine has doubled. Even the President of the National Reform Council said a week ago that he wanted to develop the tourist area of Ukraine, even in spite of the war. At present, however, we see such a phenomenon that there is no body at the executive level responsible for the development of tourism in Ukraine, both domestic and foreign. Which would be responsible for the promotion of Ukraine and the creation of a positive image at the level of the state, because in fact, foreigners today are afraid to go to Ukraine because they believe that there is a war going on in Ukraine and someone has to do it. The point is that the Cabinet of Ministers decided in September that the body that took care of tourism was the National Agency for Tourism and Resorts. Today, this function is not being performed, this function has been transferred to the Ministry of Economic Development and Trade on paper, but, I would like to point out to the Prime Minister of Ukraine that, today, no structural unit has been created at the level of the Ministry to take care of the development of tourism. In addition, there is no responsible person to develop or implement a tourism strategy, and tourism has been forgotten. We've repeatedly addressed Minister Ivaras Abramavichus, but all he's said and all he's done for the tourist community and the tourist industry is, like, a competition for office, attention, an out-of-office tourist minister. What does it mean to be an outside counsellor? It's a person who doesn't get paid, and even the tourist sector doesn't get the budget for the first time in 2015, even for the promotion of our state. So this competition for an extracurricular advisor looked like a farce, held five stages and with public hearings, and he was going to Easter. At this point, there were three of the 40 claimants who had been taken, not even called back, not told who had been taken. And you know, it's kind of a huge-scale attitude that can bring about an economy, a weak economy in Ukraine that's tens of billions of dollars that we don't really need. So once again, I'm paying attention to this, despite the fact that the MPs see the prospect.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-24-m0.u100	Excuse me, 10 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-24-m0.u101	The president sees the prospect of tourism development in all other countries turning to Ukraine, and even Hensek of the World Tourism Organization has expressed concern that there is still no body in Ukraine to care for tourism.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-24-m0.u102	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-24-m0.u103	For some reason, there is still no structural unit at the executive level. So please, let us pay attention to this, and Ukraine will become hospitable and touristic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-24-m0.u104	Thank you very much. I'd like to invite you to the floor of Deputy Vitali Korczyk.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-24-m0.u105	Please pass the word to Krivoša, colleagues.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-24-m0.u106	The People's Deputy of Kryvoshea.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-24-m0.u107	Good afternoon and once again dear friends! In continuing on the subject of corruption, in the Pecher district administration, I would like to ask, however, and support what Leonid Yemen said about the illegal actions of the judges -- about a lady like Moskalenko the teacher. And at the same time, I would like to draw all the attention of the whole of Ukraine, the whole of the public to the fact that in the last plenary two weeks ago we tried in the hall here to consider the question of the election of judges. These are the judges who for the past five years have made appropriate decisions according to the direction of the relevant criminal authority now somehow try to get into the hall and become deputies again forever. Given that there are people among those judges who may actually have this right, we are deputized by the People's Front faction, and as co-chair of the inter-fractional MP association, the Deputy Control on the inter-fractional MP's website, the Deputy Controls have posted a list, published a list of all the judges who claim to be elected in this room. I'm talking to the whole of Ukraine, I'm talking to the whole community, the press, and I'm sending out the names of all these judges so that every citizen in every district center can see if there's a judge out there who's made illegal and illegal decisions. People’s deputies will only make decisions that justifiably challenge trust in people. The People's Front is speaking for the people and that's why they want us to actually have a illustration and we really have a fair trial. Today we can see a series of criminal decisions in the courts. So our deputies, our colleagues from the People's Front faction, already have 67 nominations for expulsion and removal of such judges in the Kyiv region. This applies to the judges of the Kyewovo-Svetoshin district, this applies to the judges of Obukhovsky, Vasilkovsky, Brovarsky, this is mostly about questions. land issues, such as the taking and capture of ordinary citizens, the common peasants of their land and buildings. Stop bullying people, stop bullying ordinary peasants, and stop bullying ordinary Ukrainian citizens. We demand the legal election of judges, we demand that every person say their "yes" or say their "no." Please send all your comments personally to the Supreme Council by each judge, if any, to give copies of the rulings and approvals regarding the illegal actions and decisions taken by these judges. Thank you, fellows of honor! The People's Front faction for the people. Thank you, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-24-m0.u108	Thank you. I invite you to speak to the National MP, Mikola Tomenko, for an order of 6 minutes, and the National Deputy Petrenko also gave him the floor.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-24-m0.u109	Dear colleagues, in the first part, he wanted to focus on today's aphoric and fairy tale speech by the Prime Minister, who was interested, I think, in the entire Ukrainian people. Maybe there are movies in the government that show, so about Ukraine, and they're so inspired they come to Parliament to talk about this state that doesn't exist. I realize that, of course, it is a pleasure to bear responsibility, 15 months, but responsibility is not necessary, but it is necessary to act responsibly. Because this is a responsible activity, you need to say what is happening in Ukraine, and if you do not have the professional capacity to do so in a responsible way, you need to complete your career and move to another direction. The second thesis was a story that I liked terribly about the investments that would overwhelm Ukraine. I'll tell you who's our main investor. We have one investor left: the Ukrainian people, the pensioners, the teachers, the budget and the low-income businesses. Today, entrepreneurs have come to me with how the European Wall project is being implemented. This "European Wal" is going to have to be called the "Ukrainian Wall of Entrepreneurs". So there's been a dispersion of what area to build and what to build in this "European Wall." As our governors work, you know the heads of the administration. They give the right figures for each firm, for each institution. And those entrepreneurs who don't know how to pay taxes today, they have to make the right amount out to make sure that the cousin to the governor of the firm builds a specific piece of the European Vale. I have a question: where are the investments that were planned and the budget money for this "European Wal"? Then rename it. Calling it "The European Vale" a project of fighting the Ukrainian business and being proud of it, that's a shame! He's getting rested. My colleague Romanova, when she talked about tourism, I can add, we're both preparing sanatoriums and the basis for rest for the tourist season. This is also for Carpathians, and for Western Ukraine, it is an extremely important opportunity to make money and make money for the local people. Now the Carpathian Blanche, and not only does it work as in the best traditions of all the previous governments, because it's not the same mentality. Now, for you to understand, business they keep sanatoriums, hotels and so on, they have to pay two months ahead for gas, for electricity, so that they can prepare for the summer season. So it seems that this project is going to destroy those who are left with sanatoriums and hotels who are not going to be able to accept it. I define this part of my speech as a parliamentary request to the government, and I want to hear who's giving the order to collect taxes two months in advance. How can you live in today’s situation if you pay for two months ahead? Now return to Parliament's responsibility. We've talked about this over and over again. The fact that Friday is our day of reading and performing is already known to the entire Ukrainian people. But that Thursday after lunch or lunch, we can't work, well, that's not what it's been like, I think, in all the history of Ukrainian Parliamentarianism. So I have two suggestions for what to do with Parliament. One is evolutionary, one is revolutionary. Evolutionary. I was inspired by the idea of our self-help colleague, who decided to become a free man and do business, and to form a parliamentary mandate. This idea, I think, is good, smart. And that's why I would ask all business MPs who have gone through party lists: if they can't work, they'll be able to put together MPs and go into business. Our two fellow governors -- so they can write statements and give two people a chance to come in. Let those who work in the party offices work in the party offices because they don't have time to go to parliament. Either we reload the Parliament -- and it works, or then we go the revolutionary way. The revolutionary path is very simple: in the Constitution we make changes, I think 300 deputies are enough, we fix 300 deputies, we pass the law on open party lists, we work actively, and on October 25, we run the elections with local elections, where there will be 300 professional deputies elected for open party lists. For the Mayor, you know what it is: the people will buy again, and they will sit abroad. We also have majors that we haven't seen alive in almost a year or how many parliaments are working. So we have a chance, well, the moon, maybe, how much, to analyze the way we're going. If Thursday at 12 o’clock there are no 226 deputies on the Supreme Council, my friends, what can we talk about?Oh, my God! From whom can we demand a job?Oh, my God! That is, this responsibility, this feeling, that we have many deputies like Arsenius Petrovich, on us proudly bear responsibility, but they do not come to Parliament. And the responsibility is not to wear it, but to sit in Parliament and work here properly and be responsible for your actions, for your vote. So I believe that over the next month, someone likes us, or we make us from the present congregation, and I'm sorry, random people, because there are 30-40 professional deputies here, you know. Now look at the Supreme Council website and see how many people are passing bills, how many people are reporting bills on committees, how many are working. Well, there's a part here. And another 20 to 30 people outside the House. And these deputies don't need to be offended, you can see who's working. But 30 or 40 deputies cannot work for the entire Ukrainian Parliament. That's why we're either turning Parliament into Parliament, or we're going to the early elections. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-24-m0.u110	Thank you. National MP Sidorovich Ruslan. Passes the word to Kishkaru. Please, National Deputy Paul Kishkar.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-24-m0.u111	I'm Mr. Mikoli until he leaves, and I'll say I'm against the election. Because these are times of war, after all. And we need to teach our deputies to be present. Because from your faction, I don't see the full lines here either. And pay attention to your friends and your deputies. And ensure their presence here in the workplace. Now, let's talk about the questions that we want to raise. First. I thank my brothers and greet them with the anniversary of the design of the Donbas battalion, which is the foundation and actually started a volunteer movement in Ukraine. I think there's going to be a short period of time and Ukrainian historians, and Ukrainian scientists are going to give up a unique phenomenon like volunteerism in Ukraine. Many works will be written and many dissertations will be protected. And these two unique movements will be supported by the State by providing them with normative assistance and financial assistance for their formation and development. The second question. It's about saving mines, supporting the mining industry. It seems that the ministry, like the entire Cabinet of Ministers, has not developed any energy strategy, because the coal sector cannot be cut off, separate from the energy issues of countries. It is very surprising that there is no such strategy at present in the state, and so it is being considered that coal mines can be privatized or shut down, that in times of war and in times of energy collapse, it is actually difficult to understand Ukraine's only energy system. Today, even what we're talking about involving a Chinese investor, such as Volinsky, the Lvivski-Wollin swimming pool, is not considered a strategy point. So the logic is, well, maybe, well, we close, well, we build the tenth of Novovolinsky. I mean, it's not clear that we end up building, selling, privatizing or closing. There is no strategy in these actions either in the Ministry or in the Cabinet. The third, perhaps most important, is how to take the first and most important step in overcoming corruption. In my mind, this would make it open to local self-government, state-owned enterprises, utilities. I propose, at the national level, by adopting the relevant law, the obligation to reflect on-line expenditure of these bodies. It's very simple from a technical point of view, it's hardly worth anything, because it's going to be either State or commercial banks.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-24-m0.u112	Ten seconds, please finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-24-m0.u113	It's not worth anything. So start and you'll see corruption itself fall away. Where there is no stealing, it is technically impossible to steal from a person who has a corrupt attitude and a corrupt mind.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-24-m0.u114	Thank you. National MP Dmitry Kolesnikov.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-24-m0.u115	Respectable Ukrainian citizens, respected Oksan Ivanovna, respected colleagues! Today I would like to raise a very important question for my hometown, for the city of Krivo Rog. At present, a long, more than 130 years in a row, intensive development of the birthplace of the Krivorozian Iron Basin has led to a violation of geomechanical equilibrium of breeds and the earth's surface. In the development of these sites, this has been the cause of education in the area of the technogenetic hazard zone. At the initiative of the town of Krivo Rog, which was also supported by the regional public administration, I would say. In 2013, the concept of the State programme for research into the state of the technogeneous part of the Earth's crust of the Krivorozian Iron Basin was adopted. A draft programme was developed, which was agreed twice in 2013 and 2014 by all concerned ministries and departments. Regrettably, due to the constant changes in the organization of the executive branch, the central authorities of the executive branch have not yet adopted a draft decree approving the State programme for the study of the situation of the Krivorozian Iron Basin. In addition, a separate article was introduced into the 2014 State budget to finance this issue. Currently, respected colleagues, the situation is exacerbated and marked by increased seismic activity in the Krivorozsky Iron Basin. From 2000 to today, there have been 6 earthquakes with magnitude fluctuations from 2.5 to 3 points. And you know that in 2010 the city of Curve Horn was the world's worst and biggest karst failure. More than 16 hectares [16 ha] of land were demolished, more than 80 million tons. The absence of a public programme and adequate funding for a study of the state of the Crimean Basin Earthbed may lead to irreversible consequences, a technological accident. With regard to the above, on the basis of the requirements of article 15 of the Law on the Status of the People's Deputy, please consider my request to the Cabinet of Ministers to provide me with information on the processing by the Cabinet of Ministers of the programme, which is already ready. That's why. This programme is supported by funding.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-24-m0.u116	Ten seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-24-m0.u117	Thank you!
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-24-m0.u118	Thank you! National MP Ivan Krulko.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-24-m0.u119	Ivan Krulko, "The Fatherland" faction. Madam Chairman, distinguished colleagues, Ukrainian voters! I would like to raise one very important topic, a bill registered by the Fatherland faction this week under number 2698 on the restoration of the full amount of pension insurance for working pensioners. I have a long way to retirement, so I can talk about it and it doesn't apply to me personally. But this is true of many millions of Ukrainian citizens who have earned a pension in their lifetime and not from a good life have gone to work somewhere else, but to survive, they can pay for these non-renewable municipal tariffs, have the opportunity to provide for their families in any way, and simply survive. Thus, in violation of the Constitution of Ukraine, a unique thing has happened in violation of international practice in Ukraine: the actual 15 - percent pension tax for those who have retired and have yet to find employment. To convince the Fatherland faction, this unconstitutional norm must be repealed, and those pensioners who have earned a pension should receive it as provided for in the current Ukrainian legislation, and primarily according to the Constitution, in full volume, not once, when Ukraine earns the money that we have heard from the Government today, but now that people need it and are entitled to it. We believe that this law is urgent, taking into account the pace of inflation, taking into account the complex socio-economic situation, and especially the tariffs that Ukrainian citizens will be paying for utility services this month. So the only fair way out of this situation is, on the one hand, the restoration of justice and the abolition of the actual taxation of pensions, and on the other hand, the indexation of wages and pensions, taking into account the realities of inflation that are today in the Ukrainian state. This is the European approach, and this is the sign that if adopted, similar decisions will be shown by Ukraine as a country that keeps its international obligations, as well as by its obligations to its own Ukrainian people. Thank you. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-24-m0.u120	Thank you. I invite you to the floor of the national MP Borislav Rosenblatt.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-24-m0.u121	Dear Chairman, dear colleagues, I would like to raise today's tariffs for utilities in our country. You know, today there are a lot of different references to government and everyone else about the cost of tariffs, that they're not justified, that they're out-of-date today. And I'll tell you frankly, what difference does it make how much these tariffs cost today if people don't have money to pay for them? And as of today, there is a question of subsidies, and I have another question. In fact, today's subsidies, how are they distributed? What is the mechanism for distributing them in the country today? Why does this money not come back today and not go to people’s aid? Why don't they come, these subsidies, and they're on their way and they're not paying this money to see how much this tariff is actually worth today? The other question is that some government statements have already been made today that subsidies will not be sufficient for the entire year. The 24 billion dollars that our country needs today that go to these subsidies is not worth it today instead of issuing subsidies and always fighting the root problem that's going to come, and making it so that we can send this money to create jobs to make the houses warm, to make the roof repairs, to do everything we can to fill the budget and make it possible for people to be able to pay them. Today we're talking about investment going to the country, yes, this week we voted for 200 million euros in Germany for the restoration of Donbas. Today, the question is that a second Memorandum of 500 million euros is signed with Germany today in order to warm houses. There are a lot of different programs going on today, why aren't they working? Because people can't take credit today, come to the bank, and under 30 percent of them can't take credit today to keep their houses warm. My speech, I want to address the government in order to really understand today that in order to be able to fight a gas attack by an aggressor, we have to solve the issue once and for all that we don't have to consume that much gas. Then all our troubles and problems in the country will end. Once again, I ask you to note that today we must do everything we can to warm up our homes. In order to be able to create jobs and then there will be no question of whether the cost of our services or the subsidy is allocated, this money has to work for the real economy, not for some shadow scheme again. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-24-m0.u122	Thank you. National Deputy Alexei Lensky, may I have a word with you? Excuse me, National Deputy Victor Halasyuk. Please give me your word.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-24-m0.u123	Victor Halasyuk, Radical Party. Dear Chairman, distinguished national MPs, distinguished people of Ukraine! I have addressed the Minister of Economy and the President, and today I want to address the entire Ukrainian people, and above all, the owners of the Ukrainian trade networks and shops. I'm asking you, and I'm calling on you to get stamps on the shelves of Ukrainian production. Because when you and I go to a lot of shops, we see small Russian flags, we mark the aggressor's crane products, but that doesn't allow us to support Ukrainian manufacturers and industries. Because in order to support and protect our own jobs, we have to buy Ukrainian. To that end, we need to understand what kind of produce is produced in Ukraine. That's why I'm asking you to secure this as part of the volunteer movement. I'm going to the Ministry of Economics. Because even 3 percent will allow the purchase of Ukrainian products to increase, it will save tens and hundreds of thousands of jobs with you fellow citizens in Ukraine. Today both business and authorities have to do everything they can to save jobs in order to preserve the well-being of the population in the extreme conditions that exist. I want to go to the Ministry of Economics, stress that the time has come very openly and very professionally to set priorities for economic policy. The Radical Party insists that such priorities are primarily jobs, overcoming the mass unemployment that has been created in Ukraine today. It's the involvement of investments, it's creating conditions that today's capital doesn't run away from Ukraine, it's coming, like we're already doing in some areas, including the woodworking sector. It's creating conditions that are powerful in order to increase exports of Ukrainian goods abroad, because that's going to make a monetary profit, that's going to enable people to get a decent salary, that's going to fill up the Pension Fund. This will allow you to pay normal taxes. We have to live on our taxes, not on foreign loans, as is happening today. That is why we insist on changing our economic course. Third. I would like to stress that we need to create an anti-crisis economic headquarters immediately. Once again, I am addressing the Cabinet of Ministers, organizing a fruitful dialogue between the Ministry of Economics, our professional Committee of Industrial Policy and Entrepreneurship and the largest associations of Ukrainian producers, so that we can have a normal operational meeting every week and solve the problems of entrepreneurs and industrialists. On my part, I would like to stress, as head of the Committee on Prompolitics and Entrepreneurship and as deputy leader of the Radical Party, that we will soon adopt those key bills that will allow and attract large-scale investment and take an important step towards overcoming unemployment in Ukraine. This is the State Private Partnership Act, this is the Industrial Parks Act, this is the Export Credit Agency Act. That's what's gonna happen.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-24-m0.u124	Ten seconds, please finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-24-m0.u125	that would allow the Ukrainian economy to warm up, not freeze it as it is today because of the policy of the economic bloc of the government and the National Bank. Let's change the direction of economic policy in Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-24-m0.u126	Thank you. People's Deputies. None. National MP Yuri Shapovalov. It's gone, it's gone. I'm sorry. Please, Yuri Shapovalov.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-24-m0.u127	Yuri Shapovalov 146th district of Kremenchuk Dear Chairman! Dear National Deputies! Dear voters! I would like to ask you today about the complete inaction of the Ukrainian authorities in protecting the rights of military personnel and to inform you of the difficult situation that today is with the military side of the Cremencucci Cremencún. Today, the fifth battalion tactical group of high - mobile military forces, which is to be formed in the city of Cremenchuk, needs immediate assistance. For some reason, the conditions for serving in the woods, tents, Syrians, food shortages, and normal living conditions are now under the influence of Zitomir. A large part of the special composition of this battalion of tactical groups is the people of Kremenczuk, who voluntarily went to protect Ukraine at the call of the heart. One of their main arguments was that the military will be deployed in Kremenchuc, but another city will not be protected in the event of an attack. The Kremenchuck city authorities and the management of industrial enterprises are ready to contribute and create conditions for our soldiers in the event of a battalion of tactical groups in Kremenchuca. It is indignant that our military has been in Zitomirsk for two months now, where their military unit has not yet been officially established. Within a month they will go to the ATO zone and have nowhere to go. I will note that 70 percent of the military personnel are volunteers who are willing to protect our country until the last, and they have no support from that state. But they will be torn apart if they are not provided with normal conditions for military service, and immediately, I stress, they are not immediately transferred to the city of Kremenchuk. I have repeatedly addressed the Minister of Defence, the Chief of General Staff, the commander-in-chief of the Ukrainian Armed Forces, with regard to the creation of the proper conditions for carrying out military service, military service and the urgent need to resolve their relocation in the city of Kremenchuk, and have not yet received any response. My calls have been ignored for two months, and the requests for a meeting have been repeated. All I see is the irresponsibility, the terrible work of defense, the ministry, the commander-in-chief in relation to our defenders. Taking into account what I have just said, I appeal to the Defence Minister to intervene immediately in the situation to ensure that the above - mentioned military formation is deployed in the territory of the city of Cremenchuk. Please consider my statement as a question of parliament. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-24-m0.u128	Thank you. National MP Kuprienko.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-24-m0.u129	Oleg Kuprienko, Oleg Laska Radical Party. The people of Ukraine, all who look at us and listen to us, because there are virtually no national deputies in the hall, except for a few national deputies who are responsible for their official duties, who understand their responsibility when they have agreed to work in the Supreme Council and actually work. [[th m in s a l i]] So, the distinguished Ukrainian people, look who's working, and who's in the election gets the parliamentary mandates, giving you the money, and then doing it, probably outside the session room, using the parliamentary immunity, the parliamentary mandates. Yesterday was the anniversary of the formation of the Thirteenth Battalion of Chernigs. And I welcome from this high rostrum all the fighters of the Chernigs battalion, which, under the command of our Party Brother Miron's Sergy, protects the eastern borders of our Fatherland by risking our lives and giving our lives for us to live, for us to work, and for us to build a bright future for our children. As we people’s deputies specifically build, we see an unarmed eye. The Radical Party of Oleg Láška voted, called for the vote, held the national MPs in hand, led them to their seats, to vote in favour of the Civil Service Act yesterday. Why, then, did such a great opposition cause this law in the hall? Why did many national deputies leave the hall so as not to vote? Not so that their consulting assistants will not lose the status of a government official, but that this law provides for competitive selection and appointment of numerous posts related to the allocation of budgetary resources, not on party quotas, but on a competitive basis and really experts. That's why there was a resistance to voting for this law. But we won this resistance. And the law in the first reading was adopted, and I hope that we will work it out and that the second reading will be all right. Returning to the organization of the work of the Supreme Council, I pay attention, honourable voters, to the fact that the fish is still corrupting from the head. And today, there is no Supreme Council leadership at this session that doesn't hear our speeches, which doesn't hear our cry for help, that you organize the work of the Supreme Council so that we can adopt laws so that we can have these laws before the Supreme Council, not in half an hour.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-24-m0.u130	Ten seconds, please complete.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-24-m0.u131	The Supreme Council Hall, and as required by the Rules: in 7 days. So you can read, prepare, and not vote in the dark for texts you can't sometimes see. And that leads to what these texts by. Someone's writing down corruption points that allow money to be stolen from the budget. [[microphone disabled]] Yeah, that's not gonna happen! Oleg Lachka Radical Party. Work for Ukraine, for the people of Ukraine. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-24-m0.u132	Thank you. Although, I don't think you're quite right. Because perhaps if there were no Supreme Council leadership, there would be no Supreme Council meeting. But I completely agree with all of your statements. Sphenov's national MP is missing. National deputy Rybak is missing. Is that right? Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-24-m0.u133	Ivan Ribak, 202 constituency, Cherniewec district. Dear colleagues! What a Friday together we hear from those who have remained to work here, in Parliament, before the end of our working day. Yet, the Ode needs to be sung, not by us, but by the Ukrainian people, who tolerate our parliamentary work. And how much longer he's going to put up with this kind of work, I think each one of us is probably counting maybe months, maybe even days. But I would like to make my presentation today a priority. The problems are that a year ago, the Eighth Battalion of Territorial Defence was created in the Chernobyl area, which was directed to protect the border, particularly in the Black Sea in the Hersonian and Zaporozhye areas. It's been a year. People are going to demobilize. Today they do not know how they have spent a year and what they will continue to be with them. They can't get help because they haven't been in the immediate area of conducting an anti-terror operation, they can't get evidence that they're participants in an ATO. They have absolutely no benefits. No one can help them today. And so far a parliamentary request has been sent to the Ministry of Defense asking for clarification. And the second question that comes directly from the Chernivite region from which I was choosing, 202 constituency, is the question of the road T-2601 CPT "Russia" on the border of the Chernivec region and Romania to the city of Chernivts. The problem is serious enough. During 2008, floods and floods in 2010, road cover was completely destroyed. To date, there have been so many tender procedures for the restoration of these jobs, but to this day, those pits where children can drown when they go to school are not exaggerated by half a metre of pits. This is a serious problem for the tourist region. Yes, I agree that you can't scatter and make roads of consumption everywhere, you really need to focus on more serious problems. But the government today, first of all, should think about restoring the justice that must be. People have been, they've been going to Maidan, people are taking the most part in the anti-terror operation today, people are helping the army today, and the state today is supposed to help people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-24-m0.u134	Thank you. National Deputy Igor Lucenko. None. National MP Sporish. None. And the People's Deputy Sobolev. There's a dispute. Why don't you? Please. Excuse me, People's Deputy Sporish.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-24-m0.u135	Ivan Sporish, 15th District, Winnitzkin. I think our time is up. But at the same time, after these few seconds, a few minutes, maybe who's left, wants to say something. In particular, well, I'd like to go back to Tomenko's words again, but, at the same time, it seems to me that each one of us should be disciplined at his job, at his job. And I support everyone who spoke today, I think I just don't support Tomenka in that the election isn't necessary today, it's great, I want to support my self-help colleague, they actually said that. The second thing I was going to say. This, we're in Ukraine today, I'd like to address all the Ukrainian accountants, not only my area of Winnick, not only there, but I want to say one thing that we know perfectly well that now our accountants and in relation to these tax laws that we're adopting, which they should put up a monument, because today, as much as they have a burden, that I think no person today has. You can even tell the manager in any organization, you'd better work as an accountant. So, ladies and gentlemen, I'd like to do one thing today, both to our government, and to our tax Ukraine, let's do everything we can to make it a little easier for the accountants. Let's make sure they don't do the same paper there five times and pass it on. I'd really like us to do one thing in this direction with accountants, so we don't have to count the accountants in our work, because that's the law we have today. I think it's us together, both the MPs, and the taxpayers, and everyone should pay attention to that. Why? Because it's hard enough and hard enough. And I think it's hard for miners, too. But I think it's better today to overload 10 tons of rocks to work as chief accountant. Thank you very much, and I want someone else to say a few words.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-24-m0.u136	Thank you very much. People's deputy Golovko.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-24-m0.u137	Mikhailo Golovko, the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union, 164 constituency, Ternopolishte. Well, in principle, there's no one to talk to, but there's only one left. And to be honest, the voters are calling me and they're in this, you know, shock. Some there may also drink drops. It’s just that people can’t imagine why there are so many disrespects for the MPs, and they are so presumptuous of their responsibilities that they don’t go to work, they’ve run away from work, and we have to report in an empty room right now. This is about the same thing as the government treats MPs, a prime minister who refuses to report on his work and who does not answer questions runs away, and so does the electorate. Clearly, no one will tolerate this for a long time. What I understand is that this Parliament is destined for temporary elections, because the Ukrainians cannot withstand such abuse. They can't stand the same poor life they're being led to by the reforms that we're hearing about, but we see that only the increase in tariffs, we see a sharp fall in the incomes of ordinary Ukrainians. We feel that it has now become difficult for Ukrainians to live because they see how the government does not hear them. There are no reforms, there is a complete agreement with the oligarchs. And we can see that this is going to compensate for the same payments of 1.8 billion children Ahmetov to the ATO zone, so called where the terrorists have been compensated. We see 10 billion dollars of cash in the ATO for gas, we understand that there are clear arrangements, based on a simple Ukrainian, we have to cancel the debts of so-called oligarchs and terrorists, and it's clear that such things are not acceptable. We must now take decisive steps with you, there is no reform of tax legislation, we see the only desire -- it is priceless to sell out more strategic objects. This week they wanted to put in order a daily law on the privatization of strategic state-owned enterprises that have not yet been stolen for nothing. They deliberately dropped their money to buy and pillage the Ukrainian state for a penny, so of course they won't support the Ukrainian people and they won't tolerate it. We demand that all these corruption - related scandals be investigated immediately, which is really a real pain in the ass in Ukraine today. We can see that such Yatzenuk claims that corruption has been overcome at the top, but only remained in rural heads about, and remained among the medics and teachers, well that's blasphemy. So we understood that all these things, they're unacceptable, our task is to get the guilty people involved in corruption as quickly as possible, to resign this government, which is unable to get Ukraine out of a crisis that is unable to get Ukraine out of the deep crisis that our country is in right now. We see that Jacinyuk is a populist who betrayed the idea of Maidan, who has arranged with the oligarchs and wants to put the burden on the common people. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-24-m0.u138	Thank you so much! National MP Yegor Sobolev, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-24-m0.u139	This week, journalists, civil society, individual government officials reached a very important decision: Mr. Sakal, Head of the entire investigation of the Ministry of Internal Affairs, resigned. This happened after his subordinates initiated searches of those fighting for the cleansing of power, including the Ministry of Internal Affairs, and this is a very good result. I call upon all corrupters, bribes, especially high - ranking workers to push us more, because this is how you approach your end. I wanted to inform the electorate that, along with the fellow thinkers in this Parliament, we have registered a law that allows us to have a new moment of illustration, a law that we had dreamed of adopting in the past Parliament, but he refused to do so. Under this new law on the cleansing of power, the illustration will apply to all -- both those in office and those in office. Along with colleagues from other parties, we believe that especially the Law on the Cleansing of Power should be one for all and candidates for local MPs, candidates for the People's Deputies, and candidates for the President's office should be presented. The second idea of this law is to impose criminal responsibility for sabotage of the cleansing of power. You know, it's the biggest trouble that we need to clean up her power with our hands. No one can sign the release order except for the high-ranking man himself. And he often does not simply cleanse the authority, but covers those people, as it was and, unfortunately, is still in most law enforcement agencies. Sadly, the President of Ukraine allows similar actions, setting a very bad example for other high - ranking people. So we suggest that we introduce criminal responsibility for the sabotage of the illustration, and together with you journalists, together with all conscious parliamentarians, civil servants, and the main citizens, we will definitely clean up this state and make it effective.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-24-m0.u140	Thank you. That was the last performance in "The Miscellaneous." Before we conclude our meeting, I want to make an announcement. Let me remind you that the following week the national deputies are working with the electorate, and the ceremony of the Supreme Council of Ukraine will take place on Friday, May 8, 12 o’clock.
