ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-22-m0.u1	Good morning, fellow countrymen! We can start a meeting, a very important work week, there are a number of big issues that we need to consider. On a daily basis today, we have a question about the beginning of the constitutional process in the context of the reform of the judicial system. You know, the Constitutional Commission made the right decisions, these decisions were sent to the Venice Commission, they got the right conclusion, they sent the President and the President in accordance with the Constitution to the Ukrainian Parliament. Today we have to consider it, make the relevant decisions, send it to the Constitutional Court, and then after the return, the constitutional process itself will continue. I think there is no doubt that the system of judiciality in Ukraine needs to be changed and restored, and most importantly, it has to perform its most important function. The next question is the issue of the 2016 State Budget and the related bills. I want to emphasize that it is extremely important that we enter the new year with the budget, although I would like to emphasize once again that you and I are in enough extreme conditions in extremely tight terms. In particular, I would like to point out that the commission or the working group that I created is working on improving the document and bringing it to a state that could be acceptable for a final vote. I would also like to inform everyone that in the work of the working group we have managed to find the right solutions, to stand firm on decentralization, on a simplified business system. There are still a number of important tasks to be done. Including, we've agreed to reduce the only social contribution that can mark a positive enough to get out of the pay shadow. I want to emphasize that we all realize today that the budget we have is probably more tactical than strategic. So in adopting a tactical budget, we have to continue to work on it to give the Ukrainians and the country a clear answer, how we will live in 2016, what parameters, what tasks are facing the authorities, what spheres will be reformed and how. In particular, both education and health care, and many other things that are of vital importance. So again, I call for responsible compromise, to support these initiatives, provided that we have in January, at most in February, to work on every article of expenditure, every direction that is subject to reform, in order to make final decisions. Now, dear fellows, please prepare for your registration. We're starting our work. I'd like you to turn on the "Council" system for registration. And I want to remind you that today we have 30 minutes to speak from the MP factions and groups of the Ukrainian Parliament. Please be prepared for registration, dear colleagues. [[10:04:06]] 321 Ukrainian national deputies registered in the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Dear colleagues! I declare the morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine open. Traditionally, I'd like to welcome our colleague Dennis Zenzersky on his birthday. Let's say hello to Dennis Viktorovich on his birthday! [[Applause]] Good and healthy. And, Your Honor, please prepare for the registration, for the recording. According to the Rules 30 minutes, 30 minutes from the MP factions and groups. Please prepare to record. We're doing a recording, please. Please, Your Honor, the People's Will Group, Vladimir Mikhailovich Litwin.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-22-m0.u2	Dear Head, distinguished national MPs! In the Supreme Council of Ukraine there is a bill to protect animals from cruel treatment. I think if we are to read what is proposed by the Cabinet of Ministers in the form of the Tax Code, in the form of the 2016 State Budget, we must first adopt the Law on the Protection of People from Cruel Treatment of People, including Us and You, Honorary Fellows! Because what is proposed is causing total destruction, first of all, of social infrastructure, especially in rural areas, leads to total poverty. Today, people do not have the resources to survive. And at the same time, we hear here, including in the session room, the joy of what is called reforms. It's equivalent to, uh, honorary colleagues to enjoy the flowers on the graves. People are trying, in a cruel, violent way, to drive into the European future, as they were driven into the Communist tomorrow. And in principle, they act in the same way as Bolshevik, trying to make people happy. This reminds me of a famous story in the form of an anecdotes of Soviet times when you ask: Are you saying that we are moving in seven steps toward communism, and why do we lack the most elemental, including meat? The answer was that we follow in seven steps, and the cattle do not catch up with us. Thus, our people are viewed as animals that can be counted off. See what is being done in the education system that is being done in the health system. The health - care system was destroyed irrevocably. Now we have begun to destroy the education system. Teachers and schools cannot survive. Look, it's now compulsory to remove from funding schools where 25 or less children are in order for communities not to express their position. I'm not talking about other things anymore. Or do you tell your respectable colleagues to answer to parents who support family - style homes? They were removed from the gas allowance and forced to form subsidies. But they live with their children in the service facilities, the grant is impossible to form, and they have to die. So I suggest, fellow Members, let's say before we make budget decisions, let's say that we are more concerned about the proportion of 45 million Ukrainians or the share of our virtuous government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-22-m0.u3	The opposition block is Deputy Boyko.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-22-m0.u4	Dear Mr. Head, distinguished national MPs! A few days later, the Minsk Accords ended, which contributed to the ceasefire and the preservation of thousands of lives. However, in spite of the calls of the world’s leading nations and the European Union, nothing has been done in a year to implement the agreements and finally resolve the conflict in Donbassa, the return of uncontrolled territories to Ukraine. Now, about the budget project and tax reform. We think that in terms of a 15 percent drop in GDP, the main task is to create economic incentives for growth. You have to lower taxes and reduce the tax base so that businesses don't close down, you have to develop the real sector of the economy, small and medium-sized business is a world experience. And Ukrainian reformers came up with their know-how to fight the crisis by raising taxes and reducing social programs. In lexicon, heads of government and ministers have no mention of jobs for a year. Budget and tax reform should not make people's lives worse, but the budget once again does not provide funding for pension indexation and social benefits. And we insist that people are entitled to 80 percent inflation indexation in 2 years and a multiple increase in utility prices. Moreover, the draft budget lists social benefits that will only be paid if there is money in the budget, which is risky. Retirement taxes are maintained, and a number of unrealized additional financial liabilities are transferred to local budgets, and real health and education costs are reduced. The government has to stop blocking holes in the Western loan budget and start investing money in real-economy programs. Planning with creditors is a matter of years. The public should know the terms of these loans. It is necessary to stop the perverse practice of amending tax legislation each year, which is burdened by Ukrainian taxpayers. We call for an immediate return to the issues of preserving peace, settling the situation in Donbassa and pursuing economic security in the country. Thank you for your attention!
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-22-m0.u5	From the Self-Help faction, Egor Sobolev, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-22-m0.u6	You know, there are now hundreds of people around Parliament who have gone half a thousand miles to come up with a very simple idea: in Bloody Rose, you can't cover forgeries. These people are standing there for the second month, the second month calmly, peacefully, in Europe, they don't agree on the streets that Yuri Wilkul, the symbol of Yanukovitch's people, the symbol of Janukovic's comrades, the symbol of "the aunts," the symbol of falsification to be chosen by the mayor because of the heroic victory in the Horn of Curve hospitals. During this time, neither Parliament nor the President nor other important authorities of the state have proved unable to help people. What choice do we leave them to make? People against it. The same people who came to us today stopped "Russian Spring" a year and a half ago, and they went out on the street of their famous city and said, "Bloody Rig is Ukraine." And they want to see a successful European civilised Ukraine. What's the other way out, individual terror? Who are they after? Who in the State Are Wicked Today? Hendowski, who already greeted Yuri Villkull more than Putin greeted Yanukovich? Who's covering for this Hendowski? Who, in spite of their constitutional obligations, does not present new candidates for the new Election Centre in spite of all the promises made by Parliament and the people? Who is at peace with this? Colleagues, two weeks ago, you and I prepared a very European law on the appointment of consecutive elections in Bloody Rose. This is a civilized way out of this situation, a peaceful way out of this situation. The Self-Help faction is requesting immediate, right now putting this law to a vote and voting for it. The Self-Help faction will not vote for another decision until this civilized solution is found for the Horn of Curves, for the people who came here to ask for justice. The Self-Help faction is ready to continue working on the preparation of a quality law on the spending of taxpayers' money next year, the Budget Act 2016. But here we are: (a) we have to open up all planned expenses to the last payment, not to vote for the figures blind and (b) most importantly, to resolve the key issue immediately: the protection of democracy. If people steal their right to delegate and take power, everything else.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-22-m0.u7	Thank you. The Fatherland faction, Julia Timoshenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-22-m0.u8	Good afternoon, everyone! I just walked into this Hall of our Supreme Council and looked at how everything was calm and large. At least half, and rather, two thirds of the seats in this room are not currently occupied by deputies, they're just not in the hall. There are more important issues than the 2016 review of the country's development strategy, which is budget and tax legislation, which is the basis for raising or destroying the economy of the state. In fact, a peaceful swamp that gives the Ukrainians no hope. But outside this Supreme Council, the country is roaring. Outside the government walls, the country's roaring. Get out of the street, look, we've got scientists on the streets! Enlighteners on the streets, agriculture, law enforcement. Name at least one category -- small and medium-sized business on the street -- name at least one category that can take this policy today. I just think we've reached a certain limit. Because the people we have are very moral, who are responsible, they put up with two years after the revolution, while they had a little bit of savings at home, or on banks that have already fallen along with their savings, they go out in 2016 without a penny of money, and without the hope that they will be heard in government or in parliament. I would also like to tell you that the country is shocked because twice as many people have received payments for heat and rarely, who are subsidies, and they are dollars. Our regional structures, our local self-government. The Deputy Minister for Regional Development comes to the profile committee and says that this budget is unacceptable because decentralization has been replaced by full centralization. Indexes in the budget zero, inflation at 45-50 percent what we do. Stop, don't let the Supreme Council, the adventures of the government that are ruining the country move on. Today, every budget position is practically a killer for the country and for the people. And that's why I call: no short-term procedures, no storming, no eye-closing on the obvious, horrible things that are in this budget, where there's already a turn for children with disabilities, to ATO participants who take away everything that is, to orphans, to single mothers. As long as it is possible to continue or protect people, no one needs a government like that or a parliament.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-22-m0.u9	"Rebirth Party," Bodnar, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-22-m0.u10	Dear colleagues! Dear citizens of Ukraine! Ukraine can endure various stages of life, it can endure the various coalitions that are represented here today, despite all the experiments they are conducting, it can't stand, Ukraine, just anarchy. Anarchy begins with government inactivity, coalition inactivity. Because we see that, as the country prepares for the New Year’s, the adoption of the budget, there is no one anywhere in the world that prepares and never goes anywhere like that in Ukraine. We see absolute incompetence. Six months ago we said that there was a problem: We need to prepare the Tax Code urgently. No one did anything about it, we saw what a disgraceful tax code the government had introduced and what came out of it. We expect that, even if now, in the preparation of the budget, there will be at least a reduction in tax and social burden on the wage fund, and this will enable us to get wages out of the shadows, even though it may be possible for the economy to develop. We are pleased that we have managed to maintain a simplified financial system, a simplified system of taxation for simplifyers. We insisted, and, thank God, this position began to be taken into account. We stand in favour of the only fixed tax left for agrarians, that's the only way for peasants to survive today, you don't have to cut that chicken that carries the last golden eggs today. We are talking about the need for budgeting to take into account, first of all, the opinion of the communities. There is a desire for the government to re-budget a single tax redistribution and leave, and take almost 30 percent into the state budget, 25 per cent into the district budget. Question: this is a tax for the city's communities, this is a tax that is local and we demand that no one licks this tax, that these taxes remain in place for the community to manage itself, and not some uncle from Kiev from Minfin would point to where to spend the money to the local communities. The next questions are the issue of financing PTUs and today, vocational schools. You'll see how the government has approached these educational programs. We see that we've come to a holy point, even in the 1-4th grade kids trying to clean up the budget funding for free food. We demand that such questions be taken into account. We've written hundreds of these proposals that will provide social issues for low-income families, raise social standards, make it possible for local communities to have their finances and manage themselves, not wait for Kiev and not run around Kiev with their hands stretched out. So we see that there are positive changes, and we demand that these three days work as effectively as possible so that the country enters into the new year with a budget, socially oriented and economic recovery-oriented. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-22-m0.u11	Thank you. From Peter Prashenko's Block, Yuri Vitaliyovich Lucenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-22-m0.u12	Dear Mr. Head, honourable national MPs, allow me to welcome all of you and the entire Ukrainian people with the fact that our work together, and the legislative and executive branch of power, has allowed Ukraine to have the prospect of a visa-free regime. I think it's a very important question. It's not about passport seals, it's about the civilisation breakup with the "Russian peace," where 350 years ago we forced Ukraine and from where we finally joined forces, the price of heroic acts on the Maidan and now on the eastern front we're returning to our European home. Dear colleagues, success in this direction also means that together we can make responsible and useful decisions for society. In this regard, of course, the most important issue of the agenda is the adoption of changes to the current Tax Code and the adoption of the budget for the following year. Unfortunately, we must note the unprecedented non-preparation of documents from the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. This is not the first time in the history of the Ukrainian Parliament that the Supreme Council should directly start writing the Tax Act and the Budget Act. And yet, we all understand that one twelfth budget next year is impossible because it cancels a serious pay raise for the Ukrainian Army and a number of other money for the Ukrainian business. So today, a working group of parliament and government has been working all night literally at 7 a.m. to complete their work, and this is done so that a professional committee can already take place today, and after lunch we can accept the changes to the Tax Code in the first reading. We want to say that the basic positions expressed by representatives of all factions are preserved, this is also the preservation of the financial base and self-governance, this is the transitional period for VAT guards in agriculture, this is the preservation of conditions for a small, medium-sized enterprise, this is the introduction of a transparent order of automatic VAT return for exporters, this is the reduction of twice the wage burden and a number of other useful money. I think that today we are simply obliged to accept this document in the first reading to begin polishing it and to arrive with its adoption and adoption by the end of this year. Dear colleagues, also a historical sign, are today’s vote for the start of judicial reform. The Peter Prashenko faction considers this to be Parliament's biggest debt, which has done a lot in the fight against corruption and crime, but.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-22-m0.u13	Please, 30 seconds, finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-22-m0.u14	But without reform of the courts, this work is futile. So we call upon all factions, coalitions and oppositions, today to vote in favour of sending the text of amendments to the Constitution for the full cleansing of the courts through the personal 100 percent review of each judge to the Constitutional Court of Ukraine. If we do that, we can say that the gate to judicial reform is open and we're moving.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-22-m0.u15	Thank you very much. From the Radical Party of Oleg Lazko.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-22-m0.u16	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. Dear citizens of Ukraine, dear colleagues, I want to show you the facts, because the facts are stubborn, which contradict any fiction that the government tells us. Over the last two months both the government and the parliamentary majority have told us that tariff problems have been solved, this problem is not faced by people and everyone is happy and happy. I'll show you how happy people are. One-bedroom apartment in Shrine in a month is 1,549 bracelets for utilities. Two-room apartment, 56 square meters -- 1200 bracelets for utility services, an additional 126 bracelets for water supply, 1,089 for heating the area. In total, it's 56 square meters -- 2 and a half thousand bracelets have to be paid by people. Next. Apartment, 850 bracelets for central heating, 68 square feet. Show me who can pay for this money. Who can pay 2,000 dollars for a two-bedroom apartment, 56 square meters when a man has a thousand and a half pensions at the maximum and/or salary? So why do you cheat people, why do you think you've solved tariff problems when this problem isn't solved?Oh, my God! That's why we, the leaders of the three factions: I, the self-help manager, the head of the Fatherland, signed a bill yesterday on the cost of gas. Naftogaz today reduced the cost of a thousand cubic metres of gas to 5,000 dollars for industrial enterprises. I said, why do citizens have to pay 7,300? We demand that at least people pay, as an industry, 5,000 per thousand cubes. Vladimir Borisovich Groissman, I'm addressing you. The order of the three factions leaders from yesterday for unknown reasons is not registered. And this is the government's order to do the recalculation. I demand that you register this order immediately, give an order, and today consider it in the House of Parliament. And give the government an order to count the cost of gas for the needs of the population, for housing and utilities, so that the price for citizens for gas is not higher than the price for industry. When we have the cost of producing our own gas from 700 dollars per thousand cubes to one and a half thousand dollars per thousand cubes. Why do people have to pay 7,300? I'll tell you why. They're the ones who pay for the corruption, they're the ones who pay for the abuse, they're the ones who charge the pockets! You and I have to stop this looting policy!
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-22-m0.u17	Please, People's Front, Maxim Yuriovich Burbak.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-22-m0.u18	Dear Head, honourable deputies! It ends in the hard year 2015. Joint efforts, often with debates and arguments, but we are gradually pursuing vital reforms. The effectiveness of the reform initiatives of the coalition, the Ukrainian government and the President are constantly receiving the approval of our Western partners. Otherwise, Ukraine would not have received a positive conclusion about the visa-free regime or the free trade zone with the European Union. These important decisions have been the result of our work with you. We have adopted many important and successful decisions that have been proposed by both the President and the Government. In this session room, decisions were taken to ensure the security of our army, the deligarchy of the energy sector, and the reduction of economic dependence on Russia. Establishing new anti-corruption institutions and raising social standards for Ukrainian citizens. But our achievements would be much more tangible and scaled up if we always wanted to act together and constructively. And instead of sensational statements on television, they tried to make decisions in the session hall and in the training committees. Criticism without a constructive discussion of the subject-matter proposals is empty talk. With applause and populist statements, the budget will not be filled and the country will not be built. I realize that someone is driven by ambitions to return to high - ranking government chairs, someone is tempted to restore the gas crust of the oligarchs, and at the same time demagogically play with the electorate. Dear colleagues, we need to understand that people need, not slogans, but concrete actions. I very much hope that not the ratings of my own political power, but the interests of the country will still be more important to the factions of the coalition and the entire parliament. Our main task now is to adopt a budget, which has been developed by the deputies and the government. By the way, it's a coalition government. That is why our responsibility is shared. Because of demagogic claims, false labels have been affixed to tax laws and the draft budget. It was as if a simplified system had been destroyed. No, we stood by the simplified system. I am confident that common sense and responsibility before people and the state will prevail. On the other hand, I would like to remind myself that meeting the requirements of the IMF in the state budget is a guarantee of a third tranche of credit, a guarantee of timely financing of the military, a peaceful passage of the heating season, a timely payment of pensions and salaries, and the fulfilment of other social obligations of the state. By adopting an important decision at this time, it is irresponsible to be guided by the logic of the election campaign and to count the percentages in the next election. Prime Minister Yatzenuk recently stated that he was not interested in personal ratings, and the result of Ukraine is much more important to him. He realizes that the implementation of complex reforms at all times, in all nations, did not add popularity, but someone needs to conduct the state after difficult times. But I urge you to take such responsibility for the future of the State. Ukraine and the whole world are looking at us. So once again, I urge you to continue to work as a single team to ensure that the State feels the positive effect of reforms and integration with the European Union as soon as possible. That should be the priority of the joint team. Parliament.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-22-m0.u19	Please finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-22-m0.u20	We are obliged to adopt the 2016 budget in a timely manner. For this, we have many days left. I urge you to work constructively. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-22-m0.u21	Thank you, Maxim Yuriovich. Dear colleagues, time is running out. We have two Supreme Council rulings with you. 3462 is a draft decree to terminate the mandate of the Ukrainian national deputy Zlata Ogniewicz, who spoke from the Supreme Council’s rostrum about decommissioning. And a statement by Mikolia Martinenko, who is present in this room, about the removal of the powers of deputy of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. We have two further statements by two national deputies. We invited them to the Parliamentary Hall to step out of the rostrum and. [[B in m in s a l in]] So please have a suggestion: These two decrees, according to the national deputy Zlati Ogniewicz and Mikola Martinenko, will be considered in a simplified procedure. Please, colleagues, these two orders are to be considered by a reduced procedure. And these decrees will be reported by Paul Pinzenick, the first deputy to the Supreme Council Committee. Please take your seats and we will vote on these two issues under the reduced procedure. Please, colleagues, there is a proposal for two human resources issues, two questions about the termination of the powers of members of the Supreme Council to consider a reduced procedure. Vote please, colleagues. Please support two short-term decisions. Please be supportive. [[10:35:33]] For 176 Decision taken. Please report to Pavel Vasilovich Pinzenik. Attention, colleagues!
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-22-m0.u22	Dear colleagues, the report will be very brief. Taking advantage of the opportunity, as this is not the first time the issue has been brought before the Supreme Council of Ukraine, I report to the Supreme Council of Ukraine that statements by Ukrainian national deputies: Ogniewicz, Atroshenka, Filatov, Martinenka have come to Parliament regarding the establishment of powers. Ogniewicz is a personal statement. Atrashenko is in connection with the election of the Chernigian City Head. Filatov is the city head of Dnipropetrovska. Martinenko's on a personal request. The Rules Committee considered the above-mentioned applications and made appropriate draft decrees for the termination of the powers of the national deputy: Ogniewitch (registration number 3462), Atroshenka (registration number 3521), Filatova (registration number 3522), Martinenka (registration number 3604). And he's asking to look at these draft rulings in one order or another, according to the committee, in order for them to come. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-22-m0.u23	Thank you. Dear colleagues, we still have orders to suspend the authority of the national deputy Zlata Ogniewicz. She spoke from the rostrum of the Supreme Council of Ukraine and argued on her decision - making. Also in the hall is our colleague, Mikola Martinenko, whom I invite to the floor during the consideration of his decree and also my colleagues Filatov and Atroshenka, we invite perhaps for tomorrow or for a Thursday to speak from the Supreme Council’s rostrum as well. Dear colleagues, your consideration has been brought to your attention! – a decision has been tabled for your consideration, a draft decree to terminate the mandate of the Ukrainian national deputy Zlata Ognievich, according to her statement, and you remember her statement from the Supreme Council of Ukraine. This is a decision I'm putting to the vote. Attention! - regarding the adoption of this decision as a whole. 3462 is a draft decree to terminate the mandate of the Ukrainian national deputy Zlata Ogniewicz. Ready to vote? Dear colleagues, please vote. Dear colleagues, we vote. The decree of Zlata Ogniewitch. [[10:38:35]] For 301 Constitutional majority. Dear colleagues, a draft decree (registration number 3604) has been introduced for your consideration, a draft decree to terminate the mandate of Ukraine's national deputy, Martinenka Mikoli Volodymirovic. For the report, I invite Mikola Volodymyrovich to the rostrum of the Supreme Council of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-22-m0.u24	Dear colleagues! I've written a statement, there's a ruling by the regulatory committee, and I'm asking you to vote on my statement in the session room. I've made this decision because I don't want to allow political destabilization through the resignation of the pro-Western government, the early elections and the rematch. More than $10 million has been spent on a dirty campaign against me, and sooner or later we get to know the names and customers and performers of this company. These games are played by cheap actors, and I want to go to law school as an ordinary citizen without a deputy's mandate to prove my innocence. They won't take the step I'm going to take, they won't put up the MPs, they won't write an application for the heads of the district administration, and they won't go to court with me. As far as my work in Parliament is concerned. From being the head of the committee, I have a sense of duty, and in the meantime we have no dependence, a hundred percent, in the gas sphere, or in the nuclear field. And the reforms we started are irreversible on the European path. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-22-m0.u25	Thank you, Mikola Volodymyrovich, for the performance. Dear colleagues, national MPs! There was a performance by the People's Deputy Mikoli Volodymyrovich Martinenka. Dear colleagues! There is a proposal to vote on a draft decree to terminate the mandate of Ukrainian national deputy Martinenko Mikoli Volodymyrovich. Registration number 3604, is a proposal to take as a basis a draft decision as a whole. Dear colleagues! Please, colleagues, please take your seats, 3604 as a basis, and in general, please vote, please support. Vote. [[10:41:53]] For 225 [[B in m in s a l in]] Dear fellow national MPs. Dear colleagues! A. I am. This does not require a decision to be included in the agenda. I'm putting the draft ruling to the vote again. Attention! – (3604) on the suspension of the term of office of the Ukrainian national deputy Martinenko Mikoli Volodymyrovich. You've heard a speech by the Ukrainian National MP from the Supreme Council's rostrum, that's his wish, and we need to perform a sufficiently formal function here. Please, Your Honor, we are voting for 3604 as a basis and as a whole. 3604, we vote. [[10:42:54]] For the 220. Dear fellow national MPs, I have a huge request. Attention! Let us approach this issue in an absolutely calm manner. National MP Martinenko from this rostrum asked all of you to support his office. His application to suspend the authority of the Ukrainian national deputy. Please, dear fellows, concentrate again. Attention! Colleagues, I'm asking you to focus. Ready? Ready. Colleagues, ready. My colleagues, once again, stressing that Mikola Volodymyrovich's proposal came out of this rostrum, he wrote an official statement, that's his position. One minute, Mikola Martinenko, please. Attention! Mikola Martinenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-22-m0.u26	Dear colleagues, I've made my decision from the rostrum, I've made my decision. I ask you to respect my decision and vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-22-m0.u27	Thank you. Dear colleagues, you've heard the address of the people's deputy, Martinenko. Please, I ask everyone to take their seats, prepare for the vote and support the statement of the National MP. Vote, Your Honor. Ready? We vote, we vote, we vote. [[10:45:05]] For 228 Decision taken. Thank you, Mikola Volodymyrovich, for your position. That's a brave move. Dear colleagues, we continue our work. A draft Act amending the Constitution of Ukraine has been introduced for your consideration. Dear colleagues, to your consideration, there is a draft Act (registration number 3524) amending the Constitution of Ukraine (justice). [[B in m in s a l in]] The bill was introduced by the President of Ukraine in accordance with article 154 of the Constitution of Ukraine and defined as urgent. According to the requirements of article 1, article 146 of the Rules, the matter is being considered in full discussion. The report is given to the representative of the President of Ukraine at the Supreme Council of Ukraine, Stepan Ivanovich Kubiv. Please, Stepan Ivanovich of Cuba. 10 minutes to report according to the Rules. Next report by the head of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Legal Policy and Justice, Ruslan Petrovic Knazević. Questions and answers to the co-reporter are up to three minutes. Presentations from MPs and groups, national MPs, up to 40 minutes. And then the final word of the reporter and the co-rapporteur is up to three minutes each. [[B in m in s a l in]] Please, Stepan Kubov, Representative of the President of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. [[B in m in s a l in]] Stepan Ivanovich of Cuba, please report. Changes to the Constitution in part of justice. In accordance with the Rules, I would like to stress once again that this is a special procedure for consideration. And today we will be discussing the inclusion in the agenda of this issue and the referral to the Constitutional Court of Ukraine. Please, 10 minutes, Stepan Ivanovich of Cuba. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-22-m0.u28	Dear Mr. Head, honourable fellow members of the national parliament, the important guarantee of the protection of the rights and freedoms of every citizen, the effective fight against corruption, the arrival in Ukraine of investments and the building of a state governed by the rule of law are fair, impartial and impartial courts. The compliance of Ukrainian judges with these requirements requires good quality and thorough changes in current legislation. It should be noted that Ukraine’s permanent development strategy has been approved by the Presidential Decree of Ukraine as the first priority for judicial reform. The proposed judicial reform, in line with the strategy for reforming the judiciary, judiciary and neighbouring legal institutions for 2015, requires changes to the Constitution of Ukraine for 2010. In connection with the above, the President of Ukraine has been brought to the attention of the Supreme Council and has been designated as an immediate draft of the Ukrainian Law amending the Constitution on Justice for number 3524 (since 25.11.2015). It should be noted that the Constitutional Commission, during the drafting of the bill, took into account all the key recommendations of the European Commission for Democracy through law (hereinafter: the Venice Commission), which adopted its final conclusion on the changes in question at the relevant plenary meeting on 23 October 2015. This conclusion states that the latest version of the changes to the Constitution of Ukraine, prepared by the working group of the Constitutional Commission on Justice, is very positive and well prepared and deserves full support. The Constitutional Commission also took into account the proposals made as a result of broad public discussions involving more than 500 experts. Thus, the amendments proposed by the bill fully meet international standards and take into account the relevant conclusions and observations of the Venice Commission. As regards the main provisions of these changes, it should be noted that they involve ensuring the independence of the judiciary, depoliticizing it, raising the professional standards of the judiciary, improving the principles of the administration of justice, ensuring the institution, the capacity of the prosecutor, the lawyer, the system of enforcement of decisions, and so on. First. Yes, with a view to ensuring the independence of the judiciary and its depoliticization, the bill proposes to abolish the judicial institution for the first time and to provide that the judges will hold office on an uninterrupted basis. In addition, it should be noted that the High Council of Justice will consist of 21 members, of whom the 10 will elect a meeting of Ukrainian judges from the number of judges or judges in retirement, two will be appointed by the President of Ukraine. In turn, the Supreme Council, the Ukrainian Bar Association, the All - Ukrainian Conference of Prosecutors, the meeting of representatives of legal institutions and scientific institutions will elect two persons. The High Council of Justice will be appointed as chairman of the Supreme Court. The other one. An increase in requirements and professional standards for the judiciary is proposed by a bill that has been implemented by introducing a competitive principle of assigning a judge to office and increasing the age and professional qualifications of candidates for the post of judge. In addition, the bill limits the grounds for the dismissal and termination of the judge’s authority, and establishes that a violation of the judge’s duty to confirm the origin of his property is the basis for his release. Third. With a view to limiting the immunity of judges to an equal function, it is suggested that, without the consent of the Supreme Council of Justice, a judge may not be detained or held in custody prior to the imposition of an arraignment by a court, except for his detention during or immediately after the commission of a serious or particularly serious crime. The bill also suggests that a judge should not be held responsible for a judicial decision he has passed, except for committing a crime or a disciplinary offence. Four. With regard to the improvement of the principles of judicial procedure, the draft law provides for the right to appeal and the cases defined by law to appeal the court’s decision. In doing so, the establishment by law of exceptional grounds for cassation in cases where such an accusation is really necessary will enable the person to build an effective judicial system that guarantees the person the right to a final and binding judicial decision. Fifth. It should also be noted that with a view to optimizing the system, the bill proposes that the court be established, reorganised and eliminated by law, which will be submitted to the Supreme Council of Ukraine by the President of Ukraine after consulting the Supreme Council of Justice. Position six. As part of ensuring the institutional capacity of the system of enforcement of court decisions, the bill provides that the enforcement of court decisions is monitored. the appropriate court that took him in. Position seven. With regard to ensuring the institutional and capacity of the Public Prosecutor's Office, the bill proposes to remove a number of incompetent prosecutors from the European standard of functions, such as the supervision of the rights and freedoms of the individual and the citizen, the supervision of compliance with the laws of the executive branch, the local self-government body, their officials and officials, and so on. Furthermore, taking into account the numerous European recommendations, including the opinion of the Venice Commission of 15 October 2012, paragraph 14, the joint conclusion of the Venice Commission and the Directorate for Human Rights of the Chief Directorate for Human Rights and the Rule of Law of the Council of Europe of 14 October 2014, paragraphs 14-95, the opinion of the Venice Commission of 27 October 2014, paragraph 46, the previous conclusion of the Venice Commission of 24 July 2015, paragraph 12. Position eight. With a view to institutionalizing the judiciary, a constitutional bill strengthens the activities of the lawyer and establishes that the lawyer alone will represent another person before the court and protect him from criminal charges. Position nine. The draft Law on Amendments to the Constitution of Ukraine (for justice) proposes to establish a constitutional complaint institution and to improve the functioning of the Constitutional Court of Ukraine. The above-mentioned authority is proposed to remove the powers of interpretation of Ukrainian laws, since this function does not belong at all to constitutional courts or other similar institutions. Thus, the adoption of the bill will contribute to the implementation of full-scale judicial reform and the renewal of the judiciary in accordance with social expectations and European standards, the restoration of citizens'confidence in the judiciary, and the proper functioning of the Public Prosecutor's Office, the Bar Association and the system of enforcement of judicial decisions. In view of the above, I would like to support the legislative initiative of the President of Ukraine: to include a bill of the Ukrainian Act amending the Constitution of Ukraine (justice) (number 3524 of 25. 11.15) in the order of the day - to - day third session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the eighth call and to refer it to the Constitutional Court of Ukraine for its conclusion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-22-m0.u29	Thank you, Stepan Ivanovich, for the report. Please, Ruslan Knazevitch, report in five minutes, and then there will be questions for the co-reporter. Please. Please, Ruslan Knazevich.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-22-m0.u30	Good afternoon, dear colleagues and distinguished Mr. Head! According to the Constitution of Ukraine, the right of the legislative initiative to amend the Constitution has two relevant subjects: the President of Ukraine and the corresponding number of national deputies, depending on which sections of the Constitution are being amended. If changes are made to chapters I, III, and XII, more than 300 national deputies, or more than two thirds of the constitutional composition, are granted this right under 155 articles of the Constitution. In this case, it is about making changes to other chapters of the Constitution. And in that. In this connection, the President exercised his right under 154 articles of the Constitution, under which he and more than a third of the national deputies, i.e. more than 150, have the right to initiate such changes accordingly. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that, in accordance with the 159th article of the Constitution, in order for the Supreme Council to come to a review of the changes to the Constitution, it should receive a positive conclusion from the Constitutional Court on the compatibility of the draft amendments to the Constitution in article 157 and 158 of the Constitution of Ukraine, and in this conclusion the Constitutional Court should not make any reservations about what others do. That the content of these changes does not correspond to other articles of the Constitution of Ukraine. In this connection, under the right provided for in article 93 of the Constitution, the President of which is subject to the law of the legislative initiative and in the order of article 154 of the Constitution of Ukraine, the President addressed the Supreme Council with the corresponding draft Law number 3524 of November 25, 2015 and defined it as urgent. The aim of this bill is to improve the constitutional basis of justice for the practical implementation of the rule of law and the right to a fair trial by an independent impartial court. To achieve its goal, the subject of the legislative initiative proposes to amend, more specifically, the entire series of articles of the Constitution of Ukraine, namely: 124th to 129th, 130th, 131th, 147th and 148th, 149th, 151st, 153rd. And add it to the new articles: 129th, part, with one, 130th and one, 131st with one, 131st with two, 148th with one, 149th with one, 151st with one, 151st with two. And make changes to articles 25, 55, 29, 55, 59, 89, 92, 106, 108, 110, 111, 136, 150, 152 and Chapter XV of the "Transitional Regulations" of the Basic Law and delete Chapter VII of the Constitution of Ukraine. According to "The Ends" and "The Transitional Positions" of the bill, it is expected to take effect three months from the day following the day of publication, except for the new edition of part six of article 124 of the Constitution of Ukraine, which takes effect three years from the day following the date of publication of this law. According to part two of article 45 of the Supreme Council Rules, the Legal Policy Committee reached that conclusion. According to article 154, a draft law was introduced by the rightful subject of the legislative initiative in accordance with the provisions of the Constitution. According to the Committee, its adoption does not require a system-wide uniformity of the Constitution at the same time to amend Chapters I, III and XIII of the Constitution of the Basic Law of Ukraine. Thus, it formally corresponds to the procedure for amending the Constitution. A preliminary analysis of the bill makes it possible to believe that it does not have the position that, in the previous conclusions and decisions of the Constitutional Court, has been accepted by the Constitutional Court to restrict the rights and freedoms of a person and a citizen or to eliminate the independence or territorial integrity of Ukraine. According to the committee, the provisions of the bill are fully, clearly and irrefutable, and will allow for a systematic settlement of the relevant social relations at the constitutional level. The bill will not require adoption of proposals and amendments, including drafting and clarification. Given that the preparation was conducted openly with the involvement of the scientific and legal expertise, the decision to refer to the Constitutional Court must be supported by the Supreme Council. Taking into account the provisions of article 146 of the Rules, the Committee recommends that the draft law, submitted by the President of Ukraine as an immediate draft law, be placed in the agenda and sent to the Constitutional Court to obtain a conclusion on compliance with the requirements of articles 157, 158 of the Constitution of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-22-m0.u31	Thank you, Ruslan Petrovich, for the report. Please, five minutes for a co-reporter, please sign up for the co-reporter's question, please. Please, National Deputy Suprunenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-22-m0.u32	Good afternoon, please give the floor to Deputy Levchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-22-m0.u33	Deputy Levchenko, Freedom, 223 District, Kiev. I have a question for both the co-conspirator and the reporter. In fact, any native citizen of Ukraine realizes that the only mechanism to really eliminate corruption in the courts today is to introduce the choice of judges. The very choice of judges can really affect their personnel quality. Everything else is just a transplant of an old, settled deck of cards that won't give anything new, and we saw after Maidan, as if after the release of the judges' heads, we saw that the same people or their closest friends were chosen by new heads of the relevant courts. So I have a question: why are you really so afraid, so you don't want to approach the model that is common in many countries, the choice of judges at the lowest levels? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-22-m0.u34	Thank you. Here I will allow myself to express only my point of view, for on behalf of the subject of the legislative initiative, I am not authorized to speak, since the matter is no longer before him. As for the choice of judges, I must tell you that I absolutely disagree with you that this institution is present in the vast majority of the countries of the world. On the contrary, in the vast majority of countries around the world, there is an institution for the appointment of judges. And so I'll tell you, paradoxically, in different countries, for example, in Canada, the appointment of judges takes place by the minister of justice alone, and no one comes to mind to question the possibility of, let's say, such a procedure in terms of democratic values. As for that institution that you're talking about, it's really in individual countries, but it's at the level of either the peace courts or the local courts. For example, in the United States, in individual states, there is really such an institution at the level of legislation in the states. But could it be, let's say, acceptable to the Ukrainian state, I don't know. I'm just going to tell you as a person who had the opportunity to be, let's say, an observer in such elections, that these are elections that take place on a party basis: there are candidates from a democratic party, and there are candidates from a republican party that run completely.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-22-m0.u35	Finish up, 10 seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-22-m0.u36	Those who carry out full political agitation, there is a real election to be held only by what is chosen by the judges. Whether Ukrainian society is ready to elect judges through political mechanisms, I don't know, it's a question.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-22-m0.u37	Thank you. Romanova, National Deputy, Self-Help.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-22-m0.u38	I give the word to Oleg Berezuku.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-22-m0.u39	Oleg Beresuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-22-m0.u40	Indeed, the Ukrainian society is no longer prepared to tolerate corruption in the courts, rather than to elect political judges, the Ukrainian society sees it. Dear colleagues, we're not doing what we need right now, we're talking about justice, but when we're not ensuring freedom of expression in the country. We're now ignoring all the laws and making the mimicry that says we're in favor of justice. So we repeat to you that we will not now vote in favour of this law, although it is very important to the country until we correct the situation of willfulness in Bloody Rose. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-22-m0.u41	Mikola Tomenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-22-m0.u42	Roman Petrovich, I want to ask you a conceptual question. Now I have a lot of doubts that the whole idea is normal, on Ukrainian soil or it works. See, the Higher Council of Justice, and later the Higher Council of Justice appoints, controls, releases and, if necessary, draws judges to account. Given the fantastic corporateity of the judiciary, I have great doubts that there is a concept that Parliament has no right to approve the judges this morning. In the short term, neither Parliament will be able to take down the inviolability of judges that it will work. Do you think there are great risks of preserving the disgraceful system of justice, if we are all authorized, we will bring all functions to the High Council of Justice and, in the future, to the High Council of Justice?
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-22-m0.u43	Well, if theoretically, of course, we might see how this organ works, if the corresponding changes to the Constitution are accepted. Although the practice of the High Council of Justice, as I see it, is still encouraging because they are working very effectively and quite professionally. While taking this opportunity, Mr. Head, I would like to point out that since we formed the Council of Justice in fact a few months ago, the draft budget, which was still in September and is now effectively translated into the same edition and sent back to Parliament, does not provide the cost of salary for the High Council of Justice for the following year at the sum of 27 million. So we either need to determine what we want to do: either start this reform or save it on the High Council. If there is no funding, there will be no reform. As to whether Parliament should be deprived of, you know, Parliament, unfortunately, does not want to exercise these powers. We can't choose judges for almost a year, we can't release judges. We find it difficult to bring the judge to justice. We don't know what we want. If we were to be a little more constitutionally obedient, perhaps such problems would, for example, be debated, and so it is now absolutely undeniable.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-22-m0.u44	Thank you. Last question, Leo Podlisecki.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-22-m0.u45	Honorable Chairman, Honourable Reporter! Why do we today consider changes to the Constitution regarding changes to justice? Because we all know as a political body, as a parliament, that the judicial system doesn't work. An example of the failure of the judicial system and the poor functioning of the judicial system, involvement is the decision of the courts in the Dnipropetrovsk district regarding the election in Bloody Rose. And in fact, as a political body, we took on responsibility and created a temporary commission of inquiry that offered to resolve the issue -- the appointment of new elections. And that's actually the problem of justice. That's why we're asking both the chairman and you to pause this bill until a bill is put to the vote for re-election in Bloody Rose. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-22-m0.u46	Can I comment? Well, me. It's not exactly the subject, I'm just, your honor, allowing you to correct yourself. We didn't create a temporary commission of inquiry. We have established a temporary special commission, which according to the Constitution and the Rules has other powers. And I recommended it as the head of the committee. There's another committee head, Sergey Vlasenko. We had a discussion on this, and we have the only common ground. There is a clear mechanism provided for by the Law on Local Self - Rule. In order to do so, it is appropriate to draw the right conclusion from the profile committee, and it is necessary to present the head of the district government. And Parliament has repeatedly used this type of mechanism. If you went the other way, it's your right. But anyway, it's wrong to make hostages here now, including the courts. We have to go through a clear procedure, and we would have resolved that question long ago.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-22-m0.u47	Thank you. Questions completed. Dear colleagues, please sign up for the factions and groups. Please sign up from factions and groups.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-22-m0.u48	From the People's Front, Deputy Wozniak, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-22-m0.u49	The People's Front faction will definitely support the bill, vote in favour, support the decree and the law of Ukraine. That's why the People's Front votes yes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-22-m0.u50	Thank you. Peter Prashenka's Block, Tomenko Mikola Volodymyrovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-22-m0.u51	Please give the floor to Ruslan Knazević because he has not been able to reprove the bill convincingly.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-22-m0.u52	Thank you, Mikola Volodymyrovich. I'll try. Dear Chairman, dear colleagues! I'm once again drawing your attention to the most important thesis I've tried to make from the rostrum of Parliament. We are not currently looking at the substance of the bill tabled by the President. This kind of consideration of Parliament in accordance with the Constitution can only begin if. will receive a positive conclusion in all sections of the Constitutional Court. We do not yet know what this conclusion will be, but again, I call your attention to the fact that, in accordance with the Constitution, unfortunately, the President, as a subject of the right of legislative initiative, is not authorized to refer directly to the Constitutional Court for such a conclusion. He can do so exclusively through Parliament, and Parliament does not have the right to abuse its authority, but it is bound to send such a conclusion to the Constitutional Court, to await its conclusion, and to continue to act in the manner it deems appropriate. Given these circumstances, and considering that we are currently considering a properly drafted bill, the President has defined it as an urgent one, in accordance with the Constitution, and requests Parliament to refer it to the Constitutional Court. Let the Constitutional Court state whether the positions provided for in the bill conflict with or do not conflict with the Constitution narrow down or narrow down the rights of citizens, allow them to have proper access to justice, pass their conclusions on to Parliament and the Parliament will continue to determine its fate. And if you want essentially, I have to tell you, this is a completely abnormal thing that we're looking at right now. I understand that everyone is now tense, and everyone is looking forward to the changes that are envisaged in the context of considering changes to tax legislation and the 2016 budget. But, believe me, from the point of view of the strategic development of the state, this decision is more significant, more fundamental and more promising than all the others we're taking. No one will be ashamed of that vote. Moreover, I assure you that this will add serious points to Ukraine's international arena, because the proposals put forward by the President are actually duplicating all the conclusions of the Venice Commission that it is proposing to Ukraine in all its years of independence. In fact, for the first time in Ukrainian history, we were able to compile and submit in the form of a single whole draft law all those norms that, first and foremost, contradict the European perspective, do not contradict the European perspective of Ukraine. I urge you to take this decision, and we will continue to have an opportunity here to take a closer look at all the proposals made by the President. If the Constitutional Court makes any warnings, we will certainly consider them and correct them in Parliament’s walls. But now we have no right to get ahead with this remarkable fundamental reform. So our faction will unanimously support this kind of decision and will continue to work actively on this bill. Please join in this support.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-22-m0.u53	Thank you. From Rebirth Party Pressman Alexander Semenovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-22-m0.u54	Please pass the word to Valeria Pisarenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-22-m0.u55	Dear colleagues, the Rebirth Party Group will support any reforms aimed at improving our lives. First of all, we will understand that the time has come for judicial reform. I want to remind you that we have always advocated that our courts be more professional and less corrupt. I would like to remind you that we have repeatedly called for the removal of the Supreme Council for the appointment of judges, for verification and for punishment. We've always said that judges have to control themselves most of the time, as is the case with European traditions, and as the Venice Commission has established, the Venice Commission has repeatedly concluded. I want to say that we have always called on the President to have only a ceremonial function in the appointment of judges so that neither the President's decree nor the decisions of the Supreme Council committees will be sold, nor the decision of Parliament when we execute judges here. These really should be professional bodies. This is indicated in all the recommendations of the Venice Commission, the Council of Europe, and others. I mean, that document that's going to be considered today and sent to the Constitutional Court doesn't have a lot of money. This document has been developed in recent years, and I want to say that it is this 90 percent document that is made up of the work that Andrew Portnow did on the walls of the President's Administration. That's why we don't have a lot of money here. And the 10 percent that have been added to make this a new bill, they're just creating a general picture today. That is why we will really look forward to the Constitutional Court's decision on the fundamentals of this constitutional reform. I want to say that the conclusion of the Venice Commission echoes the conclusion of the Venice Commission, which, I want to remind you, we have also endorsed with you in the first reading of the amendments to the Constitution on Court Reform. And if we come with you to make the Ukrainian courts independent, first of all from politicians, from the President's Office, from the Supreme Council, we can really get you and me on the road where the professional level of judges and the protection of them from pressure can lead to the fact that it is the independent courts in Ukraine that are going to deal with cases. So I think the Ukrainian community is going to support us, and we, the Renaissance faction, are not going to vote on a procedural issue right now. But we will look forward to the Constitutional Court's decision and we will participate fully in the changes and in the judicial reform, thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-22-m0.u56	Self-help faction, Kostenko Pavel Petrovich, please. He's handing it over to Oleg Beresuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-22-m0.u57	Ladies and gentlemen of parliament, Your Honour! These amendments to the Constitution really don't change anything again. Because if you ask me and you, or after that, how do we accept this, we'll change the judges in the Constitutional, in the Supreme, in other courts? No, it's not. Then why do we accept it? In order to show again the simulation, how did we do it in court, the law on fair trial? Will we again on television say that there is already a visa-free regime in Ukraine that is not and is not known when it will be? It's wrong to deceive yourself. We suggest, but this law is essentially right and good, and we suggest that it be supplemented by a Supreme Council decree, in which to set out a very important position. Significant positions related to the submission of judges and candidates for judges of declarations of integrity and family declarations, monitoring of the way judges live, public participation in the judicial evaluation process. Participation of persons from outside the judicial corps in competitions for the appointment of judges But most importantly, the verdict should be that before the last reading, we will adopt a law on the creation of a new Supreme Court. And it will enter into force at the time of the entry into force of the amendments to the Constitution. This means that we're going to change exactly 400 judges of appeals, of cassation facilities and of the Supreme Court. This will signal society that it's not just paper, it's a real act of parliamentarians who want to do it. Without this determination, it will be difficult for us to vote for this in substance good law. But most of all, we're not gonna vote for him anyway. Because violating people's fundamental rights to vote in court is also a self-deception. So unfortunately, the Self-Help faction will not vote for this law just because we deprive the people of the Horn of Curve.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-22-m0.u58	The Radical Party is Oleg Lazko. Please, Oleg Lazko.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-22-m0.u59	Oleg Valeriyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-22-m0.u60	Oleg Valeriyovich. Dear Society, the issue is being considered. [[B in m in s a l in]] Allow Oleg Lace to step out of the rostrum, please. I very much ask that you allow the Light to come out of the rostrum. [[B in m in s a l in]] Please, Oleg Valeriyovich. Please continue to consider the matter and speak to the leader of the Oleg Lášk faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-22-m0.u61	Dear colleagues! I propose to continue the review of the changes to the Constitution. But I invite you to the third floor of the faction leaders' council in the room, and we'll talk again about how to do the right thing about it. But I'm asking you, but the only thing that's going to happen right now is the reverend Oleg Valeriyovich, yes, your speech, and after the faction leaders, we'll be holding a meeting, the MPs will be speaking, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-22-m0.u62	Dear colleagues, here's the deal. We're continuing to consider this issue, I'm now. Andry Volodymyrovich will be in charge of the session. I invite the faction leaders to hold consultations on the Horn of Curve issues, and then we will return to the agreed position on this issue. Next. After we return, which of the leaders of the factions did not speak, will have the opportunity to speak in the context of a review of the changes to the Constitution. I invite all the faction leaders to the consultation.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-22-m0.u63	Dear fellow national MPs, at the suggestion of factions, I'm calling it a 12-hour recess. By 12 o'clock, but I would like to point out that these methods can hardly be decided constructively. It's a 12-hour break.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-22-m0.u64	Ladies and gentlemen of the National Parliament, I'd like to give you the first apologies for this long delay. The leaders of factions and groups of parliament were held. Well, whoever was interested, they were consulting on how to resolve the issue of the Horn of Curve. So once again, I want to apologize for the delay, and she was forced to. And we've made this decision: after the conclusion of the debate on the Constitution of Ukraine, I'm going to have two suggestions agreed on how we're now considering the question of the Horn of Curve. Next, the Supreme Council will take a decision on this issue and we will agree on it. Thank you, Your Honor. I'm asking everyone to do their job, and we're going to continue our consideration. Ladies and gentlemen, I ask everyone to take their seats in the session hall of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Also, honourable colleagues, there will be a proposal today that we continue the agenda from 16 hours and work towards, as it were, solving those issues that we have not been able to address. I'm going to ask you all to support this proposal so that we can work from 16 hours until the issue of order is exhausted. And I'm going to ask you to support it, this proposal, please, for the leadership of factions and groups, I'm going to ask you to support this proposal. Please come in. We're taking our seats. We are continuing our consideration of the issue of the agenda, namely: Your Honor, we are considering with you a draft law amending the Constitution of Ukraine on justice. And now I'm inviting you to the podium. Oleg Valeriovich Ljashko, Radical Party of Ukraine
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-22-m0.u65	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. Honorable colleagues and the community. People's deputies, respectable citizens! Of course, the question of elections in Bloody Rose, where they were falsified, where the city today does not have the authority of an honest man, is an extremely important question. And Parliament, I'm sure, and our faction will vote for the election of the mayor of the Horn of Curve, and for the election of city council deputies. Everyone needs to be pushed to the neck, everyone needs to be changed. But the question of changes to the Constitution is a key, I stress, is the key issue of our future country. Because if we don't have independent justice, there will be no investor in this country, there will be no favourable investment climate. No one will bring their money here when they know they're going to some district court, they're going to take away business, they're going to take away money, they're going to take property. The question of changes to the Constitution in part of the judiciary is a matter of the future of our state. Because today every Ukrainian knows that if you don't have mud, if you don't have a hairy hand, if you don't have money, if you don't have a prosecutor's dad or a judge, you won't get anything in these courts. You can't protect your rights, you can't get justice. Because the court was designed to allow anyone, whether he had the money or not, to come and get justice. Do we have those trials today? No, there are no such courts. Are these questions answered by the changes to the Constitution proposed by the President, which we are currently considering? In our faction, no, because we believe that the judicial system should not be preserved, but preserved. We believe that the real fight against corruption is the release of all judges, prosecutors, tax collectors, all those who have been robbing their country for decades, all those who have led the country to pen! That's why we think that the real reform of the judiciary is to change all the judges, because of the competitions to get new ones. Look at this so-called reform of the prosecutor's office. 154 new heads of the prosecutor’s office have been appointed Shokinim. He's talking about reform. There's not a single person out of the prosecutor's system, and that's you. It's propaganda, not reform! So I don't want us to carry out the same judicial reform as today, the Shockin we're demanding is carrying out the so-called reform of the prosecutor's office. But the Radical Party faction will vote in favour of bringing draft amendments to the Constitution to the Constitutional Court because we believe that the issue of judicial reform should finally begin. And this.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-22-m0.u66	Please finish, 20 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-22-m0.u67	The issue of judicial reform must begin at last. That's what people stood for on Maidan. This is what thousands of people today give their lives for — for the independence of the country, for its sovereignty, for its future. The future of the country is a fair trial.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-22-m0.u68	Thank you. 10 seconds, Oleg Valeriyovich, please finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-22-m0.u69	The future of the country is a fair court, it's an honest government, it's a responsible politician and it's an honest voter. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-22-m0.u70	Please, Your Honor, Sergey Sobolev, Fatherland.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-22-m0.u71	Dear colleagues! The question that we're looking at right now is really, really, really important. But does this change to the Constitution determine exactly in terms of the independence and justice of the court? Yes, this project carries a series of money that allows us to claim that there are things that will allow the court to become a truly just body. This is, for example, an increase in the age of 25 to 30 in terms of courtship. It is also an opportunity to move away from political pressure on judges. But there are a number of rules that do not essentially resolve the key question: Does the judge become truly independent after that? But independent of a bribe, independent of pressure on it, does it become independent of the law again? That is why our faction has analyzed these changes and additions to the Constitution. In our view, the key issue remains uncertain. What responsibility does the judge have for a consciously unjust decision? Because the principle here is once again a principle when "what I want is hot." Any decisions that will be adopted do not go through a key principle when a judge has to see how these decisions have been passed previously and whether there are relevant decisions by international judicial institutions. And such judges will continue to work. The second question. This is not a question of how many chains there will be a judicial system, three or four. The question will be crucial: how are the judicial corps selected for these positions and how are they dispossessed if the decisions of the judicial court are expressly unfair. The third question, which is very important, does this reform actually allow the judges to decommission 70-80 percent of cases where they are resolved in a lengthy way, where there is no way to resolve these issues very quickly, quickly, but most importantly, fairly? That's why we don't see, for example, here is the election of the judges of the first institutions, which, by the way, here was talked about by a lot of people. We don't see any key changes to the Constitution that would allow this to be resolved. And one more question is the closure and corporateism. Well, look what happens to the Constitutional Court. Our faction in general insisted that the Constitutional Court and its powers be transferred to the Supreme Court. But to remove the judge’s inviolability, the arrest of such a judge is accepted by the authority itself, where it is represented solely by the judicial corps. That is why our decision is as follows: we vote in favour of referring to the Constitutional Court and wait for conclusions, and continue to consider essentially every rule of law. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-22-m0.u72	Thank you, Your Honor. Presentations by the National Deputies. Please give me three minutes. Please sign in, please. Please, the Radical Party, Lensky, National MP. Please, National Deputy Wolf, Radical Party.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-22-m0.u73	Victor Wolf, the faction of the Radical Party of Oleg Laska. Dear colleagues, respected citizens of Ukraine! Regrettably, the draft amendments to the Ukrainian Constitution on the reform of the justice system do not meet the demands of time, namely the request of Ukrainian society to destroy widespread corruption in the courts and radical cleansing and the full renewal of the judicial system. The Radical Party faction consistently stands for a simple and obvious position for citizens: the aim of judicial reform is to provide an honest and fair court in Ukraine. Anything else, including changes to the Constitution, should be subject to this primary objective. The draft amendments to the Constitution were developed with the participation of the experts of the Venice Commission and may merit the approval of professional lawyers. Yet, based on society’s interests, this is not enough. Because the project wastes a unique moment of constitutional reform of the justice system to ensure that it is thoroughly cleaned, since the project does not contain either a task or a mechanism for radical renewal of the judiciary in Ukraine. It formally ensures the independence of judges, but it does not take into account that the vast majority of today’s judges have long been independent of human morality and conscience. Apparently, there is too much involvement and influence on the draft judicial reform of representatives of the corrupt judicial system. You could even say that the project won the corporate logic of the rescue and preservation of the mob. And if judicial reform is not successful, then any other reforms in the country will not be successful, because they will be undermined by the rule of law system. So the position of the Radical Party faction of Oleg Láška is the principle of fully re-launching the judicial system and introducing a mechanism for the open appointment of new judges as part of the constitutional reform of justice. Only reform that will provide for radical cleansing and renewal of the 8th - century Ukrainian judicial corps, like the 15th - century prosecutorial corps, will open the way for an honest and just trial and find the understanding and trust of Ukrainian citizens. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-22-m0.u74	Please, National Deputy Yemen Leonid.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-22-m0.u75	Dear colleagues! Leonid Yemen, city of Kiev, faction of the People's Front. As our colleagues have already reported, this morning we had a faction sitting at which the faction decided to support the bill to the Constitutional Court during the discussion. But I have my own opinion, which I would like to use the right of a national deputy elected in the Majority District to make a sound. We want judicial reform not only to be reformed to set up a branch, we want an honest, just judge. What should we do about it? We need to be able to come to these positions, for all 8,000 judges, new professional lawyers who have never been in this system who have not been bound by the circular commission of corruption and bribery. This was our proposal, this is the proposal that we consider and I think is crucial for us to get an honest and independent judge. All the other questions, they're technical, I'd even say cosmetic, character. Of course, the introduction of the Rome Statute is extremely good, but the International Criminal Court cannot decide for us Ukrainians our Ukrainian problems, we need our Ukrainian honest judge. I'll tell you what, I have my own personal position, the Parliament will now determine, I just want to make a comment about the referral to the Constitutional Court. Now we're going to lose time, we're going to lose the opportunity to carry out a truly effective judicial reform, we're definitely going to go back to that question in two or three months, when we're looking at 300 votes in Parliament, and we can end up having to go back three months and go back to the discussion from the beginning. Dear colleagues! We have a unique opportunity to introduce genuine judicial reform, let's take this opportunity with our minds. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-22-m0.u76	Please, National Deputy Mikola Tomenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-22-m0.u77	Dear colleagues! I want to draw your attention to one problem: there are a few thesets from judicial reform. We're addressing the Constitutional Court with the hope that this higher institution that places the dots above the "and" and obviously we've forgotten who's in the Constitutional Court? I'm going to brief you so briefly that six people of pre-Luganian origin, I'm not for regional reasons, but it's just these six people that President Yanukovic directed, took the best of the Donetskian and Lugansk. The political regime of Yanukovic seems to have 9 people and 9 others in line with the Supreme Court decision are involved in the usurpation of power by the Yanukovich regime. What do we want them to do to give us an honest conclusion as to how to reform the judicial system? Second position. I don't know, of course, I'm not a lawyer, I'm just a doctor of political science, but I don't understand what the council of justice is? Is it like the Ministry of Truth, or is it the council of the wise? Justice is executed by judicial decisions in the interests of the State and the law, and how do we choose the Council of Justice? Is it the wiser people who will be? I don't understand the name "justice Council"? I also don't understand two years of transition. So we have permanent transitional periods: two years from now, the President will be in the judicial system, and two years from now, we'll start an honest life in court? Is this obviously a serious problem? The next problem is that we're talking about that claims to Parliament and Ruslan Knazevitch are, in principle, right that we're not active here. But I don't understand at all from the point of view of the principles of the distribution of functions as the Supreme Council of Justice, and later this is the unique higher council of justice, is it going to appoint, control, discharge and submit to the removal of legal integrity? It's going to do four functions on its own. The Parliament can't. We're what? Name one judge who has been called to account so that the Supreme Council does not vote. We all vote. So obviously, parliamentary control, let's not be part of the appointment of judges, but let's be sure that the removal of the immunity of judges in Parliament should remain. So, to my profound conviction, despite all the puffos of the need for reform, the concept, as I say, starting with the name and ending with who will carry it out and control it, does not withstand any criticism. In principle, we're a special nation, of course, in order to remove the problem, we can pass it on to the Constitutional Court, that's not going to solve anything, because from the Constitutional Court comes a submission where they say they have no objection and we're going to discuss again how they're conducting judicial reform. We have two options: either to think about judicial reform, or to refer it to the Constitutional Court and start thinking about court reform after six months.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-22-m0.u78	Thank you. Dear colleagues, please give the closing statement of co-conspirator Ruslan Knazevitch. All fellow members of the National Deputies please take your seats, prepare for the vote. Please, Ruslan Knazevich. All national deputies please take their seats in the Supreme Council Hall and prepare for the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-22-m0.u79	Dear Mr. Head! Dear colleagues! I still hope for the wisdom of the Ukrainian Parliament, and at last, we would have made, at least the day before the celebration, an absolutely welcome decision for me, which the Ukrainian State had already come to. We haven't been able to reform the judiciary for 20 years, next year, 20 years, a valid Ukrainian Constitution. After its adoption, literally in a few months, there was a question about the relevance of change, because "not the holy peas stick" and practice had shown that unfortunately, those legal mechanisms that were laid down in the Ukrainian Constitution were not always able to be properly observed or lived in such a way that they were not being followed at all. And for 20 years Ukrainian Parliamentarianism has been in the process of discussing the relevance of creating preconditions to change the Constitution, several times it has been the subject of consideration. Last summer, Parliament won only 60 votes in favour of such a reform. But we have nowhere to run from this problem. I'm warning you right now, if this time we're going to take on Strausine politics, it's going to have negative consequences not only in the middle of the state. You know that within both the visa-free regime, and in general the Euro-integration processes, the issue of making changes to part of the constitutional changes in the judiciary is crucial to our European partners. So let's be wise, let's go to the Constitutional Court. I hope that the Constitutional Court will be able to give a proper legal assessment within a time frame, and then we will continue this discussion in the walls of Parliament. Now it's a technical issue that doesn't need any political aspects. Let's carry out our mission, and on that, I hope, let's end the political. Part of the change to the Constitution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-22-m0.u80	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, I ask everyone to take their seats in the session room of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, prepare for the vote. Please, colleagues, take your seats. I'm making a proposal, I'm putting it to a vote. Colleagues, take your seats, please. Ladies and gentlemen, please take your seats. I am voting for the adoption of the entire draft Decree (Registration No. 3524/P) on the inclusion in the agenda of the day-to-day third session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the eighth call for a bill amending the Constitution of Ukraine (the case of justice) and its referral to the Constitutional Court of Ukraine, together with proposals that have been made by Oleg Romanović Berezuk from the Supreme Council of Ukraine. One more time, colleagues, one more minute. Please, Your Honor, we are voting for the adoption of the entire draft Decree (Registration No. 3524/P) on the inclusion in the agenda of the day-to-day third session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine of the eighth draft amendment bill in the Constitution of Ukraine (for justice) and its referral to the Constitutional Court of Ukraine. It's a direct order. It's an order. We're voting on the whole adoption order, that's the directional order. Vote, colleagues, 3524. Vote, everyone, please. [[13:33:00]] For 291 Congratulations, dear colleagues, almost a constitutional majority. Thank you, Your Honor, the ruling has been passed and will be sent in accordance with the Constitutional Court. Ladies and gentlemen of the National Parliament, I ask you all to remain in your seats, because we are about to vote on two more rulings. Right now, these proposals and then the decisions? Or make up your mind. And we have orders to continue our work after the session. Are we voting them? And now the Horn of the Curve. And now there are proposals on the Horn of the Curve. Is it coming? Is it coming? I'm going to make suggestions. Are we voting on two draft decrees? Wrong Rigg, all right. Dear colleagues, there were two suggestions. Attention! I'd like your attention. In view of the fact that the issue of the Horn of Curve was placed in the order of the session as a result of yesterday’s Conciliation Council on Thursday, there are two suggestions that came after the outcome of the consideration of the matter at the meeting. One of these suggestions, one, is to consider this issue today in a plenary session. And the second sentence is to look at it tomorrow at 11 a.m. But this must be decided by the Supreme Council of Ukraine. What is the question? The question is that there are differences in voting in different political powers: either for the law or for the decree. There is an understanding that this can be taken into account by law and that there is another law to be considered. regarding the early resignation of a member of the local council who is to be considered by my commission by the committee headed by Sergey Vlasenko, or two of them. So, either it's today, or it's supposed to be tomorrow at 11 o'clock, it's only up to the Supreme Council of Ukraine to make a decision. But I stress that this decision should be adopted by the maximum number of votes required for the decision-making process, taking into account positions regarding including the resignation of members of the local council. So please, now I'm going to put these two proposals on the vote and you're going to be defined. There are no changes, no additions? Colleagues, we vote. So there are two suggestions: either today, and here is a question of how to reconcile positions on the law, or tomorrow for 11 o'clock after the committee meeting. Did I get it right? Please, who, in order to address this issue today, please put it to the vote, please identify yourself. [[13:36:30.]] For 203 203 votes. And who's in favour of considering this tomorrow at 11 a.m. to maximize effective voting and reconciliation? 11 o'clock tomorrow, Wednesday. Huh? With the law of recalling members of the local councils, this will allow for the consolidation of votes. Listen carefully. Please vote that tomorrow the question of the Horn of Creature should be considered at 11 o'clock in conjunction with the Law on the Calling of Deputies of Local Councils, which will be considered by the appropriate committee of Sergey Vlasenka. Vote tomorrow, 11 o'clock, please vote, please support. Tomorrow, 11 o'clock, please vote, please support everyone. [[13:37:30.]] For 264 Thank you. Tomorrow at 11 a.m., the question will be considered. Colleagues, don't split up, pay attention. We have two more procedural decisions. This is 3000-P and 3000-P1. There is a suggestion to consider them by a reduced procedure. Please vote. Review of the simplified procedure. It's a reduced procedure, please support. It's a procedural question. [[13:38:04]] For 190 Dear colleagues, 3000-P, draft Decree on the specificities of the draft draft Ukrainian National Budget Act 2016. It's a committee. No gambling business. No Game Business Act. Please, I beg of you, dear colleagues. Please report to Andrew Gordjeev.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-22-m0.u81	Dear colleagues, your opinion is proposed by the draft Ordinance on the Specificities of the Bill Review Procedure, which relates to the adoption of the Ukrainian State Budget Bill 2016, under the heading 3000-P, which proposes that the relevant bills be considered in a simplified procedure. The purpose of this decision is to make final decisions on changes to the Tax and Budget Codes and other legislation to ensure that they are approved before the end of this year's balanced state budget for the next budget period. Please support me, I understand that without a game business.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-22-m0.u82	Take it easy. [[B in m in s a l in]] Please. [[B in m in s a l in]] Dear colleagues, so, the offer. Order 3000-P, on the procedure. I'll explain what the question is. We are within a very narrow framework for voting these issues. We have a plenary week today from the 22nd to the 25th. These decisions allow us to look at these issues from the 22nd to the 25th. If we have any questions about the continuation, the amendment, Parliament will be able to do so. But now, in order to enter the procedural field, we need to approve them. And then from 16 o'clock, we're going to be giving full consideration to all of the issues of the agenda. There is a proposal to exclude from this list of laws the Act on the Playing Business. That's what I'm gonna do. That's why I'm asking you, dear colleagues. And no 3630. It's the Tax Code, he has a full procedure. [[B in m in s a l in]] Vote. [[B in m in s a l in]] And minus 3631, Andrew? And minus 3631. Minus the gaming business and minus 3631. Is it accepted? We're voting 3,000-P. Colleagues, please support everyone. Take your seats, please. Vote. Please support everyone. Vote. Please be supportive. Please be supportive. Colleagues. [[13:42:08]] For-200 Once again, dear colleagues, I'll make an offer. Please take your seats. There is a parliamentary decree that provides for a procedure for consideration. I ask everyone to support these proposals so that we can open the way to a vote, not to a vote, but to a review of these laws. Please calm down and take your seats. Please. Dear colleagues, ready to vote? There's a proposal to approve this provision 3000-P and to add Law 3688 here, which is the result of the work that. 3688 include this is the bill you've been working on today, before 7 a.m. It's just, I'm stressing that there's a special way of looking at it. And I'm asking all the factions and groups to support this issue, and the non-fractional ones too. Without gambling and without Law 3631 – without these two laws. Is it accepted? Take your seats. Take your places to vote. Colleagues, please take your places to vote. Ready? Dear colleagues, once again, I emphasize, this is a procedural issue. I'm asking you to support these two decisions. My colleagues, I'm stressing once again that we need to take these two procedural decisions. Please take your seats, everyone. Dear colleagues, once again, so that everyone can understand what this is about. Attention! We need to make a decision on the special order of legislation and we need to adopt it today. Because we have a plenary week today, tomorrow, and Friday. I'm not saying how you're going to vote for these laws, I'm talking about a special procedure for considering them, so I'm asking everyone. Because today we're going to look at them, tomorrow we're going to have a committee in the afternoon, Thursday we're going to vote definitively, it's not going to have a negative impact on the vote on the Horn of the Curve or anything. So I'm asking from this logic and the Self-Help faction to support these proposals on how to deal with these issues. Do you understand? Do you understand? Understanding how to view it? You don't? Dear colleagues, let's do it again. Sergey Berezenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-22-m0.u83	Dear Vladimir Borisovich! There is a proposal for today’s Tax Code Amendment Act. There's a proposal to take a break now, to pass this law, to work on the tax committee, and to vote on it at 4:00, and to vote on the changes immediately. I think it's consolidating the hall, if you can take this into account and take a little break, now discuss it with the factions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-22-m0.u84	Fellows, can I have another rational offer? I'm not saying right now, attention, colleagues, I'm asking everyone to stay in their seats. I'm not talking about the subject right now, I'm talking about the procedure. The point is that we're now including them, we're starting the debate, and you're going to be on the committees, including, and you're still going to be deciding on the votes. Now we have to make a procedural decision, or we're going to have to work two hours in accordance with the procedure, and we're going to lose what you're going to do, and that's not going to lead to anything. So I ask and support this procedural decision. So once again, I'm going to rephrase the proposal: 3000-P minus the Act on the Playing Business, minus Law 3631 and plus we're going to add the Law on Amendments to the Tax Code, which we're going to consider, 3688 is procedural. I'm asking everyone to support that logic. Shall we? Please invite the national deputies to the hall. Please, the proposal: the 3000-P regulation is voted on, in general, with the changes and additions that I have announced. I ask everyone to support this proposal. Ready? Ready? Let's vote, please, everyone back up, support this procedural issue, it's not really about the laws. Vote, everyone, please. [[13:50:41]] For-200 No votes. Dear colleagues, then there is a proposal: From 16 hours we will continue our session until the daytime order is exhausted, and we will vote from 16 hours. Attention! Attention, fellow nationals! Please take your seats. Please, I'm asking the deputies to take their seats. [[B in m in s a l in]] Colleagues, there is an offer: From 16 hours to the end of our day - to - day work. [[B in m in s a l in]] Colleagues, should we support that logic? So let's make a proposal, let's vote, let's take your seats, please let's work 16 hours to exhaust the agenda, which means that while we're ensuring a successful vote, we'll work. Do we have a deal? As long as there's a successful vote. [[B in m in s a l in]] Please, colleagues, there's a 16-hour offer to work until we secure a successful vote, we vote, colleagues. Please, since the 16th. Please support, we vote. [[13:53:07]] For 204 Almost. I'm going to all the factions, to Peter Poshenko's Block, to the People's Front, to the Radical Party, to the Fatherland, to Self-Help, to all the groups of Parliament: "The Will of the People," "The Rebirth," "The Opposition Block," and to the non-fractional MPs to support the proposal that we continue to work from 16 hours until we secure a successful vote. We have under the Rules this decision to take before the end of the morning session. So I ask everyone to support this proposal. Even so, we lost two hours talking about the Curve Rig. I'm asking Self-Help to support this proposal. Please, let's vote to work from four o'clock. Please, everyone, back it up. Otherwise, how are we going to look at it? Vote. Vote. Please be supportive. [[13:54:40]] For 211 Colleagues, well, almost. Dear faction of Self-Help, I ask you to support the proposal to vote for an extension of the working day from 16 hours to ensuring a successful vote. Colleagues, please. Victor Mikhailovich Pinzenik, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-22-m0.u85	Dear National Deputies! Dear Volodymyr Borisovich! Obviously, it is unrealistic to consider this list given to us today. I have the following suggestion: if we focus on the issues related to the draft budget and only those issues that exist. The list of laws in the decree, we can agree and support this proposal, exclusively the laws that relate to the state budget.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-22-m0.u86	That's a very wise offer, it's accepted. So keep working until the issues of daily order are exhausted, which are related to the consideration of the budget. Do you have a deal? Please support this proposal. I'll give it to you. Please be supportive. Colleagues, please support. Colleagues from Self-Help, please support this proposal. [[13:56:08]] For 210 Once again, dear colleagues, Victor Mikhailovich Pinzenik’s proposal was quite clear: Continue working from 16 hours until considering all the issues related to the adoption of the budget. Calm down. [[B in m in s a l in]] I'm asking you to support this proposal. Ready? [[B in m in s a l in]] Colleagues, please continue your work at 4:00. We vote in favour of working until the day’s issues of order are exhausted from 16 hours at the evening session, which is related to the adoption of the budget. We have taken our seats and we vote on this proposal. Vote. Vote, please. Vote! [[13:58:07]] For 226 Dear colleagues, the decision has been made. I have an application for a break from Oleg Lászek and Brezjuk. Please show for 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-22-m0.u87	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. Dear fellow national MPs, a moment of attention! This is about the future of our nation, about the future of law enforcement agencies and about their reform. As you know, last week in Parliament there was a covert, disgraceful case of a thief from this sacred hall who stole signatures for the resignation of Attorney General Shokin, who had been collected by me almost 140. The one who stole thought he had solved the problem. No, I didn't solve the problem. I'd like to advise you, Your Honor, new signatures for Shokin's resignation, which we're starting to collect again in order to resign Attorney General Shokin. Now, in five minutes of signature-gathering, 30 national deputies signed in five minutes for Shokin's resignation. If we're at this rate collecting signatures, it's going to be 226 votes in 16 hours. I'm addressing my esteemed colleagues from the Peter Prashenko faction to my esteemed colleagues from the People's Front. My colleagues from Homeland, Self Help, and the Radical Party don't need to be approached because they've already signed. I am addressing all non-fractional national MPs: let's collect 150 signatures, let's put the day-to-day issue of Shokin's resignation into order and we'll finally resign him, because when we talk about law enforcement reform, this reform has to start with the Attorney General's resignation. A person who is not bound by corruption schemes is expected to come to the office of the Attorney General; a person who has not built the corruption system of the Attorney General’s Office and the prosecutor’s office is expected to come. That's why I'm addressing all the people's deputies: don't be afraid to take responsibility, vote, sign for Shokin's resignation, which today is hampering the reform of the Attorney-General's Office, which is discrediting the government's authority in Ukraine, which has actually enshrined corruption in the prosecutor's office. We want real change, we want to live like people, we want real reforms -- these reforms begin with the resignation of Attorney General Shokin and the release of all judges, prosecutors, customs and taxpayers. This is what the Ukrainian people expect of us, for which they have delegated us. Julia Volodymyrna, please support Shokin's resignation. Yuri Lucenko, please support Shokin's resignation. Do not let corruption continue to rob and destroy our home country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-22-m0.u88	Thank you. Dear colleagues, 2 p.m., and we made important decisions. And now, according to the Rules, I declare the morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine closed. The extension of our work will be at 4:00. And I'm asking all the deputies to be disciplined at four o'clock in the hall to continue our work. Thank you.
