ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-13-m0.u1	Good morning, distinguished national deputies, distinguished colleagues! Please take your seats. Faction leaders, please invite the National Deputies to the Supreme Council Hall for registration. Please, Your Honor. Please include the "Council" system for the registration of the National Deputies. [[10:07:17]] 250 deputies are registered in the Supreme Council Hall. Dear colleagues, I'd like your attention. In Ukraine, the Latvian parliamentary delegation is headed by the speaker of the Fair of the Republic of Latvia, Inara Murnice. Let's say hello. [[Applause]] Dear colleagues, thank you for such a friendly welcome to our colleague. And you know the position of the Republic of Latvia on Ukraine's support. And this position is always loyal, friendly, objective. And we appreciate that and we will do everything we can to strengthen our relationship at the level of the two parliaments. Dear colleagues, I declare this morning's plenary meeting of the Supreme Council open. Today is the birthday of our colleague, National Deputy Alexander Gorbunov. Let's welcome him on his birthday. [[Applause]] In accordance with the Supreme Council of Ukraine regulations, we now have an "hour of questions to the government." They are present in the government's bed: the Cabinet of Ministers at the head of the vice-premiers, the Vice-Prime Minister. Dear colleagues, we can begin our consideration of matters. Let's build this next time. The first to speak will be Minister of Social Policy Pavel Rosenko, the first Deputy Minister of Finance, Igor Umanski. And then we're going to have a 30-minute window of opportunity for questions.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-13-m0.u2	[[Unheard]]
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-13-m0.u3	Thank you. Please. Oleg Valeriyovich, I'm fine with hearing. I see you're pleased. Please, Your Honor, I'd like to invite you. There's Minister Klimkin, I didn't see what he was. Please, I invite you to the podium for information by the Minister of Foreign Affairs of Paul Klimkin. Please, Pavel Anatolyovich. I then offer 10 minutes of Pavel Anatolyevich and 10 minutes of the next minister and then 30 minutes of questions. Is it accepted? Thank you, Your Honor. Please, Paul Klimkin.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-13-m0.u4	Dear Mr. Head, ladies and gentlemen of the people's deputies, first of all, I am very pleased and very grateful to be able to share what has, in principle, remained outside of the news tapes and outside the context of the content that you have all clearly met. A few very important moments. First. The negotiations continued without any interruption for 17 hours. They went through an unusually complex psychological environment. The outcome of these negotiations is to sign within a tripartite contact group, and I emphasize that it is within a tripartite contact group, that there is no direct or indirect contact with a set of measures to implement the Minsk Agreements. And this is a major idea for me, because right now we have a commitment not only to the first point of the Minsk Accords, but also to the entire complex. The second important element of the Minsk Accords is that the President of Ukraine, Chancellor of Germany. The President of France and the President of the Russian Federation endorsed the declaration. So that's how they approved a set of measures for implementing the Minsk Accords. This means that for the first time, I emphasize, it was the first time that we got the Russian side's agreement to support the logic of the Minsk Accords and to be willing to implement them. The third point is that we agreed to stop the fire, starting at zero o'clock on February 15th of this year. The concept of a complex of measures is based on the creation of a zone from which all heavy artillery is removed, starting with a calibre of 100 millimeters. The process will be fully monitored and monitored by the OSCE, particularly on the part of the monitoring mission. At present, we are conducting very intensive consultations on how the OSCE will be able to fully implement its tasks. The second important point is that we're going to apply all of, I emphasize, all of the technical tools to control this process. And they're going to help us get involved, including satellite equipment and other equipment, so that we have a real, I emphasize, a real picture. The third point is that we have received confirmation of the obligation to withdraw all foreign formations from Donbas. Unfortunately, we don't have a clear date yet, but we're going to work on this point to establish both practical logic and the time frame of this process. We received a clear obligation to release all the hostages, all of them, in principle two weeks after the start of the withdrawal. And now we've started working on it. And a few other key points that are related to logic, how the political process will progress. In particular, how local elections will be prepared. We have made it clear that the elections will be under the control of the OSCE, including the Human Rights Bureau. This is the conclusion of the OSCE that will ultimately be the testimony and the testimonial of whether the election is properly prepared, and whether the election has taken place freely and honestly. I have now started to work today to involve the OSCE, including for advice on practical aspects, the practical modality of the preparation of these elections. So the OSCE will be present in this process from the first second. That is the basic logic of these arrangements. I don't want to hide that several times during the 17-hour talks, and it was only 17 hours, that we wanted our friends from Germany and France to stop these negotiations. After all, it was a common decision to go out on a deal that you've all seen. Yesterday, the President addressed the European Council, informed European leaders in detail about the progress of the negotiations, the content of these agreements, and we received support for the implementation of these agreements in the future. Support is designed to execute them, not to withdraw from them. Because, of course, there will be such attempts. There will be attempts, starting with the first point of the ceasefire, and ending with the peace process, the humanitarian aid, the exchange of hostages, and so on. We are now working to keep each point under our control, and it is essential that each item of the Minsk Accords be carried out for the support of the civilized world, our friends and partners, and in particular with the involvement of the OSCE. Thank you so much! And I'm ready to answer any questions.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-13-m0.u5	Thank you! Thank you, Pavel Anatolyovich! I have a proposition: now the speech, and then 30 minutes, we've got a very good tradition, 30 minutes we're asking questions from the place, and then the ministers are answering. Then we will make an objective record of the questions. Please, Paul Rosenko, Minister of Social Policy. And then I'll be able to make an objective record, and every MP will use their right to ask any question, or it turns out that we're limiting the ability of MPs. Ten minutes, please, ministers, so we can have 30 minutes to ask.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-13-m0.u6	Dear Mr. Head, distinguished national MPs! I'm sorry for my excuse, but I just couldn't deny myself the possibility of not communicating with the National Deputies, but I'm sorry to say I'm sorry. So there's, there's no such a thematic report, and there's a whole series of questions that I'd like to comment on, and I'd like to talk to the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. The first question is about the increase in wages owed by the Opposition Block faction about the reasons for the unpaid wages in Ukraine and the further situation in this area. And we certainly understand this perfectly, too, that debt on wages in general increased by almost 1.5 billion dollars last year. And the main reasons for the increase in the amount of debt are the economic crisis that has been going on in the last three years and the war in the Donetsk and Lugansk areas. In general, today, according to operational figures, Ukraine’s wages are about 2.5 billion dollars. If you look at the state of debt on wages, it's definitely the main mass of it, it's regionally, it's the Donetsk area of 1 billion 200 million dollars, and the increase in debt on wages last year actually took place over 1 billion dollars, it's only in the Donetsk region, it's the same picture in the Lugansk region. Today, at the beginning of February, this sum is about 400 million, 350 million more than last year. So it is clear that the situation in the East of Ukraine has a direct impact on the situation of debt on wages. But there are certainly other areas that have allowed for wage increases during the past year. And at the end of February, we have an expanded session of the Commission on Debt and Wages, where we will summarize the activities of the local authorities in 2014 in each area. And I hope the heads of district administration will give us a solid answer about the reasons for the debt on the payroll. What's important is how will the areas work by reducing debt? Similarly, if you look at the size of ministries, once again the confirmation is that the situation in the East of Ukraine gives us the biggest problem of debt of wages. After all, the major debt burden is about 1 billion dollars, which is a company called Minneergogil, which has practically formed this debt in 2014. I want another positive moment. We have finally reformed the system of enforcement of labour legislation. On Wednesday, a decision was adopted by the government, a decision was approved, a state-of-the-art number and structure of the new State Labour Service, which was organized through the merger of the State Labour Inspectorate and the State Mining and Industrial Security Service. This will enable us to create an effective structure that will be precisely the main objective of working, including the protection of the labour rights of our citizens, including the protection of rights to pay wages in a timely manner. I think in the shortest term, this structure will be fully complete and fully formed, and the service manager of this structure has also been appointed. In this way, we will be able to effectively apply our actions to those businesses and businesses that do not pay their wages on time. The second question from the Opposition Block also relates to the fact that, according to the Opposition Block, pensioners in the territory of Donetsk have not been included since August 2014, although the Pension Fund seemed to have received appropriate taxes from there. And there's a question of how the government plans to address this issue, to pay pensions in the areas of the Counter-Terrorism Operation. Today, I want to make it clear that all pensions, all social benefits are paid to all people, even those in the area of Anti-Terrorism Operations in full measure. Regrettably, however, government authorities, including the Ukrainian Pension Fund, cannot physically pay in unsupervised Ukrainian authorities. That's why the authorities have made it possible to get these funds in another part of our country, at any point in Ukraine, a pensioner is entitled to do so by implementing the relevant laws of Ukraine to receive his pension. And today, if you say that there were about one million pensioners in an area that was not temporarily controlled by Ukrainian authorities. Today, according to the Pension Fund, more than 900,000 pensioners already have the opportunity and are receiving pensions in another part of our country. So actually three fourths of Ukrainian pensioners who are entitled to this payment in a temporarily occupied territory have and are now receiving pensions in an area controlled by the Ukrainian authorities. And so as soon as the Ukrainian laws are restored in that area as soon as the banking system, the payment system, the treasury bodies are restored, as soon as the Ukrainian authorities, the Ukrainian laws are restored in that territory, we are ready to start such payments. And examples such as Kramatorska, Slavyanska, Mariupola are very clear about this: the liberated territory is governed by Ukrainian law, everyone gets pensions and social benefits, and other forms of social assistance. And the last question of self-help is about subsidies for natural gas consumption or residential utilities. Once again, maybe I'll repeat the basics that I said at the last government meeting. Indeed, I believe and this is our common position that, without substantial reform of the subsidy system in Ukraine, it is impossible to talk about raising tariff prices in Ukraine. So first, the reform of the subsidy system, the reform of the aid system, and then, of course, the process that we're talking about is that our people are protected and they can withstand the pressure of rising gas prices. But we understand very well that the subsidy system seems to be working today, and all international experts say that it is adequate and corresponds to the best traditions that have been established, including in the European Union. But why is it that they have the right, according to our calculations, to receive a grant of about 3 million families, and that right is exercised by about 1 million people? That is, there is today total mistrust in the subsidy system that exists in Ukraine. She's heavy, she doesn't get it for people, she predicts going through 10 rounds of hell to get this subsidy. And our task today.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-13-m0.u7	Please, two minutes, Minister, to complete.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-13-m0.u8	Ten rounds of hell to get these subsidies. What does a person begin to do when receiving subsidies? She has two documents to fill out in the Social Security Office. The first document is a statement, it's three letters of text to fill out. And the second part is the declaration, it's 5 pages of text that needs to be filled in today. Today it is a principled decision that today it will be one page of the general statement and one page of the declaration. What's more, today we're saying that in order to maintain the grant, you don't have to go into social security and stand in big queues. This form (on two sides) will be given to each customer in the envelope to their postal address. And in the same way: in an uncontacted way -- he packs this information into an envelope and sends it to Social Security. The address will also be specified. I mean, you don't have to stand in line. You want to come and consult, no questions asked. Welcome! We'll advise you, come. But fill out the declaration and send it to us in an envelope. So we're trying really hard. Second, the criteria will be changed. We're going to take the extra credit criteria. In particular, these are all pies, some unknown income from land that no one can calculate. But they count for something without subsidies.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-13-m0.u9	The minister mourned for Parliament. Please, Minister. One minute, and finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-13-m0.u10	Income from students who don't get scholarships, but somehow we count their income. So this is how we go about seriously reforming the subsidy system in Ukraine. And we hope that this system will facilitate citizens' access to these subsidies. And the main thing is that it compensates for the negative, obviously, that there is a constant need to raise prices for residential services in Ukraine. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-13-m0.u11	Thank you, Minister. First Deputy Minister of Finance, Igor Umanski. Please come to the rostrum.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-13-m0.u12	Good afternoon! Dear Volodymyr Borisovich, honourable deputies! Members of the government, present! Most of the questions addressed to the Ministry of Finance concerned social policy, the energy sector, and so on. Of the issues within the Ministry of Finance's competence, they mostly referred to the situation surrounding the negotiation process with the International Monetary Fund, as well as the preparations for changes to the project, to the State Budget Act for the current year. As you know, there was a press conference yesterday as a result of the government meeting. The basic conditions of our cooperation with the International Monetary Fund have been approved. The mission completed its work in Kiev, but cooperation continues on a technical level regarding the agreement between the text and the final edition of the Letter of Purposes to be signed by Ukraine. We are preparing that this technical work will be completed in the near future, and we will be able to raise questions about the extension of Ukraine's funding programme to the Board of Directors of the International Monetary Fund, where it will be definitively defined and the parameters for the provision of this assistance, the size of it in the current year, including the first tranche. So far, the main parameters, including the size, have been reported in the press, but they're not legally fixed yet, to talk about them too soon. Regarding the preparation of the State Budget Act. As you know, by February 15, according to a decision of the Supreme Council, the government has to submit the bill. As a result of yesterday’s government meeting, the main funds managers are preparing their proposals, and they are to be made to the Ministry of Finance by the end of the day. And for tomorrow, a government meeting is scheduled for early tomorrow, which will consider both the macroeconomic model, taking into account the current trends that we already have as a result of January and the outcome of the negotiation process with the International Monetary Fund Mission, and the decisions made by the Supreme Council at the end of December last year. The Government will approve the draft State Budget Act and submit it to the Supreme Council by February 15th. If there are any questions, comments, I'd be happy to answer them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-13-m0.u13	Thank you, Minister, for the report. Please take your place in the presidency, in the government's bed. Dear colleagues, we have 35 minutes to ask. Ladies and gentlemen, please prepare for questions. And I'm asking the people's deputies, 35 minutes to ask. Please sign in. Please. Please ask the People's Front, Corchik Vitaly Andryovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-13-m0.u14	I have a question for the Minister of Social Policy. Your statement said that today the debt amounted to 2.5 billion dollars and a third, 863 million dollars to enterprises located in areas beyond the control of the Ukrainian authorities. By December 1, 2014, the government had commissioned ministries to move budget institutions, businesses, organizations to Ukraine’s controlled territory. Some services have been translated for the day, but their schedules and treasures have not yet been approved. How to Be Humans, Workers budget areas that have come to work elsewhere still do not receive a salary and the debt is only rising? I would like us to be fully enlightened on this matter. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-13-m0.u15	Well, it's certainly hard to say and answer the general question that some of the budgetary spheres don't get paid from the state-controlled to the territory. Let's just say that if there are specific facts that the budgetary institutions, which are moving to the territory of the controlled Ukraine, where wages are not paid, we're willing to figure it out. I know that according to the agencies that have moved, such as the Ukrainian Pension Fund, which are under the Ministry’s supervision, such as the Pension Fund’s Administration, in the Donetsk Region, it has been moved to Slaviansk, it works in Slaviansk, and in the Luhansk region it has been moved to Severodonetsk. There is no such problem. There are some specific questions about some budgetary institutions that do not pay timely wages ready to be dealt with on a case-by-case basis, why an enterprise or institution has moved but does not get paid in time. Specific facts will be ready to provide specific answers.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-13-m0.u16	Thank you. Please, the People's Deputy of Kirichenko, the Radical Party.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-13-m0.u17	I give the word to Láško Oleg Valeriyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-13-m0.u18	Oleg Lazko.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-13-m0.u19	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. I have a question for the Foreign Minister. Mr. Secretary, may I have your attention? I hope you are aware of the decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine of 16 April 2014 to initiate international negotiations on the deescalation of the situation around Ukraine. In accordance with paragraph 3 of this decision, the Supreme Council has prohibited that the subject matter of international negotiations cannot be clearly identified, particularly as regards the constitutional system, the administrative and territorial system of the country, the definition of language status. At the same time, in the Minsk Agreements that you give us as a great achievement, in paragraph 11, you made a commitment to constitutional reform by the end of 2015. I ask you, who gave you the right to trade in the Ukrainian Constitution? Who gave you the right to trade in Ukraine?
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-13-m0.u20	Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-13-m0.u21	Thank you so much for asking that question. I want to make very clear, first of all, any further discussions on the special regime of Donbas will be carried out and implemented within the framework of a law already approved by the Supreme Council and within the framework of the implementation of this law. One second. Paragraph 11 says that decentralization, including in the context of Donbas, will be addressed in the context of constitutional reform, no more. Because no liability in any form, neither legally binding nor, and I emphasize this, nor in any form politically, is this the text which no one has taken. The third point, I stress, is that no one can make such a commitment.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-13-m0.u22	Thank you, Minister. Please, People's Deputy Ostrikov, Self-Help.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-13-m0.u23	I have a question for the Foreign Minister. Mr. Klimkin, please explain paragraph 5 to me in the original language. “Ensure pardon and amnesty by enacting a law prohibiting the prosecution and punishment of persons in connection with events in selected areas of Donetsk and Luhansk regions.” How will this arrangement be legally implemented? Because we know that under the Criminal Code, this act of individual action by the President of Ukraine concerns a specific person. Is the President of Ukraine going to issue a decree according to his signature that will please the leaders of the militants of terrorist organizations?
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-13-m0.u24	The answer is simple. It sounds like no. Any action on the so-called amnesty will be carried out exclusively within the framework of the law that was discussed here in the Supreme Council. Moreover, such amnesty in no way, I emphasize, can in no way be given to those who have been involved and involved in crimes against humanity. This is an absolute position that was clearly highlighted in yesterday's negotiations. So again, amnesty exclusively, I emphasize, exclusively within the framework of the law that was discussed here in this room.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-13-m0.u25	Thank you. Please, People's Deputy Chicken, Peter Dusty Block.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-13-m0.u26	Dear Volodymyr Borisovich, reverend Gennady Grigorovich! Taking advantage of the opportunity that you are now answering and the questions addressed to Prime Minister Arsenija Petrovich Yatsenyuk, I would like to make an announcement this week that almost 200 Ukrainian national deputies had the honour of supporting the missile-space sector of our country. That's the South Car Factory. This issue, which brought together the patriotic forces of the Ukrainian Parliament, is a matter that needs an immediate solution. Because the company is temporarily shut down today, people don't get paid for almost seven months, Russian agencies are rocking the situation. And I am addressing you, to convey this collective appeal, which is really capable of making even any historic and political decisions, to the Prime Minister. Questions and requests for immediate solutions to this situation with the involvement of both the Ministry of Finance and the Ministry of Defence. I want to thank all the factions, and Oleg Lachka, and Julia Timoshenko, and my native faction, and all the national deputies who supported this proposal. I certainly didn't.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-13-m0.u27	Thank you. I understand that this does not need an answer, but it needs information. Thank you! Please, National Deputy Shinkovic, Peter Prashenko Block. Hennady Grigorovich, I ask you to give this address to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-13-m0.u28	National Deputy Shinkovic, 189th District, Hmeljničina. Dear Paul Valeriyovich, a question to you. Do you support the Ministry’s leadership and the need to make changes immediately, and to make payments for the child’s birth at the time of the payment, not at the time of the calculation of the aid? Because those 24 and 48 months we understand exactly what is going on, and what is the social assistance, and how much is it going to be at the time of payment in a few years, do you support the changes that are reflected in the bill by a group of national MPs? Thank you!
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-13-m0.u29	I think that all changes to any social legislation can take place only with a clear link to the economic possibilities of the state. Now there's a lot to talk about, and I can tell you, at least, ten positions that, in my view, need, as it were, reinforcements in terms of higher payouts, or linking them to inflation mechanisms, or calculations on inflation mechanisms. But we need to make it clear that the state today has to make effective use of the state resource that the Ukrainian economy is providing today. There is the Ukrainian State Budget Act and, within the framework of the Ukrainian State Budget Act, all social costs are incurred. If additional funds are found, including with the help of Ukrainian national deputies, that can be made available with a view to raising child support, helping disabled people to raise an additional pension, which will take place on December 1, 2013, 2015, I apologize. So the social ministry will certainly support these ideas. And I think Minfin will also be happy if there are additional incomes from the State budget of Ukraine that can be directed towards increasing social protection for the population.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-13-m0.u30	Thank you. Please, Yuri Anatoliovich Boyko, Opposition Block.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-13-m0.u31	Yuri Boyko, Opposition Block. I have a question for the Minister of Foreign Affairs. I think yesterday was a very important day for our country, we really got a real chance to end the military conflict diplomatically and in the discussions that win from this, in our view, the answer is clear. If implemented, signed in the Minsk Plan, Ukraine will win because there will be no tragedy and loss of life in our territory. We are aware that the President of Ukraine has assumed a colossal political responsibility for the implementation of the peace plan and we will support it. And so, Paul Anatolyovich, we have a question for you. How Parliament can help you to implement this peace plan and what needs to be done. And don't listen to any radicals, act in the interests of the country, and we will support you, tell you what is needed of Parliament.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-13-m0.u32	Thank you. I want to say that, as a minister, it would not be entirely right for me to advise Parliament what ways to help me choose, but nevertheless, consistently to promote those legislative acts that relate to the logic of decentralization will be an important contribution to the implementation of the peace plan.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-13-m0.u33	Thank you. Please, Oksana Jurinec, Peter Dust Block.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-13-m0.u34	Oksana Jurinec, 117 constituency, city of Lviv In two parts, my presentation will be: first, this is a big thank you to the Minister of Social Policy, Paul Rosenck, for his failure to raise the price for men in spite of all the circumstances before the IMF. Today, this is an example of an effective minister who knows. active civic position and understands what he's doing in his place. And the second. This question to the representative of the Ministry of Finance about the breakup that took place in the Lviv region, this is 178 million and four educational people, I ask you very much -- this is less than one percent. This is a very painful question to support the education community in this matter, so that the difference is still levelled with you. And 178.4 million today are needed by Lviv scholars. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-13-m0.u35	Thank you for asking. In the Lviv region, we're working on this issue together with the financial management and education management, and we're going to provide information on how it's going to be solved.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-13-m0.u36	Thank you. Sergey Leschenko, Peter Dustenka's Block.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-13-m0.u37	A question to Mr. Energy Minister about the situation with Skrnaft, which is now a state asset, but is controlled by the financial and industrial group of Igor Kolomojski. Please tell me, Minister, how can it be that the Ukranafta, which is essentially the daughter of a state-owned enterprise, is being tried by the state-run Naftegaza Ukraine? Mr. Minister, how can it be that Skrnafta is cutting off auctions for the sale of its own oil and not applying for the auction that was scheduled on January 16th? Sorry, February 16th. And please explain whether it's true that the Cremenchuccine NPP, which belongs to Mr. Kolomayski, is being continuously processed, while oil is not being imported into Ukraine, that is, in fact, oil is being converted into NPPs, which was to go to auctions and sell at a market price. So Skrnaft instead of selling oil at the auction, it actually pours it into the companies of Igor Kolomayski? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-13-m0.u38	Mr. Leschenko, thank you for asking. The auction, the last two auctions really didn't happen. The auction committee is currently considering the possibility of holding an extra auction during the following week. In principle, during January changes were made to the regulation, which forms the price, the minimum price for oil, the creased gas. And, in principle, that's the main reason that the last auctions didn't happen. In addition, one reason is that the currency changes are significant. I think I personally think that once the participants in this auction feel that the exchange rate has stabilized, and they get a clear understanding of the price of oil offered at the auction, that transaction will take place. Just the last auction took place on Friday, just on the day of the currency. The bracelet fell from 17 bracelets to 23. So I suspect that's the last auction. It was just for commercial reasons. The auction committee will meet next week and a new minimum price will be formed and I hope that such an auction will take place. As far as the courts of Naftogazu are concerned, well, they're actually commercial institutions, which, among other things, there's a regular claim. So it's hard for me to comment on why they're doing this. With regard to the auction committee, it is defined mainly by one-third of Mintopenergo's efforts, one-third is formed by representatives of the Ministry of Economics, and four out of ten have Naftogaz. So for the moment, this auction committee is formed, it works, it has full rights to make decisions. In principle, changes can happen very quickly. And if it does. I also heard that I have information that Skrnafta is planning to be brought to court, but the court has not yet taken place, there is no decision. When it does, we will react to the situation. Our decision to change the auction committee can be made very quickly. So I'm sure we'll assign him if we need him, and he'll be effective. It's about supplies. According to the information, once again, there are competent authorities that check the availability, confirm the availability of oil, technology, at NPP warehouses. This oil is in three places. Right now, I've been getting confirmation that this oil is in these warehouses. So I don't have, unfortunately, information that I could support your position, or your perception that there is no oil.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-13-m0.u39	Thank you. Please, Dmitri Kolesnikov, Opposition Block.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-13-m0.u40	Dmitry Kolesnikov, "The Opposition Block", the city of Curve Rig. I have a question for the Ministry of Finance. Yesterday's briefing by the Prime Minister of Ukraine revealed that the government is planning to borrow between $17 billion and $25 billion from various sources. The Ukrainian people, the honourable colleagues, the honorable government, already knows that any government arrangement, the more with the International Monetary Fund, is an increase in retirement age, an increase in community services. The next jump in the course is the bracelets, and as a result, the poverty of the people. From this question: What requirements does the International Monetary Fund present this time, and how long will the Cabinet of Ministers have to extend the belts of every Ukrainian citizen? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-13-m0.u41	Thank you for asking. As I have reported on the basic parameters and arrangements with the International Monetary Fund, it is currently ending, technical work is currently in progress to reconcile details and text. We are preparing to submit a letter of intent to the board of directors. As soon as this work is completed, once the negotiating process is completed, public and government, both the Supreme Council and the President will have the opportunity to explain their position, and the conditions under which the government will receive this funding. When it comes to stalling and increasing government debt, it is necessary to understand a very simple thing. Ukraine has lived for too many years with the illusion that tomorrow will never come, and today it is necessary to use all the opportunities and resources that are available. As a result, government debt has increased more than twice over the last five years. The biggest article in Ukraine's state budget for today is government debt service. Ukraine cannot continue to develop the spiral of debt dependence. Or we will change policies and approaches to the formation and state budget, and the commitment of the state in the way that it has been going on for the last 23 years, and as a result we will have a situation where not only will we have to tighten our belts but we will be determined to be able to exist in principle as an independent country. Therefore, without radical changes in both social, tax, fiscal, regulatory policies, it is not possible to get out of the crisis, both financially and politically, which is today in Ukraine. The International Monetary Fund is the lender of the last facility. Ukraine, given the state in which it has been unable to access any financial markets in these years without the support of the International Monetary Fund. That's why we and you have to make changes together, make reforms, including through the International Monetary Fund. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-13-m0.u42	Thank you. Please, National Deputy Brichenko, People's Front.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-13-m0.u43	Igor Brichenko, People's Front. Please pass the word Goose Igor.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-13-m0.u44	Please, National Deputy Gus.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-13-m0.u45	Good afternoon. I have a question for Mr. Demchikin. I represent 19 districts, Novovolinsk, Shakhtarsk. You were in the county on Saturday, glad you came and got to know the situation in the district, but... I have the next question. As instructed by Arsenius Yatsenuk, a memorandum was prepared for the working group. As far as I know, this memo was signed by only a few statesmen, a few deputies, but they didn't sign the unions, and you didn't sign it. I want to hear from you, what's the point? Are we once again facing the threat of the Nevolline Mine No. 10, and how will it be resolved today? Because I've already brought a piece of coal so big from Novovolinsk, Lightland ate. I think you and I are going to show everyone that coal when we review the budget. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-13-m0.u46	Mr. Gus, thank you for asking. Regarding the memo. The memorandum, indeed, has been signed by a rather long list of participants, including the Director of Mines, the Director of Unions signed by Zükov, and I signed it on our side. I've also spoken to fellow ministers, I understand that he is. This signing procedure also happens, just in this document more than 20 participants. That's why this technical signing procedure is delayed. In fact, all that's relevant to the reform of the coal industry is a very complex process, because it's really very important and social issues that arise when staff are optimized in mines and when they're closed. Unfortunately, there are a list of 35 mines that have remained under our control, which will still be closed, because for various reasons, there, and the stockpiles worked, and the technological conditions are extremely difficult to obtain. So there were so many participants in that memo. That's the program, it's approved. Why don't they sign trade unions? Well, part of the unions did sign it, part of the notes. So, in principle, I think that this process that's been going on for the last three weeks, it's been pretty constructive. And I think the results are very positive because we're extremely understanding that we have this development programme, reform, we understand the following steps. In addition, the basic indicators — the funds needed to support and build the Novovolin 10th and other funds needed to continue this transition reform process. They are defined, we, the Ministry has sent a message to the Cabinet of Ministers and accordingly these figures are discussed in the process of amending the budget. So I think it's a question for you now, for the MPs who should support this initiative in the process of agreeing on the changes to the budget. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-13-m0.u47	Thank you. Please, national deputy Eutuszek, Fatherland.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-13-m0.u48	Sergey Eutuszek, Equinox, Fatherland. I'd probably like to go to the minister of education, but I can see that he's not in the room right now, so in fact, I see the minister of finance, maybe you'll be commenting together on the situation that we've come to know that there's been negotiations that our teachers, the educators, are going to be taking off the prestige allowance, the cabinet allowance, the notebook checkers. And if these supplements are removed, the young specialist will get only 1,470 dollars, the one who already has a little bit more of an internship -- a thousand 800. We realize that those who support these families may now be protecting the Fatherland. Please tell me if this is true. Because educated people today need to be more secure. Because they continue to strengthen our nation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-13-m0.u49	Inna Sowsun, First Deputy Minister of Education and Science. I'll talk about funding teachers' salaries. No salary cuts, no allowance cuts, this is not the subject of discussion. This is the clear position of the Ministry of Education and Science, and this position finds understanding in the middle, in the Ministry of Finance. So today it's not about cutting wages, reducing allowances, or other changes that would result in lower wages for teachers in schools. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-13-m0.u50	Alexander Kugel, Fatherland.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-13-m0.u51	Thank you very much. Mr. Head, I would like to draw your attention to the government's knowledge that it's impossible not to come to the prime minister's first person on Friday. If we allow ourselves not to be present again on Government Day, there are vice-premiers present, and most ministers are not present. Sadly, the minister of health does not. More than two months have passed since the appointment, no reform. But what I'm saying is, it's a full-blown formation. Because one of the deputies starts to run it without having any experience. I still want you to tell the minister to stop corruption at the Cancer Institute. We've already written a lot of deputies to you. They have the right to choose the director, and you, as the Ministry, please appoint this person. If you don't stop doing corruption there, we're going to challenge you here to a committee on corruption. Stop at the Ministry and start reforming.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-13-m0.u52	Alona Tereshchenko, Deputy Minister of Health I would like to report that in connection with the termination of the contract between the Ministry of Health and the National Cancer Institute, the signed order for the release of Çepotín Igor Borisovich and the temporary appointment of another person to serve as director. In the near future, there will be a public election contest for the Director of the National Cancer Institute with clear requirements for this candidate, as well as for the commission where we plan to involve international experts. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-13-m0.u53	Thank you. Please, the People's Deputy of Matvienkov, the Opposition Block.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-13-m0.u54	Matvienkov, 57th Mariupol County, Opposition Block. I have a question with the Minister of Economics. The distinguished Minister, even a superficial analysis of the state of macroeconomic indicators, has led those who have been taught to do so to a slight shock. A negative trade balance has already increased by $13 billion. Investments have practically left the country. Whole industries are now on the verge of stopping. The VAT non-return system has led exporters to a whole non-payment chain with subsequent, emerging, social explosions. There is no comprehensive programme to address the economic crisis in the country. But we do not see any concrete steps taken on a particular enterprise. A month ago, when I was speaking from the rostrum, I was talking about the Azomash concert. The enterprise is 25,000 workers with enormous potential for defence industry, rail transport, tanks and so on. Not that any specific action on this enterprise, and it's urban, it's not taken, I didn't even get an answer until today. There are some incomprehensible instructions. Please tell me there will be some specific action.?
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-13-m0.u55	Please answer.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-13-m0.u56	Thank you for asking. He himself traveled the regions on Monday-Tuesday Poltava, Summa, Kremenchug, I know the difficulties of industrial enterprises. On Wednesday, last week, the Zamah, who is responsible for the industrial direction, will, of course, deal with this enterprise and all others who face great difficulties in connection with, including, the loss of markets, particularly with Russia and others. Therefore, your question is correct, the issue is understandable, we understand. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-13-m0.u57	Thank you. Please, National Deputy Victoria Ptrishnik.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-13-m0.u58	Please tell Paul Kishkar.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-13-m0.u59	Paul Kishkar, Self-help.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-13-m0.u60	Good afternoon! Two short questions. First to the Ministry of Infrastructure to conduct the Lviv airport management competition. The second question about the situation around Borispol Airport, which is the situation, because information is now coming, about the raiding of this important state-owned enterprise. And the general question to Mr. Klimkin, with your permission, about the participation of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs in the conduct of the information war, which measures are being used, how the attaché and our consulates, and the representations abroad inform the public abroad, transmit information to foreign media, and what is being done in this regard. Thank you!
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-13-m0.u61	Good afternoon! Thank you for asking! I don't know where that information came from. As for Lviv Airport, I believe that in two weeks he will be elected and appointed director of Lviv Airport, two weeks. Thank you!
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-13-m0.u62	Paul Klimkin, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-13-m0.u63	Thank you so much for asking! First of all, we're working on a completely different logic right now, not only does it work, but it's not just a diplomatic warehouse, it's working with those who support Ukraine, it's working with Ukrainians who live abroad all the time. Not only by appearing on the TV screen for ambassadors and diplomats, not only by appearing conditionally in an interview, but especially by being present on social networks, trying to work again not only with politicians, not only with parliamentarians, but also with those who are hurting for Ukraine. I mean, from the point of view. Anyone who somehow has a bearing on Ukraine through small urban partnerships, through small regional partnerships, through his business, academic connections, we try to get him into active support. You know what I mean by that is that it's to actively support Ukraine, not just compassion for Ukraine. Because that's the logic. And second moment. If we are here, together with Parliament, there is an idea of how Parliament can help. If everyone in bilateral and multilateral contacts does not coordinate with us in their parliamentary contacts, we will lose effectiveness. And consider this my call, my request, and my wish. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-13-m0.u64	Dear colleagues, the time has come for questions. But I'm going to take advantage of my right and I'm going to ask you a question about Kramatrsky, which is an extremely important major. Maxim Jephimov, Kramatorsky and then Olene Masorina, there's a question. Two questions.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-13-m0.u65	First. I would like to thank Paul Anatolievich Klimkin from all the inhabitants of Kramatorska, as well as other residents of the frontal towns of Donetsk and Lugansk, for the actions that have finally opened up a chance for people to live will return to normal life. Second. Thank you. The Minister of Finance, the Minister of Finance for 5 million bracelets for Kramatorska and ask Igor Ivanovich to monitor that money as quickly as possible in Kramatorsk. Because today those people who want this money, they're demanding it right now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-13-m0.u66	I ask you very briefly to answer, this will be the third question of the Head of the Halasyuk Committee. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-13-m0.u67	Thank you for asking. Let me answer very briefly, of course, we will do everything we can to get these funds to Kramatorsky as quickly as possible to finance the problems that unfortunately there is for today.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-13-m0.u68	Please, Olena Masorina, a question.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-13-m0.u69	Helen Masorina, People's Front faction. I have a question for the Minister of Social Policy. As a volunteer, I often face the problems of temporary displaced persons, who are now about a million, with 700,000 families. And they're asking for payments, with the help of the state, about 300,000 families have turned. But unfortunately, the suspension of aid to 4,000 733 families is according to the Ministry of Social Policy. In view of the fact that these people cannot find that they have not been employed, unfortunately there is much shortage of vacancies. And what to do to someone who's lost a place who can't find a job and can't be helped by the state. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-13-m0.u70	I am extremely grateful for this question because I have very many questions to ask the State Employment Service as soon as I am in office. And to tell you the truth, this service didn't seem to fully understand the situation of Ukraine today, and it wasn't the unemployment service that paid only unemployment benefits. And who is obliged, including, to maintain an active position of employment, including with regard to refugees. So, I've made a decision, and I hope you'll support it, with regard to the fundamental change in the management of the Employment Service. The head of the Employment Service will be released, which is a public decision that I have announced. Unfortunately, it's now starting to apply old methods that he's severely ill for a couple of months, nothing, we'll get through it, we've been trying and trying to block the employment service. But it's not going to stop us, the employment services will be reformed, and I think that this kind of staff crisis in the employment service, it's going to be perceived, including district and district employment services, exactly as to the need to provide quality employment services, first of all, to the unemployed. And by the way, I very much welcome the initiative of volunteer organizations that create their own, so-called labor markets, and they do, instead of, sometimes, government bodies help displaced people in employment. So I think we need to combine the efforts of the authorities of the Employment Service and volunteer organizations to really find employment opportunities for these people. Thank you, Minister.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-13-m0.u71	Thank you. Thank you. Please, 30 seconds, Victor Halasyuk. And I'd like to ask you the same short answer. Please, let's finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-13-m0.u72	Thank you. Thank you, Vladimir Borisovich. Dear colleagues, it's a matter for the government's financial and economic bloc. What is the current state of implementation of the eighth section of the coalition agreement on real-sector lending, on export incentives, on job creation in high-tech production? And the second question is, has the government considered the official proposals of the Radical Party of Change to Ukraine's State Budget to turn it into a tool for recovery of economic growth?
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-13-m0.u73	Thank you. Please, 30 seconds is the answer.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-13-m0.u74	On the other side. Thank you for asking. Tomorrow at a government meeting, we will consider proposals from both the principals of the funds and the factions and the national deputies, and decisions will be taken. For the first part, I think the Minister of Economics would be better off answering.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-13-m0.u75	As for economic growth, too, Mr. Galasjuk, we invite us to visit on Monday. Your proposals will be considered. Here I appoint my chief adviser on Monday Ivan Mikloša, former Deputy Prime Minister of Slovakia, who will help us with his advice.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-13-m0.u76	Thank you, Minister. Dear colleagues, the "hour of questions to the government" has come to an end. I thank the members of the Cabinet for their answers, and I wish you success in your work. We continue our consideration of the issues. Time is up, we continue to consider matters of the order of the day. Let's talk about it. We have now 30 minutes to ask, but only 4 of these questions need a vote. So I'd say we're going to look at four questions now, and then we're going to look at the agenda. Because there are a number of regulations and laws that we have important to consider in order to vote, and then there will be requests from MPs who do not need to vote. Do you accept such an offer, fellow believers? Roger that. Thank you. I ask the Secretariat to invite the people's deputies to the hall. People's deputies please take up their jobs. Let's try to make a signal vote. Please take your seats. Take your seats, dear fellows. Please take your seats. Please, Oksana Ivanovna Siroid. Ask.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-13-m0.u77	Dear colleagues, in accordance with article 225 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Rules, we should consider the parliamentary requests to the President in two stages. And such questions need the support of the hall. So I would very much ask my fellow members to come into the hall and take their seats, because your colleagues' requests will need your support. The procedure is that the request must first receive 150 votes of your support in order to become a request. Then 226 votes to be sent to the President of Ukraine. So I'd like everyone to take a seat. The following questions came from the people's deputies to the President of Ukraine: From Stephen Barna to the President of Ukraine on the withdrawal of the status of the Hero of Ukraine. I'm asking for support. None. Dear National Deputies! Procedure. Please wait for the honourable national MPs! In fact, questions need to be formulated in such a way that they do not need to be commented on. In this case, I ask that 30 seconds be given to the national MP, Stepan Barney, to tell whom this question concerns. But in the future, I'm asking you to write it this way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-13-m0.u78	Stepan Barna, Petra Dustenka's Block. Dear colleagues, I am asking the President of Ukraine to denounc the name Hero of Ukraine of those who have changed the citizenship of Ukraine, have taken a separatist position and are living in Crimea today. In particular, Dutch, Bakulin and other "heroes" who betrayed the Ukrainian state. I think that's the principle and the right position. [[Applause]] Because these people are still using the status of the name Hero of Ukraine, but they've actually been betrayed.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-13-m0.u79	Colleagues, listen very carefully so that we do not confuse anything. There's a request from the MP. This request was read by the MP. Next, national MPs vote whether they support or not. There's nothing to comment on. It's all very clear here. Please, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-13-m0.u80	That's it, thank you. I'm betting on support. Please be supportive. Yes. To support. [[11:21:37]] For-170. 150 should? It was wrong on the board. 150? Supported? Yes. I now put to the vote the request of the People's Deputy Stephen Barna to the President of Ukraine. Please be supportive. [[11:22:20]] For-179 Unfortunately, no decision is made. The request of national deputy Taras Batenk to the President of Ukraine for the title of Hero of Ukraine to the legendary hundredth UPA of Miroslav Simchich for the heroic arms struggle against the invaders, the long-standing support and protection of political prisoners in the Stalin-coastal camps, the active work of national patriotic education and the outstanding merit of the state. I'm betting on support. Please be supportive. [[11:23:03]] For-182
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-13-m0.u81	Ladies and gentlemen, let's take our seats. Please take your seats, distinguished national MPs, and we will try to vote again in a belligerent manner. Let's make a signal vote. Well, maybe they don't support the request, this is the case, but we're going to vote on the number of deputies who are willing to vote actively. Ready? Please give me an alert. Please. Signal. Signal. [[11:23:42]] For 193 No, there is, but the national MPs are coming along. Now let's try again. Ladies and gentlemen, please take your seats in the hall. I would like to ask the leaders of factions and groups, please invite the national MPs to take their seats and calm down, please. We have a meeting this morning before 2:00, and we can quickly determine whether or not to vote, but we need to take our seats first. Please re-vote. Identify yourself, national deputies. Please, we all vote. [[11:24:38]] For 214 No votes. Let's try it again. Here come the national MPs, come in, come in. Ladies and gentlemen, please take your seats. Maxim Yuriovich, ask your colleague to take their seats. I will now personally contact you so that I do not lose contact with my colleagues. Thank you. Let's re-vote. Ladies and gentlemen, please take your place. Please. Thank you. You see, when I address myself, more votes. [[11:25:30.]] For 228 228 is serious. Now please don't let anyone out of the room, close the door to the Parliament Hall, and we'll only be out in two hours. We leave at two o'clock. , close up there. And Andrew Anatolyovich Teteruk, close the door. All of it. No one's coming out. That's right, Paul, that's right. Colleagues, let's move on. Please, please, please. Let's go back to Barney's question. Please read the request again, and we will vote again.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-13-m0.u82	Please come back, you have to go back to the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-13-m0.u83	That's better.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-13-m0.u84	Yeah.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-13-m0.u85	Stepan Barney, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-13-m0.u86	Stepan Barna's request to the President of Ukraine to suspend the status of a hero of Ukraine. I'm betting on the vote on sending it to the President of Ukraine. The request was supported. Now I'm asking for directions. What is it? [[11:26:47]] For 224
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-13-m0.u87	Yes. No, no, no. Look, colleagues. Look, colleagues, [[B in m in s a l in]] We vote not by talking, but by clicking on a button. Calm down, please. Once again, I'm asking Stepan Barney to vote. [[B in m in s a l in]] I just, well, here I am. I won't comment, okay. Please vote, Your Honor. Stepan Barney's request, please. Vote. Bravo. Way to go, national MPs, bravo. [[11:27:47]] For 234 Thank you. [[Applause]] Come on, please. No one leaves their seats. We've got you. Come on, please. And quieter, if possible, a little quieter. Our colleague is about to read it so everyone can hear it. Thank you. Thank you for understanding.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-13-m0.u88	Once again, honourable national deputies, the request of Taras Batenck to the President of Ukraine. I ask you to assign the title "Heroy of Ukraine" to the legendary hundreds of UPAs.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-13-m0.u89	I'm sorry. Minister Demchishin, thank you for an hour of government. Dear Minister Rosenko, thank you for an hour of government. I wish you luck. We're working on it.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-13-m0.u90	Dear colleagues, once again, Taras Batenk's request to the President of Ukraine to assign the title "Heroy of Ukraine" to the legendary UPA, Miroslav Simchich, for his heroic armed struggle against the invaders, his many years of support and protection of prisoners and brothers in the Stalin-Breaking camps, his active work with national patriotic education and his outstanding merits to the state. The request was supported and I'm putting the vote to the President. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-13-m0.u91	Please. Please vote. [[11:29:17]] For 234 Decision taken.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-13-m0.u92	Thank you. Next request by Yuri-Bogdan Shuhevich to the President of Ukraine for the full quality official translation of the Hague Convention on the Laws and Customs of Land War of 18 October 1907 and for the correction of the erroneous position of the Ministry of Justice of Ukraine that this Convention is not valid for Ukraine, as are all other international treaties ratified by the Soviet Union, which Ukraine has not reported on the succession, since such a report is not provided for in article 34 of the Vienna Convention of 23 August 1978 on the Legal Intervention of States on Contracts, nor in article 7 of the Ukrainian Law of 12 September 1991 on the Entity of Ukraine. I'm asking for support. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-13-m0.u93	Vote please, Your Honor! Thank you, fellows of honor! [[11:30:27]] For 233
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-13-m0.u94	Thank you, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-13-m0.u95	I'm asking for it. No, no, it was just support. I now place my vote on the President's motion. Please support me. [[11:30:50.]] For 229 Another request from National Deputy Michael Golovk to the President of Ukraine for violations of anticorruption legislation was made by the incumbent of the Ternopil district administration, John Krisak. I'm asking for support. Please be supportive. [[11:31:20]] For 199 I would like to vote on the request to the President of Ukraine. Please be supportive. [[11:31:42]] For 203
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-13-m0.u96	Yes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-13-m0.u97	Thank you! Dear colleagues, I would like to ask you to focus on one question, please listen very carefully. This question does not need to be included in the agenda, but it does apply to local self - government, in what context? You and I have adopted the Ukrainian Law on Voluntary Unions of Territorial Communities, which stipulates that the Cabinet of Ministers determines the merger of a voluntary, district administration, based on this methodology, does the unification scheme, the district council approves, and then again agrees with the Cabinet of Ministers, this is the case in the current situation. I'm proposing a rule that will allow, attention, the Cabinet of Ministers is doing the methodology, this method is doing as a scheme, the district government administration, and it's approved by the district council, without being reconfirmed, because there's going to be a conflict through the Cabinet of Ministers. I can see that Mikola Fedoruk says no. But I don't understand why not? Would you please tell me, Mikola Fedoruk?
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-13-m0.u98	The point is that as we remove the Cabinet of Ministers, we remove, Vladimir Borisovich, the Cabinet of Ministers from the implementation of this law, and that all the work that you've done, including those that you can do, can go on with the screwdriver. We've been discussing this question, "The People's Front" is not going to vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-13-m0.u99	Mikola Trochymovich, once again, the method of consent is agreed upon by the Cabinet of Ministers. So he's asking how to do this, then, the government, the executive structure of the central government does it, and the district council approves it. Why go back to the government again, is that a double job? I think it might be a brake right now. Shall we? I just think it's a kind of misunderstanding in understanding. Please, People's Deputy Chicken. Please don't leave, because it's very important that I sign it today. It will work anyway, but it will. Listen carefully.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-13-m0.u100	Dear colleagues, if you and I have really taken a course towards decentralization of power, we need to be consistent in this matter. I want to tell you that the normal, very good and good law that we've laid the groundwork for the renewal of power on the ground needs to be made more effective in order for it to have a successful practice of implementation. They've changed their minds. They've settled the issue a little bit. And that's why, in order to simplify and make it more real for execution, you have to make technical adjustments, as for me. That's why I think we need to support the proposal that Vladimir Borisovich has just made, which will be useful and effective. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-13-m0.u101	Thank you. Please, from the People's Front, Boyko, please. Let's listen carefully, it'll take us three more minutes, but Mikola Trochymovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-13-m0.u102	Dear colleagues! Helen Boyko, People's Front. Please do not vote in favour of such an amendment in view of the regulatory function of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. Imagine what the methodology is, indeed, the Cabinet of Ministers agrees, of course, with the government, with the local councils. Nevertheless, the Cabinet of Ministers, as a regulatory body, must be aware of what is going on below. This is not a control function, it is not a removal of local self-government, it is a reconciliation, including some budgetary processes. Please leave the first reading in the editor. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-13-m0.u103	Colleagues. Let's not be, I understand there's a difference of opinion, because it's not fully properly informed by the Ministry of the faction, not quite right. And once again, I'm not even going to put this question to a vote, because it won't vote so it doesn't split. But I'm stressing, look again, one more time. The Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine is developing a methodology that is based on this methodology, a district government that is formed as an executive body of government, forming a scheme. This is the pattern that the district council should establish. The district council has confirmed everything. So the two authorities of the state take part in this as the Cabinet of Ministers -- the methodology that, as it should be, the government forms this. So there can be no violations at all, and the district council, as an authority that forms the territorial basis of the area, approves it as a representative. Why, then, when it's confirmed, why go back to Kabmin? So that one official in some office would sit there and say, "That's right or wrong, that's a brake." But I'm not going to put it to a vote so it doesn't break the hall. It's a deal, that's all. We'll sign this if we have to -- we'll work on this question, but I'd like to take into account in my position what I've just informed you. Thank you, Your Honor. Let's move on. We have several regulations that need approval. In particular, the Supreme Council's decree to amend the Supreme Council of Ukraine's Order on the Election of Heads, First Deputys, Deputy Heads of Committees (registration No. 2041). I ask the National Deputies to take their seats, please, this is an organizational matter. National Deputy Krivenko, National Deputy Unguryan, National Deputy Krivenko, National Deputy Unguryan, please take your places to vote. Thank you so much for this. Please, Your Honor, the decision is to consider it as a basis and as a whole. For your consideration, Your Honorary Colleagues, a draft decree is being introduced. Yuri Vitaliovich, Yuri Vitaliovich You have been given a ruling (registration number 2041), a draft regulation amending the Supreme Council of Ukraine decree on the election of heads, first deputies, deputy heads, secretaries, members of the Committees of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the eighth vocation and election of the Head of the Special Supervisory Commission of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on matters of privatization. Project submission from the 6th. I would like to vote on the basis and in general, on the basis and in general, on the basis and in general. [[11:39:12]] For 223 Ladies and gentlemen of the National Parliament, please take your seats. Please, Alexander Trelyakov, please organize a colleague in the hall. Thank you very much. Please, let's go back. 2041. Oh, the staff don't need it, right. Decision 2041 is brought to your attention. In general. Please vote. 2041 as a whole. Please vote. 2041 as a whole. [[11:40:02]] For 235 That's better. Thank you. Decision taken. The next Order is 2042. 2042 is also a staff decision by the Regulatory Committee. Please vote as a whole in accordance with the ruling of the Regulatory Committee. They're concentrating! In general. 2042, please vote. Vote please, Your Honor. [[11:40:39]] For 240 Thank you very much. Next, dear colleagues. I propose a short-term draft regulation 1842: draft Decision on the Referral of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to the Attorney-General of Ukraine on the involvement of deputies of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea and the Sevastopol City Council. The reporter is Anton Heratchenko. Is there a need to report? You don't? Vote. 2042 we have already voted. The vote was 2042, and 41 voted. Please, registration number 1842, you've heard the name of this order. In general, I ask you to vote. Please vote in general. In general, I would like to vote 2042. Ouch! 1842, 1842. [[11:41:35]] For 221 Let's go back. To return to 1842. [[11:41:57]] For 227 Decision taken. Please, Yuri Lucenko. Ah, we're back, aren't we? We're back. One minute. 1842 – on the basis and in general – of the Appeal to the Attorney General, a colleague. Decision to refer to the Attorney General of Ukraine concerning the deputies of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea and the Sevastopol City Council. This has to do with their actions. Please vote on the basis as a whole. Please vote. Please vote, vote, vote. [[11:42:37]] For 229 Decision taken. Dear colleagues! I'd like to listen very carefully to Yuri Lucenk. Please, Yuri Lucenko. Let us listen carefully.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-13-m0.u104	Dear Mr. Head, honourable deputies! I'm sorry. We haven't been able to raise our hand. Act 2042, which forms the Special Committee on Privatization, as agreed by the chairman of this commission, Boris Filatov, a representative of our faction, Paul Rizanenko, to record what he is there as a substitute. Not the first deputy, the deputy. I'd like to either record it or vote on it. This is consistent with both the commission and the faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-13-m0.u105	I don't think there's any objection to that and there's no need to vote. We'll take into account the protocol. All right, let's vote change -- first deputy to deputy. Right? First intercessor. Paul, did I get it right? Rizanenko is the deputy head of this commission. Once again for the protocol, we will now vote on this proposal and include it in this decree: 2042. Is it accepted? Vote. Clarification, clarification, Rizanenko is the deputy to this commission. Please vote. Not the first deputy, the deputy. [[11:44:19]] For 219 Colleagues, there is a national MP, Rizanenko. He's making that offer. Well, why? We didn't make it. Let me put this proposal to the vote again. Please vote, Your Honor, mobilize. Go back to the hall. Go back to the hall. [[B in m in s a l in]] Please release the pass. And Lechchenko is to return to her place of work in the session room triumphantly. Dear colleagues, they've focused. Once again, I'm putting a motion for a vote. Let's support our colleague Rizanenko's proposal. A replacement from the first deputy to the Deputy National Vice-Deputy Rizanenko. We vote as a clarification to Decree 2042. Please vote. Please be supportive. Please, let's support it. [[11:45:41]] For 242 Decision taken. Thank you, Your Honor. Let us move on to the day - to - day issues. We have a number of drafts with you on the first reading. Since I have a very important negotiation planned for 12 hours, I would like to hand over the conduct of Andrew Volodymyrovich Parubia, the host of the session. And please, please, look, we don't have fifteen twelve.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-13-m0.u106	Ladies and gentlemen, we have only four bills left. They are not all complex, they are not all questionable. And that's why I'm asking everyone to concentrate. I suggest.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-13-m0.u107	Wait a minute, wait a minute, respectable colleagues. As soon as the National Deputy Lechchenko came up, he said that he had just seen, rather than a personal vote, a national deputy named Geller. Do we have Eugene Geller? [[B in m in s a l in]] Where is he? He's gone. Is it? Eugene Geller, please. Please take the regulatory committee. Please hold a brief meeting with Paul Pinzenik, the Regulatory Committee and Eugene Geller, and identify yourself. If this was a fact, then we'll testify to it. Dear colleagues, let's move on. I'm handing over the session to Andrew Paris. I'm just asking, let's mobilize. I., right, here. I'm going to put in a motion to vote on the end of the day without interruption. Come on, let's keep working until 2:00. meetings. Please. We're working all the time, please support. [[11:48:08]] For 216 [[B in m in s a l in]] Please, let's do it again. Please, let's do it again. No break until 2:00. [[B in m in s a l in]] Please, don't stop, don't stop until 2:00. Vote! Please vote. Vote! We're working all the time, please support. [[11:48:48]] For 225 [[B in m in s a l in]] Let's mobilize. [[B in m in s a l in]] You're in a very good mood. That's good. That's good. Please, we're working all the time until 2:00. Please vote. Until the daytime order is exhausted, please, 2 o'clock. [[11:49:24]] For 233 That's better. Yes, once again, close the door and don't let anyone out except me. Please, Andrew Parobius.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-13-m0.u108	I'm already betting on the vote, Mr. Sergei. Thus, the Presidency was informed that a non-personal vote had taken place, and there was a request for a vote on the last staff question regarding the appointment of a substitute for Rizanenka. I am very much asking all the deputies to concentrate, and I very much ask that we all be in place and that, in view of the information that has come to us about the non-personal vote, we vote on the proposal to complete the proposal as a substitute for the Risannenka. I'm very much asking you to vote now and move on at work. Who's in? Please vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-13-m0.u109	Let's vote and vote, fellows! Vote! Paul Rizanenko. [[11:50:26]] For 233 Thank you! And please, Sergey Lechchenka, please provide information. No, not so, but please provide information that this fact has been fixed. And for the future, please write a statement, add facts, and then there will be a vote. Thank you, fellows of honor!
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-13-m0.u110	And, dear fellows, Mr. Sergio, I ask you not to interrupt our work any more! I'm asking you to take your seat, Mr. Sergey! And I have an appeal to all the deputies. Dear colleagues, there are four laws left, we have them now, they're all very important, or we're going to run them now, or they're all going to fall. So I propose that we today put aside a little bit of the old tradition of discussion and be able to vote in favour of each of these laws, maybe with a short report and then on the basis, and in general, we can have a broader discussion in other days. And now I'm going to ask you quickly, effectively, no one out of the room, the faction leaders who are at the edges, take responsibility, and I'm going to ask you to go to the discussion. So, the first bill, the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Tax Code (1833) is the draft law on the preparation, production, distribution of books and periodicals of printed media of domestic production, for 30 seconds Yuri Lucenka, the author of the bill, and then we immediately vote. No discussion, no association, like a northern neighbor. Please turn on Yuri Lucenko's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-13-m0.u111	Honorable Chairman, Honorable Colleagues, Today Friday 13. Let's do something good on this difficult day. I think victory on the front could be when there is victory in the heads of all Ukrainians. Let's all go together, the national MPs of all political views, support the Ukrainian book, because that's what the lack of separatism started with, and that's where victory can start in the heads of all Ukrainians. Please support the proposal made by the bookkeeping experts who made the proposal, and it was voted in the budget process because of Minfin's harmful position. Please now, in a direct text, in the first reading and in general provide the Ukrainian book with State support. Vote for victory over the enemy in your head.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-13-m0.u112	Thank you, Your Honor. Wait a second. Some MPs say they are not ready to vote if there is no discussion. So I ask who insists, to give one speech and then to vote. Agreed. Then, please, the Self-Help faction. Okay. Please, Yegor Sobolev. Ostrika's Tetjana, please. I'll give it to you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-13-m0.u113	Dear colleagues, the Self-Help faction generally supports the idea of the need to pay benefits and tax exemptions by adding the value of Ukrainian books and book products, but there is one question that I would like to clarify. The text of the proposed changes also states that VAT is exempt from delivery and distribution services. And here's the question, why do we fire, in fact, these are the services provided by the book companies, why do we fire them?
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-13-m0.u114	Thank you very much. And from the committee, I want to give Mikola to the Prince, so that he can tell the committee's position.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-13-m0.u115	Thank you. Our committee was second here, but we fully supported this bill, just as Mr. Nasirov's committee supported it. I want to tell you that the delivery and distribution services, and now in the current code, they belong here, the delivery and distribution of the printed press, we've added books here, and that works now. Thank you. Please support, I will be grateful for your support. That's how it works now, because it's the delivery of Ukrainian press and books to stores, not our change, we've added more books, not just the press, but the production of books.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-13-m0.u116	Thank you. Please, one line, Oleg Lazko.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-13-m0.u117	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. Dear Lord Chairman! I strongly disagree with you that the Supreme Council is no place for discussion. We have come together to defend our own position and position. But as for supporting the Lucenka Bill, supporting the Ukrainian Book, of course, the Radical Party factions will unanimously support it.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-13-m0.u118	Thank you very much. Let me just remind you that our responsibility to the electorate is to be in the working room and vote for the laws that Ukraine needs. There is a proposal that we put the bill to the vote. Ready to vote? So there is a proposal to vote on the draft Law on Amendments to the Tax Code of Ukraine, (1833), as a basis and as a whole. Please prepare for the vote and please vote. Please vote. [[11:56:32]] For 235 Thank you. [[Applause]] And we're moving on to the next draft of the Act amending article 19 of the Ukrainian Police Act, Bill number (1706). The report invites the national MP, Andrew Teteruk. You're welcome as much as you can, Andrew.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-13-m0.u119	Dear Head, dear fellow MPs. I strongly ask for the support of a bill that will allow us to make changes to article 19 of the Police Act. We need to fix the situation when the militias who are captured or missing are not provided with money. The adoption of this law will allow us to support the families of the militias and enable them not to live in a difficult situation. I'm very convincingly asking every MP in the room to vote in favour and to adopt this law as a basis, in short. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-13-m0.u120	Thank you very much. Thus, the chairman of the Committee on Legislative Protection of Cosemiakin Andrew is invited to the floor. You're welcome, too.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-13-m0.u121	Dear colleagues, I thank Andrew Teteruk for his legal validity. Because this bill was actually considered on a committee, supported. But with an offer to accept it today, and we're turning to the committee as a basis. In order to be able to bring these legal remedies before we are considered in a simplified procedure. Because there are questions that need to be adjusted a little bit. So I would like you to support the committee's decision on the basis. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-13-m0.u122	Thank you very much. The committee proposes to accept only as a basis. Is there an urgent need, or is there a desire to speak? There is, please, Kishkar, a national MP. Please turn on the microphone. Deputy Kishkar, turn it on. Oh, we're on.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-13-m0.u123	Paul Kishkar, "self-help" faction. We have warnings, of course. We will support the adoption of this bill as a basis. I would like to draw particular attention to the fact that our valiant militia is the foundation of separatism in eastern Ukraine. And so when we define the category of persons who need to keep their money, we need to isolate and anticipate this institution for those people who are in the units of the DNR and the LNR. Let us pay attention to these things. I think Mr. Cosmackin and I are sure to talk about this. And yes, the Self-Help faction will support this bill as a basis.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-13-m0.u124	Thank you very much. So we have a committee position so that the bill is adopted as a basis. That's why I'm asking the people's deputies to prepare themselves for the vote. The bill amending article 19 of the Ukrainian Police Act (1706) is now being voted on as a basis. Please vote. Please. [[12:00:20]] For 238. Thank you. We turn to the following draft law: draft Act amending the Ukrainian Police Act (for payment of one-time cash assistance in the event of death or death of a police officer) (No. 1364). Reported to Tetjana Czarnovol, National Deputy. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-13-m0.u125	A long time ago, both military and police officers are on the front line. I mean, both the military, and the National Guard, and volunteer militia battalions. But there are, unfortunately, different systems and sums of payments to families in the event of the death of a protector. The militias are getting less. This bill is called to balance. In fact, these payments are now balanced but balanced by the Cabinet’s decision. By voting in favour of this bill, we balance them in the law, which is actually legalizing the situation that currently exists. There are also some changes in the law regarding certain details. For example, the law to which changes are proposed provides for payment in the event of death to a militiaman who has performed his duties in the protection of public order or in the fight against crime. Here it is suggested — in carrying out their duties.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-13-m0.u126	Please, let me finish for 20 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-13-m0.u127	One more second. I'm asking you to support this bill as a whole. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-13-m0.u128	Thank you very much. I'm asking you to express the opinion of the committee, the position of the committee. Andrew Kozemyakin, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-13-m0.u129	Andrew Volodymyrovich, please give me two minutes. Because it's important. I need to explain something.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-13-m0.u130	I'll continue, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-13-m0.u131	The committee considered this bill, prepared by our colleagues, on amending the Ukrainian Police Act (for payment of one-time cash assistance in the event of death or death of a police officer). Today, the question is particularly pressing, well, I will not explain to you the cost of life and health of a police officer, as told by Mrs. Tetjana, who is involved in fighting in the area of the East Anti - Terrorism Operation. In the event of the death of a police officer, family members and in the absence of parents or detainees, assistance is paid in accordance with article 23 of the Police Act in the size of a 10-year-old life insurance policy. Payments are regulated by the Kabminu decree. Paragraph 3 of this Regulation provides that the financial security from which the financial assistance of a police officer is paid includes an official salary, a special-title salary, a retirement allowance and a monthly allowance in size.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-13-m0.u132	Please give me 50 seconds to complete.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-13-m0.u133	That's what it takes for a stenographer. Interest on financial security. The 100 percent allowance for the current period has been cancelled. As a result of a substantial decrease in the amount of insurance payments. Taking into account that the area of the Anti-Terrorism Operation is attended by members of the military and middle-level internal affairs bodies and that their monthly financial security amounts to between 2 and 4 thousand dollars, family members will receive a 10 - year allowance of 100 - 150 thousand dollars if they die. The main scientific and expert management, without notice, recommends accepting it as a basis. The committee, after considering the bill in detail, recommends that it be accepted as a basis and generally as a matter of fact.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-13-m0.u134	Thank you. Thank you for the committee position. Who's pushing for it. Please. Excuse me, if anyone insists, we'll give our word anyway. Please, Kishkar is a word. Turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-13-m0.u135	The Self-Help faction, of course, supports this initiative. I would like to point out that in the process of reforming the Ministry of Internal Affairs, when this is already being created and drafted by the Ukrainian Police Act, it is imperative that these categories be defined separately by law as participants in hostilities. So if we're introducing a system, for example, an electronic calculation of the participation of those or other categories in combat operations, we have to recognize this as a separate category, and for them to provide for any payment, regardless of which force structure this person belongs to. If she was involved in combat, then all social standards must be unique to all these people. I think that's what Mr. Cosemiakin will take into account in the drafting and drafting of the Ukrainian Police Act. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-13-m0.u136	Thank you. Ready for the vote? I suggest that we return to the workplaces that were leaving be in full readiness. So the bill amending the Ukrainian Police Act (for the payment of one-time cash assistance in the event of the death of a police officer) (No. 1364) is therefore put to the vote on the basis and in general. Please be supportive. Please vote. [[12:06:09]] For 235 Thank you. Thank you for working so closely, so professionally. Next draft of the Act amending article 22 of the Ukrainian Police Act to comply with the Labour Code (No. 1804). King Viktor Mikolaiovich of Ukraine is invited to the report. I'm going to ask you as concisely as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-13-m0.u137	Thank you. I'd like to point out that this is the last law, so I'd like to ask you to remain as far as the police is concerned. Here the previous laws have explained both money and wages, and actions, and the purpose of this law. So, in short, I want to offer you the following. To amend the Police Act accordingly in article 22 of the following content: "The rules of the Ukrainian Labour Code are extended to employees of internal affairs bodies, including pay on overtime, nighttime, weekends and holidays. Internal affairs compensation is made up of an average monthly amount of cash. Next. Orderly, the involvement of internal affairs officials in overtime and night work, on weekends and holidays, and the payment of the corresponding compensation shall be determined by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine." Therefore, Your Honor, I will not.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-13-m0.u138	10 seconds to complete the opportunity.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-13-m0.u139	Please support and vote. Thank you. In support, by the way. Yeah. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-13-m0.u140	Thank you. The report invites the head of the Law Enforcement Committee, Kozemiakin Andriy Anatoliyovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-13-m0.u141	Thank you. The honourable presiding, honourable colleagues, indeed, as Victor Mikolaiovich said, is a bill aimed at protecting the labour rights of the police. This is the goal that we propose to achieve by means of a new edition of section 20 and article 13 of the Ukrainian Police Act 22. That is, by extending to employees internal affairs the Code of Laws on Ukraine's work in part of overtime and nighttime wages, on weekends and holidays. Therefore, the committee, after considering the bill, recommends that it be accepted as a whole. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-13-m0.u142	Thank you very much. Please, who? Kishkar. Again, please give him your word, turn on the microphone and.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-13-m0.u143	Dear colleagues, we're really worried about the large amount of work that is now relying on our investigating bodies and in general on the bodies of the militia. But.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-13-m0.u144	Don't leave the hall, MPs, please come back.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-13-m0.u145	We're taking and grasping some of the other moments, that's three laws in a row about improving the system, including the financial security of the militias without structural change. So for me, in my head, structural change is an electronic bill, for example, the working hours of the militia. These are structural changes in the amount of money and the amount of time spent on this job. Today we're just talking about increasing, increasing, no structural changes. Self-help will persist in the fact that with the development of the Ukrainian Police Act, these were structural changes in both the money supply and the working time, and in the calculation of the workload on one investigator, to make these real structural changes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-13-m0.u146	Thank you. Please, Sidorovich. Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-13-m0.u147	As we consider the bill, we need to be very clear that all the laws we adopt must be logical and interrelated. In this case, there is an extension of the provisions on the conduct of the service of the Police Act, the Regulations on the conduct of the service, and the Disciplinary Statute. As we spread the rules from the KPCP, the Code of Laws on Ukraine's work to militia personnel, we create a legal confusion. Any law must be logical and interrelated. All matters related to the conduct of the service are dealt with in accordance with the Code of Administration. As we extend KPCP standards to police personnel, we create the wrong horizontal links between completely different legal acts. Therefore, it is impossible to vote in favour of this law. There is a need to change the situation of police officers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-13-m0.u148	Thank you. There's a deputy in the hall. I'm asking you to give him your word for it. Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-13-m0.u149	Ladies and gentlemen, the Ministry of Social Policy is urging you not to vote in favour of this law. Military personnel, military formations, the special composition of law enforcement agencies assigned to military special duties are not based on a labour contract with enterprises, institutions, organizations, and they receive financial security rather than on a salary, and their legal and social status is governed by separate legislation on these organs, not by civil law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-13-m0.u150	So a replica of the last for the author of King Viktor Mikolaiovich's bill. Please, 30 seconds. King Viktor Mikolaiovich, turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-13-m0.u151	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, that's the thing that says it's on the paper somewhere. It's not agreed, it's not implemented. What's more, there's a big difference between civil wages, wages, and the money retention that we just talked about. These differences are taken away from us in this law. In addition, it is a very large request from the organizations of internal affairs because people are in an extremely difficult condition. If you see it, it's the police.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-13-m0.u152	Thank you very much. Dear colleagues, look, we have no unity on this issue at all. The committee offered as a basis and as a whole. I think there's going to be a compromise position if we vote for the basis and then we can work out and correct the inaccuracies. Is such a position taken as a basis? You're not taking it? You're not taking it, are you? Well, anyway, I have to put it to a vote. So I'd like to ask the deputies to return to the hall. And with a motive, Yuri Vitaliovich Lucenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-13-m0.u153	Dear colleagues, yesterday we voted in favour of the law that took away the unnecessary functions of UBZ regarding generals, colonels, and so forth. Yesterday we emphasized our respect for the regular opera, the one who really fights crime. Today’s law also helps those real militias who work overtime on weekends without pay at all. Think about it, all the other ministries have such allowances and only the Ministry doesn't have them. I think a private opera needs to be supported. Keep this law. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-13-m0.u154	Thank you. So I put the vote first on the basis. The draft law amending article 22 of the Ukrainian Police Act, Law No. 1804, is put to the vote. The law is based on the vote. I'd like to make a statement. Please vote. [[12:14:42]] For 197 Thank you. Unfortunately, there was no need for the required number of votes. So we can now return to the committee for further work. So let us unite and return to the drafting of the bill to the committee. I would like to vote in favour of returning to the committee to elaborate the draft Act amending article 23 of the Ukrainian Police Act 1804. Please vote for the return. [[12:15:26]] For 217 I don't think they've made it. We're going back to the vote. Please return to the vote in 1804. Vote. [[12:15:53]] For 217 Unfortunately, there are no votes. And that's why the bill is rejected. And now we've finished our vote. The next Rules of Work will thus be built. Now, when you read the questions by 1:00, at 1:00, you'll be in "different." Please sign up for the "different" performance at 1:00 p.m. People's deputies would like to sign up for different shows. Please turn on the system. The recording took place, but I'm reminding you that we're going to start the speeches after reading the MP's questions, and there's a huge amount of them coming together, and in order for them to work, we have to read them. And so now I'm going to start reading the MP's questions, and at one o'clock I'm going to start a speech from the rostrum of those who signed up. I'm asking you very much, when someone changes their speech to someone else, let them put it in writing. Thank you very much. So I read the MP's questions: Viktor Razwadowski to Prime Minister of Ukraine for funding in full amount of 20 per cent of the allowance to teaching staff in the Wonderland region of Žitomir. Victor Razwadowski to the Minister of Education and Science of Ukraine on the preservation of the Yearly School of Education of the 1st grade Romanov Region of the Žitomir Region. Igor Shurma to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the inadmissibility of reducing budget staff. Vitalia Kupriya to the Attorney General of Ukraine, Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine, on the use of measures to reopen the investigation into the murder of a citizen by John Cassianenko, made by Vadim Capitanchuk, Alexander Capitanchuk, Alexander Nilov and Igor Zapoczek, and to bring the guilty persons to criminal responsibility. Vladislav Doub to the Attorney General of Ukraine, Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine, Head of the State Treasury Service of Ukraine for the verification of compliance with budgetary and financial legislation by the Chief Executive of the State Treasury Office in the Cherkas region from January 2014 to February 2015. Vladislav Golub to the Attorney General of Ukraine, on the verification of compliance with budgetary and financial legislation, and on the proper use of state and local budget funds through the management of the Zolitani District Council and the district government administration, the Kaniv District Council and the district government administration, the Cherka District Council and the district public administration and the Cherka City Council between January 2014 and February 2015. Groups of National Deputies (Dubnevich, Jurinec and others) A total of 19 deputies) to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for an additional educational subsidy. Zagreb’s depth to the Minister of Health of Ukraine on providing information on the National Strategy for the Construction of a New Health System in Ukraine for the period 2015-2025 and on the work of the Strategic Advisory Group on the Reform of the Ukrainian Health System. Jury Tymoshenko to Prime Minister of Ukraine on the inclusion of construction sites, a group of residential buildings with public buildings on the street of Tchaikovsky, 7, 7th in the vicinity of the Austrian barracks and Trilovsky Park in Colomia Ivano-Frankowsk district, into the project of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine to allow the Administration of State Architectural and Construction Inspection in the Ivano-Frankiv region to verify compliance with the requirements of construction legislation. Jury Tymoshenko to the Minister of Agriculture Policy and Food of Ukraine on the timing of the review of documents by the Ministry of Agriculture Policy and Food of Ukraine on the inclusion of VAT products of the Cologne Agricultural Machinery Plant in the census of implementation through the National Public Shareholder Society of the National Stock Exchange of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-13-m0.u155	What did I say? Yes. These were two questions from Yuri Timoshenko. Affirmative. Igora Shurma to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on debt on salary paid to the employees of the Children's Company of the Public Shareholders Society of the Scientific Research Institute of Radio Engineering in connection with the state's failure to pay the costs of medical equipment. Groups of National Deputies (Vashenika, Humil and others) A total of 9 deputies) to the Attorney General of Ukraine concerning the spending of funds and the abuse of office by the management of the State Enterprise "Liviv International Airport" named Danil Galicki. Valentina Nichiporenka Prime Minister of Ukraine for the establishment of a bus connection with the villages of Pavlovka and Mikhaylovka Zvenigrad district of the Cherka region. Groups of National Deputies (Shinkovich, Melnik and others) A total of 7 deputies) to the Head of the State Area and Sectoral Union of the South West Railways for the restoration of the timetable of the diesel train of the South West Railway Department on the Greek-Kamenac-Podilska route. Victor Pinzenik to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for information on the construction of the Podil bridge crossing. Oksana Sold to the Minister of Economic Development and Trade of Ukraine for the borderline period for export transactions and imports of goods. Paul Rizanenka to the Attorney General of Ukraine regarding the nonapplication of improper legal procedure to participants in criminal proceedings. Paul Rizanenka is the Managing Director of the Fund for the Guarantee of the Investments of Individuals for the Selection of Agent Banks for the Reimbursable Payments of Unpaid Banks at the expense of the Fund for the Guarantee of Investments of Individuals. Vitalia Gudzenka to the Minister of Education and Science of Ukraine for the violation of the rights of students in the Skuri district of Kyiv to pay for their work properly. Zagreb to the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine for information on the conclusion of the Agreement between Ukraine and the EU on the assessment of the suitability and acceptability of industrial goods in the pharmaceutical sector of the health sector. Dear colleagues, is it okay if I read a little faster? Because, look, there's a huge number of pages. I'm ready and I'll try to read faster. Sergey Labazuk to the Minister of Agriculture and Food of Ukraine regarding the situation in the milk market. Sergey Labazuk to the Minister of Social Policy of Ukraine on the humanitarian situation that has arisen with displaced persons. Jacob Besbah to the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, Ministry of Infrastructure of Ukraine, Attorney General of Ukraine for the verification of possible illegal alienation of property in the railway sector. Vladimir Aresonkova to the Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine, on urgent measures for the recovery of the criminogenic situation in the northern regions of Zitomirsk and the non-destruction of natural resources. Groups of National Deputies (Timishenko, Sobolev) to the Minister of Interior of Ukraine regarding the raiding of the property of a dead ATO participant. Ivan Krulka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the threat of annulment of Cabinet Order No.1049 of 12 October 2011 on the approval of the procedure for conducting a competition for the definition of programmes developed by civil society institutions. Vasila Petyevka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the use of measures to prevent the cancellation of the train by Kyiv - Rahiv. Andrija Illenka, head of the National Architectural Inspectorate of Ukraine, prosecutor of the Dniprovsky district of Kiev, head of the Kiev City Administration for the use of measures to protect citizens’ rights in connection with the construction of the Zmachenka Street in the Dniprov district of Kiev. Andrija Illenka, head of the State Architecture and Construction Inspectorate of Ukraine, Director-General of the Private Shareholders Association FOZZI GROUP, head of the Dniprovsky District in Kiev, State Administration for the Use of Measures to Protect Citizens' Rights in relation to the Placement of Compressors and Refrigeration Facilities on the Wall of a Housing Building in the Dniprov district of Kiev. I would continue to ask MPs to make shorter names for queries. David Makarian to the U.S. Railway Administration on the need for statistical data. David Makarian to the Minister of Infrastructure of Ukraine, State Administration of Rail Transport of Ukraine, on the need to change the schedule of the company train No. 121 "Mikolayev" by setting departure time from Kiev-Passiersky station at 8:10 p.m. and arriving at Mikolayev-Pasažirski Station at 05:30 p.m. Groups of National Deputies (Mussia, Matkowski). A total of 7 deputies) to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Infrastructure of Ukraine, the first Deputy Director-General of the State Railway Administration of Ukraine on the use of urgent response measures to prevent the departure of the Lviv-Kyiv train from February 20, 2015 and the need to cancel the Order of the Crucified Railways No.183 from January 28, 2015. Dmitri Dobrodomov to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on how to provide housing for families of deceased military personnel. Dmitra Dobrodomov to Minister of Education and Science of Ukraine, Head of State Financial Inspectorate of Ukraine for conducting an independent professional audit of budget expenditure in the education system of Lviv and Lviv region. Jacob Besbach to the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, the Ministry of Economic Development and Trade of Ukraine, the Ministry of Finance of Ukraine, the Dnipropetrov City Council on the need to allocate funds to finance the construction of water supply networks on the street of Yalinowa in Dnipropetrovsk. Michaela Gzdow to the Minister of Defence of Ukraine for the termination of the liquidation of the "State Enterprise Building Management No.2 of the Hmelnicki Housing and Exploitation Department" which serves the housing fund of the Rakovo Microregion of the city of Hmelnick. Andrea Shipka to the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine for the establishment and approval of living minimum in Ukraine. Andrija Shipka to the Minister of Justice of Ukraine, the Attorney General of Ukraine, on the use of measures to implement the decision of the Central City District Court of the Horn in the interests of the victim of the crime of the citizen of the Moskalec Hope and to bring the guilty officials to justice. John Rybak to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the need for urgent measures to continue funding for the Chernobyl Perinatal Centre. Alexander Wilkull to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, the Attorney General of Ukraine, on the facts of artificial bankruptcy by stopping the production and financial inability of the State Enterprise, the "Manufacturing Union of the Southern Macarova Machine Plant", which is an enterprise of strategic importance for Ukraine and a long-term non-payment of salaries for employees of this enterprise. Sergia Kiwalova to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the need for adoption at the next meeting of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine of the decree on the approval of the payment order for the cost of travel of persons with disabilities to the sanatorium and back. Oleg Kulinić to Prime Minister of Ukraine for the construction of a dining room for the World's Higher Education School, II-III, in the city of Mirgrod, in the region of Poltava. Oleg Kulinić to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for the completion of the renovation of the roof of the Dikana Gymnasium of Gogol in the village of Dikanka, Poltava district. Sergey Faiemarka to the Minister of Finance of Ukraine on how to respond to the implementation of the provisions of the Ukrainian Act on Amendments to Certain Legislative Acts of Ukraine on Reforming Stately Compulsory Social Insurance and Legalization of the Labour Pay Fund. Boris Kozir to the Minister of Finance of Ukraine for the award of a subsidy from Ukraine’s State budget to repay the creditors’ debt to the state health institutions of the Mikolai region for the purchase of medical equipment for domestic production and medical transport, which was due to the underfunding of the 2012 subsidy. Ruslan Solvar to the Ministry of Infrastructure of Ukraine, Ministry of Regional Development, Construction and Housing of Ukraine, State Administration of Railway Transport of Ukraine on the need to carry out verification of violations of construction standards in the replacement of passenger platforms at the "Vishnjak" South-West Railway station. Jaroslava Dubnević to the Minister of Finance of Ukraine for the return of treasury debt in part of the government budget’s remaining subsidy to local budgets for construction, reconstruction, repair, and maintenance of streets and roads of municipal property, which formed on December 31, 2014. Maxime Chicken to Prime Minister of Ukraine on the liquidation of the debt on salary at the state-owned factory "Manufacturer's Union of the Southern Engineering Plant Makarov". Victor Krivenk to the Attorney General of Ukraine about the abuse of utility property in Kiev. Victor Krivenk to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the illegality of law enforcement. Anatolia Denisenka to the Minister of Social Policy of Ukraine, Minister of Finance of Ukraine, for the preservation of the debt passage for participants in the Great Homeland War. Anatoly of Denisenka to the Minister of Social Policy of Ukraine regarding the return of benefits from community services to many children. Igora Artushenka to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the evaluation of the activities of the Zaporozhye District Prosecutor's Office. Alexia Honcharenka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on non-compliance with the Cabinet of Ministers Decision No.297 of 17 July 2014 No.297 on the State Service of Ukraine on the issues of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea, the city of Sevastopol and the temporary displacement of persons, and the punishment of those responsible for these officials and officials. Mikhail Golka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for the provision of funding on the payroll of the employees of the Lanewetsk Municipal Central District Hospital and the Lanovets Regional Centre for Primary Health and Social Assistance in the Ternopil region in 2015. Groups of National Deputies (Levika, Makariana, Krivohatka) to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the results of the investigation of criminal cases at the State-owned enterprise Krašta and the involvement of former Technical Director Alexander Klionski in the responsibility for the commission of corruption offences. Jury Bublika to the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, Minister of Justice of Ukraine for the violation of certain provisions of the Ukrainian Pro Prosecutor's Act No.1697-VII of 14 October 2014 guaranteed by the Constitution of Ukraine the right of citizens to procuratorial protection. Jury Bublika to the Attorney General's Office of Ukraine on the commission of unlawful acts by prosecutors and police of the Poltav region in the conduct of a pretrial investigation into the murder of the judge of the district court and the city head of the city of Kremenchuk, obtaining unlawful evidence of the involvement of the suspect in these crimes. Sergey Kaplin to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the objective investigation of corruption in the pathological anatomical office of the Poltava District Hospital. Sergey Kaplina to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the settlement of matters related to the compensation of expenses for the burial of members of the war and persons with disabilities. Mikoli Kadikala to the Attorney-General of Ukraine, Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine, on bringing to justice those responsible for the damage to Ukraine's State budget, particularly large. Mikoli Kadikala to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the non-compliance with the Ukrainian Cleaner of Power Act. Alexander Suprunenka's executive responsibility as head of the Ukrainian Antimonopoly Committee to test the economic justification for raising tariffs for the subway and ground transportation of the city of Kyiv. Oleg Osuhovski to the Attorney General of Ukraine, Minister of Defence of Ukraine, Head of the Ukrainian Security Service, on the use of response measures to prevent the use of party-related mobility. Jury of Derevyanka to the Minister of Interior of Ukraine for the provision of information on the implementation of the Ukrainian Ministry of Interior's Law on the Cleaning of Power. Jurya Derevyanka to the Attorney General of Ukraine for information on the implementation by the Attorney General of Ukraine of the Law on the Cleanse of Power. Alexander Dombrovski to the Minister of Social Policy of Ukraine on partial funding from the Social Insurance Fund for temporary loss of work of the Senior Education Institutes of the Winnick Region in 2015. Alexander Dombrovski to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the inadmissibility of inclusion in the list of sites that are subject to privatization of state-owned enterprises for standardisation, metrology and certification. Jury Wozniak to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for contributing to the receiving of the Order of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine on the approval of the Land Administration Project for the removal of the land area of H PLUS H Yua. Jury Wozniak to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the financing of state housing programmes in 2015: "Providing State support for the construction of (acquisition) affordable housing" and "Providing long-term government credit to young families and single young citizens for construction (renovation) and housing". Sergey Rudika to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for the establishment of commissions with control and supervision of the rule of law on land allocation, housing and social assistance to ATO members of the military and the families of the victims. Sergey Rudika is acting as head of the National Commission for State regulation in the field of energy and utilities to verify the validity of the Society's current legislation with limited responsibility for the provision of central heating services in Smila. Groups of National Deputies (Solovia, Ischejkina, Gorvata) to the Head of the Ukrainian Security Service on the results of the investigation of criminal cases at the State-owned enterprise Krašta and the involvement of former Technical Director Alexander Klionski in the responsibility for the commission of corruption offences. Gregory Times to the head of the Ukrainian Pension Fund for the proper recalculation of Oleni Alexandryuk's pension as a heroin mother and for the resolution of the issue of the rightfulness of her payment for the reimbursement of the cost of payment and the delivery of the pension. Sergey Kudlayenka to the Attorney General of Ukraine, Minister of Interior of Ukraine, on the verification of violations of the requirements of effective legislation, as well as the illegal inaction of individual employees of the Investigations Department of the Somali City Department of the Ministry of Internal Affairs of Ukraine in the Sumska area regarding the timely, comprehensive and impartial investigation of individual criminal conduct and the involvement of guilty persons in the responsibility provided for in the current Ukrainian legislation. Edward Matviychuk to the Odessa City Administration of the Ministry of Interior of Ukraine in the Odessa Region, the Odessa City Council on the need to take effective action to address the collective appeal of residents of the Southwestern Kyiv District of Odessa and to prevent the sale of alcoholic beverages alongside kindergarten No. 147, public schools No. 27, No. 51 and Odessa Economic List, as well as the need for comprehensive sorting in accordance with the current legislation of Ukraine in Odessa. Groups of people’s deputies (Mattwaychuka, Barbinenka, and others) A total of 4 deputies) to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the need for an objective and impartial review of the re-examination of the labour force of the State Research and Project Education Institute of the Ministry of Regional Development, Construction and Housing of Ukraine. Oleg Osuhovski to Ukrainian Defence Minister for the Search for the Missing Fighter Mikli Hemenyuk. Vasil Janicki to Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Justice of Ukraine, for the order of payment of debts under decisions of the courts guaranteed by the State. Mr. Vasil Janicki to Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Infrastructure of Ukraine, for the non-admission of the stopover of the course and the change in the route of passenger train Galicina No. 141, Kiev-Livov (No. 142, Lviv-Kyiv). Irina Souslowy to the Attorney General of Ukraine to ensure that the constitutional rights of civil activist Yuri Pavlenko are respected. Jury Pavlenko to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on bringing the concept of "legal representative of the child" into line with the requirements of the Ukrainian Family Code. Yurya Levchenka, head of the Kyiv City State Administration, acting as Director of the Department of State Architecture and Construction Inspection in Kiev, on the use of urgent measures to violate the rights of citizens in the illegal construction of the streets of Novokrajinska, 24 ( Ukrainian, 6) Shevchenkov district of Kiev Jury Lewchenka and Victoria Vojcitsky to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the issue of a copy of contracts made by Ukriinterenergo with companies of the Russian Federation that contain corrupt components that do not meet the interests of Ukraine. Dear colleagues, we were able to move quite quickly on our parliamentary request. That's why I'm asking those national MPs who signed up for the show to come into the hall. We'll do it now, yeah. Now we have a few more MPs, but really, how do I get to the others, I would like to make an important message. Reference. The Supreme Council of Ukraine from the interfractional parliamentary association "For the Spirituality, Morality and Health of Ukraine". So the head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. "Dear Volodymyr Borisovich! According to article 60-1 of the Ukrainian Act on the Rules of Procedure of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, I am informing you of the creation of 8 in the Supreme Council of Ukraine of the convening of an interfractional parliamentary association "For the Spirituality, Morality and Health of Ukraine" and asking you to announce this at the next meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. "For the Spirituality, Morality and Health of Ukraine" is elected the National Deputy of Ukraine, Unguryan Pavel Jakimovitch. I ask you to welcome him with your head. An MP who has a great and famous history and assumes enormous responsibility for the work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Congratulations! So several questions were left literally. The MP's request for input. from: Vladimir Lithuania on amendments to the first reading of the draft Adoption Order on the basis of draft Ukrainian Act No. 1362: amending the Ukrainian Act on the specialities of State regulation of the activities of business entities related to the implementation and export of timber products. The MP’s request to Vitko regarding the failure of the Ukrainian law enforcement authorities to take action to bring criminal responsibility to the perpetrators of terrorist financing. Address to the head of the Ukrainian Security Service, the Attorney General and the Minister of Internal Affairs. Also, a parliamentary request from the National MP Vitko to the Head of the Security Service of Ukraine, the Attorney General and the Minister of Internal Affairs regarding the failure of the Ukrainian law enforcement authorities to take action to bring criminal responsibility to the perpetrators of terrorist financing. The next request was also made by National Deputy Vitko, Head of the Ukrainian Security Service, Attorney General of Ukraine, Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine, regarding the failure of the Ukrainian law enforcement authorities to take action to bring criminal responsibility to the perpetrators of terrorist financing. And the last, in fact, identical request from National Deputy Vitko to the head of the Ukrainian Security Service, the Attorney General of Ukraine and the Minister of Internal Affairs regarding the failure of Ukraine's law enforcement authorities to take action to bring criminal responsibility to the perpetrators of terrorist financing. So I read all the MPs' questions. It's a good thing we were able to sound them, because we had a certain debt -- one Friday we missed. Now that we're done 15 minutes faster, so we're going to start and perform in different national MPs 15 minutes faster. And I would like to invite you to the address of National Deputy Levchenk Yuri Volodymyrovich. Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-13-m0.u156	Lewchenko, Freedom, 223rd District, Kiev. Honorable Watchers, Respectable Associations! Today, we have Ukraine more and more every day, jumping into a debt pit. We see how much the government cuts all possible social costs. We see how much they cut and essentially stop any benefits, freeze the minimum wage, minimum pension. And in fact, that means that people actually all of these payouts are going down on a real scale. Instead, we see the absolute unwillingness of the government to fill the budget, and the desire to turn to international financial donors. And the last case we see is that we're about to get a bunch of bills back to the Supreme Council, motivated by what the IMF wants so badly. And if we don't vote it in a running, then the IMF won't give us a penny. First of all, before we go to international financial donors, we have to fill the budget. Agreements with offshore zones such as the Republic of Cyprus and others should be dented. Progressive taxes are needed to ensure that the richest levels of the population pay proper taxes, not just the entire fiscal pressure of small and medium - size businesses and the poorest of the population. You have to put taxes on luxury. We need to deal with the oligaric private monopolies and break these private monopolies in order to properly fill the budget. And only if there are any possible deficits left to fill these deficits with external borrowings, not the other way around: completely turn everything upside down. So when tomorrow, tomorrow, the next week, the government is going to propose to the Supreme Council that we re-adopt completely wrong, totally socially unjust laws, motivated by what the IMF requires, or some other, World Bank or some other international foreign financial donor, we have to think first, and whether our government, the so-called Ukrainian government, has done everything possible to fill the budget before we turn to foreigners and drive future generations of Ukrainians into an ever deeper debt pit. I call on the MPs, I urge the government to submit these bills early, to make the changes to the budget they promised to submit by February 15, early. Because today we have February 13th, and we still have no budget changes. And I suspect that, in fact, next week, they're going to give us the cat in a bag again, at best, and, in the worst case, like last time: they're not going to give us any papers at all even 10 minutes before they're considered. And they're going to say that's what the IMF wants. So please vote, vote for any nonsense, continue to destroy the Ukrainian people, continue to destroy the Ukrainian industry just because the IMF wants it. The IMF wants a balanced budget, which is up to us how we balance it. How can we balance it? Further cost cuts? Further abuse of the most social.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-13-m0.u157	Please, 10 seconds, finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-13-m0.u158	Are we going to balance the budget with further cost cuts, further abuse of the most socially vulnerable population? Or we can balance the growth budget.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-13-m0.u159	Thank you. The next two speakers: number two – Lensky and number four – Wolf, both present their performances to the leader of the Radical Party of Ukraine, Oleg Lášk. And that's why he's been performing for six minutes. Please. I've been informed that Wolf passed it on to Lashkov. The wolf is the Radical Party and the Lensky is the Radical Party, the second and fourth, both of which are given to Oleg Láška. And that's why I'm inviting Oleg Lacha to the rostrum. Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-13-m0.u160	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. You bite your fingers off, you bite your hand off, you bite your head off. This is a well - known national wisdom. First, we are convinced of our own experience. Today's agreements with an aggressor in Minsk-2 have become a legitimate extension of the Minsk-1 agreements, but on much worse terms and with new fundamental concessions despite the Pharisaic title of the document, which seems to be a complex of measures to implement previous mine agreements. In particular with the promise of pardon and amnesty to terrorists, the political legalization of militants, as elected politicians, the de facto autonomy of the DNR and the LNR and their full socio-economic support at the expense of Ukraine. Let me draw attention to one principle of the novel. The requirement for constitutional reform in Ukraine to take effect by the end of 2015 of the new Constitution, taking into account the characteristics of the individual areas of Donetsk and Luhansk region agreed with the representatives of these areas. This is paragraph 11 of the Minsk Accords. President Poshenko of Ukraine had no authority to place questions of the country's constitutional order on the market, as it is in the exclusive competence of Parliament and the people of Ukraine! Moreover, the President violated the limits of international negotiations set by Parliament on my initiative back in April last year, with the aim of avoiding any attempt by the external dictatorship on issues that belong solely to the internal competence of Ukraine. President Dustenk’s new concessions and the acceptance of inadequate demands of Putin place a slow bomb. Since any of them seem to fail Ukraine, they will at any moment become a formal basis for the continuation of aggression and the restoration of the offensive by the Russian-terrorist forces. Will we be better prepared for it than after the previous truce declared in September 2014? We need to be clear: Putin’s plans are far - reaching. He dreams of restoring Russia’s status as a superstate and a zone of influence around the restoration of the Russian Empire. So he needs war as a tool to realize his aspirations and to continue it, regardless of any paper arrangements. The repetition of the different systems of mantras of the absence of a military solution to the conflict at Donbassa actually means that he has only one military decision in the interests of the Kremlin. Because effective diplomacy in reality is always based on an adequate military force of resistance when the price of armed aggression becomes unacceptable. The relief for Europe, according to President Olland of France, is not at all a hope for Ukraine, as he declares, but a disgraceful retirement of the aggressor at the expense of Ukraine. This policy is based on European illusions that have already cost Ukraine dearly. And the price of this self-deception in Europe will only increase. In fact, I think a lot of people in Europe want their own peace at all costs and are willing to sacrifice Ukraine for the economic benefit of their countries. And apparently, the President of the United States of Obama was delighted to take the opportunity to hide behind Chancellor Merkel's women's back and not too powerful a figure of President Alland to avoid a difficult decision for him to provide a defense weapon to Ukraine. I hope that our friends in America, whose circle and influence are growing daily, will bring to Mr. Obama the simple truth that the ostrich behavior is not worthy of man at all, but the head of state, the world leader. I ask a rhetorical question: Where in the world have the modern Churches, Roosevelts, and Hollys been able to set freedom, dignity, human spirit, and moral principles above fear and greed? Is there nothing left in the West but the heirs of the Chamberlains and the Daladier? So what do we have in Minsky-2? Instead of national mobilization in the middle of the country, we get new vain hopes and expectations for one part of the Ukrainians and demoralization and despair -- for another part of the legitimate question: what did our heroes die for? And instead of forming a single international front to deter an aggressor and provide Ukraine with comprehensive military and financial and economic assistance, including modern weapons, we have the restoration of an unsuspecting policy of appetizing an aggressor at the expense of his victim and with the hope that the aggressor will limit his appetites. So my conclusion is that Minsk 2 is a bit of a hand. Whether we allow ourselves to be bitten and the head depends primarily on us Ukrainians. Glory to Ukraine! Death to the invaders! — Revelation 21: 3,
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-13-m0.u161	Thank you. Deputy Bilkova gives the floor to Deputy Dubnevich. Let's go to the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-13-m0.u162	Dear Mr. Golovo, honourable deputies, Jaroslav Dubnevich, 120th constituency, Lvivščina, strike group. I want to get your attention back on the road. One of the sources provided by the updated Code of Budgets for Ukraine is excise tax, the so - called local excise tax, which is 5 percent. At each gas station they will go to the local council’s general fund if it is located in an oil - gas complex. The idea of coming from this tax, according to Minfin, was to be a source of money for road repairs. However, there was a problem just before the first arrival. According to the Rural Budget Code, the village council has the right to use the general budget only on utility roads. In practice, the very state road of local importance crosses the center of our villages and villages and towns, and it is forbidden to repair it at the expense of the local council. Moreover, the excise tax goes to the general fund, and the village council can use this money not to repair roads, but rather, for example, a bonus in the executive board. However, there is another very serious problem. To this day, we can talk about the very uneven distribution of oil - pumping complexes that will pay for the location of the five - percent network, the underpriced oil products. It is no secret that these are not primarily international routes, roads near large cities, and access to checkpoints. In that case, we will, on the one hand, create extremely resource-rich local councils, and on the other hand, there will be councils that have no resources for wages, let alone roads. Solve the problem of the resource on public roads of local importance, perhaps simply because of the redistribution of excise tax in part of its payment to local budgets. Obviously, the level at which real road management can take place is an area. I propose that we listen to a number of proposals already coming from the district councils and make changes to the budget code in the area budget income line, with 5 percent raising 2 percent of the tax rate on the oil products and scrap gas to the district councils, leaving 3 percent in the budgets of the local council in which the listed excise goods are being implemented. In another way, it is impossible to hope for improvement in the road economy. I am counting on support for these changes from the Ministry of Infrastructure, and I am responsible for saying that without a source of road maintenance at the level of the area to talk about the transfer of roads to the local budgets will be a very irresponsible step. I'm counting on Minfin's support on this issue because we can't create exclusively depending on the geography of oil-fuelling complexes, hyperbages, and vice versa, the hyperbidic rural councils. I will also request the Hall to support such changes to the budget.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-13-m0.u163	Please. Thank you. Thank you. Krulko and Suslov were asked to exchange their views. That is why John Krulko is now invited to the floor. Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-13-m0.u164	Ivan Krulko, "The Fatherland" faction. Dear colleagues, honourable Ukrainians, I have received many appeals from representatives of youth and social organizations to the head of the All-Ukrainian Youth Organisation "The Fatherland Youth" about the threat of worsening public funding of public initiatives at the expense of government and local budgets. What are you talking about? The Ministry of Economics of Ukraine, at the request of the Ministry of Finance of Ukraine, is working on the possibility of recognition of a loss of validity of Cabinet Order No. 1049 on the approval of the procedure for conducting a competition for the definition of programmes developed by civil society institutions for which financial support is provided. This decision is the only normative document according to which the Ministry of Youth and Sports, local executives and local authorities conduct competitions and, according to these competitions, public initiatives are financed from the state and local budgets. I would like to say that the annulment of this decision, the recognition of it as invalid, is totally unacceptable, and the proposal of the Ministry of Finance in this context cannot be supported. What's more, it has to be said that if this action is actually done, and the Cabinet of Ministers cancels this decision, it will actually block the competition for youth social organisations already this year, both the competition held by the Ministry of Youth and Sports, and such a competition has already been announced, and youth organizations are already preparing proposals, as well as at the local level. 17 initiatives, 17 programs are being implemented locally to support public initiatives on the ground. What is more, if you analyze the procedures for civil society institutions, which are developed by the executive and local authorities themselves, they contain a large number of corruption risks. In particular, conflicts of interest place undue restrictions on the participation of civil society institutions in the competition, and there are no requirements for monitoring the efficiency of spending. That's why I asked the Prime Minister of Ukraine, Arsenius Yatsenyuk, today, for this decision to continue, and this year there were competitions for youth social organizations. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-13-m0.u165	Thank you. The word is given to the deputy of Parasuk. He was the second in our sequence and that's why.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-13-m0.u166	Volodymyr.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-13-m0.u167	I'm sorry, please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-13-m0.u168	I want to make my speech brief, but I want to break it down into two subjects: the first is the outside, and the second is the inside. And I want to say, you see, again today an angel! I want to state as a Ukrainian citizen that I never accept any Minsk agreements in my life, and I will never go on any peace plans with terrorists -- that is a disgrace to the Ukrainian people! And I want to bring to all the Ukrainians the fact that everyone is now starting to relax, the feeling that Dustenko came and saved everyone in Minsk. This was not the case – it was once again a road map of Putin, in order to once again destabilize our country even more. Therefore, the revered Ukrainian people, please do not relax: they do not go along with the enemy; the enemy is defeated and always remember this. And remember, now that these Minsk agreements were signed, echelons and Russian tanks were going to Ukraine. Always remember that! I also want to talk about internal problems. I remember when Arsenius Petrovich was sitting at this place and telling us that up to 15, we would have a budget change. Now, 15 numbers, no change, once. For two weeks now, we're working on a committee in the district, and we're back to the end of the month without any budget changes. When I really look at him at home, I just opened up to look around, and some articles just impress me. It says here it's an emergency budget. that is, the articles are only urgent. In that case, we're now covering some sort of analysis, some statistics, some other unnecessary thing. So I want to go to the Cabinet of Ministers and get him to accept these changes to the budget as soon as possible. Thank you all for your attention! And once again, I would like to say that those MPs who remain until the end, you have honor and praise, except for the regions. Thank you!
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-13-m0.u169	Thank you. Shinkovic Andry Vasilovich is invited to attend. Prepare Sousloi for the talk.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-13-m0.u170	Andri Shinkovic, Peter Poshenko's Block, 189th District, Hmelničkina. Dear fellow MPs, distinguished voters! From the parliamentary rostrum, I want to raise the problem when the ambitions of individual actors and the failure of individual senior citizens of the Ukrainian government create social tension in a group of 15,000 students from 450 lecturers at the Vinnick National Agrarian University. As a result of the breach of the law, today there is a grant and an orphan child payment of 300,000 dollars, and the salary debt of 3 million 700,000. Against this background, there is a violation of the legal right of the teaching team and students to choose a rector. Today it's not about a candidate, it's about the right of a powerful higher education institution to function normally. Students and lecturers who have approached me and who are waiting for justice have reported that the Ministry of Agrarian Politics has first appointed the elections and then, before they are held, after interference by interested persons in the unstable work of the Actors' Union, the Minister of Agrarian Policy has cancelled the Rector's election. Students and teachers want to continue the steady development of the university. In recent years, large - scale transformations have taken place. These transformations are positive, and these transformations today try not to notice. And I'll speak in the language of those who have turned, who are affected by the situation, who are driven by the knot, who are hindering his normal work, and who are raising social tension. At this time, when Ukraine is protecting itself from its external enemy, students and teachers have the impression that someone is trying to undermine the stability and development of their college. Is it time to find out about the relationship today? We expected a new government of stability where possible, avoiding social tension, creating conditions for further development where there are such preconditions, and in the Winnick National Agrarian University there are such preconditions. Teachers and students who are surprised to learn from the beginning to the full victory of the Dignity Revolution today that the new democratic government ignores their calls and destabilizes the contract work for individual subterranean players when other similar facilities for 2.5-3 months went to vacations, the Vinick National Agrarian University worked and worked normally. Since January 12, students have continued to study and during my meeting asked me to list the planned salary and scholarship, as well as to ensure the level of autonomy of the university, which is foreseen in the new Ukrainian Higher Education Act. Please consider my statement as a request to the government to appoint new elections and to conduct them transparently without outside interference. At the same time, I urge you, honourable students and lecturers, to engage in the struggle for your rights, take the situation into your hands and protect the stable scholarship and salary, the continuation of those transformations and the positive dynamics that are at Vinick National Agrarian University. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-13-m0.u171	Hero, glory! The word is given to Souslow Irina Mikolayovna. Prepare Rosenbalt. Then Lucenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-13-m0.u172	Irina Suslova, political party of Will. Honourable Chairman, Honourable National Deputies, Honorable Citizens of Ukraine. It's been almost a year since the Dignity Revolution, since the whole world has watched with horror the killings and beatings of peaceful protestors in the very center of Europe. In repression against public activists and journalists throughout Ukraine. One of the main requirements of Maidan was to hold everyone responsible for the murder of peaceful protestors and civilians in Maidan. Today, however, neither the Ministry of Internal Affairs nor the Attorney General’s Office nor the Ukrainian Security Service have been able to conduct an objective investigation. Establish and punish perpetrators of cruel crimes against Ukrainian patriots and mass violations of human rights. Not the names that gave the orders or those who did, in fact, those criminal orders. The time is coming, but the criminals are not punished, so far the relatives of the hundreds of heaven have not heard the judgment of the executioners of their loved ones. It is not enough that courts release both customers and performers of the killings of the heroes of the Celestial 100, so many of them continue to work in their posts. Tell me, will the Heavenly 100 forgive us if we allow the murderers to remain unpunished? What if there was at least one life lost in Midan if the entire corrupt state system continues to dominate the people of Ukraine? Snipers who shot the Celestial 100th in Maidan and the Institute Street in Kiev have been unknown for almost a year. The world’s tabloids even published their photographs and photographs of those murderers who actually carried out these criminal orders. Recall that more than 100 people were killed on February 20 in Kiev during the events that took place in Maidan, according to the Medical State Service of Maidan. The killings of people on the streets of the Institute’s snipers and automats were carried out mainly in the head, neck, and heart. But it doesn't matter to our law enforcement. They are not in a hurry to bring these executioners to justice. In connection with this, Igor Lucenk, Valérie Paccan, Volodymyr Paraszuk was registered with the Order (number 1755) on the establishment of the Provisional Investigation Commission of the Supreme Council on the investigation of illegal activities by law enforcement authorities and individual officials, the violation of the rights and freedoms, the life and health of citizens during events related to mass social and political protests in Ukraine from November 2013 to February 2014. The adoption of this decree will allow parliamentary control over the investigation of crimes against members of mass protests and speed up the work of law enforcement agencies in the investigation of these cases. Such a commission worked in the Supreme Council of the previous vocation. However, it is because of a permanent end to the election.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-13-m0.u173	Please give me 10 seconds to finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-13-m0.u174	Because of the early elections to the Supreme Council of Ukraine, we did not hear your conclusions, but most importantly, the names of those criminals, those turnarounds in the pursuits that killed and tortured our people.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-13-m0.u175	Ten more seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-13-m0.u176	We demand that this draft ruling be immediately incorporated into the agenda for consideration in the next plenary week. The Supreme Council should support such a move by parliamentarians. Thank you. And the glory of Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-13-m0.u177	Thank you. Next up is Irina Lucenko. She's not in the hall, but she gave me a note. She spoke to Solovia. And that's why I'm asking you to give the floor. From the rostrum, right? From the rostrum, please. Turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-13-m0.u178	The MP's address. addressed to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, Yatsenyuk Arseny Petrovich. A road infrastructure project in the Carpathian region is being implemented. The European choice of Ukraine and yoga is a practical implementation by the people of Ukraine as a top priority of government. However, the introduction of European integration is not possible without the creation of modern cross-border road infrastructure, the creation of conditions for the development of the tourism sector, which will in turn contribute to the investment activities of European business circles in Ukraine, the development and use of tourism infrastructure by citizens of Ukraine and other countries of Europe. Since 1993, Ukraine’s border areas: Poland, Romania, Slovakia and Hungary have created the Carpathian Euroregion, which covers the area along the Carpathian Mountains. On the Ukrainian side, the Carpathian Euroregion consists of the administrative and territorial units of Lviv, Frankiv, Zacarpathian and Chernivite regions. The Carpathian region, its part of Ukraine, has considerable potential, especially for the development of winter and summer tourism and recreation. The use of this potential is very important for the economy and social sphere of Ukraine, especially in the context of the Crimea annexation, which has made it impossible for the people of Ukraine to take advantage of the recreational possibilities of this region. At the same time, the tourist potential of the Carpathian Euroregion is quite sufficient to address the issues of employment of the local population, small and medium-sized business development, which in turn will facilitate the return of workers from abroad and the strengthening of Ukrainian families. However, the current state of the road and road infrastructure is now in a very neglected state, and in many cases there are no roads, and there are no roads, only the primary causes of the flood of 2008, which was halted in 2010-2013 by the criminal regime of Yanukovic, and the unreasonable use of public funds for road maintenance during the specified period. Therefore, there are no conditions for making proper use of the tourist potential of the area and its development. For capital and current repairs, the Carpathian region now needs about 10 billion dollars. In doing so, road conditions are such that if they are not repaired soon enough, the construction of new roads will become a matter for those who still exist. In view of the above, we propose that several budget changes should provide for the issuance of government bonds to finance the construction of roads, transport infrastructure in the first place. Also, the Office of the Ministers of Ukraine pays due attention to this problem and to its resolution as soon as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-13-m0.u179	Thank you. Rosenblatt Borislav is invited to attend. Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-13-m0.u180	Good afternoon, Mr. Chairman. Good afternoon, national deputies! I also want to contact you throughout the country on the issue of our military security. You know that the city of Zitomir, where I was elected a national deputy, there are a lot of military parts that today protect our country in the east, in the east. And you know, one of the main causes of our possible loss is the military technology that we're getting again today after what we call capital repairs. As a national MP, I have been approached by several military men who today have or are not fully able to protect our country. Because fighting techniques sometimes don't go into combat. Why is this happening? Because today, as you know, there are two bronze factories. This is the Zitomir Bronze Plant, the Kyiv Bronze Plant. Where criminal cases have been opened, criminal cases against the leaders of these businesses. But they continue to do their work today. They're getting paid today, they're running these businesses today. The second question I'd like to address today. It's an energy efficiency issue that doesn't exist in our country today. Unfortunately, this week we passed a very important bill. Contracts are called contracts. But today we still need to understand one such thing: Today our country consumes more gas than other countries, the same size and size in the world. For example, Poland consumes 18 billion cubic metres of gas for its economy and its population. Ukraine today, you know, needs more than 40. Today, when it's said that in two years, Ukraine won't be dependent on gas in Russia, it's not a question, because we're not going to get gas from Russia, we're going to get gas from other countries. But I think today, if the government offers programs, and we all join together as deputies, we will do everything we can to ensure that our country does not consume that much gas. And our energy of efficiency, and our energy of independence, will really be our strategic goal. So I'm just going from this rostrum to all of us to join, to join in creating these energy-efficient programs and to make Ukraine really, really independent of gas supply in two years. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-13-m0.u181	Thank you for coming in. Igor Lucenko is invited to attend. Get ready, Caplin's next.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-13-m0.u182	Dear friends, welcome. You know, I went to my native Kyivrad yesterday, from which I came here, before this Kiev MP, and what I told them first was that the level of respect for democratic procedures, for the principles of the work of the elected collective body there was a higher order, unfortunately than in the Ukrainian Parliament. On Tuesday, we voted in favour, not just something, but the Attorney General's appointment is the most important person in charge of justice throughout our country. How did this happen? Pressing the buttons for a neighbor, violating the Constitution. My colleagues, about a dozen, now I don't remember exactly how many, but close dozens of colleagues made a written statement to Speaker Groysman, whom he sent to the regulatory committee. And do you think there's some kind of reaction? Zero. Full zero. No sanctions, no voting, nothing at all. Keep voting. And they're voting on it. Today, my colleagues and I wrote another statement on buttoning up for two rulings. It's the same thing as video fixation, so is our statement, so we're going to hand it over, again, I get it, it's going to go to our honourable regulatory committee. Friends, if we want our collective body not to be an accessory to the two great clans of the President and the Prime Minister, we still need to put order in this house. We will not be respected by our constituents. And these fights that take place here are just a small percentage of what diminishes our respect for us as parliamentarians. So, of course, we're reappealing, we're stressing once again that this is unacceptable. Once again, we ask all conscious citizens, all of our colleagues, to support us in the battle for regulations. First. We still need to vote on the mass of laws that are now responsible for increasing the responsibility for non-personal voting. The other one. Finally, to break this disgraceful issue, this disgraceful situation where there is no head of the key regulatory committee. There is no politically responsible person or political force who has to follow the parliament as to how the procedures in Parliament take place. There's no judge, there's no rules. So what are we even doing here, friends? The same will be true of fairies' budgets, so will non-personal voting, so will falsification, standard falsification of decisions. We're not going to have a normal state when we don't start making peace here. So once again, I call upon all my colleagues and also the entire conscious community that understands the magnitude of these issues, it's not a minor pushover. It's very important.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-13-m0.u183	Ten seconds to complete, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-13-m0.u184	Join our struggle and support, and convince their deputies that they were still pedaling in Parliament. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-13-m0.u185	Thank you. I'm just going to take a brief step forward, and I'm going to give my word that today, when Deputy Lechchenko came in and reported a non-personal vote. Comrade Igor, I say that today, when the information about the non-personal vote came, I immediately put it to a vote and this question was voted so that we don't tarnish our work on all issues. So the word is given to Chaplin Sergey Mikolayovich. Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-13-m0.u186	Dear Ukrainians, dear colleagues, I support both hands the words of the previous speaker, the strike faction in the previous call with my fellow brothers lived literally for several months in the Supreme Council Hall day and night, and we managed to get a personal vote in this room. And today, without prejudice to the importance of the law, we must not violate the norm for which we fought in the previous calling. Secondly, I would like to dedicate my speech to very specific things and ask for the help and presence of highly respected colleagues and the people of Ukraine. First, I want to thank Paul Rosenck for listening to the position of Ukrainian trade unions that I represent in Parliament. It's already signed about 70 contracts with branches and other unions to serve as a representative of the unions in the Supreme Council. And he didn't allow the Prime Minister of Ukraine to make a deal with the International Monetary Fund, he stopped the already existing agreement on raising the retirement age to 65 years. He made a clear condition, and the International Monetary Fund and the Government, headed by the Prime Minister, listened to this condition. Secondly, I call on the Prime Minister of Ukraine, on behalf of the trade unions, miners, to immediately implement the terms of the Memorandum signed between me, the Ukrainian National Deputy, my colleague Musi and other colleagues in Parliament and the trade unions, which guarantees the return of the wages paid to the miners who live in Western Ukraine and who should be the foundation and support of the energy independence of our country. Thirdly, we're on the committee, where I'm the first deputy of the head on social policy, employment and pension, set up an ultimatum by the government to seriously improve the job of mediation to protect those people who don't get paid. However, the committee will also create an appropriate commission in which I will take an active part and we will extort our hands to those so-called employers who pay their employees in a timely manner. So on Tuesday, I'm going to a factory called Frunze in Suma, and I'm going to have to pay off the payout that went up there because of inefficient management. They heard that I was going there, and they started paying my salary yesterday. That's the last of it. I've registered a bill that doesn't allow bribes to go free unless they prove it.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-13-m0.u187	Ten seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-13-m0.u188	If they don't prove the legitimacy of such incomes. There's nothing to rob a country for 10 years, to charge your pockets, and then to pay for your freedom through your sidekick friends, the mob. I ask the support of the Ukrainian people in.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-13-m0.u189	Thank you very much. The People’s Deputy Papiew gives the word to the People’s Deputy Villkull. Come on, let's go.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-13-m0.u190	The people of Ukraine, today at 12 p.m., had a cynical illegal seizure by the public receptionist of Ukraine, Vadim Novinski. On the basis of the sex of the left-wing decree known by the Pecher Court of Law, more than 50 people in camouflage and assault rifles were seized by the public receptionist. Anti-legal officials, public reception workers were imprisoned in the premises and forcibly detained. A telephone connection was cut so that constitutional law could not be exercised and legal aid could be obtained or turned to the Public Prosecutor's Office. The Ukrainian people's deputies were not allowed there, and the Ukrainian national deputy Vadim Novinsky was not issued. Thus, the respectable people of Ukraine, respected colleagues, now the whole country, now understands clearly that under the cover of democratic slogans, people who want to build a dictatorship have actually seized power in Ukraine. It's a long way from democracy. They're not building a Europe that we're told so much about, but they're taking us clearly to Honduras, although they don't want to offend that State. We, the Opposition Block, address the Minister of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, Arsen Avakov, the Attorney-General of Shockin, Prime Minister Yacinyuk and President Prashenko, who are politically responsible for all that is being done in our State. Return democratic legitimacy to the country! That was not the case in 24 years of Ukrainian independence, whether it was the President or not! We hope for the support of both the people's deputies and the reaction of the European and world public, and the understanding of the entire people of Ukraine, that is, we are fighting for democracy today and against the establishment of a dictatorship.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-13-m0.u191	The word is given to the national deputy Ungurian Paul Yakimovich. Prepare Bogdan Dubnevich. We have Dubnevich's two: Jaroslav, and now Bogdan. I'm asking you to pay attention to the people's deputies.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-13-m0.u192	Dear colleagues, our constituents! Paul Ungurian, faction of the People's Front. I'd like to come with you. The fact that we don't talk so often in this room. Every day, here in the hall, and in Ukraine, there are statements, there are allegations of dissatisfaction with what's going on, we see how difficult it is to change the situation, how hard it is to stop corruption, how hard it is for us to get to the right, normal path of the country. What's the problem, colleagues? What is the problem and why we find it so difficult to get to a normal, right, honest, and dialogue, and the country’s development. I think the whole problem is our mentality, the whole problem is our values. And the founder of sociology, Max Weber, pointed out that economic success, social model success, the paradigm of state development, society depends on a valuable platform: on what people believe, on how people practice their virtues, and whether people really live according to what the Lord God requires of holy writing. Yesterday we saw a fight like this between two young boys and our colleagues who first fought and became deputies. I don't think their voters or the entire people of Ukraine are excited about such events. Because we've been chosen with the hope that this is a fight like this, it won't happen again, all the more in the middle of our coalition group. I think that all of us, as deputies, need to understand, only basic, fundamental and spiritual values can form a strong Ukrainian state, nation, economy, social model and make Ukraine's development harmonious. That's why last night, together with the leaders of the Ukrainian churches, we met here in the Supreme Council, there was Cardinal Lubomir Guzar, there were representatives of Orthodox churches, Protestant churches, and we talked about how in the Supreme Council we could set up these valuable institutions to make Parliament a model of conscience. Today, our interfractional association “For the Spirituality, Morality, and Health of Ukraine ” has been registered. And I would like to thank the representatives of all the factions that are part of the coalition because they have all delegated to this unification of their representatives. Hopefully, we will be able to pass many important laws together for Ukraine. Praise Jesus Christ and let the Lord guard Ukraine! Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-13-m0.u193	Glory forever! Bogdan Dubnevich is invited to prepare himself, the Jurinec to whom the word “Eblahov ” is given. Please stop the interfractional disputes.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-13-m0.u194	Dear Mr. Head, honourable deputies! Bogdan Dubnevic, 118 constituency, strike group. In my speech, I would like to focus on one problem created by the government after a widely-proclaimed decision to pay for tanks, ships, planes, and so on. This issue is now widely discussed in the benches of our defenders, so please respond to it. The practice of rewards for successful tasks should obviously be, but trying to form it in a premium for technology being bribed is unfortunately a very reckless decision that can and is only pianist. Because the practice of modern warfare is that no one responds to who and from which unit the enemy tank, artilleryman, or missile launcher has been hit. And with the rest, who's more responsible for the successful shooting? A guide, a sergeant, or a department commander who ordered the target shot? Who will these arbitrators determine? By means of such a payment mechanism, we will not lift up a fighting spirit in the military. The resources for these prizes, which may bring serious military discord, are more appropriate in directing combat training and the provision of combat troops, with the rest increasing the social package of military personnel. On the subject, I have to commend and commend the regulators in the form of the Government's Decree of January 31, 2014. A thousand dollars a day for a person to participate in combat is exactly what is needed and necessary today. On this, let us not fool ourselves and advocates, the real incentive lies solely in the plane of increasing wages in general, in the army, and in the National Guard. A thousand dollars is the kind of measure we have to take from the economy. I have to point to one important, unsettling lack of care, and I refer to him as Minfina and the Ministry of Defense. Since last year, we have introduced a military assembly of one and a half percent on total tax revenue, but this congregation is also paid by military, Nazi and other ATO participants. I don't think it's a serious improvement when we're taxing those who defend Ukraine in the East. On behalf of ourselves and other deputies who understand this problem, please make appropriate changes and separate all military personnel from the category of those to whom the military congregation is expanding. Please, Minfin, deal with this matter without delay.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-13-m0.u195	Ten seconds, please finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-13-m0.u196	Thank you. Please, Minfin, deal with this issue without delay and make appropriate changes to the Tax Code. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-13-m0.u197	Thank you. Jurinec Oksana Vasilovna is invited to attend. To prepare Kozir Boris Yuriovich, who was given the word of Deputy Keith.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-13-m0.u198	Honorable Presidium, honourable deputies. Oksana Jurinec, block of Petra Poshenko, strike group, 117th constituency, city of Lviv. The need to clarify the situation regarding the granting of visas to Ukrainians for biometric passports. Dear colleagues, in mid - January one of the current problems of many Ukrainians was the formation of a biometric passport. On the first day, it became clear that the Migration Services were not prepared to accept such a number of willing to obtain a new passport. People still stand in line for hours. One of the reasons for this increase, in our opinion, was the chaotic information policy of obtaining our own biometric passports, the right to a visa-free border crossing with EU member countries. A large proportion of people who have a valid foreign passport mistakenly believe that if they make a biometric today, they will be able to drive the European Union without a visa tomorrow. However, as found later in this context, there is an even greater problem. Visa centres of some Schengen embassies refuse to accept biometric visa forms from Ukrainian citizens. The reason is that each consulate was to physically get a form form from the Foreign Ministry for a new document for a further animal, but the state of affairs for the beginning of February didn't get one. As a result, Ukrainian owners of biometric passports are forced to wait for a visa to be completed in excess and overtime, and in some embassies they are still unable to obtain this visa. On February 3, MZS spokesman Eugene Perbinnis reported that the department had already passed on the biometric passports to diplomatic authorities. Nevertheless, voters, especially my 117th constituency, continue to complain about visa problems. I therefore consider it necessary to consult the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of Ukraine and the Ministry of Information Policy with a request to clarify the situation and to take immediate action to resolve the problem. The Committee on European Integration raised this question twice at its committee meeting. Today, this is a major problem that has led to a disagreement or a failure to make adequate management decisions in this situation. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-13-m0.u199	Kozir Boris Yuriovich is invited to attend. Get Kishkar ready, Self Help.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-13-m0.u200	Dear chairman, distinguished fellow national MPs, distinguished voters! Boris Kozir, 127th constituency, Santa Claus. In my speech, I would like to draw your attention to the schedule of the passenger train Kiev-Mikolai. The point is that according to the latest changes in the schedule of trains, the arrival time of the 121 - km passenger train to the city of Mikolayeva was changed. Today, a corresponding train arrives in the city of Mikolai at 3:30 p.m. To compare, the arrival time for change was 6:20 a.m. Such changes in the train schedule caused a number of inconveniences for passengers and added financial costs to the road. For no one is the secret that public transportation starts its work at 6 a.m. What does that mean? This means that passengers arriving in the city of Mikolai are forced to wait another two and a half hours for the station or to use taxi services. But given that Santa’s minimum fare for taxi services today ranges from 35 to 170 dollars, it is not difficult to calculate how much it will cost a Santa Claus to get from Kiev to his home. What about the inhabitants of the area? Let's say that the cost of a ticket is 113 dollars plus the cost of a taxi, we get an increase in the cost of a ticket from 148 to 283 dollars, and the cost of a ticket is going to go up from $242 to 377. As a national deputy of Ukraine, I am asked by the Vice-President of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to help resolve the issue of the return of the train schedule at 6:20 a.m. So I am officially requesting the Minister of Infrastructure of Ukraine, Mr. Andriy Mikolaiovich, to take all urgent measures and to change the time of arrival of the passenger Kyiv-Mikolai to the city of Mikolai from 3.30 a.m. to 6.20 a.m. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-13-m0.u201	Thank you. The word is given to the national deputy Kishkar Paul Mikolaiovich. Prepare Sugoniko to be a national deputy.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-13-m0.u202	Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-13-m0.u203	In fact, I come out here not to say any practical things. But today I'm going to divide it into ideological and practical. Ideologically, both the faction and I am personally prepared to take responsibility. Recently, I learned that I would be a father for the third time. [[Applause]] This says that I am now ready to take responsibility for both my family and the state. I see a lot of supporters here to preserve the state to develop it. But today there are a number of practical problems that we have in particular on the front. So far, we have not brought any man to justice for all the war crimes committed, including during hostilities in eastern Ukraine. No human has been drawn to idleness in securing state sovereignty and territorial integrity in the occupation of the Crimea! No man. You may believe that, Mr. Attorney General, this is a parliamentary request to you. And I'd like you to consider it immediately. We have a lot of questions in the energy sector. Now we're going to be meeting a group on the development of the coal sector. I also ask the Attorney General to pay attention to the activities of the DTEK company and to the activities of the company's owner, Mr. Ahmedov, and the owner, including Matinvest. We have recently visited Mariupol and have seen the destructive effects that Mr. Ahmedov has on Ukrainian authorities in Mariupol. I'm officially addressing you. Please resolve and destroy the impact on the energy market, including DTEK and Mr. Ahmedov. I don't believe that Mr. Dubnevitch has taken away from his tongue the fact that such a tool as a supplement to the lost technique will be effective. This instrument is destructive in terms of military subordination and unity. It is not possible to implement such a system of rewards. Give people $2,000 a salary, give people a social package, and everything will be fine. And this will allow the commander to carry out clearly the battle tasks that are set before him. You don't have to manipulate people, you don't have to divide them, because the actions that Male is doing today are the divisions between the departments. The headquarters of the Ministry of Defense and the Ministry of Defence do what they find out, who is responsible instead of direct combat. Let's finish this process. Glory to Ukraine! Happy birthday.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-13-m0.u204	Thank you. I want to point out that there's literally four minutes left before the end of the hour of the "Variable" performances, so I'm going to give one more and one more performance. Now Sugonako Alexander Leonidovich and the next, Lapin passed on the word Medunice Oleg, the next Medunica, and we will conclude. Okay, then another one, maybe we'll make it. We'll see if we can make it. Please, Alexander Leonidovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-13-m0.u205	Alexander Sugonjako, 158 constituency, Sumstina, strike group. Dear Ukrainians, fellow MPs! In connection with the undeclared war waged by the Russian regime against Ukraine, the realities of military times determine every kingdom of life of Ukrainians, including economic ones. We approve with you very many, perhaps necessary, but declarative political decisions. But society expects us to have practical results in improving the lives of every Ukrainian, as people are suffering from a steady increase in the dollar’s rate. The internal market stands. National production is collapsing. So it's very important to take consistent steps towards national production and business deregulation. In this direction yesterday, the Law on the Simplification of Business Conditions, although not taking into account substantial proposals, was adopted, this act became a small step in the big business. It is only the beginning of the process, the introduction of control bodies to European standards, the reduction of allowable and agreed procedures, the reduction of the impact of public authorities on the activities of operators, the lifting of licences for economic activities that have a sufficient level of regulation. In my opinion, it is still necessary to expand the moratorium on the testing of economic operators, including fiscal checks, which will allow our entrepreneurs to breathe through the cloudiness of the mounting multiple control facilities. Also, I think it's necessary to eliminate the Tax Police. In fact, the idea of sending dismissed officials, law enforcement officers, to the ATO area was right. Dear colleagues, we need to take real steps to support the national manufacturer. In this context it should be noted that Russia has been pressing on the Ukrainian economy, which for decades has mostly worked on the Russian market. Entrepreneurs are closing factories and factories, employees are underpaid, the rest of businesses that can support the destroyed economy of the state are being robbed by a bunch of marginal cashiers who call themselves business elites. This is how one of the largest machine-building plants in Ukraine, the Sumska Machine Construction and Production Association Frunze, is actually on the verge of bankruptcy. The company faced a dangerous situation in terms of pay and debt to the budget. And how much of the business was directed at a Russian investor and had at least 50 percent of the orders from the Russian Federation, and for obvious reasons these partnerships are lost, and production is declining. So the important task for the state is to preserve the strategic enterprise by loading the production with new orders. That's the way it
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-13-m0.u206	Ten seconds to complete, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-13-m0.u207	Crushing, Energoatum. Therefore, I ask that my statement be regarded as a parliamentary request to the Prime Minister of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-13-m0.u208	Thank you. And I want to point out, there's been an urgent request that we continue for one more performance. So now Medunica Oleg Viacheslavovich. And the last, the next, will be Mr. Musia, the last.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-13-m0.u209	Thank you, Your Honor Chairman, thank you, your distinguished predecessor, who spoke from this rostrum, Alexander Leonidovich Sugonako, for he represents the sumen with me. This is my neighbor in my hometown, my favorite, Sumam. I represent the People's Front faction, it's the Peter Dusty Block. But we're the only ones in terms of what's going on right now with the largest company in Suma, where 25,000 people used to work, and now only 12 and a half thousand people are working. And, unfortunately, they have an absolutely unsettling prospect in terms of their employment, in terms of paying their wages. The city is plagued by tax evasion. The company owed land taxes, taxes on the income of individuals. Of course, there are a lot of problems there, including the fact that Russian orders, which were regularly made in this business, are no longer in this range. Of course, there are problems associated with the nonreimbursement of part of the value added tax. And I'm grateful to my colleague that he signed a petition with me to the government so that the tax on the added value of this company's compensation would be listed more faithfully. And there are already guaranteed letters that the bags of this compensation will get, that work at this company will get full pay and the city will get the debt taxes. But there is another problem that we cannot resolve here in this room that is linked to the total corruption of our courts. This is a conflict of shareholders in this company. A group of shareholders representing one of the Russian oligarchs who have less than the rest of the shares control the company’s management and are tried among themselves by shareholders in the London, Ukrainian courts. Unfortunately, our courts, especially in agriculture, have made numerous illegal decisions, and now, thank God, under the new authority, the Supreme Court of Ukraine has placed an intermediate dot and established some legitimacy, but has sent for further investigation into the case of Frunze shareholders. This matter is under the care of journalists, the public, and the MPs. We certainly will not and will not forgive all those judges of the farm courts who have made a number of these illegal decisions over the past years in relation to the flagman of domestic oil production, machine-building. We expect Tuesday, when the Supreme Court takes the case first.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-13-m0.u210	Ten seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-13-m0.u211	Legality will be established. Because there is a big rally in Suma on Tuesday, so we will not forgive and monitor it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-13-m0.u212	Thank you. And Musei Oleg Stepanovich is invited to the floor. Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-13-m0.u213	Dear national MPs, distinguished voters! Today, unfortunately, we are witnessing, on a regular and regular basis, the ignoring of the Prime Minister of our Ukrainian Parliament. Once again, he did not come to us for questions to the government. I think such tactics by the Prime Minister are unacceptable. Besides what he wanted to say very much, and I think he'll probably have a chance to look at the activities of ministers he should be controlling and directing in the right direction. This is primarily the case with the coal sector and the situation surrounding this coal sector, especially with its chief of staff, Mr. Demchikin. Mr. Demchisin, you may remember, told us last Friday about the memorandum and that he had already signed it. And today he assured himself of his signature under the memorandum. It's not true. First of all, the minister is deceiving the Ukrainian Parliament, and not only the Ukrainian Parliament, but he's all over the coal industry -- he's 50,000 miners. Indeed, Prime Minister, it was not enough for such a minister that the first protest in Ukraine was initiated by coals, which had been proven by the existing budget virtually to the limit of poverty. I think that the systematic disregard and failure of the Prime Minister's mandate to Prime Minister Demchichin is that there should be 5 ministers in the working group. Eight deputies participated regularly, and the deputies signed under a memorandum. Instead, we see that ministers don't have time to analyze this document, which, at least in part, starts to save the coal industry. And if such ministers continue to systematically ignore the demands of the coal sector, the demands of the national MPs, I think we should initiate the resignation of similar ministers from the national deputies. And if the Prime Minister continues to cover up similar ministers, let him continue with legal practice. I think, and I strongly believe, that Ukrainian society and the Ukrainian Parliament are able to offer adequate leaders both to expose the government and to expose any ministry. And in terms of reforms, it's been almost three months. Please tell me where the promised reforms are. We see the speech room again, we see a total disregard for the terms of the Coalition Agreement. That is why I urge both the Prime Minister and the ministers to abide by the Coalition Agreement and to focus primarily on the most vulnerable coal sector in Ukraine. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-13-m0.u214	Thank you! Dear colleagues! We finished our performances in "The Different" and finished our two weeks of plenary work. By the way, I'd like to mark a faction of the Radical Party that's at such a high level of discipline before the end of the job, and the MP's Freedoms group, which in the last minute are doing the job, "Smack," "Smack," those who work in the hall, I'd like to point out that in the last two weeks we've accepted. [[Applause]] (Noise in the hall) I told the Radical Party, and that's where I started. Full name. I was ready to call it a full name, but part of the name is missing in the hall and that's why I didn't call it completely. And I would like to say that in those two weeks, we've passed a lot of very important laws both in court, and access to public information, about funds and amendments to the Anti-Corruption Bureau, now there's going to be two weeks of committee and district work. I want to encourage the deputies to work as actively as possible on the committees so that we can work out the laws that are now important for consideration in the districts, as well, to explain to the people, the community our steps, our position and, in fact, what laws the Supreme Council of Ukraine is planning. And I want to close this morning's meeting. The next plenary meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine will take place on Tuesday, March 3, at 10 a.m. And I declare the morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine closed. See you, colleagues, get to work.
