ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-04-m0.u1	Good morning, distinguished national MPs! Please come into the hall and take your seats to continue our work. Anyone in the towers, please come into the hall and take your jobs. Please. Come on, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's Thank you. Dear colleagues! Anyone who has not yet entered the hall, please come in so that we can start our work. We come from the towers in the hall, we occupy jobs to continue the peaceful work of the session.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-04-m0.u2	Good afternoon, fellow countrymen! Please take your seats in the hall. We can start our work. May I have your attention, fellow Members of the People's Parliament. Dear colleagues, tonight at four o'clock in the morning, 15 minutes. [[B in m in s a l in]] Your attention, please! Dear colleagues! Thank you for your attention. At four o’clock this morning, there was a tragedy, and there was an explosion on the West Mine. There are dead today, at the moment 32 persons. Let us honor their memory — the laborers, the miners — for a moment of silence. [[A Minute of Silence]] Thank you. Have a seat, please. Before we begin our work, dear colleagues, I would like to say a few words about the events that took place yesterday, and I ask you all to listen carefully. I think what happened yesterday is a disgraceful phenomenon for the Ukrainian Parliament in general, for each of us. We can have different thoughts, we can have different political views, but stretching out the hands that weren't in these walls for the first time, I think it's unacceptable, if it's acceptable to anyone, raise your hand and say that these are your standards of living and, I think you'll be in the minority. But to raise your hands and physically resolve any differences is unacceptable. And we have to deal with these events hard enough with you. Yesterday after the session, I had a two - hour conversation with faction leaders, groups. We agreed that, first of all, no one would allow themselves to reach out to their colleagues or anyone else in this room. This is the principle position of faction leaders, I think, all of them. This should be a norm, not a disgrace to the Ukrainian Parliament. I think we have enough argument and intelligence to find out within the law of normal ethics and without the shame that the Ukrainian Parliament experienced yesterday. So the decisions that were jointly made yesterday will be implemented today, which will be removed from the hall for five sessions and the person who first stretched out his hands. Next. Today, I will bring to your attention a bill of amendments to the Rules, where in 15 days, a person will be removed from the hall at all. Next. Next. Come on, colleagues. Up to 15 days, up to 15 plenary sessions. On Freud? 15 days. Colleagues, I want us all to be on our own today, each one of us to decide for himself that this is not acceptable. Don't make any jokes. Would you like to find out about the relationship, please, I am ready to put the ring on the third floor, and please go find out, but according to the rules. Not as it happens, unfortunately, not for the first time. So the reaction will be hard and principled. Today we have a number of issues that we have to resolve with you, including drawing to justice what we were unable to do yesterday. And a number of other bills that are important to our nation. I ask you now to turn on the "Council" system for the registration of the national deputies, please. [[10:11:09]] Registered -318 318 people's deputies in the hall. I declare the morning plenary session open. Dear colleagues, I would like with great pleasure to welcome from you, your name, our colleagues on their birthdays. It's Hopko Anna Mikolayevna. Hannah, happy birthday, good and health. [[Applause]] And also Martinjaka Sergija Vasilovich, Ukrainian national deputy, welcome. Dear colleagues, as we agreed before our meeting, I would like to give the floor to the leaders of two factions and groups, namely Oleg Valeriovich Ljaška, the leader of the Radical Party faction, and then Igor Mironovich Jeremeyev. Please, Oleg Valeriyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-04-m0.u3	Oleg Lazko Radical Party. The Radical Party faction certainly condemns the use of physical force in the Parliament Hall, in the walls of the Ukrainian Parliament. It's really a shame, because people have chosen us to protect their interests by voting for laws, protecting our interests with our own intelligence, not with our own fists. But Mr. Groissman, Head of the Supreme Council, is even more disgraceful -- a return to the Chamber of the Ukrainian Parliament of Political Corruption. Even more embarrassing is the return to the Chamber of the Ukrainian Parliament of Political Prostitution. Even more embarrassing is the return of carcasses to the Ukrainian Parliament Hall. The person you mentioned, Sergey Melniczuk, was elected Ukrainian National Deputy by the Radical Party of Oleg Lášk. According to Ukraine's betrayal, for blocking the Ukrainian Ministry of Defence in a war that is comparable to treason, he was expelled from the Radical Party faction. And what do we see? Yesterday he joins an oligarchic group led by Jeremiah, who is made up of former regions. I don't think there's anyone in this room outside this room who thinks the carcase has gone into an oligarchic group without money. And if he went there for money, it's called political corruption. I want to remind you that Yanukovich's regime was stuck to the political carcases that they ripped out of Timoshenko's Block from the People's Front, from our Ukraine. And it was a disgrace to the Ukrainian Parliament! [[B in m in s a l in]] There wasn't any Front, okay? There were no carcasses in Front. But they were in other political powers. And it was a disgrace to the Ukrainian Parliament of the past, because if it wasn't for the dozens of carcasses that Janukovich's regime was holding, there was no Maidan. Carcases are those that distort the will of Ukrainian citizens. When people vote for one another and then the oligarchs collect, form their own groups, and adopt laws that conflict with the interests of society. So our joint task, all factions of Parliament, is to stop political corruption and political prostitution in the Supreme Council. Because, as German Chancellor Bismarck said, "political prostitutes have no right to rule." Stop this, Mr. Head, political corruption in the Supreme Council. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-04-m0.u4	Dear colleagues, I thank you for such a reaction from my fellow MPs. Dear colleagues, today I'm going to introduce a bill amending the Supreme Council of Ukraine regulations, which will be foreseen. Attention, please, colleagues! That the person who gets expelled is expelled! - from the faction, he won't have the right to join another group or faction. I'm going to count on you and I to find an opportunity to work on this issue on the committees. Today, I'm going to put the agenda in order for you to work on the committees. And tomorrow we have to go out and vote it as a law as changes to the law, and once and for all put this migration outside the law within this room. If you turn it off, that's it! A post-faction may be a deputy, there's no one here. Outside the group, please. Igor Mironovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-04-m0.u5	Ukrainian people! Mr. Head, national MPs! Everyone in this room knows what's going on, and they know what's going on. Cheap populism, the epathesis is now overtaken by the country and the Supreme Council. And anyone who wants to say the word against it, political persecution begins. And yesterday's events are political persecution. Six months ago, when the elections began, the handballs were put on the scene and they didn't know where to stand next to him to stand in the glow of that volunteer who went to the front and protected Ukraine with his life. And when the team said, "I don't agree, I'm not ready to vote for retirement, I'm not ready to keep my mouth shut that there's no shoes on the front," it's being taken off by the stars today. Is this called a new democracy? It's called: Today's output. [[B in m in s a l in]] Today it's called "new democracy"? Just a year ago. [[B in m in s a l in]] Just a year ago, in this room, the national deputy of Dombrovsky, the national deputy of Baloga, the national deputy of Vlasenko, took away the authority of the national deputies because they disagreed and did not hurry. Is that why it's a question of democracy today? I think it's political accounting today, because every political party leader wants to have a slave in his faction who's going to press the buttons and have no vote. But the Kurain has changed, and those who have entered for the first time, such as the national MP Melniczuk, are not prepared to live by these rules. Our faction clearly supports the position that there should be no manual in the Supreme Council, and we commit ourselves to supporting the proposals made by the Chief of the Supreme Council, and we are prepared to support the proposals, to punish anyone who disgraces the Supreme Council. But it should be honored that this did not happen yesterday, but it happened much earlier when there was a first fight and no one responded when there was a second fight and no one responded. And today, again, on an unaccommodating MP, do you give an example? Our faction disagrees with that. So we will definitely support the proposals, but we will protect everyone who has them. Who wants to tell the truth, what's actually going on in the Supreme Council Hall. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-04-m0.u6	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the National Parliament, I only want to say one thing to you. When we scream from a place where we don't let ourselves say the word, it's the same display of absolute disrespect that goes to one, absolute disrespect. There is an opportunity for everyone to express their opinion on this matter. There are, in fact, political things, well, it's a normal discussion process. But I agree that no physical influence, no fighting, no carcases, no aunts should be in our lives at all. These are pasts to be forgotten forever and to be held accountable by all those who bear them for the things that have been in our lives. That's why she's asking for a minute, Irina Heratchenko. And then I invite you to speak to the First Deputy Director of the Regulatory Committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-04-m0.u7	Dear colleagues, I will allow myself to take the floor from the women of the Ukrainian Parliament. Yesterday we discussed this disgrace that took place here. We don't just condemn this behavior, but we think that when our men on the front are demonstrating virtue, fighting in Parliament is simply a disgrace to the name of a Ukrainian man. That is why we demand that there never be any more of this in the session room. First. The other one. I want to say that, you know, there were two speakers here -- the tears interfere with how you listen to them. One relates some virtues of a nonexistent man who beat his colleagues here yesterday. So there are no such virtues. If there are any moral principles, Mr. Melniczuk must draw up a mandate and get out of the session room and be in opposition. But so did the tears stir up the talk when she spoke from the rostrum and the man who took him on the list. We have heard many correct words, but the chiefs who recruited them are responsible for the carcass. And so we ask very much about this responsibility to speak. And the last. So please, Mr. Olege, apologize to our Parliament that you've acquired such a "dream" on your list. And the last thing I want to say. Please, dear fellows, don't fight, it's okay to work. The last thing we do is we don't have Groissman in charge of this, but we ask you to bring that person to Parliament.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-04-m0.u8	Please let me finish, don't limit it.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-04-m0.u9	That's the last sentence I'll ever say. Mr. Oleg apologized and asked me to do this. Well, I have no relation to this man you took, so apologize for him. But, Your Honor Mr. Groissman, you certainly have nothing to do with this disgrace that took place in the hall. So you didn't have to appeal here. We demand from our faction that the Rules should be amended that if a person who has entered the list or who has entered the majority district from party support and is required to move there, we should ask questions about his non-inclusion in any other list or group, and apply for it to vote until we make appropriate changes to Parliament to get her out of the session room. It's impossible to betray voters. And that's what we need to stop. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-04-m0.u10	Thank you. Dear colleagues, it'll be two things. First, it's impossible to join another group. And the second position is calling it off, if that happens, from any of the board's governing bodies. Please, Oleg Lazko, 30 seconds, excuse me.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-04-m0.u11	Oleg Lazko. Dear Mrs. Irina Heratchenko, I fully support you. I'm all over it. Dear citizens of Ukraine! As the leader of the Radical Party, I am aware of my responsibility for my team, for those deputies that I have brought to the Supreme Council. I want to apologize to the Ukrainian citizens for what I did wrong: I failed to resolve, I brought to Parliament the person who betrayed the country today. But I'm a living man.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-04-m0.u12	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, I invite you to speak to the head of the committee. Please be the first deputy head of the committee. [[B in m in s a l in]] That was an apology. Please, Paul Pinzenik. [[B in m in s a l in]] A representative of the Petra Dustenka faction turned to apologize. The man says, "I want to apologize." So why don't I give you my word? Apologize? Give me 30 seconds. Should I have given you five? I'll give you five.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-04-m0.u13	Dear Head! Honorable National Deputies of Ukraine! The Rules Committee, at its meeting on 4 March this year, discussed the incident that took place in the Hall of Meetings and Towers of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on 3 March, with the participation of a group of national deputies, and notes this. In accordance with article 8 of the Ukrainian Law "On the Status of the People's Deputy of Ukraine", the Ukrainian People's Deputy should maintain in its activities a public moral standard; always maintain its own dignity, respect the honour and dignity of other national deputies; refrain from actions, statements and actions that compromise it itself, the electorate, the Supreme Council of Ukraine, the state. During the discussion of the incident, members of the committee concluded that the incident had been initiated by the national deputy of Ukraine, Melniczuk Sergey Petrovich, who had led to the use of physical violence in the Ukrainian Supreme Council. The committee reached a conclusion and recommended that the Supreme Council of Ukraine decide on the removal of the Ukrainian national MP Melniczuk from the five plenary sessions of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. On behalf of the committee, I would also like to point out that it is five plenary sessions, not five days of the work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine in plenary mode. So today we have one plenary session, tomorrow, two, Friday, one, and so on. I also note that in accordance with article 51 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Rules, the Supreme Council of Ukraine takes such a decision without discussion, as set out in the minutes of the plenary session, and leads to the recognition of voters through the Voice of Ukraine. The committee also decided to recommend to the heads of the Radical Party MPs and the People's will MPs, not just to say that there is an unacceptable fact about physical violence in the Supreme Council. And apologize for the unethical conduct of the national MPs, members of the respective factions. Thank you for your attention and for your support.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-04-m0.u14	Ladies and gentlemen, you have heard the committee's proposal. I fully share it and support it, I think it's supported by faction leaders. And the national deputies of Ukraine. And I ask you to prepare yourself for the vote, dear colleagues. Please prepare for the vote on the removal of the Ukrainian national MP Melniczuk from the 5th plenary sessions of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. I beg you, take your seats, dear fellows! Give order to factions, faction leaders. Let's support, let's support this proposal from the committee. Ready to vote? Ready? We are voting on the proposal of a regulatory committee, depriving the people's MP Melniczuk of the right to attend 5 plenary sessions. Please vote, please support, Your Honor! I'd like your support, Your Honor. [[10:27:06]] For 205 We didn't make it? Pashinsky was unable to vote. For the offer. [[B in m in s a l in]] Colleagues, concentrate, please. Colleagues, concentrate, please. Proposing a profile committee. Can I not scream? Can I not scream? Can't you? Please be prepared, dear fellows. Vote please, Your Honor! And please support the committee's proposal. She was in agreement with all the faction leaders, with everyone. Please vote. And I'm asking you to support the waiver. May I have your support, fellow members of the National People's Party. [[10:28:14]] For-191 One minute, respectable colleagues. One minute, respectable colleagues, one minute. One minute, respectable colleagues. Please take your seats, please. Please take your seats. Please take your seats. Please take your seats in the hall. One minute from the factions, please. Please, your seats, there's nowhere to meet. Please, one minute from the factions. One minute from the factions. Peter Dustenka's Block, Yuri Lucenko, one minute. Yuri Lucenko. Lucenka, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-04-m0.u15	Dear colleagues! I think this question needs to be moved for a few hours now. The Coalition will speak again. Because I see that some factions take different positions. So I'm asking you to keep moving, I'm asking you to keep moving in the daytime. We face far more important questions than the circus that some have held in Parliament on the third day in a row. We're working for the country.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-04-m0.u16	One minute. Yesterday. Ladies and gentlemen, please take your seats. Yesterday, two hours in my office in the presence of faction leaders, we discussed the matter. This is a real disgraceful phenomenon that has taken place. And today, not to vote for it, I think it's immoral. And that's the principle of my position. I am personally addressing the members of the factions of Peter Prashenko's Block, the People's Front, the Radical Party, Self-Help, the Fatherland, the Opposition Block, two groups, non-fractional deputies to support this initiative. If there are questions related to the need for increased responsibility, let us talk about this separately. But yesterday we agreed that the first person to raise his hand would be removed for five meetings. They all agreed. And they put a dot on that. We will continue to work on this decision. So I'd like to ask you to vote on this question right now. Please, the People's Front faction is a minute. Then "Radical" is a minute, then "The Cloud" is a minute, then "The Self-Help" and "The Fatherland" in a minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-04-m0.u17	Dear colleagues, obviously the situation in the country is that the Ukrainian people are not interested in watching the show right now because they're not up for the show. Because people survive really, and we do the show. Because we're interested in fighting here and doing a lot of other things. We all come out here and here we all condemn. But let's show an example of normal, adequate self-regulation that the MPs are able to, at least by administrative means, forgive me, punish me for banal bullying. It's okay. Because if you go out there and beat someone, you're obviously going to be held responsible and put on a few days, and here we can't deprive ourselves of the right to vote. It's not normal. What's more, we're looking for productive work, and we've stopped Parliament's work, we can't bring judges to justice right now, we can't take the Banks Act to pay back funds from abroad that are arrested, because we've got an interesting job, we're figuring out here, maybe whoever's beating five days to vote or not. We condemn "cart," we have to decide that these "carts" shouldn't belong to any groups and committees, because that's not the norm and it shouldn't be the norm in.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-04-m0.u18	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-04-m0.u19	And now we need to unlock the Supreme Council's work, this is number one, and we're all looking forward to it. Let's not block it any further.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-04-m0.u20	Please, opposition block, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-04-m0.u21	Thank you. Dear Chairman, dear colleagues, the Opposition Block thinks there are more pressing issues today than we stopped at last night. People are waiting for us to make decisions that will improve their lives, make up for the terrible losses they're causing, and instead, we've been here for the second day, who's cleaned up who and how. We think it's a matter of procedure. There was a budget meeting, there was a regulatory committee meeting, he made a decision and a vote took place. And justly, it is necessary to punish not only the one who has beaten and proved to be stronger but also the one who provoked it, then it will be just. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-04-m0.u22	I'm just talking about what was agreed yesterday. Please give me a minute, Oleg Lazko.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-04-m0.u23	Don't let them vote. Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. Honourable citizens of Ukraine, refusing to vote in favour of condemning "tushrooms" in the Supreme Council means one thing for us: President Poroshenko supports and sanctifies "tushrooms" in Parliament. President Poshenko provokes political betrayal and prostitution in Parliament. And what's more, it allows these carcasses to appear in the new Supreme Council. This political prostitution, which is supported by the President's Administration, is the road that Victor Janukovic took. If President Poroshenko is on the road to supporting "cushrooms," supporting political prostitution in the Supreme Council, that means that the ideals of Maidan are betrayed, that political prostitution in parliament.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-04-m0.u24	I'm asking everyone to calm down. And take your seats. Oleg Valeriyovich, please hold yourself in your arms. Because of the insult in this rostrum, it is also a nuisance less than a physical beating. And you don't have to blame the faction for that, and the President is all the more. He is not a member of the Ukrainian Parliament and does not affect the work of Parliament. People have a proposition, to my understanding, that everyone should be equally responsible. I understand that. I understand that. I understand that. I understand that, but we didn't have that conversation last night. Please, Yuri Lucenko, one minute. Calm down and sit down for a minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-04-m0.u25	Ladies and gentlemen, first of all, I ask you to calm down and remember what we fought for as deputies. And stop playing individual games that self-indulgence allows. Secondly, I know there's a class of people for whom the most important thing is to put dirt on someone just to make them feel taller. We won't give up on that. I now ask all coalition factions to calm down, to remember today’s important agenda, including the beginning of justice in the cleansing of judges. Now, I would like to vote in favour of depriving the prisoner of physical violence for five days in the Parliament of Melniczuk and Mr. Layashk, who has spoken. Not by actions, but by words, it breaks Parliament's work, which is unacceptable.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-04-m0.u26	Dear colleagues, I'm putting a motion to the vote. [[B in m in s a l in]] Listen, I am. Calm down, sit down, please. Sit down, I said! [[B in m in s a l in]] Dear colleagues, let's make this a question. Yuri Vitaliovich! Oleg Beresuk, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-04-m0.u27	Dear colleagues! Oleg Valeriyovich! Dear colleagues! I want to tell you three words, listen to me, carefully.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-04-m0.u28	Please listen, colleagues, this is the head of the Self-Help faction. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-04-m0.u29	Dear colleagues, three words. Disgusting, embarrassing, and sad. It's not just me, it's all probably here. Let's say these three words. Mr. Head, I propose not only on behalf of myself but also of all the other deputies in this room, not of one faction. We don't have this decision right now, let's put it off until after lunch. Now let's start voting judges, daytime work, and move the circus under the dome for after lunch. Or maybe we could get a coalition.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-04-m0.u30	Dear colleagues, at 12 o'clock we'll have a break at 12 o'clock. Everyone, stop talking about it! [[B in m in s a l in]] At 12 o'clock, we're going to hold a council meeting and we're going to take a look at this. From 12 to 12.30. Do we have a deal? We're going to see the judges now. All of it! Take your seats, please. We're going to deal with the judges now. Have a seat, please. Sergei Sobolev, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-04-m0.u31	Dear colleagues! Those who are currently planning a picture for the Russian media have done their black work. Yesterday’s events in the session hall have found their response worldwide. And when the world's media isn't asking the question of how the Russian Federation in Putin is violating the Minsk Accords, but what happens in Parliament, I think the person who did this has done it. The proposal of our faction is that we support Oleg Brezück and the Self-Help faction to gather for a break. Now, we're going to consider immediately the issue of giving consent to the arrest of judges, so that what happened in January, February, by January, would be a science for all. And then I'll go back to that question. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-04-m0.u32	Thank you, Sergey Sobolev, for repeating Oleg Beresyuk's offer and mine. Please take your seats. At 12 hours we'll have a break, we'll have a consultation and we'll have a vote. Ladies and gentlemen, let's move on to the day-to-day issues. Concentrate, please. To be included in the agenda of the day session, you will be offered several drafts. Attention! In particular, the one I was talking about about making changes to the Rules is 2300, in the order of the day session. He's registered now. 2299, which was introduced by the President of Ukraine; 2269, on the number of the Ukrainian Armed Forces, also submitted by the President of Ukraine (299), is a bill on citizens' appeal. So I asked them to put them into the agenda now. We'll send them to the committees right away, and we'll look at them on the committees, and we'll make a general decision. Is there no objection? About getting in the daytime, colleagues. Please take your seats. And the next question that we have is the very important thing about bringing judges to justice. Prepare for the vote, Your Honor. Please include the daily session (2300), (2299) and (2269). Please support the inclusion in the agenda of the session. Vote please, colleagues.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-04-m0.u33	"We vote in favour," we support the inclusion in the agenda of the session. [[10:43:14]] For 232 We didn't make it. We're here, that's better, 232. Thank you, Your Honor. I'm giving the committee an order to review these bills immediately. Thank you. Dear colleagues, let us turn to the question of whether to give consent to the detention or arrest of individual judges. To that end, I would like to give the floor to the Head of the Supreme Court of Ukraine, Jaroslav Mikhailovich Romanyuk, 10 minutes. Please, Your Honor, on your question-answer, please concentrate.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-04-m0.u34	Ladies and gentlemen, the Supreme Court of Ukraine has received the submission of the Attorney-General of Ukraine, which states that the judge of the Pecher District Court of Kiev, Kitzik Viktor Petrovich, is suspected of committing a crime, as foreseen in section 2 of article 375 of the Criminal Code of Ukraine, which is the approval of the judge of a presumptuously unjust decision on grounds of personal interest. The submissions indicated that Judge Kitsuk had dealt with the case of an administrative offence involving an Automidan participant and had not taken the necessary steps to establish an objective truth in the case. Judge Kitsuk, as noted in the submissions, did not take into account the explanation of the person on whom the question of bringing him to administrative responsibility was raised as the basis of his decision, which referred to the removal of 6 months' travel rights, the protocol on administrative offences, which was based on an unsigned report by a police officer, did not remove those discrepancies, did not verify how the actual situation was with these materials, and approved a decision that was subsequently annulled in the appeal order for the absence of an administrative offence in the person's actions. As a basis for addressing you, the National Deputies, in order to obtain arrest and arrest Judge Kitsuka, the Attorney General points out that Judge Kitsuk, having acquired the status of suspect, has been far from carrying out his criminal and procedural duties. He was not called to question the investigator, nor was he involved in other necessary procedural investigations. Under such circumstances, the Attorney General, in order to bring Judge Kitsuk to justice authorities to take the necessary procedural action to either confirm or dispel suspicions of him, has turned to the trouble that I support to grant the court's consent to be detained and arrested.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-04-m0.u35	Thank you. Dear colleagues, there will be questions. I think that perhaps we will do it now, the head of the Supreme Court will make all three representations. Then I'll be able to ask who has it, and then we'll vote on everyone. If there's a judge. Is the judge in the hall? There are judges, and they also have the opportunity to answer your questions. Please continue.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-04-m0.u36	A similar submission by the Attorney General of Ukraine came to the Supreme Court of Ukraine concerning the judge of the Pecher District Court of Kiev, Oxana Igorovna. The report also states that Judge Zarjevic is suspected of committing a criminal offence, as provided for in article 375 of the Criminal Code, section 2, of the Criminal Code of Ukraine (the “Adoption of a criminally unjust decision on grounds of personal interest”). According to the file, Judge Zarjevic had already dealt with the Automeidano case, not providing for the appearance of a person who had been involved in an administrative offence without hearing her explanation, not by taking steps to establish an objective truth in the case, but by deciding to deprive a person of his or her right to drive a vehicle for a period of six months, only on the basis of a protocol on administrative misconduct, which was also filed according to a police report that was not even signed by a militia officer himself. On the basis of an appeal to the Supreme Council for the arrest and arrest of Judge Zarjevic, the Attorney General points out that Judge Zarjevic has refused to take part in the proceedings, has refused to receive a suspect report, has not been summoned to the interrogator or to participate in other necessary proceedings. In such circumstances, I, as the head of the Supreme Court, also support the submission of the Attorney-General.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-04-m0.u37	Thank you. Thank you, sir. Keep going. Next presentation.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-04-m0.u38	The next submission by the Attorney General of Ukraine concerns the judge of the Pecher District Court of Kiev, Sergio Volodymyrovich. According to the case of Judge Wolfe, the criminal offence envisaged in article 375 of the Ukrainian Criminal Code is also suspected of being committed (the “Adoption of a criminally unjust decision on grounds of personal interest”). According to the submission, there was a civil case in Judge Vuka’s case regarding the transfer of the buyer’s rights to the defendant’s benefit. According to the complainant’s materials, he referred to three years ago as giving the defendant money to purchase an apartment in Kiev and a transportation vehicle called Porsche Cayenne. However, using the funds, the woman purchased the listed property on her own behalf. The judge examined the case by default, failed to report the time and place of the defendant’s hearing, and decided to settle the suit, laying the groundwork only for the prosecutor’s explanation. In doing so, he stripped the property of the defendant of his right to claim ownership. Under such circumstances, the Attorney - General considers it reasonable to suspect that the judge of the crime would have been given the right to make an unjust decision on the grounds of personal interest. On the basis of the appeal to the Supreme Council of Ukraine for arrest, the arrest of the judge-general of Ukraine states that neither in the place of registration nor in the place of residence nor in the place of work of Judge Vuka has been established, and therefore there is no possibility to conduct the necessary procedural proceedings with him. In order to ensure that he is brought before the judicial authorities for the purpose of taking the necessary procedural action to either confirm or dispel the legitimate suspicion of him, the Attorney General requests that the judge be taken into custody and arrested. As Head of the Supreme Court, I support this submission.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-04-m0.u39	Thank you, Mr. Head of the Supreme Court of Ukraine. Dear colleagues, you just heard three performances. Now, please, I see that there is a need. Give me 10 minutes to ask the Chief Justice. And then there'll be a report by the head of the profile committee, a report by the head of the profile committee. Please sign in, please. Sign up for questions to the Head of the Supreme Court. Please, Yuri Solovay, Peter Dusty Block.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-04-m0.u40	Please pass the word to Irina Heratchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-04-m0.u41	Irina Heratchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-04-m0.u42	On behalf of our faction, consider this a parliamentary request. We ask you to publish the declarations of these three people who have dishonored the title of judge. And we've seen what they've been doing all this time when they've been bullying the defendants in their courts. And not only declarations, but also their real assets. We want to see the houses they live in, and so on. The other one. We think it's just the beginning. And we need to do everything we can to ensure that they do not flee the country today. Because this will be the responsibility of the entire system of justice in Ukraine. They should be detained today if such a decision is made. And the third. This is just the beginning, Mr. Attorney General, the head of the Supreme Court. We, on behalf of our faction, on behalf of Vitalia Klitschka, did not once ask for the same actions by a whole series of judges at the Obalonian Court, other judges who were simply harassing Ukrainians in January-February.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-04-m0.u43	Ten seconds, complete.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-04-m0.u44	Mr. Attorney General, Mr. Chief of the Supreme Court, it is a disgrace that we wrote these requests last April -- just now, in January, we were being called in for questioning, to give evidence to the Kyiv Prosecutor's Office! Please ask that the actions of the judges of the Obolon Court and all other judges of Kiev, Cherkas, who did so during the winter of last year, be considered as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-04-m0.u45	Please answer.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-04-m0.u46	With regard to the need to publish declarations on judges ’ income, such declarations are publicized under the Law on the Cleanse of Power. And in those courts where enforcement of the Law on the Cleanse of Power has been initiated, such declarations have already been published, including on the official site of the Supreme Court of Ukraine. As for the other issues that you raised, this is a matter for the authorities of pretrial investigation. Specific submissions came to the Supreme Court of Ukraine on February 13 and February 27, and as head of the Supreme Court, I was supported and brought to Parliament.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-04-m0.u47	Thank you. Please, Vadim Rabinovich, Opposition Block.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-04-m0.u48	Dear colleagues, I think you all know that the judicial system is one of the most corrupt in our country. Thousands of businessmen, thousands of ordinary people, have been affected by decisions. But what you're doing right now is a good performance. You want to put three people, intimidate the judicial system, and make it vote for you from this day forward. It's an indicative murder of the judicial system. You have to take it all down to one, not three. Here's my offer.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-04-m0.u49	The Supreme Court of Ukraine received three applications from the Attorney General. If more submissions are received, they will likewise be the subject of a hearing before the Supreme Court and a decision on the need to maintain them and to bring them to Parliament or not. With regard to three specific cases, I think I have made a reasonable report. What is the basis for the Attorney General’s suspicion of committing criminal offences by these judges? And I think there's good reason to think that these suspicions are justified.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-04-m0.u50	Thank you. Please, Dobrenkov, the Opposition Block.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-04-m0.u51	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues, distinguished representatives of the judiciary, voters! What's going on now? To be honest, as a law specialist, such as a lawyer involved in law enforcement, I am ashamed that such issues are now being raised in the Supreme Council. People, just think, for the deprivation of their driving rights, for the deprivation of their driving rights, people have been called to administrative responsibility, and they have been deprived of their driving rights. I don't know what these people's personal interest might be. That's a first. Secondly, it is now a matter of electing a preventive measure in the form of an arrest for an administrative offence. What are you doing here? You're setting up a court here. And the punishment of what they have inflicted is beyond measure for the people. They didn't deprive anyone of their freedom. They didn't break their destiny. This is a denial of the right to drive a vehicle. Let them ride the trolleybuses.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-04-m0.u52	Honorable national deputies, according to the materials of submission, the personal interest of the judges is that they thus tried to win the loyalty of the existing authorities at that time in order to ensure further advancement in the ministry. As for your next question, I'd like to clarify the situation. The fact is, giving consent to arrest and arrest is not a punishment for a judge. And the purpose of consenting to arrest and arresting a judge is, in fact, to send a judge to whom there is a reasonable suspicion of committing a crime against the law enforcement authorities for the purpose of ensuring that he participates in the investigation because the judges avoid participating in the investigation. As suspects, they're obliged to meet the interrogator's challenges, to carry out other possible investigative actions, for example, to conduct face-to-face stakes, and so forth. It's not about getting arrested, it's about getting them arrested.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-04-m0.u53	Please finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-04-m0.u54	By their previous conduct, which has been avoided in every way from carrying out their duties and suspected judges, they have given the Prosecutor - General grounds for violating the application. Further, if the Supreme Council has a positive decision, whether the Attorney-General will have the need and the grounds for violating the arrest of these judges is a question of the future and it will depend primarily on the conduct of the judges themselves and on how well they will carry out the duties imposed on them by criminal law.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-04-m0.u55	Thank you. Please, National Deputy Gusak Volodymyr Georgievic, Opposition Block.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-04-m0.u56	Please pass the word to Deputy Voropeiev.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-04-m0.u57	Whoopeyes, please?
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-04-m0.u58	The distinguished rapporteur, I am ashamed to hear, yes, from the words of the Head of the Supreme Court of Ukraine, the confirmation that these judges are now, with your consent, being brought to justice, criminal responsibility and arrest, yes, for what they have considered, in terms of the fact that there is an administrative case wrong. Tell me, please, what is the personal interest of Judge Vuka, who has dealt with a civil dispute and has decided one person on the one hand. This is the person who shared her money with him, her car and something else. You've got some. proof.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-04-m0.u59	Honorable national MPs, according to the case file, are sufficiently reasonable to suspect the judges of the commission of the crime. That's not an accusation. In fact, it is necessary to carry out a set of investigations to confirm whether there are any suspicions or whether they should be eliminated, and especially with the involvement of the suspects themselves, of the judges in whom the judges are evading. And that was the reason why the issue of consenting to the detention of those courts and their arrests was violated, with a view to bringing them to law enforcement. With regard to the answer to Judge Vuk’s personal interest, according to the materials of the Attorney General’s application, Judge Vuk was also guided by personal interest. With the goal of winning the favored attitude of the then State authorities in order to ensure further advancement in the ministry.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-04-m0.u60	Thank you, Mr. Head. Please, Alona Babak, Self Help.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-04-m0.u61	I beg you to give the word to Jehor Sobolev.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-04-m0.u62	Yegor Sobolev.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-04-m0.u63	We have a question for the Attorney General. Mr. Victor Shockin, the Self-Help faction welcomes today's initiative of the Attorney General's Office. But I think we and many colleagues in Parliament have two thoughts. The first is finally, and the second is somewhere else. We're looking at similar references to dozens of judges who have been looking at similar cases against the Automatians, dozens of judges who have been looking at much more and more terrible punishments than throwing people who have been beaten by Berkuts on Maidan. Above all, those puppeteers who then instituted a trial against Eromaydan, who put Eromaydan outside the law and forced obedient judges to make the necessary decisions. We expect you to commit a criminal offence.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-04-m0.u64	Thank you. I would like to point out that we took 10 minutes to question the Head of the Supreme Court of Ukraine. I think that, well, that, I think, at the end of the process, when we go through this, we can give the floor to the Attorney General. Dear colleagues, time is running out, but I see more factions who have not taken the floor at all. I'll probably give it a minute. Please, People's Front. [[B in m in s a l in]] Questions. People's Front, Heroshenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-04-m0.u65	Why did the Opposition Block get so excited? Administrative offences were said to have been dealt with. That's not the point. These judges followed President Yanukovic's order to intimidate the people of Ukraine. They seized the rights of those people who were not even in Medjugorje that day, simply because their cars were registered by GAI workers, who are now also in criminal proceedings. The next judge will be Judge Makarov of the Court – Oberimko, who was drunk driving, hid behind a police officer, sent a gun. You're gonna protect him, too, because he just drank the wheel?Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-04-m0.u66	Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-04-m0.u67	Honorable national MPs, the adoption of an unjust decision, are not so important in which case, whether in a criminal or a civil case or in an administrative case, undermines confidence in society in such a court. That's why we shouldn't go through with it.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-04-m0.u68	Please, Radical Party, Vineyard, one minute. And we're done. "Fatherland" is Vlasenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-04-m0.u69	Of course, we will support this proposal by judges Tsarevich, Vuko, and Kitsuku. I think there's no doubt that this is the right initiative for any person who knows that, at least a little bit, there's no doubt about it. The question, Mr. Supreme Court, is very, very simple for me. Why so little? What is not the point of Judge Burbella, who judged for political reasons, especially those present? When will we deal with Judge Sapalova, who judged the vineyard rangers? With Judge Dudar, who was the judge of Equinox Midan? With Judge Adbulkadir, who took the hero from Bandera? I ask you very much to keep the entire sessional room really serious about this question, and so on these three judges do not end up with Karine Abdul Kadirova, and Burbela, and Capalova, and Dudar, and Cemetery, and Tsvetkov, and other selling anti-Ukrainian judges being punished, not just these three. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-04-m0.u70	Honourable National Deputies, in accordance with the Law on the Regulations of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, are arrested by the Attorney-General of Ukraine. As Head of the Supreme Court, I support this submission and bring it to Parliament. Today the Supreme Court has received, as I have said, three submissions from the Attorney General of Ukraine, supported by me and brought to your attention. In the event that others arrive, they too will be considered and the issue of whether there are grounds for their support and introduction to the Supreme Council will be resolved.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-04-m0.u71	Thank you, sir. Please. Thank you, take your place. Aah! Excuse me! Sergei Vlasenko. Sergey Vlasenko, and we're done.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-04-m0.u72	Thank you. Well, first of all, I'd like to thank both the Chief Justice and the Attorney General for the submission. [[Applause]] Secondly, I'd like to point out that there are certain thoughts, rumors, and yesterday, in the information space, we wanted to make a moment about what we're going to do as the Supreme Council is going to be dealing with the judges of the Caver District Court. I want to point out that we're not dealing with any kind of misdemeanor, we're forming a new judicial system today. Anyone who comes to court today must understand that any unjust decision will be held accountable. This is the first time. Secondly, we don't need to talk about a little bit of significance called these episodes. What, we don't know who Judge King is, what cases did she hear, what decisions did she make? What, we don't know who Judge Wolf was who listened to the cases he made? What, we do not know who Judge Kitsuk was, who listened to the cases, and what decisions did he make? No, Your Honor, the time has come for you to answer. Finally! Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-04-m0.u73	Thank you. Please. Thank you, sir. Please report to the head of the profile committee, Ruslan Knyazevich.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-04-m0.u74	Dear Mr. Head, dear colleagues! Well, first of all, I would like to report that the Committee on Legal Policy and Justice, in accordance with the Ukrainian Law on the Rules of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, has the authority to verify those submissions that come to the Supreme Council from the Attorney-General, who are supported by the Supreme Court, only formally, in accordance with the requirements of the Rules of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. In view of these circumstances, I would like to inform you that yesterday the committee had received appropriate documents that had previously come to the Supreme Council of Ukraine. And the committee, commissioned yesterday by the Supreme Council of Ukraine, issued at the session of the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, met at its meeting, having previously invited the judges in a telegraph manner, the question of bringing them to justice, the issue of granting their consent to be arrested, which was discussed by the committee at their place of work at the Pecher District Court of Kiev. Representatives of the Attorney General’s Office took part in the committee’s work and reported the relevant circumstances in the case. Today, too, I must point out that given that the issue under consideration today was the first one in the agenda, we have communicated in a telegraph manner today, again, to the Pecher District Court in order for them to inform the relevant judges of the matter. And today two of the three courts are invited to bed, and according to the Rules, Mr. Head, they have the right to speak. Such a right must be given in order to ensure that the regulatory procedure is clearly followed. On the other hand, I would like to inform you that another judge is the Wolf, who was invited to this session by appropriate appeal to the head of the committee, who has not been informed by the presiding officer of the Cave District Court, Mr. Biloczerkowitz, that, according to the order of the head of the Smik court, he has been on leave since 17.02.2015 on a child-care leave and therefore is not on the job, and therefore has not been able to report in the period set for today's session and to consider the issue of bringing him to criminal responsibility. At the same time, according to the Rules, this is not an obstacle to the consideration of the matter. Dear Sir, dear colleagues, not to read all the conclusions that you have on your hands, they're quite large enough, I'm sure I won't be able to read them all, I'm just going to read the resolution parts, the substance of which is to say that the committee has testified to the fact that the proper procedure for this matter has been followed, both until it reached the Supreme Council and the Supreme Council. In particular, the Attorney General appealed to the Supreme Court in accordance with the current legislation, which examined the relevant appeals and supported them in the form of referral to the Supreme Council on the appropriate need to obtain from the Supreme Council, in accordance with the Constitution, an agreement on the detention and arrest of the judges of the Pecher District Court of Kiev. The Committee, having considered the details and materials accordingly, concluded that the submission of the Attorney-General of Ukraine, supported and submitted to the Supreme Council of Ukraine by the head of the Supreme Court of Ukraine, of consent to the detention of the judges of the Pecher District Court, was three different decisions, but I will read them in a single speech. Tsarevich O.I., Volka S.V. and Kitsuka V.P. and the selection of a precautionary measure in the form of a security guard shall meet the requirements of part one of article 220 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Rules and may be duly supported by the Supreme Council of Ukraine. In addition, I would like to draw your attention to the honourable colleagues who, in accordance with the Rules, are currently present at the session of the Attorney General of Ukraine, as well as to the Prosecutor of Kiev, who may and may be entitled under the Rules if they wish to exercise such a right, to report certain circumstances on the matter in order for the Supreme Council to make informed and legitimate decisions. For my part, I finished the report. Dear colleagues, thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-04-m0.u75	Thank you. I don't think it's necessary to ask the committee head questions. Thank you. Dear colleagues, according to the procedure, if there is a desire for judges and they are present, to express themselves. Please, they have the right to do so. Please, name and speak.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-04-m0.u76	Mr. Head! Dear National Deputies! Thank you for inviting me to attend to my question at the Supreme Council. Of course, it's hard to speak in these circumstances, and I'm perfectly aware that every word I say will be the subject of your assessment. To date, the President of Ukraine, Parliament, other state institutions, as well as public institutions, have declared the necessity of lifting parliamentary and judicial integrity. We also support this position, and in no way do we hide behind the MPs. For the judge's inviolability. However, when it comes to the abolition of judicial immunity as part of criminal conduct, this criminal conduct must be carried out exclusively in a procedural way. We have heard with you today that the reason for the submission was that we were hiding, not going to investigate. I want to point out that we're coming for every investigative action. We spoke twice to the Supreme Court, giving appropriate explanations. We twice addressed the committee with statements expressing our position. We, as no one, are interested in the fact that the trial was conducted objectively and comprehensively, and most importantly in the terms defined by criminal law. What else do I want to stress? Today, the U.S. Attorney General has assured us that the judicial investigation in the criminal proceedings will be carried out only objectively. The only thing I personally regret, as judges, is that those arguments that we have twice sent to the Supreme Court of Ukraine, when we claimed that the suspicions raised were unfounded, that the terms of the investigation in the criminal proceedings had ended, that there were no exceptional circumstances to which the law would link the need for such a problem, were left out of consideration by the Supreme Court of Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-04-m0.u77	Judge Tsarevich. Thank you so much for having invited us to the meetings of the Supreme Council and for giving us the opportunity to speak. First of all, the distinguished national MPs, I note the following, since my colleague said a lot. If you're still acting in the right field and in the light of the declarations you're making, I want to draw attention to some of the aspects of the suspicion itself and the very reasons for the removal of the judicial integrity. First of all, the decision that I have been incriminating as knowingly unjust is uncontested, including the person on whom it has been decided. The person pointed out that he was not a member of public organizations or a participant in peaceful protests that the Supreme Qualifications Commission of Judges of Ukraine had made. I further point out that the terms of the trial ended on February 22, 2015. Then any procedural and follow-up actions are impossible beyond the time limits. And if we're still in the right field, we're asking you to pay attention to that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-04-m0.u78	Thank you, Your Honor. [[B in m in s a l in]] Dear colleagues, calm down, please. There's a question. National MP Voropeyev, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-04-m0.u79	Dear head. I have a question for Judge Tsarevich. Please tell me I saw you in court, including after a criminal case has already been brought against you. So I've seen you, you've handled Mr. Ephraim's case. Did you feel pressured in this case in the case of Ephraim? And who was specifically pressured when it was exerted?
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-04-m0.u80	Yes, it was. And I mentioned that in my statement to the Ambassador of the United States of America in Ukraine, Jeffrey Payetta, and I'm waiting for a meeting.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-04-m0.u81	Thank you. Dear colleagues, Irina Heratchenko, then Irina Lucenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-04-m0.u82	That's the question. I have a question for this lady whose actions we saw in court. Ladies and gentlemen, were you under pressure by the administration of Janukovič during 2010-2014 to consider all the political issues that you were considering? Are you personally acquainted with Mr. Portnov, or have you maintained a relationship with him that helped you to make the necessary decisions? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-04-m0.u83	Thank you. Please, Irina Lucenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-04-m0.u84	Thank you for asking. No one addressed me personally.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-04-m0.u85	Irina Lucenko. Irina Lucenko, please. From the rostrum, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-04-m0.u86	Dear colleagues! I want to go first to the Opposition Block, the Opposition Block faction. You know, there were three judges in 2010 - 2012, when one of the political prisoners (two of them are in this room right now) starved for 32 days, he dropped 28 pounds and was brought to trial. Why he was starving. Because for six months, judges of the Pecher Court ruled that it should be kept in custody for one simple reason. One of them. [[B in m in s a l in]] Did you say everything? Now I'll tell you. Now I'll tell you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-04-m0.u87	Calm down, out of the way.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-04-m0.u88	When he was brought in, the man who lost 28 kilograms was brought to trial, and three judges called for an ambulance. He was stabbed every hour in pain. And when Judge Wolf said, "No, he's going to be in jail," because one of six lawyers didn't read one of 150 volumes! How do you do?Oh, my "The Opposition Block," think!
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-04-m0.u89	Give me 30 seconds to finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-04-m0.u90	If, God forbid, one of your colleagues is in the same situation.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-04-m0.u91	Oh, my God! Do you expect the same decision after 28, after 32 days of starvation, eight testicles and a preconcessive condition?Oh, my God! I'd love to vote! At last, these people will feel what it is!
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-04-m0.u92	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I propose. We, look, we all took the floor, asked everyone questions. There was a recording and so on. I propose to proceed to the vote. Please be prepared. Oksana Siroid, one minute. Let us conclude and proceed to the voting procedure. People's deputies, please come to the hall and prepare for the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-04-m0.u93	Dear colleagues, Mr. Head, I just wanted to say a few words to you. First of all, I think that in most people in this room, as in most people in Ukrainian society, there is no doubt about these people. And the fact that they're so passionately protected by the Opposition Block is too much evidence of what they've done. But I would very much like to address the Attorney General and the Attorney General right now. Make sure that these people are not able to resume their jobs. To ensure that the investigation is fair but well - founded, irreprehensible. I don't want to vote in the future in this room for the renewal of these people. And the last. In principle, I want such matters no longer to be considered in Parliament. We need to make judicial reform so that the judges are brought to justice is depoliticized. We must make sure that the Supreme Council and the President of Ukraine do not have a relationship either to bring judges to account or to the career of their growth. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-04-m0.u94	Thank you. Please, Your Honor, a bill of approval for detention and arrest is put to the vote by the judge of the Pecher District Court of Kyiv Kitsuka V.P. (registration number 2287) on the basis and in general. I'd like you to determine by vote. Dear colleagues, I ask you to determine your vote. On the basis and in general, 2287. [[11:21:24]] For 289 Decision taken. A draft Decree (register No. 2288) is put to the vote, the draft Ordinance granting arrest and arrest to the judge of the Pecher District Court of Kiev, Tsarevich O.I. Please vote on the basis and in general. I'd like you to determine by vote. [[11:22:02]] For-286 Decision taken. Your consideration, honourable national deputies, is subject to a decision (registration number 2289) in the decree concerning the granting of arrest and arrest of the judge of the Pecher District Court of Kyiva Vuka S.V. As a basis and as a whole. Please determine by vote. [[11:22:37]] For 296 Decision taken. Thank you. Dear colleagues, the question has been considered. The decision on it is made. Thank you all for taking part in this discussion. Let's move on to the next question of order of the day. Honorary colleagues, draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on Foreign Exchange Accounting (Registration No. 2265). Before starting his consideration, I would like to give the floor to our colleague Alexia Honcharenko, a minute from the rostrum, an extremely important question. And let's go to 2265.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-04-m0.u95	Dear, distinguished colleagues, on behalf of the Crimea Interfractional Union, I have asked for the floor because today this is almost exactly the year that the Russian Federation's armed aggression against our state began. The world has been standing half a year since World War III. And it all began in our Crimea with the admiration of the specialists of the Supreme Council of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea, the Council of Ministers of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea, Simferopol Airport and beyond. We all remember what happened there. We all know that today Putin and the Kremlin have made Crimea the prison island of Alcatraz, where they have hundreds of thousands of Ukrainian citizens hostage. Crime turned into a gray zone. There are violations of the rights of national minorities, of Crimean Tatars, of Ukrainians, of various religious denominations. There is the world-renowned Mustafa Aga Jemiliev, who is also the head of the Crimean Tatar people. And for us today, it is a principle to remind the whole world of ourselves.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-04-m0.u96	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-04-m0.u97	All the citizens of Ukraine who were Crimea are and will be Ukrainian. The Ukrainian flag will take over Crimea. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-04-m0.u98	Dear fellow members of the national parliament, the bill (registration number 2265) is being submitted to your consideration. Is there no objection? Please put to the vote on the summary procedure 2265. Short cut. [[11:25:17]] For-183 Thank you. Please, Minister of Finance, Natalia Jaresko. The factions even considered these issues, the bill. Is there a need to report? None. There's the position of the Petra Prashenko Faction, please, Yuri Vitaliyovich, 2265. Please invite the deputies to the hall.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-04-m0.u99	Dear colleagues, yesterday's Peter Prashenko faction met with the Minister of Finance to clarify the details of the bill. In the course of this discussion we have reached, I think, understanding in these directions. First, the term 90 days for which export-import operations are proposed to be restricted, the existing legislation has all the power to establish the National Bank, and there is no need to establish it directly again in the law. Second rule. The Ministry of Finance agrees that this is an extra orderly law. And on a self-help proposal, he's inserting a record that he's operating by the end of this year. And the third position, I'd like to protocolly assign a mandate to the professional committees that will consider it, on the need to specify which court office might be the reason for the extension of the term of foreign exchange transactions. With that first reading, our faction supports the bill. I ask all members of the coalition to support this position. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-04-m0.u100	Thank you. I'm so aware that she's already in this position together. So now I'm going to put it on the ground, and when I'm preparing for the second reading, I'm going to take these proposals into account, yes, which have been announced yet. Based on the base. [[B in m in s a l in]] On the basis of the condition, the one that was announced. Please vote on the basis of the proposals. Yes, the basis, right, according to the proposals of Yuri Lucenka that he has just announced. Please vote. On the basis of that, respectable colleagues. Based on the base. [[11:27:37]] For 238. Decision taken. Thank you. I ask you to consider the proposals made by the deputies when preparing for the second reading. This is a protocol assignment. Thank you. Next bill (registration number 1547). Draft Act amending the Ukrainian Defence Planning Act (new edition). There is a proposal to consider this bill in a simplified manner. Please be sure about this proposal. As for the reduced procedure, colleagues. [[11:28:23]] For 196 Decision taken. Please report to Deputy Minister – Mehed Petr Mikolaiovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-04-m0.u101	Dear Volodymyr Borisovich, distinguished national deputies! The bill was developed by the Ministry of Defence in order to improve the existing defence planning system in the Armed Forces of Ukraine and other military personnel, taking into account the planning experience in the countries of the European Union and NATO. The bill is presented in a new edition specifying the order of defence planning and defence review, the list and content of defence planning documents for a long, medium and short term perspective. The bill harmonizes the order of defence planning with other types of planning, such as strategic planning for the use of the Ukrainian Armed Forces, the planning of law enforcement activities, the planning of measures to prepare the population and the territory of the State for defence and mobilization plans. The adoption of the bill will help optimize the structure and order of defence planning documents, improve the coordination of the actions of public authorities in defence tasks, make effective use of the security and defence sector components. The committee recommended that the bill be adopted in the first reading as a basis. Please be supportive. The report was completed.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-04-m0.u102	Thank you. Please report to the head of the profile committee, Sergei Pashinsky.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-04-m0.u103	Dear Lord Chairman, dear colleagues! This is not the first time that we have considered amendments to national defence and security legislation. Mr. Mehed has reported on what this law is aimed at, is the harmonization of terms, so let's say, skewed planning, it's a clear coordination of our defence planning. We support this bill, please support in the first reading. If there's any comments, any additions, we'll take a quick look, and we'll recommend a second reading. The only thing I would like to point out is that we, as the Supreme Council, are fulfilling our responsibilities to improve legislation, and we will very much hope that this legislation will not only be on paper, but will really be implemented in creating a line of defense, creating a new civil defence in the real coordination of our law enforcement structures and in the real concentration of our State's spending on defence and security. Unfortunately, today we cannot say that all the legislative initiatives that we vote and support are implemented in the defence field. Let us hope that the leadership of the state, the people to whom this is due under the law, will make full use of the legislative potential that we are working on. Thank you for your attention and please support the bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-04-m0.u104	Thank you. Please 2 in, 2 in. Paul Ungurian, People's Front.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-04-m0.u105	Dear colleagues, I think we are all unanimous in the fact that today's security, the defense of Ukraine needs all our support. I would like to remind you that for the first time in years of independence, the Ukrainian State, especially the Ukrainian government, is concerned about defence and security issues in a very focused and systematic manner. Of course, we are motivated by our external threat, and we have taken an unprecedented approach to the formation of Ukraine's state budget, in which more than 80 billion dollars have been allocated to all the needs of defence and security, the functioning of law enforcement agencies. In addition, in the changes to the budget that we have voted with you in the next session, we have put in place mechanisms for our military industry through the mechanisms of engagement under which we guarantee investment. The bill that we are considering today certainly needs to be worked out. The chairman of the committee, Sergey Pashinsky, pointed out this, but today we can take it as a basis and, taking into account the suggestions made, prepare it qualitatively for second reading. So let us support it to identify both objects and authority and all the scope of our defense planning. I'd like all my colleagues to support you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-04-m0.u106	Thank you. Please, Paul Kishkar, "self-help."
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-04-m0.u107	Ladies and gentlemen of the people, Sergey Volodymyrovich, your special attention, Mr. Mehed. Mr. Mehed, pay attention! I've spoken to him many times. This is what all defense planning in the area of security and defense looks like. And there's negatives more than positives. I'm going to insist, I'm delighted, of course, by this law, because I'm touchy about its development, and I'm going to demand that all the other legal instruments are also drafted, filed and approved. In times of war, we play! We're not playing, we're fighting, we're losing guys every day, and you can't. Read? The National Security Strategy of Ukraine, the military doctrine, "On the principles of internal and external" (thank you, accepted), "On the foundations of national security," Kishkar submitted, the State Program for the Development of the State Military Organization and so on. What am I drawing your attention to? We don't have time to play, all security and defense issues have to be put into the hall, considered, and implemented. People need to know their scope of responsibility for work. Today, we have no engineering facilities in Mariupola or Kharkiv. You know that very well, no one is held accountable, no one is responsible, no one is doing anything. I say again and again, if you don't know enough, turn around, we're ready to help you in everything, we'll work day and night. There are a lot of prospects for public-private partnership in the CAP area. We would also like to draw your attention to the development of this bill and its introduction into the hall. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-04-m0.u108	Please, National MP Moseschuk, Radical Party.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-04-m0.u109	Igor Mosiyczuk, Radical Party. The law itself, of course, is what we support. We do not support generals who do not comply with such laws, we do not support those who have not created a fortification around Debalcevo, which has led to the death of the country’s best sons. We do not support those who have traveled through Lutugino dozens of times and have not even thought of making any fortifications. If this law remains on paper, the generals responsible for its execution must be put in prison. The situation under Mariupol and Artemis is now at stake. In Artemis, the largest stockpiles of weapons in the Soviet Union are known to all, the former Soviet Union. Are the generals ready to defend Artemis? Are Engineering Buildings? Is this all on paper alone? And finally. Once again, I publicly address the Minister of Defense. Stop sending General Mehed to the Supreme Council. Or explain why he allowed FSB personnel into classified information in 2008. There's a court decision, there's an S.B.I. decision, and this person goes to Parliament. That's how we have a defense system. That's how we defend ourselves at all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-04-m0.u110	Dmitri Timchuk, People's Front, please. Who did not participate in the discussion.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-04-m0.u111	We need to understand that we are currently in the field of defence planning. Western experts are surprised that we don't have military doctrine yet, and the Ministry of Defense is already reporting that there is a project of the State Development Program of the Armed Forces. But they don't know the full picture. We don't even have a basic document of a national security strategy. Well, that's not the Ministry of Defense's claim. But now. There's not yet a comprehensive defence-strategic review, but there is, indeed, a draft military doctrine, and there's a project of the State Development Program of the Armed Forces. It's this bill that allows you to improve the mechanisms of defense planning so that there is no such circus as is now going on. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-04-m0.u112	Thank you. Dear colleagues! Please invite the deputies to the hall. We will proceed to the vote on the basis of the bill. The obvious position of all factions that it is necessary. Please concentrate, Your Honor, on the vote. Invite people's deputies. Ladies and gentlemen, the bill amending the Ukrainian Defence Planning Act is being introduced to your vote. Registration number 1547. At the suggestion of the committee, which is supported, including by speakers, the bill is put to the vote to accept it as a basis. Please support his acceptance as a basis. Please vote. Based on the base. [[11:40:12]] For 246 Decision taken. Thank you, Your Honor. A bill, registration number 1538, is being submitted to your consideration. There is a suggestion to consider it as a reduced procedure. Please identify your deputies as to this proposal. Review of the simplified procedure. [[11:40:42]] For-200 Thank you. The decision has been made. Ladies and gentlemen of the National Parliament, I invite the rapporteur. First Deputy Regional Development Minister Kistion Vladimir Evseviovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-04-m0.u113	Dear Volodymyr Borisovich, distinguished national deputies! Ukraine's bill to amend some of Ukraine's laws on improving energy bills, as well as to repay loans received from international financial institutions, registration number 1538, developed by the Ministry with a view to stabilizing the financial and economic state of the thermal and water supply enterprises, which is currently quite critical. For example, out of 147 water - management companies licensed by the National Commission, debt on wages alone is about 45 million dollars. For electricity consumption, the debt is more than 4.5 billion dollars. Of the 227 thermal power companies licensed by the National Commission, more than 11 million dollars are owed on wages. The debt for energy, or gas, amounts to over 18 billion dollars. Housing-communal reform requires substantial investment, which is now being successfully implemented through loans from international financial institutions. The deterioration in the financial and economic situation of the thermal and water supply companies and the lack of transparency in the distribution of the financial flows that come, such as utility fees, have a negative impact on investment attractiveness and the inclusion of funds in the sector that deters potential investors. The bill proposes to amend two laws of Ukraine. To the Ukrainian Law on Drinking Water and Drinking Water, which is supplemented by article 19.1. This includes the introduction of current accounts with a special use regime for centralized water supply and water supply operators. I'd like to pay attention. The distribution mechanism.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-04-m0.u114	Let me finish, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-04-m0.u115	The distribution mechanism is determined by the order approved by the Cabinet of Ministers. Norms for such a distribution will be established by the licensing authority, or NCRE, according to the approved tariff structure and its components. Payments for services provided by utilities are offered to target accounts with energy companies, loans, wages, taxes, and so forth. The Law on Warm Supply, which contains a position on the distribution of accounts, proposes to apply a similar mechanism. Honourable deputies, the introduction of special accounts is not the goal, but merely a way to stabilize the state of the enterprises of central heating and water supply, which will ensure transparency in the distribution of monopolistic enterprises and significantly increase investment attractiveness. Please be supportive. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-04-m0.u116	Thank you. Take your place. Please, Alan Babak's co-reporter, Self-help. Dear colleagues, while he's going to report, I'd like to inform you. There's the latest information from the West Mine that inspires hope. The proportion of 32 miners is unknown. They're still looking for them. But their fate is unknown. The death of only one person is now confirmed. We'll expect rescuers to help. According to the information I had earlier, it was the one I announced. God will give, and these 32 will be found alive and unharmed. Thank you, Your Honor. Please continue.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-04-m0.u117	Honourable National Deputies, the Committee on Construction, Urban and Housing, considered Bill 1538, submitted by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, at its meeting on December 24, 2014. The main scientific and expert management believes that the project can be taken as a basis. At the same time, the committee’s consideration of the bill indicated that the draft law was in conflict with articles 12, 19, 44 and 25 of the Ukrainian Economic Code, in part, that the requirement for operators to open accounts in banks for all consumer funds (in banks defined by the government, noting), all consumer funds and the distribution of these funds by an algorithm defined by the State regulator was a direct violation of commercial accounting and commercial risk principles, not in relation to the means of public regulation of economic activity, nor did it put individual operators in unequal position and thus violate competition rules. The Committee on Prevention and Anti-Corruption revealed corruption factors in the project. Yes, there is no clear definition of the bank’s choice mechanism by the government, and the rule of law on other accounts creates risks for abuse of office and corruption. In his conclusion, the Antimonopoly Committee of Ukraine also pointed out that corruption prevention committee noted the same thing. The Committee on Fuel Energy, Nuclear Policy and Nuclear Security considers it appropriate to adopt a bill as a basis. The Committee on Environmental Policy, Environmental Management, and the Elimination of the Effects of the Chernobyl Disaster recommends rejecting the project. During the drafting of the bill, a considerable number of concerns arose from local governments, water canals, and professional associations requesting that the bill be rejected as one that would cause harm to the industry. The members of the committee also noted.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-04-m0.u118	Please finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-04-m0.u119	The committee was noted that the Coalition Agreement of majority MP factions in the Supreme Council, the Supreme Council of Ukraine of the eighth vocation, provides for the cancellation of special accounts for the purposes of the appointment. In view of the foregoing, the committee decided to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine that Bill 1538 be rejected as such, which continued the tendency of the State to interfere negatively with the economic activities of its owners and that it had a risk of corruption. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-04-m0.u120	Thank you. Please, Igor Nasalik. There's a proposal, there's a letter about the position of the Committee on Fuel and Energy. Deputy Head of the Igor Nasalik Committee, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-04-m0.u121	Dear friends, the bill that you are invited to accept today's Committee on Fuel Energy, Nuclear Safety and Nuclear Policy. Of course, the committee recommends the adoption of this law because it motivates energy-efficient, energy-generating companies to do so. However, as a city head who has worked for eight years in a local self-government that knows utilities deeply, I ask you not to vote in favour of this law. And so I don't want to call my self-help colleague, I'm going to name a few more numbers that give me reason not to vote for this law. First. Municipal enterprises are lending the state more than 4.5 billion dollars in tariffs today. The other one. In recent years, I have wanted to present today in the Supreme Council the figures, the own revenues of cities involved in authorizing the state in 2011 -- 14.1 billion dollars, in 2013 -- 17 billion dollars, in 2014 -- more than 50 percent. The law that is being proposed today will completely destroy utilities. That's why the committee's asking for support. As a city head, I beg you to decline. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-04-m0.u122	That's right, the city head. There are no ex-city heads. That's true. Dear colleagues, we see how ambiguous this bill is. So I can put a proposal on the basis of it on the vote. Please listen carefully to the proposal to put him to the vote on the basis. If he doesn't get the votes, he'll be considered rejected. That's it. Then consult with the local authorities, with the government, and determine the matter. Is there no objection? I mean, if we don't support him now, he's going to think he's being rejected, which is completely consistent with the reporter's point of view. Is there a need for further discussion? None. Please put to the vote Bill No. 1538, the draft Act amending some of the laws of Ukraine on improving energy bills and on paying off loans received from international financial organizations. Ambiguous thought. On the basis of this bill. You've heard that he's not supported. I mean, if we don't vote for him now, he'll be rejected. Based on the base. [[11:51:03]] For-90 You got it? The bill is not accepted. He is regarded as being rejected. Is there no objection? Is there no objection? None. So it's all one-on-one. Thank you. Dear fellow national MPs. Dear colleagues, we will not be able to interrupt in order to consider the following issue. That's why I think we're going to call it a break, according to the rules. Or shall we begin consideration of 1599? Is that what you're looking for? [[B in m in s a l in]] Dear colleagues, here's the deal. We announce the break now, we hold and we hold at 12:30, we have to vote on this proposal, and at 12:30 a.m. we hold meetings. We have to vote on this proposal, let's vote. I have to! We're voting on the proposal. Support this offer at 12 o'clock. [[11:52:49]] For 175 [[B in m in s a l in]] I'd like you to decide, Your Honor, to announce a recess now and start work at 12:30. Ready to vote? Please vote. [[11:53:22]] For-200 Ready to vote? One more time. Again. Let's call it a break. I want you to vote. [[B in m in s a l in]] [[11:53:48]] For 201 Thank you, Your Honor. None. I'm calling it a break. At 12:30, we will begin our consideration of 1599 issues. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-04-m0.u123	Dear fellow national MPs! Do you understand how difficult this is for me? [[B in m in s a l in]] No, I can't hear you! Do you understand how difficult this is for me? Dear fellow national deputies, I'd like to bring it. [[B in m in s a l in]] Come into the hall and we can continue our work. I want to apologize for the delay, because the factions' heads needed to talk, to communicate, to discuss this issue in my office of work. And we agreed that now we're going to go back to the question after. What we were looking at this morning. This is the decision of all the factions to understand. And we'll continue to give the floor now, when everyone comes in, to the leader of the Radical Party faction. He will express his position, I think he will be able to reach every MP in Parliament in an appropriate manner. Please invite MPs to the House of Parliament! Please take your seats, dear colleagues. Please invite everyone. Invite all the deputies to the House of Parliament. Please come in, people's deputies, please come into the hall. Please take your seats, dear fellow national MPs. We're continuing our meeting in the morning. Ready, dear fellows, to begin? Please invite your colleagues, your factions, your fellow national deputies into the hall. Please invite the people's deputies to the hall. Please. Thank you, Your Honor. I think the faction leaders informed you about the discussion that took place, and they found a way to deal with the issue further. Do you understand the faction? Is it? Yes. Please invite the national deputies into the hall. People's deputies please take their seats in the hall. Take your seats, distinguished national MPs. Please, Your Honor, we agreed that it was the decision of all factions that Oleg Lazko would be able to speak out of the rostrum before considering the question of responsibility. Please. Please, everyone, listen very carefully. Colleagues, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-04-m0.u124	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. Honorable citizens of Ukraine, distinguished colleagues of national MPs! There are challenges facing our country that we have never faced. And whether we will survive them or overcome these difficulties or overcome those deadly challenges, including, and above all, external aggression, the economic difficulties depend on us, on us, the people's deputies authorized by the people, on our coalition, on how much it will be the only one, on how much we will work together and reconcile with the President of Ukraine, with the government of Ukraine, with the parliamentary coalition. The Radical Party faction stretches out its hand of unity, peace, understanding. For us, the most important question is the unity of the coalition, it's respect for the President of Ukraine, it's respect for Ukrainian citizens. We show our respect, and I say that personal insults, personal ambitions, any ratings should be placed in the same place when it comes to the fate of the country, the fate of the country! We face challenges that we can meet, only by building together, not by offending one another, and not by offending one another. Only then will the Ukrainian people appreciate our triumphant work. Glory to Ukraine! Thank the Ukrainian people!
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-04-m0.u125	Thank you, Your Honor. There's a fact of apology, we've fixed it between colleagues. Dear friends, I put it to a vote, as it was agreed in my office. And I would ask you to be very careful about that. The very fact of battle humiliates each of us. That's why I'm putting to the vote the proposal for a standing committee on the removal of the National Deputy of Ukraine, Melniczuk S.P. the right to participate in five plenary sessions of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Dear colleagues, this is a common position, I ask you to support it, dear friends. There will be other proposals -- we will support other proposals on this issue. We'll support other proposals when they're made. I'm asking you to maintain unity to support this proposal. Vote please, Your Honor. Fighting in Parliament is no place, and I ask you to support this position. Dear colleagues, please support me. Dear colleagues, we vote, please support. [[13:14:33]] For 224 Friends! 224. We'll vote again. Let's do it again. Get ready, please. Please be supportive. Colleagues, the question is about fighting in Parliament, I ask you personally to support this proposal. I'll bet you an offer. Vote. The removal of the right of the Ukrainian national MP Melniczuk to participate in five plenary sessions of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. I'd like your support, Your Honor. Vote. Please be supportive. [[13:15:08]] For 230 Thank you. 230. Friends, I'm very far away from political evaluations, but I'm very close to making this a symbolic vote for everyone from now on and for the future. You can't stretch your hands in Parliament. You can't have violence in Parliament. And we agreed, by the way, that the honourable fellow members of the national MPs that we will lead the matter of code of conduct and interaction, the ethics of this behavior to a logical conclusion -- when everyone assumes a public personal commitment to normal ethical conduct in the House of Parliament. We need to restore trust, not demean the dignity of each individual, not just our own personal one, but every individual who voted for us. Thank you for understanding on this matter. Let's move on. So let's move on to the day-to-day issues. Registration number 1599, draft Act amending certain Ukrainian laws to encourage the creation and operation of family farms. Ivchenko Vadim Evgenovich reports. Ivchenko Vadim Evgenovich has an offer to consider it as a reduced procedure. Please support this proposal for a reduced procedure. With regard to the reduced procedure. [[13:16:42]] For-200 Thank you. Decision taken. Next, please. Actually, let's get to the bottom of this. Ivchenko Vadim Evgenovich, please report. A report will be given by the head of the Kotowa Profile Committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-04-m0.u126	Dear Ukrainians! Dear Head! Dear National Deputies! Your attention is given to Bill 1599 on Promoting the Creation and Activity of Family Farmers. People's holdings, colleagues belonging to private agriculture, played an important stabilizing role when Ukraine moved from 91st to market relations. You know, today the agricultural sector of the economy provides 31 percent of the gross domestic product. This is the only sector that showed growth in 2014. But who provides food security? Today, statistics show that about 85 percent of the vegetables, about 80 percent of the milk, about 75 percent of the MCS, 65 percent of the meat of the pigs, 85 percent of the vegetables, have been provided by individual farmers. But, colleagues, how do they trade? They cannot enter the organized market today because they do not have the status of a farmer. Today, they cannot directly dispose of their products to reprocessing and manufacturing businesses. Every year, colleagues, this market is shaded by almost 80 percent. In the processing industry, so - called brokers are created who collect these products at no cost to peasants. And then they sell the statistics, for example, milk and beef -- about two and a half times more expensive, the vegetables -- in 4 on the organized market by this company. They account for VAT, they reimburse VAT, and in fact, all of the peasant's costs remain with these intermediaries. We count, colleagues, about 2 billion goes into the shadows. That's why we're proposing this bill to transform personal peasants.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-04-m0.u127	Please, two more minutes from the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-04-m0.u128	turn private agriculture into family farms. This will make it possible to legalize and introduce into the legal field the activities of individual farmers, and it will strengthen social protection. You know, these same-persons today don't have pension insurance, they don't have any social protection. We're giving personal agriculture, please note, without creating a legal person, without creating. The status of the manufacturer. They have motivation. These personal agricultures can grow. Open family farms, open family processing. They can increase the income of the rural population. Above all, colleagues, we can predict a support program in the budget. I know that today the APC Ministry signed with the Canadian Foundation to support almost 300,000 such family farms. They can get loans, they can claim interest payments on those loans. They will enter the organized market. In short, this bill allows these individual farmers, who voluntarily want to get rid of intermediaries and go to an organized market. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-04-m0.u129	Thank you. Please two in favour, two in favor. Please sign up. A report from the committee? I gave you two minutes as a committee, Vadim. Wadim, you've reported for two minutes as a reporter and two minutes as a please. The committee's decision. And then two for, two for.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-04-m0.u130	Dear colleagues! The matter was discussed on the committee. Colleagues of deputies proposed that the authors withdraw the amendments to the Law on Personal Farmers. The authors agreed. We agreed that with the first, second reading, we would call off these changes to the project, to the Ukrainian Personal Farms Act. The committee proposes to support the bill as a basis for the first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-04-m0.u131	Thank you. Please two in favour, two in favor. Kodola People’s Deputy
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-04-m0.u132	Please pass on the word of Victoria Sumar.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-04-m0.u133	Victoria Sumar, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-04-m0.u134	Dear colleagues! Obviously, it is important to support farmers and farms today, enabling families to create such farms. The only thing that's obvious is that the bill needs substantial work to be done so that we can have more clearly all of these terms and prescribe completely understandable algorithms to people. Because it's about the village. Agrarian complex is extremely important for Ukraine. He's putting enormous numbers into the budget today. We have to do everything we can to stimulate agriculture and, in particular, agriculture. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-04-m0.u135	Thank you. Please, from. Cooper, the Radical Party.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-04-m0.u136	Oleg Kuprienko, the Radical Party of Oleg Laska, Chernigu. The village is dying. The village needs help and laws to improve life in the countryside. But respectable friends of the legislators, civil law has two types of subjects — legal and natural persons. Who is this farm without creating a legal person? Who will be responsible for the quality of the product? Who will be responsible for improperly fulfilling their obligations? Who will answer if someone is poisoned by this product? The bill's a good idea. But it needs much work, since there is no legal entity at all without the status of a legal person. So this part of the bill is very much to be worked out. And if the head of the farm as a registered natural person is an entrepreneur, and the start of this business by law is determined by the moment of registration of the natural person who is an entrepreneur, let us in some way recognize both the responsibility and the subject of the legal relationship between the producer of the agricultural product and the same enterprise that is processing it. That's why it's all about the bill. But there is a great deal of need for work to be done in that part of determining the rightfulness of a subject’s legal relationship.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-04-m0.u137	Thank you. Please, Sergey Sobolev, Fatherland.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-04-m0.u138	Sobolje, Fatherland. Dear colleagues, I understand those warnings. But let us answer the question in the legal language itself. Is there a physical entrepreneur today who is responsible for the contracts, on commitments, on bank loans? Yes. And that's why for us today this definition is what makes it possible for millions of our fellow citizens, and I'm going to bring those numbers again. In just the last four years, the number of farms has dropped from 40,000 to 28. We have 4.6 million of our fellow citizens who own OSH who can't officially register on the market. And it's not just a matter of direct contracts with their suppliers. Remember, once gas and electricity prices are raised, these people will not have the right to housing subsidies, because they are not registered on the market, and they are officially employed. This law gives millions of our fellow citizens the right not only to receive the status of a further pensioner, but now the payer is actually the key, most important contribution. But this gives these citizens the right to receive a housing grant on legal grounds. Do you appreciate the state of our fellow citizens today, especially in the rural area? That's why this bill, which no doubt needs to be further worked out, needs to be adopted in the first reading, and our "Paternity" faction will support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-04-m0.u139	Thank you, Your Honor. Please, national deputy Evlakhov, block of Peter Dustenka.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-04-m0.u140	Anatoly Evlakhov, "Block of Peter Dustenka", Chernihyevščina. This is a very necessary bill, and I am finally glad that we have returned to the ground in this room, to the people, and we make the very necessary decisions. It's an opportunity to give people who are currently working in the village to formalize their business and become without intermediaries the direct suppliers of the product they produce. That's why our faction supports this bill. We think we should vote for him in the first reading, and for the second, we should prepare him more qualitatively, write him down, and that's what people are really going to applaud for. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-04-m0.u141	National MP Miroshnichenko, Self-Help faction. All those who didn't take it from the factions, I've already given my word to the factions. Well, everyone who hasn't been recorded.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-04-m0.u142	Dear colleagues, faction. Self-help supports the bill in its first reading. Not enough, we were also ideologies for the establishment of family farms. I wanted to turn around, not repeat what was said. We are absolutely supportive of all colleagues, and it has also been said by colleagues from Fatherland. I wanted to draw attention to the following points. In further drafting the bill before second reading, first, we must maintain the principle of voluntary registration by our citizens of family farms or individual farms. Secondly, we must not allow our citizens to enter the market for the realization of their products or to bureaucraticize them. And the third, most important, next step should be shared. Thus, help financial family farms to realize their business opportunities so that they can actually develop, not just get the registration and all the social goods that have been listed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-04-m0.u143	Thank you, colleagues. I think we can vote. We talked about it. From the faction who did not participate in the discussion, everyone was given the opportunity to speak. So now I'm going to put it to a vote. From the faction there was an act. From the faction there was a performance. We can put it to a vote on the basis of Bill 159. Please, Kornatsky. One minute, Kornatsky, out of place.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-04-m0.u144	Dear Mr. Head, gentlemen of the people's deputies, you are now being asked to vote in favour of an anti-Selian law that will destroy the peasant as such and the Ukrainian village. Because by all the good words of "fornication," which has just been declared from the rostrum by the reporter, I'm actually quoting what's hiding. I quote the amendments to the Law on Personal Farming, which is proposed for introduction. Members of a private farm have the right solely if they acquire the status of an enterprise’s producer to implement surpluses. Next item. Individual farmers are obliged to acquire the status of a producer of agricultural products if they are willing to implement the surpluses produced in the markets. I mean, from every grandmother who wants to sell a dozen eggs.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-04-m0.u145	Thank you. Dear colleagues, an important bill we need. There is a Ministry position that is in line with the support of this bill. We listened from all the factions of the performance. He will now be accepted as the basis for your vote. Next, if there are any questions, you can always, as an MP, make any amendments and everything, but you don't have to do this. So, let's say, fellows of honor, I see in all the factions there is unity. Dear colleagues, please prepare. Please prepare for the vote. I'm betting on a bill (registration number 1599) to amend some of Ukraine's laws to encourage the creation of family farming on the basis. Please support this bill. Please vote. Based on the base. Based on the base. Vote! [[13:30:44]] For 213 People's MP Solovay couldn't vote, can I see? Let's go back. Colleagues, please prepare for the vote, a perfectly normal law. [[B in m in s a l in]] Please invite people to the House of Parliament. Here comes the national deputy. Come on in, dear fellows. Let's vote back - 1599, return - 1599. Victor Mikhailovich! Dear fellow national MPs, take your seats for the return vote of 1599. An important bill. 1599. The Ministry's backing up. On return, on, on, on return. [[13:31:40]] For 219 Now we're going to look at it. You don't vote? [[B in m in s a l in]] Don't you vote? Please, let's say the word to the government. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-04-m0.u146	Dear fellows, dear Head! Let me literally say a few words. First of all, what's happening in this bill, including mandatory registration, I was present at the agrocommittee meeting, I'm more than convinced that by the second reading it will be deleted. That's the first one. Secondly, as far as the contents of this bill are concerned, it is possible to start from private agriculture to farming, to allow for the start of farming on the basis of OSH land, to move to a more civilized form of farming. And the third, very important moment for us as a government, for the Ministry of Agrarian Policy is the definition of a family farm. We now have a farming status, and man, as he processes 10 hectares of land with his hands, and a farming farm that processes 5,000 to 7,000 hectares of land. It is essential for us in principle to have a definition of the family farm, and it is in this bill, in order to further accentuate State policy. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-04-m0.u147	Dear colleagues, you have heard the position of the government. Let's support it on a base, let's work on the second reading. And that's it, and that's it. I understand that there is an understanding of the MPs. Yeah? There's agreement on both the committee and the ministry. Dear colleagues, let's go back, and I'm addressing all the factions. Dear colleagues, let us return to this question, there is already understanding. Let's go back to 1599. An important law on the basis. 1599, vote, colleagues, on your return. It's about coming back. We vote back to 1599. [[13:33:52]] For 236 Thank you, Your Honor. And I'm putting it to a 1599 vote as a basis. And then we work on the second reading together. On the basis of that, please vote on the basis. [[13:34:18]] For 236 Thank you, Your Honor, for your decision. But I would like to ask, please, you can see that there are other positions in the National Deputies. Please work everyone on the committee basis to make it a good bill with the government. Thank you, Your Honor. Let's move on. Bill 1137. Is Sergei Mishchenko there? Does the author have an offer to consider it as a reduced procedure? Let's take a look. For consideration of the reduced procedure, colleagues, for consideration of the reduced procedure. [[13:35:00]] For-188. Please report. Decision taken. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-04-m0.u148	Dear citizens of Ukraine! Sergei Mishchenko, 98th District, Kiev. I want to ask people's deputies what they think if a police officer finds that there are no specifics on the car, will he be able to bring such a person to administrative responsibility today? I can tell you that no, actually not. Because such administrative cases in the courts were closed. Why? I explain that the text of today's article 122, marked 5 of the Code of Administrative Offences, tells us that only two elements should be included in the offence in order to bring a person to administrative responsibility is to establish and use. If everyone today understands logically, if a person has set up such signals, he has not just installed them; he was going to use them. But police officers, unfortunately, if they set up on the streets of a city, if they weren't using such sound signals or light signals, they wouldn't be able to put together an administrative protocol. We're allowing for today to take out of our way the chiefs, the muddy, all the officials who, instead of being allowed to have these signals, are putting a short cut in the face of a police officer -- that's their main license. And so I suggest that this article has three parts. It's an illegal installation, it's an illegal use and it's an illegal license. That is, for every crime there will be.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-04-m0.u149	Please, 10 seconds, finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-04-m0.u150	That is, for each of the offences, there will be appropriate sanctions. So I ask you to support the disorder on our roads.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-04-m0.u151	Thank you. Please, from the committee, head of the committee of the profile committee, Andri Anatoliyovich Cosemyakin.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-04-m0.u152	Dear Chairman, dear colleagues! The Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the Law Enforcement of Law Enforcement has been considered by the National MP Mishchenko draft Law on Administrative Offences to Strengthen Responsibility for Violations of Legislation (on the Establishment or Use of Special Signal Devices). What's proposed by the project is what my colleague Mishchenko just said. Our colleague Mishchenko said that he would amend article 122-5 of the Code of Administrative Offences by laying down the responsibility for granting the official an improper permit to install and/or use or remove special light and/or sound signal devices from the transport equipment; violating the legislative requirements for the use of such devices; and third and foremost, the presence of such devices if they were installed incorrectly or not removed and increasing the fines. Well, we think the committee believes that the changes proposed in the draft are capable of strengthening the responsibility for violations of legislation. The science-expert administration that reviewed this bill believes that it can be accepted as a basis. And the committee supports science and expertise, and it was also decided to take the target project on the first reading as a basis. Please be supportive. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-04-m0.u153	Thank you, colleagues. Is there a need: 2 for, 2 for against? None. [[B in m in s a l in]] Is it? Sign up, 2 goes for, 2 goes against. Please, National Deputy Ognewich Gold.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-04-m0.u154	Radical Party, Zlata Ogniewitch. I give the word to Cooper Oleg.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-04-m0.u155	Oleg Kuprienko.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-04-m0.u156	Oleg Kuprienko, the Radical Party of Oleg Laska, Chernigu. Very right law, very correct changes to the bill. Sorry, these flashes and special signals have already been picked up. But there is one inaccuracies or technical error in this law. Where it says "allowing installation, use and removal." Which is why I don't really understand the permission to remove the signs. I think it's probably a technical error, but "the permission to take off special signals" has to be ruled out. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-04-m0.u157	Thank you, Your Honor. Please, Leonid Jemetz has wanted to come from the People's Front. No one's signed up anymore.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-04-m0.u158	Dear colleagues, while fully supporting the idea that there should be no division of majors and no majors on the road, I must point out that there are certain dangers to this bill. For example, what the author said, namely, the responsibility not only for use but also for installation, raises the question: How does a DAI worker have to determine that there are these T-shirts on the machine if they are not used. So whether or not we can just give the DAI employee an additional opportunity to stop any car traffic without any fault of the owner of the car or the driver. That is, what is happening today when the car stops the car and tries to determine or find a basis for getting bribes from the driver. So let us understand that responsibility must be, but the procedure should be very clear. Just so we don't give DAI employees an extra way to get bribes and corruption. So basically, we'll normally support this bill, but we've already made our remarks and we're going to work on preparing for the second reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-04-m0.u159	Thank you, Your Honor. Can we get to the vote? On the basis of all the suggestions that have been made, they can be further developed into second readings. Yes, dear colleagues? Please invite the deputies to the hall. Bill, registration number 1137. Draft Law on Amendments to the Code of Administrative Offences (to increase responsibility for violations of the legislation on the installation and/or use of special signal devices). Are you ready to vote, colleagues? Based on 1137, please vote. Based on 1137. Based on the base. [[13:42:46]] For 232 Decision taken, taken as a basis. Come on, please. Draft Law, 1189 registration number, amending article 187 of the Criminal Code of Ukraine (to increase the responsibility for assault). Rapporteur of the National Deputy of Ukraine, Heratchenko Anton. There is a proposal by the rapporteur to consider the bill in a simplified way. I'll bet you a vote. As far as consideration is concerned, the reduced procedure is concerned. [[13:43:38]] For 178. Thank you, the decision is made. Please report. Correspondent to the head of the profile committee, Andrew Kožemyakin
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-04-m0.u160	Honorary colleagues, in Ukraine, regrettably, have grown in the last year the number of weapons that illegally enter Ukraine, both in the area of counterterrorism and in other ways. As a result, the number of robberies and robberies using firearms has increased. Earlier, responsibility was established under part of the first article of Article 187, from 3 to 7 years of freedom. And the courts often decided to give parole to those who had been robbed for the first time. In order to strengthen responsibility, I suggested that a group of our deputies take responsibility for part one of the first five to eight years. So that the courts can give real terms for the first time using firearms. It is also suggested that the first part of this article introduce responsibility for confiscating the property of those taking part in robberies and robberies. It is also suggested that Part Four clarify the wording and make such a statement. What a robbery using firearms is an increased responsibility. It's basically everything. And I'm asking you to back me up.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-04-m0.u161	Thank you. Please, the head of the profiling committee, Andrew Cosemyakin.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-04-m0.u162	Dear Chairman! Dear National Deputies! Law enforcement committee reviewed draft Law No. 1189. The bill is designed to increase the responsibility for destructive attacks. To this end, the bill proposes that part one be sanctioned as soon as article 187 of the Criminal Code of Ukraine has been said to provide for a penalty of 5 to 8 years' imprisonment with confiscation of property. In addition, complement the objective side of the crime with a characteristic sign such as the use or threat of use of firearms. This is part of the fourth article 187. The main scientific expertise in the analysis of this project believes that it should be rejected as a result of the review. But after reviewing the bill, committee members, along with consultants and experts, noted that the adoption of the project would help to prevent the breakup of attacks, since the increase in sanctions for destructive attacks would correspond to the degree of social danger of the said type of crime. The committee therefore decided to recommend to the Supreme Council the outcome of the plenary session in the first reading the adoption of Bill No. 1189 as a basis. The project is also supported by the Ministry of Justice and the Ministry of Internal Affairs. Please support the committee's decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-04-m0.u163	Thank you. Is there a need for two "for", two "against"? You don't? Yes. Please two for, two for against. Please sign up. People's MP Chicken.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-04-m0.u164	Dear colleagues, it is clear that the adoption of this bill is very important, especially in the context of our society. First of all, there's a sad statistic that in the last year, these crimes are particularly dangerous, like burglary attacks, we've had an increase. And this requires us to adopt such an important draft law to prevent further these devastating attacks. What is more, some worlds, using social excitement, ask questions about speculation, threaten weapons, attack businesses, and attack businesses. And that's why we have to insulate this sad phenomenon. And I'm asking you to support such a bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-04-m0.u165	Thank you. Please, Zlata Ognievich, Radical Party.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-04-m0.u166	I give the word to Moses Igor.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-04-m0.u167	Moses, the Radical Party.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-04-m0.u168	Igor Mosiyczuk, Radical Party. Anton Yuriovich here was very nice to tell everyone about the ATO area. He's offering to reward the Berkut workers who catch someone who has something to do with it. At the same time, he says that another Berkutu employee, Tobacco Victor, is the organizer of a terrorist act in Kharkiv, which resulted in the death of people. And I think this is where we need to talk not only about increasing the responsibility of those who commit crimes, but also about increasing the responsibility of law enforcement officials, and perhaps even above all. My day began today with police trying to break into the apartment of Bogdan Titsky, a public activist. And only because he came home in shape. And he came home in shape, because three days after he returned from Sand from the Wayward, from the UN battalion. The police believe that a search is necessary, and Judge Malinowski of the Shevchenk district permits the search. So, first of all, I think the increase in crime in these crimes is due to the fact that the police don't fight them, the law enforcement agencies. And I propose to return this bill, which contains the author's inaccuracies for further work.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-04-m0.u169	People's Deputy Birddog, Self-Help.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-04-m0.u170	Thank you. Dear colleagues, we would like to draw your attention to the fact that the effectiveness of the punishment depends not on whether there is increased responsibility in the Criminal Code or not, but on the extent to which the principle of irreparability is implemented. That is, our law enforcement agencies need to investigate certain crimes more perfectly, including breaking up and providing a normal evidence base to prove that they are guilty. And we also want to draw your attention to the fact that the explanatory note does not contain any statistics as to what this type of punishment is ineffective in the analysis. In addition, we want to point out that if we accept this bill in the form in which it is proposed, we will have more responsibility for the threat of use of weapons than we will be responsible for breaking up violence, particularly the task of bodily damage to the average gravity, because the weapons threat of robbery will take place in part four, that is, a specially qualified crime. We also want to point out that, notice that the first part is proposed to add confiscation of property for the commission of the principal type of crime, which is contrary to the absolute principle of differentiation of punishment. So we go back to that editorial that was in effect in 1960, the old edition of the Criminal Code. That's why we advocate preparing only quality bills and adopting only quality legislation in this Parliament. Let the law enforcement authorities work better. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-04-m0.u171	Thank you. Please, Igor Lucenko, Fatherland.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-04-m0.u172	Dear friends, first of all, the "Fatherland" faction is the decision to support such a bill, first of all. Secondly, I would like to urge everyone not to trade real activities to reform our law enforcement system against similar things. We want our law enforcement system to work by mechanically increasing some kind of punishment there, and we're not going to do anything about it. This is rather an imitation of an activity than a real job. I would like to mention that the main source of crime risk for society today is the police, not the citizens. Unfortunately, today the police are far more dangerous than any, if you'll excuse me, criminal. So please. I'm sorry. Please consider these thoughts and comments from scientists. Thank you. Excuse me.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-04-m0.u173	Please. Dear colleagues, are there still willing to make a statement? None. Then I give the final word to the author. Please, Anton Gerashchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-04-m0.u174	Ladies and gentlemen, this is the following. We've got a lot of robberies and robberies right now when the first time people had guns in their hands was to rob someone. Judges, taking advantage of the fact that the article in the first part is too small, from three to seven, to a probationary period. Thus, they do not receive sufficient punishment. If you, distinguished MPs, find out that one of your constituents came in with a gun, robbed them, and the judge gave them parole, know that, including because you don't want to uphold this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-04-m0.u175	Thank you. Dear colleagues, may I have your attention, please, please see. There's a bill he's drafted and he needs to settle the responsibility for the robberies. Do we all agree with that?
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-04-m0.u176	It's designed on a basis, maybe it's not perfect right now, but the problem is important there. We can now view it as a basis. Next, on the committee for second reading, before the second reading on the committee, consider the questions that were before the deputies. If there is an understanding – the MPs support, there will be no understanding – it will not be supported or supported without taking these proposals into account. I think it's a perfectly reasonable decision, so there's a few readings of the bill. Dear colleagues, please take your seats. We've concluded the discussion with a reduced procedure. We can go to the vote. Yeah? Please take your seats, people's deputies, please take your seats, let's go to the vote. A bill (register No. 1189) is submitted for your consideration. draft Act amending article 187 of the Criminal Code of Ukraine (in order to increase the responsibility for assault). This bill is being tabled as a basis. You heard the profile committee supported him, supported him. Therefore, please vote on the basis of 1189 draft amendments to the article of the Criminal Code of Ukraine (to increase the responsibility for breaking up attacks). Responsibility for assaults, on the ground. Vote, Your Honor, as a basis. Based on the base. Based on the base. [[13:56:16]] For 210 The decision is not taken. [[B in m in s a l in]] The factions didn't make it here, the People's Front, either. Let's check if we can't make it back. Dear colleagues, I ask you to make it when we put it to the vote, because this is important. On my return, I'm putting to the vote a proposal from the People's Deputies' Block of Peter Prashenko and the People's Front for a return to question 1189. Please be on your way back to 1189. To return to 1189. [[13:57:06]] For-200 Dear colleagues, there is an offer to send him to the committee to prepare for the rereading of the first reading. I'm working on a committee. [[B in m in s a l in]] To the committee, Andri Anatolyovich? To the committee? The committee. Please prepare for the vote. Let's go to the pre-reading committee for re-reading. Let's support the preparation for the re-reading. Please support this proposal for a committee. Please support this proposal. [[13:57:57]] For 239. The committee will prepare the first reading again, and we will consider it without question. Dear colleagues, we have a row. We've got it. [[B in m in s a l in]] 1200, Bill, Draft Law on Amendments to the Criminal Procedure Code of Ukraine (to bring legislation into line with the Ukrainian Criminal Code on the continuation, modification or termination of enforcement measures of a medical nature). Please 1200, National Deputy Osuhovski. There is an offer to consider it in a simplified way. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. [[13:58:55]] For 178. Decision taken. We had a big break, and I'm going to continue for 15 minutes. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-04-m0.u177	Oleg Osuhovsky, the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union, the city of Raven. Mr. Head, fellow MPs, brothers and sisters in Ukraine! The bill that we have drafted proposes to amend the Criminal Procedure Code of Ukraine in order to continue, amend or terminate the use of coercive medical measures in accordance with the Ukrainian Criminal Code. Today, article 95 of the Ukrainian Criminal Code shows the possibility of continuing, changing, and ending the use of coercive measures of a medical nature. Thus, not only does the court apply but it also controls the whole process of providing psychiatric assistance to a person in criminal law. The decision on these issues is taken by a court of law on the basis of a statement made by a representative of a psychiatric institution who provides such assistance to a person. At the same time, part 3 of article 514 of the Criminal Procedure Code states that consideration of the question of the continuation, modification or termination of coercive measures of a medical nature shall be made for the submission of a representative of a medical institution where the person referred to in article 95 of the Criminal Code of Ukraine is held. It should be noted that such a disagreement between the articles of the Criminal Code and the Criminal Procedure Code in practice leads to the timely granting to the person of a person of a person of criminal conduct of psychiatric care. In view of this, it was necessary at the legislative level to regulate the use of coercive measures of a medical nature. Please support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-04-m0.u178	Thank you. Dear colleagues, there is a need: why, do you mind? Is it? The head of the profile committee and I see Kuprienko, the Radical Party, and there are no more who want to. So we're not going to make a record.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-04-m0.u179	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to briefly say that these are really our colleagues making, well, a technical bill that really regulates the question between the concepts of the Criminal Code, this is article 195, and also the Criminal Procedure Code of article 514. That is, sometimes in criminal times, these words or concepts: application and submission. They were used by judges and psychiatrists in those institutions where they were, treating those people who were imprisoned in their own way. So, really, colleagues do it legally and correct the mistake that is. What's more, the Psychiatric Assistance Act also goes on, the word "application" is used everywhere, not by a psychiatrist, but by a statement. That's the difference. Thank you. Please be supportive. And this bill can be adopted on both the basis and generally as a law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-04-m0.u180	Thank you. Cooper, one minute. And Knyazevich, one minute. And let's go to the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-04-m0.u181	Oleg Kuprienko, the Radical Party of Oleg Laska, Chernigu. I support the changes, but I say that these changes must be supported. Has anyone seen this document? No, it's not. The application may be both oral and written. Submission is a written document. So if you're going to look at "bookkeeping," you have to put "written" in front of the word "application." Then it will work. So, did the doctor make a statement in the hallway, would anyone look at it or not? So in order for terminology to be correct, you have to put "written" before the word "application."
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-04-m0.u182	The author agrees with Kuprienka’s proposal. Please, Ruslan Knazevitch, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-04-m0.u183	Well, Your Honor, it's not the only flaw in the Criminal Procedure Code. It must be admitted that since he accepted it, we remember how and how Parliament worked on him: two days in fact without interruption, there was a large part of the slaps, including the real problem. And I have to be honest with you that this is being abused, and we have precedents, when there are court decisions, frankly, wishing in some way to make a decision in favor or against, in one case, to refer to a portion of the substantive right, and in another case to a procedural right. In order to avoid this conflict, the rightful object of the legislative initiative raises this issue. This seems petty to us, but believe me, for people who are illegally held in such places and for whom it is, frankly, impossible to continue for formal reasons, it is important. That's why the faction supports this bill if there's really a statement both in one case and in the other, it's written for the head of this facility. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-04-m0.u184	So with this change, we can base it on the whole. Right? A written statement with these changes, both announced by Ruslan Knazević and by the national deputy Kuprienko. Is there no objection? I am betting on the vote (registration 1200) on the draft Act amending the Criminal Procedural Code of Ukraine on the basis and overall, taking into account the proposals made by Ruslan Knazević and the National Deputy Kuprienko. On the basis and in general. Vote please, colleagues. This is the common position of all factions, as far as I can tell. Please vote. [[2:04:59]] For 206 Let's go back. People's deputies, please concentrate, please. There's an offer from the factions to go back to the 1200th. Colleagues, take your seats, please. National deputies, please. Please. Please, 1200, back to the bill. 1200. I vote for the return. [[14:05:41]] For 217 Colleagues! Dear colleagues of the Ukrainian National Deputies! Please take your seats in the hall and determine how to vote. Please. We have two more bills to put into the agenda of the day session, so please focus. And today. And there will be a very nice offer to finish. Well, I guarantee everyone a very nice offer. At the end of the session. Everyone. It'll be a very nice offer for the end of the session. Please take your seats, distinguished national MPs. Everybody's gonna love it! At the end of the session, there will be a very nice offer. Everybody's gonna love it. Come on. Are we ready to vote for the return, colleagues? 1200 per return. I vote 1200 for the return. [[14:06:47]] For 225 Again. Mustafa Najem, offer to return to 1200. I'm betting on the vote on the proposal of Deputy Najem. Please, colleagues. 1200 votes for the return, please. Please vote everyone. Vote, vote. [[14:07:17]] For 229 There are voices. Thank you, colleagues. Please don't leave. I promised a nice offer at the end of the meeting. Please 1200 with the suggestions of Knazević and Kuprijenka, on the basis and in general. 1200. Please vote, please support. 1200. Please vote [[14:07:46]] For 232 Dear colleagues, the decision is made. There's another offer. Don't walk away, distinguished national MPs, come back. There is a proposal for the inclusion of two bills in the agenda so that we can start their consideration. This is 2190 government and 2,139 national deputy Siroid. Please be included in the agenda of the session, not the sitting, the session. Bill 2190 amending the Ukrainian Family Code to take into account information on the social welfare of the family (persons) in the protection of family rights and interests in the judicial order. And 2139 MPs, draft law amending some Ukrainian legislation on improving counter-terrorism mechanisms. Two important ones. Please vote for inclusion in the agenda of the session. Please vote. Please vote, please support. [[14:08:46]] For 212 In the agenda, I can put it to the vote one more time. That's my right. Shall we vote? National deputies, please, dear fellow national MPs! Last one, last vote. This is the last vote today. Ready? Ready? Let's vote again, put it in order of day 2190, 2139. Please vote, Your Honor, for joining the agenda of the session. It's not today's meeting, it's not tomorrow's, it's the sessions. Two important ones. Combating terrorism and protecting the family [[14:09:36]] For 217 Almost. Again, colleagues. We're going to start with these bills so we don't lose our day. Let's do it again? One more time, go ahead. We're getting ready. And there'll be a nice offer at the end. Come on, colleagues. Please, there will be voices now and there will be a very nice offer, colleagues. Please vote. To be included in the agenda of the day session. Please vote. Please be supportive. [[14:10:29]] For 222 All of it. All right, colleagues. Look, that's a nice offer. Well, we'll vote tomorrow then. Dear colleagues! Before the end. March 4th, everyone, pay attention, please! On March 4, 2015, Michael Verbicki, a Ukrainian priest, composer, conductor, and public figure, author of music for the Ukrainian national and national anthem, is 200 years old. I propose to honor the birthday of an outstanding personality. Let's sing the anthem of Ukraine. Nice offer?
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-04-m0.u185	Glory to Ukraine! The morning session is closed. Next meeting tomorrow at 10 a.m. Thank you.
