ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-02-m0.u1	Good morning, fellow countrymen! I ask everyone to come to the Supreme Council of Ukraine so that we can start our work. I'd like to inform you, dear colleagues. For the moment, fortunately, we have no loss of mass injury and murder that was in front of the square. in the square before the Supreme Council of Ukraine. You know the boys are in the hospital today, and they're getting all the help they need. And we pray that they will all survive and there will be no more loss. I talked about it yesterday during my speech. And today, I would like to point out that from what happened, we need to draw conclusions. Because I'm deeply convinced that most of the people's deputies are completely normal professional people. And we have you and we have to turn Parliament into a quality, successful decision-making centre, quality decisions within our powers and competence. The laws must be of quality. We have to show culture and restraint. We need to do everything we can to ensure that people respect the parliamentarians for what we do to you. They didn't create any artificial conflicts. Therefore, the quality of our work is of vital importance. And I believe it will unite us, dear friends. And we're going to show you a completely new quality of our work. I want to assure you that as Head of the Supreme Council, within my powers, I will do everything I can to ensure that we are successful. So that we can demonstrate the ability of Ukrainian society to carry out reforms, quality, European reforms. And we're going to do everything we can to create, in Parliament, high-quality public, transparent mechanisms for our work with you. I would like to inform you that the following week will begin and will be Mr. Pete Cox's first visit as part of a memorandum that we signed with you and the European Parliament on reform of the Ukrainian Parliament. Today you will be asked where you can express your views, your views on the changes you would need to make. This means that each of you will be involved in positive changes in the Ukrainian Parliament. We can do both modernization and be more public, and we can involve more expert experts and civil society representatives in lawmaking. This should make our work quality. This is what was happening today, waiting for society. And I'd like to inform you that there's already been public information on the agenda of the daily session, the draft agenda of the daily session. I would also ask the Ukrainian National Deputies, the Committees, the factions to work closely on this document so that we can fill in the relevant order of the day of this session. Dear colleagues, I would like to urge everyone once again to work constructively. I realize that there are emotions and sometimes it's very difficult to hold them back, but I'm convinced that each of us has every opportunity to justify the trust that we got in the election from our colleagues. Dear colleagues, there was an incident yesterday between the members of the Supreme Council, as we know from the media. I'd like to ask the PSC to study this situation, to inform the members of the Supreme Council as soon as possible, why this has happened. And once again, dear colleagues, I would like to call upon all the national deputies of Ukraine. Friends, is there not enough violence in our country, is there not enough death? Why are we today creating situations that absolutely do not adorn Ukrainian Parliamentarianism. So once again, I call for respect for each other and for constructive work, and once again, I want to assure you, as Head of the Supreme Council, I am always ready to do everything I can to make your work effective and quality. Dear colleagues, please take your seats, get ready to register and we'll start our work. Please turn on the "Council" system to register Ukrainian national MPs. [[10:11:56]] 307 national deputies are registered in the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Dear fellow national deputies, 312 national deputies are in the hall for the moment. The morning plenary session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is open. Dear colleagues, according to the regulations of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, we have 30 minutes to speak to the national deputies. I'm asking all national deputies to prepare for registration. Please prepare for registration, Your Honor. Ladies and gentlemen, I ask you to prepare yourself for your registration. But before that, I would like to inform you that, on August 28, 2015, the Central Election Commission registered the Ukrainian National Deputy elected to the interim election of the Ukrainian National Deputy on July 26, 2015, Berezenka Sergio Ivanovich, in the one-man election district number 205. According to the Constitution, Ukraine’s national deputies take an oath before the Supreme Council of Ukraine before taking office. To make an oath, I invite Sergio Berezenka, a national deputy of Ukraine, to the rostrum. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-02-m0.u2	Dear Head! Deputies! I pledge my allegiance to Ukraine, my commitment to all my actions to defend Ukraine’s sovereignty and independence, to ensure the welfare of the country and the welfare of the Ukrainian people. I vow to abide by the Constitution and the laws of Ukraine, to carry out my duties in the interests of all fellow countrymen. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-02-m0.u3	Thank you. Please take your place. Welcome to the office. Ladies and gentlemen, I ask you to prepare for the 30-minute address of the members of the Supreme Council. Please, Your Honor, let's register. 30 minutes, check in. Please, Your Honor. Yuri Boyko, Opposition Block.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-02-m0.u4	Dear Mr. Head, distinguished national MPs! The question of restoring peace in Donbasa and seeking compromise have long gone beyond political debate. Peace in Donbas is a question of the country's survival. The Opposition Block welcomes the negotiations that took place with the participation of the Presidents of Ukraine, France and Chancellor of Germany. The meeting concluded that the Minsk Accords were the only way out of the military conflict. We expect these meetings to push the situation forward and call on the Supreme Council to finally adopt a package of laws to implement the Minsk Accords. We supported the changes to the Constitution, although this is only the first step towards peaceful life. At the same time, all the Ukrainians saw with their own eyes a beast of radicalism, which from the politicians in the hall turned to the street where the blood was shed. If these events are not given authority, a strict legal assessment will result in further destabilization and destruction in the country. In the economic sphere, how can the country survive the winter? Preparation for the heating season is down, lack of energy resources, failure to complete repair companies, crisis payments, all of this could lead to a technological disaster, and emergency measures are urgently needed to keep people from freezing in winter. And last of all, we can see that across the country, there's a huge-scale political lochtron called "chains will save Ukraine." There's a wide-ranging pear company in the country about the achievements of individual former Georgian officials. This raises one simple question, if this was all right with overcoming corruption, order and raising the standard of living in Georgia, why did this team lose the confidence of its citizens and lose the election? And some of its members cannot even appear in their home country, although Georgia’s current leadership is difficult to suspect in political repression. We are sure that in Ukraine there are enough of their specialists who are capable of taking responsibility and making order, and they are the biggest patriots than the hired ministers. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-02-m0.u5	Please, Mustafa Najem, Peter Dusty Block. From where? From the rostrum? Out of the way. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-02-m0.u6	Please pass the word to Irina Lucenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-02-m0.u7	Irina Lucenko, Peter Dust Block, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-02-m0.u8	Good afternoon, dear fellows! Good afternoon, distinguished voters, Mr. Head! You know, when we went to the elections to the Supreme Council for this convening, we've been going around the region a lot, telling our voters that the President's team is going to do a lot of reforms. That we are united in order for these 60 key reforms to lead to the collapse and improvement of the situation in Ukraine. But very often the voters I met asked me a simple question: "Well with your team, Irina Stepanovna, how do you feel about Laszka? And I said, "You know, it's very interesting to observe this person: the orchestra man, the show man, he's always pretty and elegantly dressed, he's got a fancy Ukrainian language. He's always got a nice haircut. But he doesn't just walk around without the show: he pulls the cow by the tail, he eats the ground from the roost, he runs with the pitchforks." Imagine if there were 30 of them in Parliament, but I don't have to think of them, the whole Borispolska route was marked with the posters "Clows for Lights." Clownada completed 1 number when 31 and 1, when the vote took place here in the Council, for changes to the Constitution. The methods used by these brothers to obtain additional points in local elections and to win cheap authority are unacceptable. The lie of recent weeks and the outright manipulation of social thought have become a terrible terrorist act. The political pharaoh on the blood and life of our guardians is repugnant. A statement about leaving the coalition isn't just an escape, it's a avoidance of political responsibility, it's an attempt to preserve its unspotted reputation. But with your hands in the blood. You're not gonna make it. [[B in m in s a l in]] Your manipulations and your actions have put a grenade in this man's hands. This blood on your hands! The murderers, that's your political responsibility, their blood on your conscience. Cowards, who are much more difficult to apologize to society for destabilizing the situation that led to the death of people, are marginal and will disappear from the political arena. It turns out that war and death are no more terrible in the country today. The worst is cowardice, betrayal worse, selfishness worse, populism worse. But it's not about that.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-02-m0.u9	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-02-m0.u10	But it's not about the marginals, it's not about the Freedom Shabbats, who are doing their shows on Maidan, and they're meeting society, working at the Kremlin's hand, which is opening the second front in Ukraine today. I want to turn to them, they will be judged by the people. I want to look to my fellow national deputies, and I want to look to a healthy and unsettling civil society. Difficult decisions in difficult times are always difficult to make. Taking responsibility for yourself by carrying out unpopular reforms is difficult. It is easy to stand outside and just criticize without offering any healthy working alternative. It's easy and easy to get to power when the country thrives, the economy thrives when corruption is defeated, when there is no poverty and unemployment. It is difficult to work during times of war and destruction. Friends, yes, we live in difficult times, in times of painful defeat, small but convincing victories, we live in times of fatigue from death, heavy daily survival, a period of despair and growing pessimism. Let's not give up! Our strength in the leadership demonstrated by today’s authorities, the President and the Prime Minister, is as easy for them to cooperate as the coalition has demonstrated in recent years and I hope that it will be preserved and will continue to demonstrate this command spirit.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-02-m0.u11	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-02-m0.u12	The state's position is also demonstrated by the MPs.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-02-m0.u13	Thirty seconds, please finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-02-m0.u14	State positions are also demonstrated by MPs who have not joined the coalition, but who think not of two months of local elections, but of the future of the state. Our strength is not that we are not falling, but that we are falling, rising and moving forward. I call on all the healthy forces to unity, to constructive dialogue, to shorten the time to the next victory, not to give up.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-02-m0.u15	Finish up, Irina Stepanovna, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-02-m0.u16	I'm done. Our unbreakableness, our stubbornness and our command, our continued progress in these difficult reforms supports the entire democratic world. This comprehensive support gives us the hope of restoring the sense of Ukraine to what joint human project, which joint action plan, as a common goal of national and social justice. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-02-m0.u17	Heroic glory! I'd like all my colleagues to follow the Rules, dear friends. I know it's an emotional performance, but I'd like to. Please, Self-Help, National Deputy Lubomir Zubac. Yegor Sobolev, please. Look, the woman's been out there, and you start counting in minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-02-m0.u18	I'll be there in less time. Colleagues, you know that Self-Help has decided to stay in the coalition. In fact, everyone here understands that the European Ukraine coalition has been formally in existence lately. We're able to make some of the useful decisions, but in most of the key decisions. We keep going on and on and on and on and on. So we're not just suggesting that we stay in the formal coalition of "European Ukraine," we're proposing to re-establish the European Ukraine coalition. The voters gave us a huge chance -- 300 votes -- to bring us together in the entire country that is at war. What it takes to do that. First request to the power of the President and the power of the Prime Minister. Please stop looking for votes in the Opposition Block. We agreed in unification, if we do not succeed in reaching consensus, we should continue to talk, we should continue to argue, we should continue to look for solutions, but we should not make decisions that matter to the country, the more the Constitution. The other one. We need to stop imitating the actions. In our coalition, the main curse is that we pass good laws, which then remain on paper. Human rights policy, law enforcement, the leadership of the General Staff are still the enormous curses of the country, which undermine the very sense of Parliament, which undermines the very meaning of the state. My colleagues and I tried to stop people when they started fighting with Nazgardia. And most people stopped. But they said, "Okay, we'll stop now. What's next? What will that change? But you've got nothing going on. You make good decisions, but they don't all work." The new Attorney General, the new Minister of Internal Affairs, the new courts are the binding decisions that the European Ukraine needs, and we need to take them as soon as possible. Last thing I'd like to say. Today’s Ukrainian society is unstoppable. He can be helped, but he can't be bothered. Those who interfere with it will, at best, find themselves in Rostov.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-02-m0.u19	Please, Oksana Jurinec, Peter Dust Block.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-02-m0.u20	Your Honor, Your Honor! Praise Jesus Christ! History needs a clot of will, partying and the program doesn't matter, and until everyone in this room realizes that today's important will to change the country, there will be no meaning, no price too high. Perhaps in the last few months these days have led one to wonder whether every politician is responsible, whether he serves a narrow corporate political interest, or whether he serves the Ukrainian people. You know, taking any articles, any coalition arrangements, it's all about decentralization. Perhaps everyone who was a member of the local council understands how important this is. It's very easy for me to talk about this, because on January 23, 14th, it was eight drafts of decisions that became a condition of my arrest, which both the D.A. and the D.A., and the police, then I was offered to pry on it. You know, there was no time, because without it, when you do your job and people appreciate it, and everyone in this room will be appreciated. Therefore, the politician must understand that he is responsible for his actions, actions, and inaction. And each time you try to do something theatrical, hidden in your personal interest, consider that it is the price of life today. I can't imagine how it feels to be a mother who loses a child today, because I'm a mother myself. And I understand clearly that if we all don't understand together that today is the fate of the country, not politics, not some miscreant that is constantly in this room, we won't have any sense and it won't be easy and this country will have nothing, there will be no future. Surrender yourself. Socrates said, "You can't lose three things: time, opportunity and word." Be responsible for each word and every action. The future and the world belong to the optimistic, pessimistic people. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-02-m0.u21	Heroic glory! Please, Vasil Nimchenko, Opposition Block. Nestor Schuffritch, Opposition Block. Economy of the hour, colleagues.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-02-m0.u22	Thank you, Your Honor Chairman! Dear colleagues! Yesterday, a national tragedy took place. For the first time in the history of our country, children have died protecting us, Ukrainian national deputies, protecting the children of politicians who have become Ukrainian national deputies just because their parents are highly respected officials. We fought a lot to call off our careers. And we were proud of what was done. Moreover, for many, it was a pre-election slogan, and we will not send our children to death. The first of the dead is a member of the Service Department. Why could it not have been that contractors with greater protection experience, including themselves, and responding in such a situation, were before the Supreme Council of Ukraine in this situation. And why did this opposition happen? You're a coalition, so tell me, you don't have time to agree on any changes to the Constitution? I'll tell you. It is the joy of the pharaoh, the joy of the more radical one who has perished. What's the point? We all realize that these changes to the Constitution are not masterpieces, but clearly this is a real step towards transferring power to the councils locally through executions. Of course, the powers of prefects are absurd and authoritarian, but we have the opportunity to do so by adopting appropriate laws. No matter how bad these changes are, it's still a quarter of a step ahead. Not even half a step, but still some kind of movement. With regard to the relevant standard of special status and the Law on the Special Regions of Lugansk and Donetsk. We are well aware that diplomats will still have to work hard to convince all parties that this is the very failure of the Minsk Accords. Because so far, this paragraph is more controversial than compromise and consensus, and you knew it. And you went solely for the purpose of raising your ratings before the local elections. You know what I'm gonna tell you? You have to go at least to the new parliamentary elections, because today, as authorities, you're not worthy to represent people, because you're killing them. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-02-m0.u23	People's deputy wolf. Oleg Lazko.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-02-m0.u24	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. Thank you very much to your former colleagues and to the distinguished faction of Peter Dustenka that they pay so much attention to us. And now, essentially. On August 31, 2015, tens of Ukrainian citizens on both sides suffered a terrible tragedy under the walls of the Ukrainian Parliament. To our conviction, this tragedy was organized, a special provocation, with the aim of diverting attention from the events that took place this day in the walls of the Ukrainian Parliament. Because there were two key events in the walls of the Ukrainian Parliament on August 31st, for Ukraine's history, is the creation of a new coalition with the participation of the "Peter Prashenko Block", the "National Front", the so-called opposition, and in fact the thieving Kremlin bloc and two oligarchic groups made up of former regional deputies. And the second event is the introduction to the Kremlin's dictatorship, under the dictatorship of the Anti-Ukrainian Change Putin into the Constitution, which is essentially aimed at the disintegration of the Ukrainian state and its destruction. Of the 265 national deputies who voted in favour of these shameful anti - Ukrainian changes to the Constitution, only 185 national deputies voted out of the coalition! So basically the coalition in Parliament, the European Democratic Coalition did not support these anti-Ukrainian changes. Three out of five factions of the coalition have taken a firm stand against making changes to the Constitution. Despite this, the head of the Supreme Council, Vladimir Groysman, President of Ukraine, Peter Poshenko, trying to break through the knee of the Ukrainian Parliament, trying to bring about the anti-Ukrainian changes to the Constitution in the Ukrainian Parliament, they conspired with the fifth Kremlin column, the block of thieves. And contrary to the position of the European coalition, these changes continued. Peter Poroshenko buried the European Democratic Coalition in the Supreme Council on August 31! That is why the Radical Party faction announces its exit from the coalition that was destroyed by Peter Prashenko. We're going to the opposition, the Radical Party faction. We do.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-02-m0.u25	30 seconds, complete.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-02-m0.u26	We claim to move to a political, socio-economic course that is now being conducted by President Poroshenko and an active government, along with a parliamentary majority. As the opposition we're proposing, we're asking the authorities to bring the issue of Donbas' special status to the U.S. referendum. Let the Ukrainian people, not the selling politicians, decide the fate of the country. We propose to create a National Council in the Ukrainian Parliament.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-02-m0.u27	20 seconds to go.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-02-m0.u28	We propose in the Ukrainian Parliament to create a National Council of Patriotic, Democratic People's Deputies to protect the Ukrainian Constitution, to protect the Ukrainian State, to protect the social rights of millions of Ukrainians. I address the Ukrainian people, we will protect you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-02-m0.u29	Thank you, thank you. Dear colleagues, it's over. Dear colleagues, you know, me. Now, as long as Alexi Muschak is speaking, I want to say the next thing. That the whole world, the United States, the Council of Europe, the European Union all welcome what we have accepted with you, took the first step towards changing the Constitution, the Venice Commission, the first step towards real decentralization in the country. Russia just, DNR, LNR, they say it's just wrong, it's all still. Well, it's for objectivity. That's the first one. Second position. No word, my friends, no word in the changes to the Constitution has special status. You can put up with everything, but you don't need to scare the Ukrainians with fairies, because this is a real European modern constitution that will restore power from politicians and political leaders who want to govern themselves, the Ukrainian people. And that's the justice we need to establish with you. So there's no point in holding a referendum with a fair question. We need to learn to tell people the truth, and it will be the strength of our Ukrainian politics, not to lie. Please, Alexei Muschak. And everyone who voted in favour of the Constitution is as precisely chosen as those who did not vote in favour of the Constitution. Everyone has a right. Alexi Mushak, please, Peter Dustock's Block.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-02-m0.u30	Alexei Muschak, Peter Dustock's Block. Honorable colleagues, distinguished chairman, respected Ukrainian community! Public reasoning, educational work, pros and cons is, it turns out, not a virtual thing, it's not a case in the textbook how to become a politician, it's a political duty, it's a national MP's duty, on which it turns out people's lives depend. The way changes were made to the Constitution led to a higher degree of debate in society. Because the discussion didn't go to the level of argument, but to the level of the image, someone's a traitor, someone's a Putin agent, someone's a Kremlin agent, who else is a Kremlin agent, right? That's why I voted 31 numbers for changes to the Constitution only on one condition that if 300 votes were to be voted on, a complete package of basic laws would be presented by now. Wherever it's clear what kind of authority we give to prefects, what responsibilities we give to performances, we pass a new law on decentralization, and we clearly understand the matrix that we have. The same applies to Donbas status. Now I have more than a minute left and I'd like to give a word to my colleagues in Hersonish, who were on the songs of the German singer Igor Debra yesterday.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-02-m0.u31	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to emphasize, National MPs, that we have now returned from Irpen from singing our hero, the Dragonman boy, where the Swiss diaspora lives. Your Honor, listen, let's have some respect for those heroes who gave their lives to protect us. I want you to listen to this because we've seen those soldiers protecting us. And what I mean is, what do we have to say, I want everyone to think about, so what do we have to tell the moms of these heroes who gave their sons to die under the walls of the Supreme Council of Ukraine? That we don't have a mind? That we can't make a deal with you smart people? What we have to do by provocation, by radicalism, is go out and block, and force ultra-patriot forces to throw grenades at our boys. Where has this been seen? And we claim to be a civilised country. Well, how can you do that? I propose and demand the creation of a temporary commission of inquiry to find out who was behind all this. Secondly, Oleg Valeriyovich, first of all, we're addressing you. Please, let us go back to the parliamentary methods of dealing with matters.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-02-m0.u32	Please let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-02-m0.u33	Dear colleagues, we will show you what example we set for the Ukrainian people, that we can stand here and yell, "A shame!'can't give the speaker a chance to speak? You can't do that. Dear colleagues, there will indeed be a scenario to do what is written in Mr. Tobacco when he said that there are no political elites here and that is why there can be no consolidation of Ukraine as a state. What are we doing? What, are we drawing this picture for Mr. Putin? Dear colleagues, let's assume that we are people who can make deals, that we can solve issues and show the example to the Ukrainian people that we really are Ukraine, a country that is worthy of respect throughout the world. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-02-m0.u34	Heroic glory! Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-02-m0.u35	Dear colleagues, 31st.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-02-m0.u36	Timis Grigory Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-02-m0.u37	I'll explain myself. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-02-m0.u38	Dear colleagues, listen, Andrew, this has to do with you. On August 31st, when we went to Parliament here, we all saw the ropes, the scenes, then we came to Parliament here, we see the blocked rostrum here, and everybody's laughing, well, the show starts, the new political season. But who knew the value of such irresponsible and foolish conduct. No one blames anyone, but I can see personally after the grenade broke down, the pseudo leaders came out on the stage and presented a crowd of people to the Nazis. Is that okay? Instead of helping the wounded, we further exacerbated the situation. We had just returned from the Novopetrovci, and we had moved to the home of Igor Derbin, Snakes, Borislav district, Herson district. He was one son in the family, he was gone, the family stopped. My parents couldn't even come here because they're desperate. In such a desperate state that they have no comfort. Tomorrow I invite everyone, also in Novopetrovka, one from the Zurich region, the Herson region, the village of Kozachi Lagera, the other from the Yellow Waters. We ask you to create a temporary commission of inquiry, let's all go in there and see how politicians, whether the pseudo-politicals, have influenced that development. And, Oleg Valeriyovich, personally to you, you. We spoke to you last night, and you said you'd come to Novopetrovac, come tomorrow. I think all these political speculations are going to stop. We have been chosen by the people as responsible people, let us be responsible. Thank you for your attention. And I ask everyone for a minute of silence to mention all the Nazis. [[A Minute of Silence]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-02-m0.u39	Please, a line, a minute, Oleg Lazko.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-02-m0.u40	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. The Radical Party faction strongly condemns the use of weapons in peaceful cities and villages in Ukraine. We find it absolutely unacceptable to find political relations by means of military weapons. Weapons should be used only on the front and only against the enemy. That is why, when these tragic events took place under the Supreme Council, Ukrainian national deputies from the Radical Party faction: Oksana Korchinska, Sergey Skuratowski, Artem Vitko, Andry Artemenko provided assistance — an emphasis — carried wounded military personnel. On the same day, my fellow deputies and I visited the Kyiv military hospital. We insist once again that the provocation that took place in a bloody, tragic provocation that took place under the walls of the Ukrainian Parliament is a planned action aimed at discrediting the Ukrainian Parliament, with the aim of discrediting the political forces that it is.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-02-m0.u41	Dear fellow national MPs, I'm for justice, for justice's sake, if you don't mind, you'd still be able to speak up to Lilia Greenevich, head of the profile committee. September 1st is the Day of Knowledge, educational. Is there no objection? Time's up, but please, three minutes. Please, Lila Mikhailovna, three minutes. Please, Lila Mikhailovna, come in.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-02-m0.u42	Dear colleagues! Dear Ukrainians! Yesterday a new academic year began, but he was no doubt eclipsed by a terrible tragedy under the walls of the Supreme Council. A tragedy that is actually driven by politics, by the transition of certain political forces to opposition rhetoric before the election to increase ratings. And that's why people pay for their lives. September 1st is the one day when everyone, without exception, mentions that there is an education involving about 10 million people. But even last day, yesterday, September 1st, because of what happened in Parliament, there was no education. I want to urge everyone very much right now, this session is going to be marked by a whole series of basic laws on education, science and science and technology. I very much ask that you finally look the truth into the eyes of the situation. Yes, yesterday the children, regardless of the war, sat down in educational institutions and began to study. They just sat down under totally different conditions of access to education. Similarly, despite the war, we were able to open seven new educational institutions. However, the authorities of local self - government now have a lot of authority, closing down schools, and very often not in the child’s best interests. So now that the local self-government authorities are getting on average up to 40 percent more revenue, I have to make a bet, and I'm now addressing all the Ukrainians who are going to vote in the local elections to channel this money into education. Look, we had a threat that the textbooks would be at the expense of money. We've made them free for each family because of the economy of the Supreme Council pay fund, but the other part of the funds have to be added to local self-government. Same thing with the bus and the network development. I want all of us to understand one important thing that many nations have understood about us that have now built a successful state: the national security of the country is created and repents not only on the front and on the border of the country.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-02-m0.u43	30 seconds, complete.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-02-m0.u44	It's being created in our educational institutions. Education is therefore a strategic resource. Think about it, and I hope that in this session we will take progressive steps towards a modern European innovation system of education. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-02-m0.u45	Thank you. Dear colleagues, the performances are over. I'd just like to focus on the last speech on education. In fact, education has a lot of chronic issues and our duty today is to support education and provide opportunities for quality education. I'm always talking about a kid who goes to a preschool and gets high school. And there's only one chance of getting a bag of knowledge that will then allow you to use them both in higher education and in the rest of your life. I want to emphasize that not only do we need to demand that local self-government bodies do the funding of education is right and they do it. And maybe if they optimize with the network of schools, they optimize small schools to give quality education, not the other way around. But when we plan a budget with you for 2016, the education grant for each child has to be enough to pay a high-quality salary and provide a high-quality education process. Here's where we have a problem -- a quality, full-fledged education grant for all the local budgets. I'd like everyone to look at this and support the education in the next fiscal year. We have until September 15th with you to get the draft budget for 2016. And there we have to preserve both decentralization and qualitatively calculated standards for each child, that's extremely important, that's the point. So I'm an absolute ally, and I think, like most parliamentarians, we have this issue to resolve clearly this year. Dear colleagues, I think there's a good thing about the proposal of colleagues to create a TSC. But I would still wait for the law enforcement to find out that they're doing their operational investigation, and then maybe we could look at the question and the formation of the TSC. I think that would be professional enough. And as for the regulations for those who count our colleagues on a second basis, such as Irina Lucenko, the regulations, I want you to calm down, don't get nervous. For more than a minute, a national MP, one and a half minutes, a Jurinec, and two minutes, at the expense of Gregory Times. So time was saved, and there is no tragedy. Dear colleagues! I would like to bring to your attention two human resources issues, namely the two decisions of the Supreme Council of Ukraine regarding the early termination of the powers of Ukrainian national deputies, in particular (registration number 2112a) Mikhail Gózdzow, "Block of Petra Prashenko", as well as (2545th) National Deputy Nasirov Roman Mihajlovich. Since there have been no meetings, the first scheduled meeting is taking place today, so I ask that the members of the people come into the hall. I invite you to speak to the first deputy head of the Committee on Rules and Organization of Work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, Pavel Vasilovich Pinzenika. Please, Paul Vasilovich. Report two decisions immediately. It's personnel issues, they don't need to be pre-entered into the agenda. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-02-m0.u46	Dear Head! Honorable National Deputies of Ukraine! The Committee on Rules at its meeting on 17 June this year considered a statement by the Ukrainian National Deputy, Gódźów Mikhail Aleksijovich, on the submission of parliamentary powers under article 81, part two, paragraph 1, of the Constitution and article 4 of the Ukrainian Law on the Status of the National Deputy of Ukraine in connection with his appointment as President-in-Office of the General Designer of the State Enterprise Antonov. The committee decided to submit to the Committee members for consideration by the Supreme Council a draft Decision on the early termination of the powers of Ukraine's national deputy, Gzdzdow M.O. (registration number 2112) and asks for support for the above-mentioned draft decision. Also, the Committee on Rules of Procedure at its meeting on 31 August this year considered a statement by the Ukrainian national deputy Nassirov Roman Mikhajlovich on the submission of parliamentary powers under article 81, part two, paragraph 1, of the Constitution and article 4 of the Ukrainian Law on the Status of the National Deputy of Ukraine in connection with its appointment on 5 May 2015 as head of the National Fiscal Service of Ukraine. The committee decided to bring the members of the committee to the Supreme Council’s consideration of the decision to terminate the mandate of the Nasirov People’s Deputies (registration No. 2545a). And he's also asking for support for the above-mentioned draft of the Decree. Please ask the presiding officer to place the successive draft decrees in the vote. Please be supportive. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-02-m0.u47	Thank you. Dear colleagues, please take your seats. Prepare for the vote, Your Honor. You have been presented with a draft decree on the permanent termination of the powers of the Ukrainian national deputy, Mikhail Alexiyyovich Gzdzdowa, in connection with his personal application for parliamentary powers (registration number 2112a) Iron. Are you ready to vote, colleagues? Please vote for the entire draft Decree 2112a on the termination of the powers of the People's Deputies of Gódzów Mikhail Aleksijovich, in connection with the application. Please vote on the draft regulation as a whole. [[10:59:35]] For 269 269 votes. Orders adopted in general. 2545 is a draft decree to terminate the mandate of the Ukrainian national deputy, Roman Nasirov, in connection with his personal application for parliamentary powers. Nasirova Roman Mikhailovich. Please, Your Honor, 2545a is voted on as a whole. Please vote, in general. [[11:00:22]] For 268. 268. Decision taken. The decree was passed in general. Ladies and gentlemen, let's move on to the day-to-day issues. Draft decree on parliamentary hearings on "Rightful security.", by the way, reform," Education reform in Ukraine" December 9th according to the committee's submission. According to Lilia Mikhailovna Grinevich, head of the profile committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-02-m0.u48	Dear colleagues! This is what happened today when all the educational legislation that was actually adopted in the early 1990s ran out of resources. As a country today is placed in new conditions, with new challenges, starting with positive European integration and ending with war and constant aggression by the nearest neighbour of the Russian Federation, we are obliged to update education legislation. That is why the Committee on Education and Science adopted a decision to hold parliamentary hearings on the legislative provision of education, December 9. In this new legislation, we also need to solve some of the very important problems that are today. In particular, the salaries of teachers are paid because if teachers, teachers, and teachers fail to support reform, reforms will not take place. And the pay that is today is unbelievably meager. It's very good that the government has looked for an opportunity and now it's going to grow from September 1st, but that doesn't solve the problem. We have in law a fundamental change in the principle of pay, where people with higher qualifications who give better results of work should get a significantly better salary. We also have to solve the issue of one of the most successful reforms that we can lose, if we're inactive, it's an external independent evaluation system. There are a number of problems in updating the content of education. The problems of assessing the quality of education and ensuring equality of access for each child regardless of the child’s social status and health, since today we have huge obstacles to inclusive education for our children with special needs. It's got everything.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-02-m0.u49	Please, 30 seconds, finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-02-m0.u50	decided in the new legislation. Please support the hearing order. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-02-m0.u51	Dear colleagues, I think we will be able to express our position during the parliamentary hearings on this subject, which is very important. And now there's a need. Please two for, two for against. Andrew Shinkovic, Peter Dustenka's Block.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-02-m0.u52	Dear colleagues! Dear Ukrainians! It is absolutely right to regulate the support of the education system in Ukraine through Parliament. Because we see a lack of attention from the Ministry of Education and Science and a lack of respect for teachers, rural teachers, for those people who are teaching tomorrow in Ukraine -- young Ukrainians who are putting bright knowledge in their heads. Today, the disgraceful situation with the Cabinet of Ministers ruling, where the prestige of the work was once 20 percent of the pay, and the replacement was made at a limit of up to 20 percent, and the teachers do not see this supplement for the prestige of the work. We are convinced that many other legislative matters need to be done in order for the Ministry of Education and Science to have appropriate limits on its limitations, restrictions on teachers. That's the category where you can't save money. It's the people who are making tomorrow, who are investing in our young people's knowledge. And we understand very well that today, unfortunately, young people want to live abroad, that young people today do not want to work, and to a greater extent they cannot work in Ukraine because there are no jobs. So I support the decision, and I think that our activity should not be to block the presidency of the Supreme Council, but to gather for parliamentary hearings, to make proposals and to help education. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-02-m0.u53	Igor Mosiyczuk, Radical Party.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-02-m0.u54	Igor Mosiyczuk, Oleg Lachka Radical Party Should Education Be Reformed? Of course you do. Should education be given attention and parliamentary hearings? Of course you do. But above all, the government needs to take care of teachers. Take care of how they live and live more faithfully. About the level of pay that teachers now have. And why. We need to understand that if we don't pay our teachers, if we don't pay them a decent salary, they will pay less attention to our children, less attention to the education they give our children. So first of all, the government has to pay attention to raising the social protection of teachers, raising the wages of teachers. Because no reform is worth absolutely nothing if people don't feel it on themselves if people don't feel the quality of these reforms in their own lives, in their own children that these teachers are doing. There is no doubt that we need to hold parliamentary hearings. But it is also important to pay attention to teachers. Because teachers are the foundation of the future of our nation and state. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-02-m0.u55	Please, Paul Kishkar. Victor Krivenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-02-m0.u56	It's not working. Aah!? It worked. Dear colleagues! All countries of the world are divided into four levels of technological development. The lowest level of technological development is the countries that trade exclusively what they've grown and what they've dug up. And we're jumping to that point because of the kind of pseudo-economic policy that we have now. Low levels of technological development are countries that already have a processing sector, which already have at least a fraction of the added value left in the country, do not export raw materials or buy back finished products. The average level of technological development is the countries where basic infrastructure is developed. Infrastructure is an education system. For decades, universities are being built, the best teachers are being imported, and the nation is able to understand the technological level of the world, and is able to replicate, as a minimum, the technological achievements that are in the world and can produce them. This means the welfare of the nation. And the highest level is when a nation can give birth to technology and put it into practice. So the basic infrastructure of any state is education. The teacher is one of the three most sacred professions in the state – a businessman, a teacher and a civil servant. Depending on the attitude of these people, the way they are developing, the state is going up or the state is going down. So if we don't respect the teacher's profession, we'll have nothing. In the pre-election program with which we went to people, in all the speeches, we're constantly stressing that we have to rip teachers off at pay levels and rip them out of the net. Because in fact, very few people today want to go to school. We see a lack of teachers, we see a decline in the quality of education. So I call on everyone, first of all the government, the Ministry of Education, to submit a bill to raise the pay of teachers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-02-m0.u57	Thank you. Please, Natalia Royal, "The Opposition Block."
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-02-m0.u58	Dear colleagues, the Opposition Unit will vote in favour of parliamentary hearings. But we are confident that it is now necessary to speak, to hear about the education system and the health system in our country, and to act late, to make a decision. Millions of Ukrainian families faced the greatest challenge of bringing a child to school because the prices of basic office supplies were higher than the common sense. And those kids who still had to buy uniforms, clothes, shoes, and a briefcase to buy, in principle, for the Ukrainian family today, it's an insurmountable load. Therefore, we believe that the task of number 1 is to index pensions and wages in the country today, and not the unfortunate supplies that the Government is promising us today, but to make real indexing, to get our families out of poverty. Problem two. Today, there are many discussions on 12-year-old education. Well, let's be realistic when parents can't and can't afford to buy a diary to send a kid to school today, so what kind of money parents can keep a kid up to 12 years old. So, of course, today's task of number one is to look at and address the issue of the teacher's reputation. Well, let's be honest, because today we're going to face a problem that isn't just teaching kids anything but a problem that no one will teach children. In the past two years alone, we have reduced by 56,000 teachers. Over the past two years, 2,000 schools and educational institutions have been reduced in our country. Today, we urgently need to address the issue of the prestige of the teacher's profession. It is both wrong and unfair to transfer all costs to local budgets today.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-02-m0.u59	Please, 30 seconds, finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-02-m0.u60	Now that teachers and doctors are sitting on bare salaries, they've already cut back on notebooks, on class guides, on extracurriculars. Well, you can't. For the future of our countries depends first and foremost on what children learn and how they can learn them today at a worthy level. Therefore, the prestige of the teacher's profession today, wage indexation, pension indexation is the number one task that we must all join together in our efforts.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-02-m0.u61	Vladimir Mikhailovich Litwin, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-02-m0.u62	Your Honor, your colleagues, it is clear that this decision should be made, and I would ask my colleagues to support it. It would be good if we held these parliamentary hearings for the local elections and that is why. The point is that now there is this picture, before the local elections, they want to love the teachers to death, strangle them in their arms, rape them one more time, and force them to fly from the ruling parties. This has been repeated, and it is understandable why this is being done now. Taking advantage of the opportunity, I appeal to the leaders of such political parties, stop this abuse of people, they don't know where to go, stop the abuse, say, of the foresters, stop the abuse of budget workers, don't rush them into the party, then they'll suffer, you'll never protect them. One more thing I'd like to say, dear colleagues. Now in the areas that have emerged in the districts, I think the majority MPs know that, looking.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-02-m0.u63	Let me finish, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-02-m0.u64	They're trying to get everyone alive in political parties. Stop this abuse, there will be no result. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-02-m0.u65	Thank you. I have a lot of respectable fellow national MPs right now, and I want to quote Vladimir Mikhailovich, and prepare everyone for us to love teachers, not until death, but life, for a great life. Because everyone who's spoken here today understands, if there's no quality education, we don't have any prospects at all. So education is the basis on which we have to build a quality European country. And today it will not be noticed at all that farsighted. Dear colleagues, there is a proposal to vote on a draft decree on parliamentary hearings on "Legal provision of education reforms in Ukraine", scheduled for December 9 (registration number 2438a). Please, colleagues, take your seats. Ready to vote? Please vote 2438 – Order for Parliamentary hearings, please vote. [[11:15:55]] For 247 Decision taken. I didn't see, for a minute I could, thank you, I just didn't see, Ivan Krulko raised his hand, I didn't see. Please, Your Honor, draft Law on the Ratification of the Treaty between Ukraine and the Republic of Senegal on the Extradition of Offenders. Deputy Justice Minister Petuhov, there is a proposal for a reduced procedure to consider this draft decision, please, a draft law, with a reduced procedure, please support. Review of the simplified procedure. [[11:16:38]] For a hundred and Please, Your Honor, ask the Deputy Minister. I'm going to come out with a proposal that we immediately consider such laws on the basis of a reduced procedure, and if the MPs think that they are extremely important to vote on the full procedure. This is going to be a perfectly normal approach. Please make a proposal for amendments to the Rules of Procedure of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-02-m0.u66	Good afternoon, dear Council! I have three contracts with Senegal to present to you today. The first of these concerns the extradition of offenders, or extradition, is a standard treaty that Ukraine has signed with many countries that provides grounds for cooperation with Senegal in case we want to get a person to condemn it in Ukraine, or whether we should issue a person in Senegal. This greatly simplifies cooperation between the two countries – this is a standard agreement that has been in line with all government authorities, with the Supreme Council Committee on Foreign Affairs. There were no comments or suggestions before him, so I propose to support the draft of this decree on the ratification of this treaty as a whole. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-02-m0.u67	Thank you. Anna Gopko, please, the profile committee. From the place, please, Hanna Hopko, head of the Foreign Affairs Profile Committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-02-m0.u68	Good afternoon, dear fellows! The Committee on Foreign Affairs considered a draft law introduced by the President of Ukraine on the ratification of the Treaty between Ukraine and the Republic of Senegal on the extradition of offenders. The purpose of the draft law is to carry out the internal procedures necessary for the effectiveness of the treaty. The committee is asking for the support of this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-02-m0.u69	Thank you. Is there a need for two "for", two "against"? I can only see one hand. Mikola Tomenko, please, two minutes and we'll work on it.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-02-m0.u70	My fellow Members, I am very much in favour of the three bills relating to the settlement of the legal relationship between Ukraine and Senegal, in general, they are pleased that today we have in Parliament the day of Senegal, because of the six bills we have dedicated three to this fraternal republic, which is in West Africa. By the way, an active member of the International Organization of Francophony, which is true, there is no Embassy of Senegal in Ukraine. But I have a question, the second day we're working on these fundamental basic bills. The government complains that reform decisions and laws are not being taken by parliament. We've been on vacation all summer -- we haven't had Vladimir Borisovich -- you know, we've worked on committees, we've worked with voters, and we've worked on a bunch of bills. It's all billed, the government doesn't know what to do with the laws. I have a question: what are we doing today, and what were we doing yesterday? We're cheating on each other, the Ukrainian people are cheating on each other or what? Were we not able to put the bills into the agenda yesterday and today? Lilia Grigorovich spoke for textbooks today. And I'll inform you: the Ministry of Education and the government have not yet announced what textbooks for the 4th grade? God grant them to be in November or December. And it's not just about education. What about agriculture? You don't know what the crop situation is today, don't you need to shield agriculture? So I demand not to wait for Nobel laureates and a commission from the European Union to teach us to work, but to start working, to adopt laws, and to respect the people who chose us. For Senegal and for the working parliament!
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-02-m0.u71	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to return you to the Rules of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, which marks the formation of the agenda. All proposals are made on the basis of committees. I would like to ask the committee heads to move actively on this issue. Dear colleagues, this is extremely important. 0045, draft Law on the Ratification of the Treaty between Ukraine and the Republic of Senegal on the Extradition of Offenders. Dear colleagues, please support the ratification of this agreement. Ready to vote? Take your place. Ready to vote? Please vote on the draft Law on the Ratification of the Treaty between Ukraine and the Republic of Senegal on the Extradition of Offenders. Vote please, Your Honor. [[11:21:38]] For 256 Decision taken. Look, I'm going to show you what I'm proposing. Dear colleagues, if we were to now consider this issue in full procedure, we would now be discussing the ratification of Senegalese offenders for two hours, and that's how we did it in seven minutes. Is it two hours to discuss Senegal or seven minutes? And you say! Well, most people support, thank you, dear colleagues. Let's move on. Draft Law on Ratification of the Treaty between Ukraine and the Republic of Senegal on Legal Assistance in Civil and Criminal Matters, Registration No. 0046. As long as there are national MPs, the committee heads will make proposals after the first review of the laws, and we will consider such draft laws. 0046, there is a proposal for a reduced procedure to address this issue. Please support the consideration of the reduced procedure. [[11:22:45]] For-160. Decision taken. Please have a proposal from the Ministry to accept as a whole, as a basis and as a whole. There's a committee proposal. Are you insisting on the performance? No, it's not. Support me, too. Are there two in favour, two in the opposite? None. Please, 0046 on the basis and in general, colleagues, concentrate, vote. We are voting (0046) on the draft Law on the Ratification of the Treaty between Ukraine and the Republic of Senegal on legal assistance in civil and criminal matters. Please, colleagues, take your seats, we vote. [[11:23:42]] For 251 Decision taken. 0047 – Ratification of the Treaty between Ukraine and the Republic of Senegal on the Transfer of Convicted Persons. Is there a need to report? Everybody backs up. 0047 – based on and in general, ratification of the Treaty on the Transfer of Convicted Persons. Please vote. Please vote on the basis and in general, draft law on ratification. [[11:24:17]] For 247 I understand it's illegal to fight migrants, don't I? 0050 is a draft law on the amendment of the Protocol to the International Hydrographic Organization Convention. Is there a need to report 0,0050? There's no need. The profile committee supports that. There's no need to discuss it, I understand. Please, 0050 as a basis and as a whole, please vote, 0050. [[11:25:04]] For 252 The draft law was adopted as a whole, 252 votes. 0052 is a draft of the Act on the Ratification of the Treaty (in the form of exchange of notes) between the Government of Ukraine and the Government of Japan on the granting of a loan for the implementation of a project for the modernization of the Bortnik Water Treatment Station as part of the implementation of the project "Reconstruction of sewage treatment plants and the construction of a technological line for the treatment and treatment and disposal of the sediments of the Bortnicka Station of the Aeration". An extremely important project, ecological. [[B in m in s a l in]] Dear colleagues, there is an offer to consider it as a reduced procedure. Please, colleagues, with a reduced procedure. An important, vital law. Questions of great importance and environmental security in Kiev. [[11:25:59]] For 175 Decision taken. Please report to Finance Minister Natalia Jaresko. Report, Minister. The Supreme Council of Ukraine is pleased to welcome the finance minister of Ukraine, Natalia Jaresko. Welcome, Mrs. Natala. Mrs. Natalie, are you glad to see us, too? Are you glad to see us, too?
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-02-m0.u72	Dear Mr. Head! Dear National Deputies! In answer, I am very happy to see you all today. The bill proposes to ratify the Treaty (in the form of a note exchange) between the Government of Ukraine and the Government of Japan on the granting of a loan for the implementation of a project for the modernization of the Bortnicka station for sewage treatment as part of the implementation of the project "Reconstruction of sewage treatment plants and the construction of a technological line for the treatment and disposal of the settlements of the Bortnicka Station of Aeration", which was signed on 6 June of the current year during an official historic visit to Ukraine by the Prime Minister of Japan. The contract provides that the Japanese International Cooperation Agency or Jaika will provide Ukraine with a premium of more than 108 billion Japanese yen. Today, today’s exchange rate is about $900 million. They just used it to do that. You can compare it to their press releases, they were using the amount of a billion, because at the time, after that exchange rate, it was closer to a billion. At today's rate, it's closer to $900 million over 40 years, of which 10 years is below 0.1 percent of a year's debt to modernize the sewage treatment plant. The project's sub-borrower, Kabmin, provides a sub-credit defined by the Kyivwatercanal, which will repay and service the sub-credit at the expense of the partial rate of discharge. The loan will be paid off and serviced at the expense of the Kyivwater Channel, which will come to the State Budget on the basis of the repayment and servicing of the subcredit. The treaty is an international treaty of Ukraine and is subject to it.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-02-m0.u73	Please finish, Minister.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-02-m0.u74	It is subject to ratification by the Supreme Council of Ukraine and its implementation is subject to temporary changes in both the Tax Code and the Customs Code of Ukraine regarding exemption from taxation by creditors of Japanese contractors, consultants, and so on, the principle of the position of the Government of Japan. I just want to add, because there were some questions for me already. Almost all of our creditors and almost all of our donors today require this approach to taxing their war or loan deposits in our country, because they are increasing the amounts they give us, they're starting to demand very much that they don't be taxed on the amounts they give us, and that's now the standard for all countries and for all credit and donor agreements. Please support and accept the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-02-m0.u75	Thank you. Please, Hanna Hopko, head of the Foreign Affairs Committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-02-m0.u76	Good afternoon, dear colleagues. I'd like to start with a very simple phrase and I'd like to say that Ukraine is a nation of marathoners, our race is a thousand years. When Kiev’s Russian Moscow appeared, there was no map of the world. The 21st century is a century of victory over Ukraine. And I want to say that even this agreement that we're talking about right now and ratifying is a return to Japan's trust in us. Here was the Prime Minister of Japan, who was the Prime Minister of Canada. And I want to say that we all get optimism, optimism about our own state, optimism about our own responsibility. So I would like to support the Committee's decision in foreign affairs and ratify the agreement in the form of a note exchange between the governments of Ukraine and the Government of Japan to provide a loan for the implementation of a project to modernize the Bortnicka Water Treatment Station as part of the implementation of a project for the reconstruction of sewage treatment plants. This project has long been awaited by the Chinese, it's very important. I want to say that Ukraine has recently received a lot of financial assistance in the form of loans, grants, in the form of humanitarian aid. And the task of Parliamentarians is to create mechanisms to make all of this aid, every euro, every dollar is effectively used to benefit the well-being and to solve the problems that are in the east of Ukraine. So I urge everyone to think now that we are in the order of the Parliament of the day that we show the Ukrainians and the world that we, as a nation of marathoners, are finally able, in the 21st century, not to miss our historic chance, but to build a strong state. We have great trust in the world, the people of Ukraine. And we, as parliamentarians, have to use, in particular, international support to win over Putin, in order to defeat corruption. And I'm more than sure the world is with us. The main thing is that we've had enough.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-02-m0.u77	Please. We're done. Dear colleagues! Two for, two for, please. Sign up. Boyko Olena Petrovna, People's Front.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-02-m0.u78	Helen Boyko, People's Front. Please pass the word to Leonid to Yemen.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-02-m0.u79	Leonid Yemen, People's Front.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-02-m0.u80	Leonid Jemetz, "The People's Front", co-chair of the inter-parliamentary group of Ukraine-Japan. Dear colleagues, let me give you a little historical trailer in this part. The question is not one or two years old, he seems to have been about five years old, and in the days of Azarov, Janukovic and Yanukovic tried to raise the question of the reconstruction of the Bortnicki station, and the allocation by the Japanese side of a billion dollars to carry out the work. But the Japanese had one question, one that the Ukrainian side of the days of Yanukovich-Azarov could not go to. This requirement was very simple, not to steal this money, allowing the Japanese side to control the whole way to the allocation, to the location and to spend this billion. That's why during Yanukovich-Azarov's time, cooperation with the Japanese side was unsuccessful, because there are far from stupid people sitting there, and this is the biggest international loan that Japan has ever granted to other countries. When we joined the government in this work, we agreed to all the requirements of the Japanese side to control the situation. We were with a delegation in Japan, we talked to the Japanese government, we talked to the government of Ukraine, and we took away all the things that the Japanese side pointed to as those that could lead to corruption or bureaucracy. Today, the Japanese government has allocated this money, and now Ukraine only has to ratify this agreement to get us a normal Bortnicke station and a billion dollars for its reconstruction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-02-m0.u81	Thank you. Please, Arthur Gerasimov, Peter Dusty Block.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-02-m0.u82	Dear colleagues! Those who once lived in Kiev at the Kharkiv Mass have a clear understanding of why the reconstruction of the Bortnicka Station is extremely important for those who live there, especially for children. Secondly, I can tell you right away that during a lot of international meetings we discussed this issue from a representative of Japan's official circles. This is just the beginning. It's a test project. And if, in carrying out this test project, I'm talking about the reconstruction of the Bortnicka station in Ukraine, everything is going to go as planned, Japan is ready to give us much more help for reconstruction of various objects throughout our country. That's why the Peter Prashenko faction unanimously supports this bill. And I'm asking all my colleagues to vote in favour as well. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-02-m0.u83	Thank you. Please, Mosiyczuk, the Radical Party.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-02-m0.u84	Igor Mosiyczuk, Radical Party. Dear colleagues! The radical party of Oleg Láška will definitely vote in favour of the ratification of this agreement. Because the Bortnicki station is one of the main communications of the capital, the communication of the city of Kiev. But at the same time, we would like to draw attention to the need to establish strict control over the use of the funds that will come as a result of the signing of this agreement, as a result of the ratification of this agreement. All structures, including the newly created Anticorruption Bureau, need to be activated. Because we know what cockroaches are sitting in our ministries, they're sitting in our place on the Crusades. We know how international funds are handled and how much of them are being stolen. This should show full control over the use of the funds that will come as a result of the ratification of the agreement. That's why we vote yes. But at the same time, we are addressing the Ukrainian Security Service, the Anti-Corruption Bureau, to establish the most stringent control over the use of funds that will come from Japan for the reconstruction of the Bortnicka Meliority Station. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-02-m0.u85	People's Deputies.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-02-m0.u86	I give my word to my colleague, Mr. Matviyenko Sergey Anatoliovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-02-m0.u87	Please, the people's deputy of Matvienkov.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-02-m0.u88	Matvienkov, 57th District, Mariupol, Opposition Block. Of course, there is no doubt that this environmental facility, in need of reconstruction, we will support this agreement, there is no doubt. But I'd like to focus a little bit on something else. I have listened carefully to the report today by both Governments and the committee of the profile. We've listened to a history tour, a lot of other things, but we haven't heard, I think, the main thing, and we haven't seen the main thing in this mess or in this regulation -- how it's necessary to protect our own manufacturer, as equipment is delivered today, is, in part, 30 per cent of how you have to go to other people's markets, how you have to take care of your own producer. I think that we will then begin to live in a normal and normal way when our Ministry of Finance and Government will care just as much about our producer as the Japanese care about theirs today. When we create the same prerogatives both in the tax system and in the foreign market movement system, and deal with such issues, then, I think we will have the income part of the budget, and a stable economy in the country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-02-m0.u89	Thank you. Dear colleagues, please take your places to vote on an extremely important issue. I understand everyone wants to make a statement, but there's a procedure. I just want to say that this project has been worked on and worked by a strong team today, including Ukrainian national deputies. And as Deputy Prime Minister, I was involved in signing the prime minister's papers. As for the warnings, I would like to inform you that on the one hand all procedures that are to be implemented in procurement and everything else will meet the international standards and requirements of the Japanese side. In terms of technical assistance, it should be noted that a billion, more than a billion dollars, give 30 years less than 0.1 percent with a 10 - year debt period. So the point is that it's an extremely powerful project. And I can see that there's a Ukrainian national MP, Dmitry Andryevsky, who has something to say about this project, and I'd like to point it out. He is one of the engines of this question. I actually think that both the MPs and the Chinese are supporting this project. Well, for justice's sake, I did it for justice's sake. I would also like to point out that, in fact, I have had experience working with international organizations, when I was a city head, but I was able to engage with the team then some almost 800 million unreturnable bracelets, irreparable. That's what they just put into different projects, the energy efficiency of Winnitz and so on. And it's true when people see that you're using it effectively, that you're not stealing it, that you're doing it as openly and publicly as possible, that more and more help is coming, including irreversible. I think it's just the beginning of such a beautiful international history. Dear colleagues, please take your seats. Let's proceed to the vote. Draft Law on Ratification (Registration No. 0052). I would like everyone to support an extremely important international project. Please, Your Honor, vote. Vote. 0052, please support. [[11:41:33]] For 265 Decision taken. Thank you, Your Honor. We have one more question to ask, we have to work hard on the committees today. There is a draft to remove disagreements in the text of the adopted Ukrainian Law on Amendments to the Ukrainian Code on Administrative Offences (for strengthening the fight against poaching and environmental protection) (registration No. 1586). You remember that we accepted him. And on July 7th, I made all the clarifications in 255 articles of this draft law, already in law, according to the relevant committee, because there have been some disagreements. Therefore, honourable colleagues, this law was voted on June 17 by the Supreme Council as a whole and in line with 131 articles, as I said, we are introducing some solutions to the disagreements that have been handed down to you. If there is no objection, I will put this document to the vote to accept all the suggestions, the point is that we are removing the inaccuracies in 131 articles. According to 131 articles, adding 20 points is that those who have the right to draft protocols on administrative offences are said to be jegers and officials, users of hunting grounds authorized to protect the State Hunting Fund (arts. 65, 65-1, and so forth). Please take your seats, we'll vote. Dear colleagues, please vote to remove the inaccuracies in accordance with 131 articles presented by the committee. Please remove the inaccuracies in the fight against poaching. [[11:44:20]] For 229 Decision taken. Honorary colleagues of the Ukrainian National Deputies, the decision taken, the inaccuracies in this draft law have been removed. Now we start working on the committees. I would like to ask, my fellow Members, after we have made quality proposals for the formation of the agenda, there are two other announcements that will now be made by the First Deputy Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-02-m0.u90	Dear colleagues, two announcements have come to the fore. First. I'm reporting on the creation of the eighth interfractional parliamentary association "Ukraine Sports" in the Supreme Council of Ukraine. The leader of the interfractional parliamentary association "Ukraine Sports" was elected the National Deputy of Ukraine, Gerego Alexander Volodymirovic. And the next announcement. According to the minutes of the self-help parliamentary faction of August 31, 2015, I report expulsions from the parliamentary faction of the political party Self-help of the people's deputies: Gopko Hanni Mikolayovni, Edna Ostapa Volodymyrovich, Kishkar Pavel Mikolaiovich, Kryvenka Viktor Mikolaiovich, Vyktoria Jurijivni. The signature of the Barresuk. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-02-m0.u91	I declare the meetings of the Supreme Council of Ukraine closed. Tomorrow we'll continue our work at 10 o'clock.
