ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-11-m0.u1	Good morning, fellow countrymen! Please take your seats in the Supreme Council of Ukraine Hall. In order for us to begin our work, please prepare for registration. Please, Your Honor. Traditionally, Friday, we have an hour of questions to the government. In the session hall of the Supreme Council of Ukraine there is Prime Minister of Ukraine Arseny Petrovich Yacenuk. Welcome, Arsenija Petrovich. And the full composition of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. Ladies and gentlemen, please prepare for registration. Please come into the hall. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to draw your attention to the draft Order to refer the Supreme Council of Ukraine to the parliaments of foreign states, the European Parliament, the international parliamentary assemblies for the continuation and strengthening of sanctions against the Russian Federation for the organization of terrorist attacks. acts in Ukraine (registration number 3623). I'd like to ask you to study it, it'll be the Anna Hopko profile committee and the author of this decision, Irina Frez. So I asked you to study, because then we'll start looking at it. Please, Your Honor, prepare for registration, register. Please include the "Council" system for the registration of the National Deputies. [[10:05:00]] 293 national deputies are registered in the Supreme Council of Ukraine. I hereby declare the morning session of the Supreme Council open. And, traditionally, I would also like to welcome our fellow Ukrainian national deputies to their birthday, Gregory Timish, as well as Mikola Tomenko. Dear colleagues, welcome to your birthday! Good and healthy. Ladies and gentlemen, we begin the hour of the government. There's a proposal: the Prime Minister's report, the Prime Minister's speech -- 15 minutes and then 45 minutes -- for questions. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-11-m0.u2	What procedure? I'll give you the Rules right now, that's where the procedure is. Please, Arsenius Petrovich Yacenuk on the rostrum.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-11-m0.u3	Mr. Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine! The noble national deputies of Ukraine! The distinguished Ukrainian government, which, along with members of the Ukrainian Parliament a year ago, approved the Program of Activities of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. Dear National Deputies! Let me go back to the short story of just about a year ago. A year ago, the new pro-European Ukrainian coalition signed a coalition agreement. At that time, there were five pro - European parties responsible for the country’s fate. During this year, we have done much. During this year, we have accomplished many things. But we also need to do more together, much more for everyone. Regrettably, there were five of us at the time, and under applause, and with smiles all five parties of the coalition formed this very government, placed responsibility on it, and the Ukrainian people put their responsibility and responsibility on all the legally elected national deputies of Ukraine. One of the parties, the reverend Oleg Valeriovich, has left the coalition. But I would like to say separately that all of our successes are our common successes. And without looking at the rather complex political situation in the walls of the Ukrainian Parliament, on behalf of the government, I want to thank every faction of the coalition, first of all, the People's Front, the Peter Poroshenko Block, the Self-Help, the Fatherhood and even the faction that left the coalition is the Radical Party, for supporting the government's initiatives, as well as the individual Ukrainian people's deputies. I realize what difficult decisions we had to make. The government has always pursued the following policy: all that is good is the credit of the Ukrainian national deputies, all that is bad is the responsibility of the Prime Minister himself. But we have done much for our country. I would like to make it very clear that we are all together to find out what was done and what the order of the day is needed for 2016, where we have gaps and where we have real results. On this rostrum a year ago, I told you frankly, no one will promise a golden mountain, a country in an extremely difficult situation. The country was on the verge of default, the country was on the verge of bankruptcy. The country was without an army, without a police force, and the country was essentially without power. And we have formed a new Ukrainian power with you and we have done a lot to demonstrate to the entire world and to the Ukrainian people that we are able to fight and achieve results. Remember the figures that were in the single treasury account. There was nothing to pay for the new tanks, for the new weapons, for the wages of the employees, for nothing at all. 108 thousand dollars is the money that was in the government's only treasury account. Today, thanks to the budget you've been criticizing but adopted last year, we've gotten extra revenue plus 40 percent. The budget decentralization that you criticized but accepted added 40 percent to the local budgets. And today, in Ukraine's treasury accounts, there's a total of 95 billion dollars in government budgets, local budgets, and gold reserves. It's the money that allows us to pay our salaries, our pensions, all our social benefits, fully finance the Ukrainian Armed Forces, completely shut down the aid and subsidies program and keep the country economically and socially stable. I would like to take a separate look at the other indicators: the gold reserves of the country. Remember, when you and I took power together because of the will of the Ukrainian people, the amount of gold reserves in Ukraine amounted to only $6 billion. Today, the country’s central bank’s gold reserves amount to $13 billion. We've managed to stabilize the banking sector, we've managed to make the financial system work. Debt. I also want to thank the Ukrainian Parliament for making decisions to support the restructuring of the country’s debt. When we came into Ukrainian power, Ukraine’s total debt amounted to $73 billion. You and I had a restructuring that caused us to write off some of our debts, and we transferred another part of our debt to four years. My point is, we didn't take those debts. During the four years of the former regime, they took $35 billion. And so when we came in, we had 73 billion external debts. To date, Ukraine’s debt amounts to $66 billion. Minus 6 billion. That's the answer to those who say we take loans and increase debts. We learned to take credit and reduce debts. We only take these loans to replace the expensive loans that previous governments have taken with cheap and longer resources and reduce debt burden. Thanks to the restructuring operation, we were able to reduce the amount of government debt service (that is, we pay creditors from the State Budget) by nearly 10 billion dollars. Also, honourable national deputies, thanks to our joint decision, we have restructured the debt of the Ukrainian banks. It's the Savings Bank and the Ukreximbank. We've restructured the debt of the Crucibles. We've restructured the debt to the South Bank. We restructured the debt of Ukraine. So our shared debt reduction and debt burden reduction tasks are being done. Now, let's talk about economic growth. I'm a long way from telling you that we're already having a good economic growth, and we're ahead of the entire planet in part of economic growth. This is not true, but much work is yet to be done. But when we've had a steady decline in all economic performance over the past four years, and for the first time in the last quarter we've shown a small but growth of 0.7 percent of GDP growth, that's a real sign that in 2016 those 2 percent of the economic growth that we've set in the macroeconomic forecast can actually be achieved. We're going according to social standards. I realize not only all the criticism but all the problems associated with the difficult financial situation and the conditions of survival that today are for all citizens of Ukraine. But in these circumstances, in September months, we were able to jointly increase social standards by 13 percent and 19 percent respectively. 12.5 million citizens of Ukraine have received additional funds from the state budget that you voted for, and since September we have taken the first step, almost in three years, to raise social standards. Today, the government has introduced the Ukrainian State Budget Act to Parliament, and we plan to raise social standards by 12 percent for the next year. In the current year, I admit that we have failed to compensate for the rise in prices by raising social standards. That's true. Because today the inflation rate is 42 percent. We managed to raise social standards by only 13 percent and 19 percent. But next year we predict that raising social standards will compensate for rising prices and tariffs. One of the main tasks of 2016 is to stabilise the price situation. There are also the first positive shifts, because in November of the month the inflation rate was just 2 percent compared to the galloping inflation over the current year. What was the reason, the basis for the price increase? Of course, they're tariffs, they're utility tariffs, and they're raising energy prices. We signed a coalition agreement with you, and this is part of a coalition agreement, and the shared political responsibility of all the political forces to introduce market and weighted energy tariffs in Ukraine. As Prime Minister of Ukraine, I have taken full responsibility for implementing the most unpopular, but the right reform is a reform of the country's energy independence from Russia. And we did it. It's about energy in general. I would also like to share with you specific figures. Because of what we've adopted, and you've supported, the Ukrainian Natural Gas Market Act, which meets European standards: it's a market demonolysis, it's a market opening, it's a complete match to the third energy package, it's a fair and transparent tariff introduction -- we've managed to do a few things. First and foremost. Russia ceased to be a gas dictator with regard to Ukraine. We got rid of Russian drug addiction. Today we launched a reverse flow. It's because back in 2014, together with our European partners, we launched this reverse flow, and we kicked all the middlemen out of the Naftogaz National Shareholder Company. We do not have any treaties where there are sad Ukrainian oligarchs, but we have only direct agreements with transparent European suppliers. We've managed to lower both the price and diversify the sources of natural gas supply. I'll remind you what the price was when we came into the government was $500. I'll tell you, the price today is 250. And in the 1st quarter of next year, thanks to, firstly, because we have direct contracts with Europeans, and secondly, we've filed for the Russian Gazprom, the price will be even lower than in the current quarter. The price of gas is objectively linked to oil prices. So the further decline in oil prices will also have a positive impact on the Ukrainian economy. And it will also have a positive impact on the price of natural gas produced by Ukraine in the member countries of the European Union. About the Russian Gazprom. Competition is competition. Now we're more comfortable buying gas from our European partners. Let them demonstrate that they are more competitive. But our goal for ten years is to get rid of imported natural gas at all, increase our own production and become a fully energy independent Ukraine. After 10 years, Ukraine will be able to export natural gas. And that's why the new energy policy and the new rents that we're asking Parliament to support will make it possible to increase the production of its own gas. As for further actions from NAC Naftogaz Ukraine. I would also like to point out that in 2014, the total deficit of Naftogazu Ukraine, which was covered by the state budget, amounted to $10 billion, $10 billion from the state budget went to Naftogaz. This year we've reduced the deficit by 10 times, and that's just 1 billion. Next year we're not going to do NAC Naftogaz Ukraine from the budget. And that means that the taxpayers' costs, which were once looted by gas oligarchs, will go to social pay, education, and the development of the Ukrainian economy. The results of our energy reform. Numbers. Total gas consumption decreased by 25 percent daily. On the average, we consume natural gas by 50,000 cubic. 50 million cubic meters less than last year. And that means that every day we pay for natural gas for $11.3 million less, which means that our energy policy has reduced the cost of Ukrainian households, we've reduced the amount of payments, including the Russian Gazprom, for a heating period of nearly $2 billion, we've saved 2 billion in the Ukrainian economy. As for further tasks in the energy sector. I will also remind you of the criticism among Ukrainian politics and the media about the grant program. But the program was running. 5 million Ukrainian households did not just sign but received subsidies. Five million households, that's almost 15 million people in Ukraine didn't believe it at first, and now they've got a specific subsidy. Where in that case, if household income averages more than 10 percent of total monthly income, the state compensates for everything. I have specific family payments, and in answer to the question, I am willing to show you not only that we have a social commitment, where someone who needs State assistance in part of the compensation for rising prices and tariffs in the energy sector has received them. And whoever owns a house a thousand meters and warms the pool with expensive gas, he has to have money and pay from his pocket, not from the poor. That's why we did it. Individually, respected colleagues, I would also like to report on the financing of the defense. In the current year, we have an unprecedented amount of funding for national security and defence, 5 percent of the country's gross domestic product. Nearly 100 billion dollars have been funded by the government of Ukraine to provide security and defence. The higher wages, the higher social standards, the acquisition of new technology, and the next year the total amount of funding in line with the government budget project that we have made will be at the expense of the special fund and at the expense of government guarantees will be 113 billion dollars. The country's new National Police is our joint achievement. We jointly prepared the National Police Act, and you voted for it. And this is an example of how the legal system can demonstrate its loyalty to the people of Ukraine. The new people, the new faces, the new wages, the new technology and the new Ukrainian police are our common achievements and our common gains. As soon as I returned from the European Union, where we met with the President of the European Commission, with a number of European commissioners. You and I had some hard work and some hard discussions about a visa-free package, you remember. But despite all the discussion and despite all the tension, we were able to vote on these laws in the same way. And I can make it clear that Ukraine has met all the criteria for a visa-free regime. 15 numbers will be published. Ukraine deserves to have the European Union, like Ukraine, open its borders. Borders for Ukrainian citizens will be open. Deregulation. Much has been done on deregulation issues, but further steps are needed to carry out deregulation. Yes, we've cut the government's inspection bodies by half. Yes, you voted in favour of canceling a variety of licenses and certificates. Yeah, last year, we cut the number of government services by 20 percent, and this year by 20 percent. Yeah, we cut 30 percent of the government's fiscal service. Yes, we've cut down a few hundred tax inspections. But these are just the first steps that a government apparatus has to demonstrate, not the number, but the quality. Yesterday's decision to support the State Service Bill is indeed a historic decision for the public service to form a depoliticized, independent and effective public service. Now there is a question of the implementation of this bill and the implementation of further regulation. And here I am calling on members of Parliament to support us to work more actively on the adoption of laws. Including the privatization laws. Ten times the laws on privatization - transparent, honest, competitive and effective - were in the walls of the Ukrainian Parliament. Sadly, they do not receive support. I call on members of Parliament to enable them to invest abroad, to increase jobs, to conduct honest, transparent and competitive privatization, and to get rid of the political influence of government enterprises, as we did in NAC Naftogaz Ukraine, where a new statute has been put in place, new independent directors who are not working under politicians, but who are working solely for the interests of the state company. Decentralization. We voted for a few decentralization packages. Let me remind you that this was a package of fiscal decentralization that allowed local communities to increase their income further, and about 20 billion dollars now in the territorial communities and in the local authorities are already on state treasury accounts. The other one. We carried out very large decentralization packages for the transfer of registration functions, business activities, directly to local authorities. This adds up to about 1 billion revenue to the territorial communities, and what's important is that it makes it possible for citizens of a country without bribes, without queues, without corruption to receive public services at the administrative services centres.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-11-m0.u4	Carry on, Arseny Petrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-11-m0.u5	Dear colleagues, who are asking you and what are the plans for 2016. By the end of this year, we need to jointly adopt Ukraine's State Budget Act, adopt tax reform and adopt all necessary legislation to include the legalization of the gaming business, amber, privatization, in order to make 2016 a year of economic growth. And I call on the members of the Ukrainian Parliament to have an effective discussion and to adopt these bills by the end of this year. For 2016, our goals are. First. It's an educational reform. This is primarily a reform of secondary education as a basic education. We've done a lot in higher education reform and we're implementing the Higher Education Act, but secondary education is the basis for Ukrainian youth to have a future in order for the Ukrainian state to have a proven and, indeed, strong Ukrainian mentality to continue economic reforms. The second is medicine. And I also admit to you that in the reform of secondary education, and in the reform of medicine, in 2015 very little has been done. And this is our shared responsibility, first of all, of course, to the government of Ukraine. Medicine is the transition from bed financing to health service funding. The third is privatization. Fourth is new tax rules and a new tax policy. Fifth is the continuation of the decentralization process. Sixth is the Free Trade Agreement with the European Union and the introduction of a visa-free regime. And the seventh is the conclusion of the country's judicial reform. This plan, our joint plan, should be 2016. Thank you for your attention and ready to answer any of your questions.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-11-m0.u6	Thank you. Please, Your Honor. You and I have 45 minutes to ask. Please prepare for enrollment, please. Please log in. Please, Matvienkov, the Opposition Block.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-11-m0.u7	I'd like to give you my word.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-11-m0.u8	Thank you, Your Honor. Arsenius Petrovich, you really are a very nice speaker, very nice to hear. Unfortunately, though, the situation in the country is not as good as what you say at first. So people who don't really understand the situation might believe it. But I have a question about the budget process for the following year, which you spoke about at the end of your speech. The next question. Your speech shows that the remainder in the treasury account is 95 billion. From this project of the Ministry of Finance, which is unfortunately nothing more to analyze, because you have not yet implemented the project, you propose to stop the act of the first Ukrainian Law on the establishment of additional guarantees for the protection of the rights of citizens living in the territory of the ATO. In accordance with the article in question, the State has undertaken to pay off debts of scholarships, pensions, wages by the end of this year is a multibillion - dollar debt. Why is the article listed in the State’s Law on State Budget included in the existence of such remnants? And will you delete the article from the project? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-11-m0.u9	Thank you, Your Honor. Thank you very much to the Opposition Block for your appreciation of speaking ability, but when it praises the Opposition Block, I'm starting to get tense. As for your particular question. We don't have a single amount of debt on any social payments. All the money we had to pay, we paid for it, for the first time in five years. As for the draft State Budget Act, you have just pointed out that it has not yet been introduced, it has been introduced. And, Your Honor, we will greatly appreciate your personal support for the Ukrainian National Budget Bill, even though you're from the Opposition Block, we're ready for discussion.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-11-m0.u10	Please, Gordjeev, the Peter Dust Block. Andrew Gordjeev, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-11-m0.u11	Please pass the word to Yuri Solovia.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-11-m0.u12	Yuri Solovay, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-11-m0.u13	Dear Arsenija Petrovich, first of all, it's not fashionable in society right now, but I would like, first of all, to thank you that this year's road construction programme for the Carpathian Euro-region has been in place, and I hope that it will continue in the following year. And I have two specific questions. The first question is, we've appointed a new head of the Antimonopoly Committee this year, but unfortunately, I understand when gas prices are rising, but I don't understand when we've had 50 percent increase in food prices in the last four months. Please explain what is the economic reason for the increase in food prices. That's the first question. And the second question. Dear Arsenius Petrovich, you are in time. Arseny Petrovich!
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-11-m0.u14	I'm listening carefully.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-11-m0.u15	Please finish, 30 seconds. But I'd like to be very concise.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-11-m0.u16	Dear Arsenija Petrovich, and you said that there are now 95 billion dollars in the account and 10 billion dollars in the amount of money we have received from the restructuring of external debt. Please tell me, what logic is there in the state today to carry out tax reform that increases the fiscal burden on business? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-11-m0.u17	As far as the roads are concerned. Here I want to thank you for your position. We did, indeed, because of the position of the Ukrainian people's deputies, for the first time, the government has found an additional 700 million dollars. We have a very large amount of funding this year, by the way. 3 billion, 3.3 billion dollars we've issued through "The Stork" and an additional 700 million dollars that we've shared together. And we built the Lviv-Johno-Frankiv road. We started to rebuild the whole horseshoe. I know it was your personal position. And more than that, thanks to our tenders, the right ones, and the transparent ones, we have managed to reduce the cost of individual parts of the road by 50 percent. And it's a common merit for everyone. As far as prices are I've just got the latest inflation index express release. You're absolutely right, and I've confirmed in my statement that prices have increased significantly. Price increases are based on raising housing tariffs. But in the last month, we have a significant drop: 2 percent of the total price increase. Ukraine's Antimonopoly Committee, as well as Ukraine's Attorney General's Office, and Ukraine's Security Service, as well as the National Commission on Energy and Utilities Regulation, as well as the National Anti-Corruption Bureau, as well as dozens of other bodies, are completely independent of the Ukrainian government. The Prime Minister has no right to direct the head of the Antimonopoly Committee of Ukraine. However, I met with the management of the Ukrainian Antimonopoly Committee after they were appointed. They are now launching a series of antitrust investigations, including antitrust investigations in the electricity market, antitrust investigations in the gas market, antitrust investigations in the pharmaceutical market. I'll go to the Antimonopoly Committee after your application to test the same price situation in the food market. What happens after we have a free trade zone from the first issue? Because.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-11-m0.u18	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-11-m0.u19	You and I are well aware that prices cannot be held back by administrative means. It was in the Soviet Union that the minimum prices were also set. The shelves were empty. The only way to stop prices is to compete in the market and low self-sustainment. Competition in the market will be secured from January 1st on the basis of the implementation of the Free Trade Agreement. On the one hand, it is an opportunity for Ukrainian goods to continue to be sold in the European market. On the other hand, it is an opportunity for European goods to enter the Ukrainian market. And it's already a competition issue for an internal manufacturer. So, on the one hand, there's going to be a price drop, on the other hand, our manufacturer will have to fight for both the external market and the internal market. So we see the price stability issue next year as one of the main things. Price growth kills economic growth, and we will work with you to influence price growth, primarily through economic methods. I'm sorry, I've forgotten about the Tax Code. Dear colleagues! We had a lengthy discussion on the Tax Code. And as a government, we appreciate the work that was done by the Ukrainian people's deputies and the Parliament's committee on the new Tax Code. Indeed, a considerable amount of work, very interesting ideas, and very interesting approaches. But we succeeded, together with the President of Ukraine, during the last meeting of the National Reform Council, in compromising one common tax reform. The purpose of this tax reform. First of all, this is a significant reduction in both the tax rate and the reduction in administration when paying these taxes, i.e. the simplification of administration. Our base is to reduce taxes on wages, i.e. to free our employers and our employees from the complex tax fair. In fact, we're doubling our tax rates by taxes on wages. Rates offered. This is 20-20-18-18, starting on January 1st of the following year, we're going to suggest that interest be reduced by one more percent, and since 2018 it's going to be 20-20-17-17. The tax reform project is in line with our agreements announced by the President of Ukraine. The government approved the tax reform yesterday. Today this tax reform has been sent to Parliament, and the President of Ukraine has written to Parliament to consider the bill, by means of an urgent procedure to include it in the agenda. We very much ask that this bill be supported, voted, and the body of the Tax Code has become effective since the second quarter of 2016. Because there's a lot of money to go to.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-11-m0.u20	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-11-m0.u21	A lot of money that taxpayers should get used to. And maybe we'll have to make some adjustments for three months. But the new reduced tax rates should take effect from January 1st next year, and it was at these rates that we balanced the budget. We succeeded, you know, in tax reform, I'm in a radical and liberal way. But the tax reform that was proposed first needs to be taken down by 250 billion dollars. Who do they take them from, the army, the teachers, the doctors, the pensioners? We went through tax reform, which enabled us to preserve all social standards on the one hand, preserve military funding, and on the other hand, we found almost 70 billion. Well, you know how much the drop in the EU's rate is. We found nearly 70 billion to fill the Pension Fund and fulfill all our social obligations. This is a balanced tax reform that allows business to develop and the budget to fulfil its obligations. So I am asking that we accept it together by the end of the year.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-11-m0.u22	Please, Mustafa Najem.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-11-m0.u23	Good afternoon, Arseny Petrovich. First of all, thank you for coming to Parliament. Unfortunately, we have not received your report for 15 days, as required by the Rules. I'd like you to answer that question frankly. Let's talk about what's real. Today we have the entire Parliament hostage of a situation where your faction does not vote in favour of your resignation. We have no opportunity to get a new government, no opportunity to get a new Prime Minister. On the other hand, it is clear that this government is not currently supported by Parliament or society. That's obvious. We don't appreciate you right now, there's just an evaluation of your work. A year ago, we signed a deal with you. We gave you an order. Sadly, there were no responsibilities or responsibilities in this covenant. It's been a year, we don't know what to ask you. Your new year is about to begin. Tell me, can you do that, or can you see at all the possibility that you will voluntarily, realizing that everyone is a hostage of your ambitions, the ambitions of the faction, maybe there's some configuration in which another person from the People's Front, another person from.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-11-m0.u24	20 seconds, complete.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-11-m0.u25	Another prime minister will be able to lead a government that will still have more confidence. That's the first question. And the second. A year ago, we started delligarchization in the country, and so did many people, both you and the President. A week ago, Mr. Cologne said that you and the President had agreed that there would be no persecution of specific people, that there were political, economic issues between you and the President.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-11-m0.u26	Finish up, 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-11-m0.u27	Seems like there's a deal that you won't persecute people or get any dividends or rents. We know that Crooknaft isn't paying off right now. And Mr. Colomoysky doesn't pay. Mr. Lazarko is still unannounced. Could you please tell me if there was such an arrangement or not?
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-11-m0.u28	Dear Mr. Mustafa, deputy of the Petra Prashenko Faction. Thank you for asking. I'd like to give you an honest and honest answer, just like I did 21 months ago. I took full responsibility for the most unpopular steps in our country that no one has taken in 20 years -- no one. And when I went to this position I knew what would happen to my rating, I knew it. I came here not for my own political rating, but for reforms and ratings to be carried out in our country. You have full constitutional authority to question the resignation of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, to put up and vote, and I will take the decision of the Ukrainian Parliament. I'm not holding on to this chair.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-11-m0.u29	That's it, that's it.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-11-m0.u30	Now for the oligarchs. I speak only in numbers and facts. And so the fact is, for the first time in 10 years, taxes on the ore of Renata Leonidovich Ahmtova were raised twice by my government. I raised my taxes. Taxes. [[B in m in s a l in]] You supported the government's initiative. You're fighting oligarchs, too. Taxes on gas, taxes on oil were also raised. Ukrnafta Company. Recall what happened in this Parliamentary Hall. At first, a law was passed that did not work. Well, isn't it? Really. Then, thank you for supporting the government bill, and in the end, in 10 years, we've changed the head of the company Skrnaft. Where is the British citizen who wrote me a big letter about how he wants to get the company out of debt? It's about debt. I'll tell you about the deal. It's about the debt of the company Croknaft. Now they're starting to pay the current payments. In the amount of debt, which amounts to about 9 billion dollars, the State Fiscal Service, according to the law, has arrested all the assets of the company Ukranafta. And I want to remind you, this is the amount of debt that we owe to the company Ukranafta, as a Ukrainian state, as a shareholder. This is a company where 51 percent belong to the Ukrainian people. And so the government's task is not to bankrupt this company, but the government's task is to make it profitable, to return 10 billion to the budget, and to run this company as instructed by the honourable Parliament through the new Shareholder Society Act. Any deal. There's no deal and there can't be. I have only one agreement and one responsibility – to the Ukrainian people who voted in favour of the People's Front, who won the elections last year.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-11-m0.u31	Please, Olga. Olga Belkova, Peter Dustock's Block, question.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-11-m0.u32	Arseny Petrovich, good afternoon! And my question is less emotional, more pragmatic. I learned here that you and I have a common dream, namely, that Ukraine will be a gas exporter in 10 years. But I'm looking at numbers, and unfortunately, this year we can't be proud of any increase in gas production in Ukraine. Renta, we've been arguing here for a year, who's smarter, who's brighter, who's renting there now. There is such an insurance supply that it frightens all companies. New ones. There will be no and no, because the new tax code does not take into account my amendment that would give this possibility. There's no change in the auction system, no new licenses, hardly published, you know that. The U.S.A. is in a terrible state. So on each of these issues, I've prepared drafts. Do you promise to make a deal with me? That we're going to connect with you, and next year we're going to have increased gas production. I'm not an oligarch.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-11-m0.u33	Your Majesty, Mrs. Belkova! If you're not an oligarch, of course I promise you a deal. But I ask that this agreement be, not between us, but between Parliament and the government. No matter how difficult we may be, we must always find understanding. We fight, then we make peace, and we find the right solution. We've always done this. First of all, I value you personally as, really, an outstanding energy expert. And I can confirm that we failed to increase the production of natural gas this year. That's true. Although we are on the same balance as we were in 2014: the total amount of all own resources, both the OCHA and the private sector, is the same as the total volume in 2015. Look at me this morning because I knew you'd ask me that. What should we do? You and I have come to compromise at an interest rate. Isn't it? Come on. I'm asking the Tax Code to put in place those natural gas rents that we agreed to with you, and from next year we will definitely increase the volume of mining. Now, about the state of the company. Also, we need to look at facts and figures. We have our first NAC Naftogaz Ukraine. I have here a report of all 100 major state-owned enterprises, here it is. So this is the first time in the history of the functioning of the NAC of Naftogaz of Ukraine when it became callous. After we've carried out the Crushing Reform, I'm sure it'll turn out to be completely toothless.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-11-m0.u34	Please, National Deputy Nechayev, Opposition Block.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-11-m0.u35	Please give Gusak Volodymyr your word. Goose.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-11-m0.u36	Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-11-m0.u37	Dear Prime Minister. First, with regard to the discussion with my colleague, I would like to say that the text of the budget has not yet been seen in Parliament. I mean, the budget's registered, but there's no text yet. But I have another question. Please give us a specific figure that is now owed to coal miners of government mines, I emphasize, state-owned, on wages. And when this disgraceful phenomenon that has not been in Ukraine for more than 10 years has been brought to an end, it has again emerged for this government. I mean permanent debt to government mines.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-11-m0.u38	The government of Ukraine decided two days ago to redistribute 300 million dollars from one of the coal programs to self-financing, to pay off the debt on wages. By the end of this year, 300 million dollars are spent on financing the coal sector in order to pay off debt on government mines. I would like to emphasize, my dear colleagues, that mine is a state-owned enterprise. No one gives away coal for free. Total inefficiencies in the coal sector lead to the government budget being forced to squander and finance the government’s thieves. That's the first one. And the second. An inefficient system of coal supply and pricing similarly leads to damage. I assigned the minister a task of real coal restructuring so that miners would get what they were set up and that government mines would be able to compete with private mines and earn money rather than draw money from the government budget. According to me, it still takes 300 million dollars to pay off the entire debt. I think in a few minutes you'll be able to get another response from the Ukrainian Energy Minister, who is personally responsible for this.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-11-m0.u39	Please, Oleg Stepanovich Musei.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-11-m0.u40	I think the Ukrainian people will understand me when I say that corruption, lack of reform, cynicism and lies are the main achievements of this government and the Prime Minister. As for the numbers you specifically named. You said you were reporting in a year, and you said it was two years ago. What did you do a year before that, please? You said the price of gas was the government's achievement. In fact, the price of gas is based on international prices, and today the price of gas would be $150. Arsenija Petrovich, come out and look at the 100,000 people who have gone to the Ukrainian Parliament who are giving you an evaluation right now. In fact, give a clear answer, as we have not heard today's report, and you have violated the Constitution, you have not submitted this report to Parliament: when the Ukrainian Parliament can get your report and vote in favour of your resignation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-11-m0.u41	Honorable National Deputies of Ukraine! I have come to report to you, I am ready to answer all your questions, and I answer all your questions. What's more, if you want me to come to you again, I'll come to you again one and two and twenty times. I'm willing to have a full dialogue and a full discussion with you and answer the question if you have them. You've raised the issue of corruption. Let me comment on what's in the power of government, what's not in the power of government. And so. Who in Ukraine fights corruption, who can put them in jail? The Attorney General of Ukraine places him in prison. Is that right or wrong? The Attorney General's Office. Who is the Attorney General of Ukraine appointed? The Office of the Attorney General of Ukraine is appointed by the Supreme Council of Ukraine and is represented by the President of Ukraine. Next. Who accuses others of fighting corruption? Ukrainian Security Service. Who Appoints the Head of the Security Service? The Supreme Council of Ukraine for the submission of the President of Ukraine. Next. National Anti-Corruption Bureau. Who appoints the National Anti-Corruption Bureau? In accordance with the law you passed, the nomination committee on the basis of the President's decree. Next. National Anti-Corruption Agency. It is completely independent, and it is a preventive body. Next. The National Police do not have an anti-corruption component, which went to the National Anti-Corruption Bureau (to read the laws you are enacting) and to the National Anti-Corruption Prosecutor. Next: Judges. Ladies and gentlemen, you said it right here. Who accepts the final verdict? Judge. So I'm talking to you about everyone doing their job. You're just like the Ukrainian national deputies, not investigating, not signing court sentences, and you don't have the authority to punish someone for playing.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-11-m0.u42	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-11-m0.u43	Ask me what I'm responsible for. Which I'm responsible for. First, I am responsible for deregulation and reducing corruption in the public sector. This is a reduction in both the number of officials and the number of permits and the decrease in these procedures. We cut it by 50 percent. We've reduced the number of these officials, we've transferred a number of registration functions directly to the site. We've opened all the state registers. You can now get any information from any official about what he owns, what he has, where he lives, and what assets he's registered to. The second block of questions. The second cluster is the government service. And I thank you for voting for the State Service Act. But you're all well aware that as a result of populism, which was also in the walls of this Parliament, when you put a wage on it, the MPs get 4,000, 900 dollars, and so do ministers. Well, who's going to believe that for 4,000, 900 dollars, from the Ukrainian people, there's a Ukrainian politician? Similarly, how can corruption be tackled if the average wage in the public sector is 2 000 dollars or customs, or in the State Fiscal Service? So the second block of questions, and this has to be openly acknowledged, is raising wages in the public sector. That's why we had a discussion with our European partners about how they would form the so-called so-called so-called so-called wage fund, which is an extra salary fund, but under a specific strategy of reforming the public service. Third. I'm in charge of reforming the State Fiscal Service and there's really corruption, and you know it, and I know it, it's customs, it's tax inspectors. In the first phase, we cut by 30 percent the number of employees in the State Fiscal Service. Now we're going to reduce the number of inspections. In the draft Tax Code, we invite the Ukrainian National Deputies to eliminate and demilitarize the tax police, and to create a European Financial Investigation Service. Next: State companies. Colleagues, I've been asking you for a year. Please accept the legislation on privatization. Do it. Allow me to sell those state-owned companies that will attract investment that will create additional jobs and that will eventually get rid of the political influence, including the respectable factions that are in this Parliamentary Hall. And this job as the head of the government, in the fight against corruption, I will do it. And I ask that the newly created bodies for which we have found funding -- the government has also done its job -- is to finance the National Anti-Corruption Bureau, this is to finance all the newly created bodies to do their job, and to carry out judicial reform, replace 9,000 corrupt judges, create a new judicial system.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-11-m0.u44	Please, Dmitri Lubinets.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-11-m0.u45	Good afternoon, Arsenius Petrovich. Well, I want to remind all the deputies, and I want you to know that this is legally not a government report. If that were the report, we'd have got it in writing 15 days ago. Arsenius Petrovich, I'm here, I'm here. We would have received it in writing and all ministers would have been reported to the Committees. And so this is our special Friday, and you are personally speaking to the people's deputies. I'd like to ask you two questions as a major with the Donetsk district. Question number one: when will you deal with the DEC company in Ukraine? When new production wants to join electricity, it is obliged to pay for the conditions for each kilowatt of electricity. It's not enough that the whole industry pays this company 2 months ahead of schedule for electricity. Instead of buying coal in South Africa, you'd be fine. This company in Donetsk region is now closing mines; in Dobropolsky region, the most promising mine in Ukraine is the Belicka mine. It's not enough for the Volin region miners today.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-11-m0.u46	Ten seconds, complete.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-11-m0.u47	They protested and blocked the route. Question two: Donetsk and Lugansk. The law enforcement agencies receive double wages. Why the same does not apply to social workers, teachers, doctors who actually work in wartime conditions.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-11-m0.u48	Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-11-m0.u49	I thank you for your question, but I would like to remind you. Do you remember how the government of Ukraine was formed? I have, like the Prime Minister, and our powerful political party, the People's Front, only three ministers. Three! You're asking me questions about energy. Have you not tried your minister, who from BP Demchisin, to call on the committee and talk to him? [[B in m in s a l in]] I will complete the answer to your question further. This will not be just a political answer. That's going to be the answer in fact. I'm also telling you that there is a government responsibility, and there is the responsibility of other bodies. Mr. People's Deputy, do you know, and I know that you know everything, because you are a national MP who, in accordance with the National Energy and Utilities Regulatory Commission Act, this is a function of defining rules and procedures. You're not listening! This function of defining rules and procedures, connecting to electricity networks, is the exclusive competence of the National Commission for Energy and Utilities Regulation. I'm asking you to support the draft of the National Commission on Energy and Utilities Act. We have one of the worst indicators in the world for connecting Ukrainian business to electricity networks. We're about 140th. So first, please support the National Commission on Energy and Utilities Act, which should become an independent body. The other one.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-11-m0.u50	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-11-m0.u51	The other one. A draft Law on Connecting to Electrical Networks has been prepared to simplify this connection. Please uphold these laws.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-11-m0.u52	Please, National Deputy Martinjak, "The Will of the People"
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-11-m0.u53	Mr. Head, please pass the word to Hirschfeld Anatoly.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-11-m0.u54	Dear Arsenius Petrovich! Dear Arsenius Petrovich. Vladimir Borisovich!
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-11-m0.u55	Last question, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-11-m0.u56	Dear Arsenius Petrovich! I'm here, Arsenius Petrovich. Arseny Petrovich! I want to tell you that you've touched it.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-11-m0.u57	Turn on the microphone, please, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-11-m0.u58	My lord, let's finish the answer to the question. [[B in m in s a l in]] My lord, let me finish the hour of questions. Let me finish. You don't have to. You don't have to.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-11-m0.u59	Dear colleagues! These are not the best emotions themselves. I'm asking everyone to take their seats, please. I'm asking everyone to take their seats. Please. I ask everyone to take their seats and calm down. But listen, everyone's normal. I understand that everyone has physical strength. Calm down, take your seats, please. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-11-m0.u60	Your Honor, your head.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-11-m0.u61	I'm asking everyone to take their seats. Colleagues, please take your seats. Sit down, take your seats. All of it. It's all right, it's all right.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-11-m0.u62	Ladies and gentlemen, I propose that you continue to answer the questions. I'm not going to comment on that. There's nothing to comment on. Please, what further questions are there, colleagues? Vladimir Borisovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-11-m0.u63	Please, Mikola the Great.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-11-m0.u64	Please pass the word to Alexander Kodoli.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-11-m0.u65	Please, Mikola the Great, one minute. Yuri Lucenko, one minute. Yuri Lucenko, please. Stop! I'm asking you all to take your seats, my friends. Please. Yuri Lucenko. Calm down!
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-11-m0.u66	Dear Mr. Head! Dear National Deputies! Dear Prime Minister of Ukraine! On behalf of the B.P.P. faction, I apologize for the unethical and unacceptable act of Deputy Barna. I think I'm going to express the position of the entire faction that I'm going to state that we condemn its actions. Again, I apologize for that. At the same time, Arseni Petrovich, please remember that we do not have a government of Yatsenuk, we have a government of Ukraine. And we don't have the ministers of WFP, we have the ministers of Ukraine. You've brought all of them to Parliament, and we've supported it. Therefore, I ask you to stop dividing between your people and yours, please stop contradicting the factions, and work in the name of the Ukrainian people in harmony. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-11-m0.u67	Colleagues! People's Front, please. Victoria Sumar. Yuri Vitaliyovich, I want to thank you for your wisely balanced position. Colleagues, everyone has physical strength, but that's the last argument. And I'd like to take that into account. All of it. Sumar, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-11-m0.u68	Dear colleagues! On behalf of the People's Front faction, I also ask everyone to calm down. You know, the President of Ukraine is a symbol of Ukraine and the Prime Minister is also a symbol of Ukraine. And what happened in this room right now is really a shame to each of us. Recently there was a story about why. They described why in the United States they never choose people who are allowed to raise their voices. Because they don't know how to run states. By doing so today, we are threatening a coalition, a truly political future, and the fate of Ukrainian statehood in general, because people do not trust us. Yuri Vitaliyovich, Minister of the Block of Petra Poroshenko, is ministers of the WFP, there are ministers of the People's Front, a coalition government. And for you, and for the People's Front, and for Arsenius Yatsenuk, people voted. We need to talk honestly about such a relationship.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-11-m0.u69	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-11-m0.u70	If it's a coalition, it's got to be a fundamental respect. Basic standards are to be observed. It's not even a question of our interaction, it's a question of how people see us. Now we've given the picture to Russian television channels, and the whole world, after the Dignity Revolution, it's a super bad behavior. That is why such things need to be learned to condemn. I'm hoping that the faction of Peter Prashenko will be able to figure out this situation and find discipline, and we're at Parliament's level so that we can never let that happen again. And let's get back to work now, because that's what people are expecting from us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-11-m0.u71	Dear colleagues, I also want to call everyone to normal understanding. I think that this concession, which was, is not even a concession, is absolutely not the right step that the National MP took. I condemn him, too. It's wrong, it shouldn't be. This is a parliament where there should be an appropriate level of interaction and political culture, and I would ask everyone to take this into account. So any physical force. Look, everyone here is very physically strong. Is that a reason to use physical force to anyone? So, please, by the factions, a minute. Oleg Lazko, then Fatherland. One minute from the faction. Well, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-11-m0.u72	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. Dear citizens of Ukraine! What you see in this room right now is a famous saying, "You don't need enemies when there are friends like that." Where is the coalition if you fight with each other? When you are. We're in opposition, the Radical Party faction, but brothers, pulling bars, fighting in this room is the humiliation of every voter who voted for this House. What are you doing? Give up power! A lying, ineffective coalition -- all you can do is fight each other! You're robbing people, and instead of giving them bread, you're giving them sights! Cynical, degrading sights that discredit Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-11-m0.u73	Turn off the can microphone! I'll tell you what I want to say, colleagues. That's the situation. Attention, one minute! In such a situation, anyone who takes the word should exercise wisdom, calm the situation, not incite it, shout that. How long have they been out of the coalition? Do you not have a bearing on making decisions that were very difficult and difficult? What's the big deal now? There's gotta be peace, there's gotta be peace, there's gotta be a pro-fe-sij-na discussion. Therefore, respectable colleagues. Arsenius Petrovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-11-m0.u74	Dear Mr. Head, the distinguished national deputies of Ukraine! I informed you about what was done during 2015 and what will happen in 2016. But now I don't want numbers or facts. I want to address you with only one thing: we have been chosen by the Ukrainian people, and our people have high expectations, and they still have such expectations. But such expectations will be shattered if we have the limits of hatred, betrayal, strife. If there is no unity between us, if there is no responsibility for the country's fate, it is not a circus and not a show – it is the fate of a multimillion-dollar European state for which each of us is responsible! And bear it if you have taken it by the voices of the people of Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-11-m0.u75	Anna Gopko, please give me a minute. Listen carefully!
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-11-m0.u76	Good afternoon, dear fellows! In fact, today we want to unite now by voting for a very important decision, and I hope that the votes will come. You know what they have to do in the European Union to review the sanctions against Russia's illegal actions. And we have prepared, the Committee on Foreign Affairs, the Appeal of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to Parliamentarians of Foreign States, the European Parliament and the International Parliamentary Assembly on the continuation and strengthening of sanctions against the Russian Federation for the organization of terrorist acts in Ukraine. This is our shared task. Therefore, a huge request is now made to put the day's vote in order for this ruling and to vote. Please put and vote now.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-11-m0.u77	Thank you, Your Honor. There's another thing, when Oleg Barresuk comes up, he wants to say the word from the faction. Let's vote, and I'll give you my word. Yes, Oleg Romanovich? I just didn't see you raise your hand, sorry. Please, draft decision, let's support it. 3623, what Hanna Hopko said, getting into the agenda for making a decision. I'm asking you to support everyone, please take your seats. Ready? 3623, inclusion in the agenda for decision-making. Please support everyone. Colleagues, let's back up, vote for inclusion in the agenda. I'd like your support, colleagues. This is a draft decision, please support everyone. [[11:17:55]] For 236 If you don't mind, my friends, the whole decision is being taken immediately. Is it accepted? We're voting 3623 in general, I'm asking for your support. [[11:18:17]] For 239. Please, the ruling has been approved. Anna Gopko.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-11-m0.u78	My colleagues, I would like to thank you very much. We have actually done so much in this step to strengthen sanctions against Russia next week in order not to allow impunity for crimes against humanity committed since the beginning of Russia's terrorist aggression against Ukraine. Thank you very much for God’s blessing, and for the wisdom of the Ukrainian Parliament.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-11-m0.u79	Thank you. Please, Oleg Berezuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-11-m0.u80	The Honourable Parliament, the Honourable People, the Honourable Prime Minister of Ukraine! Unfortunately, today’s performance was not complete. The second part, everything you said, you said, of course, the truth, the numbers. It's not just people's numbers. And the second thing is, it would be really good if you showed all the corruption schemes and the rolling schemes that work in our country. Because I think the government knows them, and he has to tell the D.E.A. and the D.A., whatever these schemes are. Then the people of Ukraine would see the complete picture. Second, you didn't tell me why you and the government don't shut down the Ukrainian customs office, where there's another country budget. Wherever you find compensatory fuses for everyone. And third, today Parliament looks, unfortunately, weak. But not just today. It started yesterday when we banned people.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-11-m0.u81	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-11-m0.u82	When we forbade people to express their will to those who love and to those who do not love. Today, we have been shown our weakness. Because it's not a fight for democracy, it's a fight for corruption. And in this room we have to start with freedom and let people vote in Bloody Rose. And in this room we have to put an end to the fight over the schemes and get rid of the government budget.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-11-m0.u83	Please, Victor Bondar, Rebirth. 11:20:4
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-11-m0.u84	Dear Vladimir Borisovich! Dear colleagues! I think today was very embarrassing for all the normal people in this room. It was embarrassing for the citizens of Ukraine for the Ukrainian Parliament, for the events that took place here today. These conflicts have led to Ukraine’s degradation: the economy is falling, politics is falling, people’s trust in the country is falling, and trust in the country in the world is falling. And we see that instead of systemic reform, instead of systemic economic recovery, we see only fighting, strife and the coalition's inability to bring the country to order. Failure to hold the situation, failure to implement any normal reforms for the social growth of people's incomes, for the social growth of the country, for the recovery of the economy, for the industry. There's no politics, there's no systemic action. You have to make a coalition decision: either put in order, stop fighting, don't embarrass the government, or go to the election, send the government to retirement, and we start over. Two years of experimentation over the country needs to be completed.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-11-m0.u85	Please, Voropeyev, Opolek.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-11-m0.u86	Dear colleagues, what are you surprised at? You've been doing this for two years, you've been replacing the authorities of the Supreme Council with coalition agreements of some kind, for coalition meetings. You're only dealing with all the issues within your coalition now. You are taking draft decisions within the framework of a coalition. You have completely eliminated the rest of the factions from participating in this process. That's the first one. Second, more and more often, we hear the question of political feasibility. Where's the law, where's the Rules and everything? You're breaking them all the time. And the last. Don't play in the country. You're gonna play so you're gonna keep beating each other up.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-11-m0.u87	Please, Arsenius Yatzenuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-11-m0.u88	Dear Ukrainian National Deputies, thank you for your warm welcome. And to work on the budget and the Tax Code. Good-bye.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-11-m0.u89	According to the Rules, a break of 15 minutes is announced. Break for 15 minutes. We'll be in the hall in 15 minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-11-m0.u90	Dear colleagues, the time for recess is over. I want to report that an unprecedented event has taken place in Parliament today, this provocation is not against the Prime Minister, this provocation against the Ukrainian State, which makes it unacceptable to have similar situations in our Parliament. This is a big stain that the Ukrainian Parliament must respond to quickly, decisively and firmly. I hope that the political forces will be able to give it very quickly. Dear colleagues, at that morning meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, I declare closed.
