ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-05-m1.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, please come to the hall. Let's start the evening session. Please come into the hall. [[B in m in s a l in]] People's deputies, please take your seats in the hall. We continue our work. We're about to start the evening session. Please invite faction leaders, fellow MPs. Ladies and gentlemen, please take your seats. Turn on the glade system, let's register. [[16:09:01]] A total of 297 national deputies were registered. Ladies and gentlemen, the bill is being tabled for your consideration. I declare the meeting open at night. A bill (registration No. 1898) of the Act amending certain legislative acts of Ukraine (to increase the financial self-sufficiency of the territorial communities) is being submitted to your consideration. National deputy of Ukraine, reporter - Kirilenko Ivan Grigorovich. There is a proposal by the author to consider it in a reduced procedure, honourable colleagues. Short-term. I see there are other deputies coming into the hall. Let us vote in favour of the short-term consideration of the bill. For consideration of the bill by summary procedure. 1898. [[16:10:29]] For-136 [[B in m in s a l in]] Oleg Lazko didn't make it. And Vlasenko Sergei didn't make it. Please take your seats, distinguished national MPs. Please. Dear colleagues, ready to vote? There is a proposal to review Bill 1898 by a reduced procedure. 1898 under reduced procedure. Please support the simplified procedure for considering the bill in 1898. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'd like your support, colleagues. [[16:11:33]] For-136 [[B in m in s a l in]] Dear Ukrainian national deputies, please take your seats. We continue our work in the evening session. Bill No. 1898, introduced for consideration. There is a proposal to consider this bill in a reduced procedure. Secretariat, please. Keep inviting MPs. [[B in m in s a l in]] Dear colleagues, please. The proposal to consider Bill 1898 as a reduced procedure. Please support this proposal. Ladies and gentlemen, we are voting on this bill for a reduced procedure. [[16:13:53]] For-154 Decision taken. Please, Ivan Kirilenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-05-m1.u2	Dear colleagues, John Kirilenko, the Fatherland faction. First of all, I would like to thank all the people's deputies who supported yesterday's first law from a whole package of bills that have been drafted by both our members of our faction and representatives of other factions that address the problems of rural, rural and rural self-government. What is proposed by this bill, which in fact shows that the financial self - worth of the territorial communities is increased? First of all, the strengthening of the material and financial base of local self - government is proposed for broadening the direction of the use of funds collected by rural communities. The fact is that the 2001 Earth Code provides for a very narrow direction in the use of these funds from agricultural forest activities. We're proposing this bill to expand the direction of use of funds, namely, to carry out well-being measures, to equip polygons and other storage sites, to dispose of household wastes and other directions. Another urgent problem is the considerable cost of local self - government authorities for mandatory expertise or new construction, or reconstruction, or even capital repairs. Dear colleagues, this is a huge expense. There's not enough to order project-based documentation, and then do some expertise. We're proposing an expert, but on the condition that the cost is more than 500,000 dollars. Next offer. Colleagues, you know you can't take away the land today if there's no plan for a roadblock, a master plan. So what's the general plan today in rural areas when there's no funds? We suggest that we postpone this rule until 2017 in order to unlock rural construction. And another offer. To the Forest Codex, this is the proposal.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-05-m1.u3	Please let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-05-m1.u4	Respectful colleagues who engage in logging, career development, and other farming activities should rebuild roads in rural areas. And another offer. We voted here with you. There was a very active discussion about notary activities in rural areas, simplification. Everyone knows this is a bill. But we had the standards for predicting its entry into force in 2016. It's proposed to speed things up for the people, for the peasants to enter this standard from April 1. The law is simple. But it allows for some decentralization and expansion of the rights of local communities, especially in villages and small cities. There's an offer of support, colleagues. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-05-m1.u5	Thank you. Please, Sergey Vlasenko is co-reporter, head of the profile committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-05-m1.u6	Thank you, Mr. Head. Dear National Deputies! The draft Act amending certain legislative acts of Ukraine (to increase the financial self-sufficiency of the territorial communities) (registration No. 1898) was discussed by our committee at its meeting on 4 March 2015. It should be noted that we have a rather unique situation. We in Parliament are adopting a lot of normative acts that we have negative conclusions from our scientific institutions. In this case, the Chief Scientific and Experimental Authority of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, in its conclusion of March 3, stated that virtually all of the comments of the Scientific and Scientific Administration, which had been submitted to the previous project, were taken into account. And then the Chief Research Administration recommended that this bill be adopted in the first reading in the way it is. Our committee has considered this issue twice. We should thank the authors who took into account the position of the committee and introduced the amended bill. At last night's meeting of our committee, I stress this, unanimously supported the decision to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine to support this bill on the basis of the first reading. During the discussion, the members of the committee came to a common position that the adoption of the bill would actually contribute to improving the financial capacity of the territorial communities. The author of the bill reported on this in more detail, making all the positions of the bill quite clear. It is really simple, but it is vital. Please support this bill as a basis. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-05-m1.u7	Please sign up: two for, two against. Two for two, two for the other. Ivan Grigorovich Kirilenko. Sergey Sobolev.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-05-m1.u8	Dear colleagues, it's one of the few laws that's passed four key laws that we voted in this session room. But it allows you to actually regulate these norms or speed them up, or regulate them in such a way that they become operational today. First rule. All fixed resources of rural, village councils and district subordination cities can be used for the purpose of an expanded programme list. What is now not possible for rural, rural, and circuit cities. The other one. Those who destroy rural roads, such as forest users, career users, are obliged to invest in repairing rural roads. It's the third rule. If we allowed the notary's right to do and do the actions that we've only committed to January 1st, 16th, and so we're going to continue the vachanalia when the rural population can't transform property, legitimize that property, we're going to propose to bring this term closer to April of this year. That's how we settle the most important positions. The findings of the Committee, the Scientific and Experimental Authority, are all taken into account. The bill was re-imposed to take into account all the ideas that were proposed by factions and the Scientific and Scientific Administration. And we ask for his support in the first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-05-m1.u9	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-05-m1.u10	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. Dear Ukrainian citizens, respected villagers, the village is the cradle of our Ukraine. And for 23 years in this Parliament, everyone tells us that the village is dying, dying, dying. And everyone's trying to save him, and no one can save him. We may finally be able to solve at least part of our village’s problems. There's the world of our country sitting on the balcony. Rural heads, thinkers, brothers, people behind rural communities. And they're being robbed. Look at these flowers, how bright they are, how magnificent they are, how beautiful they are. You have the honor and gratitude of the entire Ukrainian Parliament. Stand before the heads of the country, bow down to them, for they feed our native land, they gather bread, they hold the village. They don't have money, they don't have opportunities, but they're standing. Why are they standing? Because the village is the heart of Ukraine, this is the cradle of Ukraine, this is the soul of Ukraine. And we won't let anyone destroy our own village. I used to walk barefoot there. I'm a cow dog. I'm a calf dog. And I want our village to have cows, calves, pig farms, schools, kindergartens, clubs. And that the people might be in the village, that the young might be in the village, that the little ones should bear children in the village, that they should not wander about in the village. And that's why we support the village, we support Ukraine. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-05-m1.u11	Anatoly Matvienko, Peter Dustenka Block, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-05-m1.u12	Dear colleagues, it is very easy to be popular and very difficult to be responsible. Me, too. [[Applause]] I think it's before the elections that are coming this year. We need to speak to the villagers in the right, the right, and the right language. To do everything just to play with the electorate and trust them, and then not to change anything -- forgive me, this lie has been going on for 23 years. I want to say that I support this bill in my first reading, but I want to go to the authors and to the committee. We need to understand that we have a strategy ahead of us, a strategy for the consolidation of rural communities. We need to understand that this strategy should be governed by every law we make today rather than preserve yesterday and not play with the rural electorate. We have 10,000 rural communities today, and we have to have a thousand to a thousand two hundred. And this second - reading law should be further developed in order to promote unity rather than merely preserve data. Unfortunately, my question — in what way does this law encourage territorial communities to unite — is not answered. So I propose that I vote in the first reading, but only under the strategy of grouping communities, to work it out, and then to accept it in the second reading, without playing or wiping out the tears of those who are so poor today in rural territory.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-05-m1.u13	Please. Thank you. Grigory Smoky, Peter Dust Block.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-05-m1.u14	My dear colleagues, I would like to say that the village today suffers the most from moneylessness and youth leaving the village. Why does she leave him? But because infrastructure is not developing today. The one that is is practically zero. And on a large scale, today, when there was a recent Minister of Finance, I asked him: "What is your attitude towards the consolidated tax that is being made in the village today, but all of it, in practice, is concentrating on the Supreme Council of Kiev?" He said, "You know, Gregory, you haven't reached that tax yet. So, I want to tell you, Your Honor, if we don't support this bill and some people say so sarcastically that everyone says that the village is dying, so you go, see, a lot. Many villages were left with only a sign. There are old people there who no longer have a way of leaving this village. So it's definitely this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-05-m1.u15	Give me 10 seconds to finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-05-m1.u16	This bill is very important. Ivan Grigorovitch Kirilenko is the one who knows deeply the nature of the village's problem and needs to be supported and voted in favour of it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-05-m1.u17	Thank you. Please, Ivan Melniczuk, Peter Dust Block.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-05-m1.u18	Dear colleagues, I ask you to unquestionably support this bill. As a member of the village council, I have clearly learned and understood the problems of this village, the problems of all villages in Ukraine, and particularly in the Winnitsk region. As a member of the district council, I called for solutions to these problems. Now that I am a member of the Supreme Council, I am pleased to present my shoulders to colleagues from Fatherland who are the law-makers in this project. Please support everyone, support our village, and in the second reading, we'll work it out more effectively, and we'll clean up all of the "sharvests." Therefore, I ask everyone in the previous reading to support and vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-05-m1.u19	Thank you. Please, Yuri Derevyanco, National MP.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-05-m1.u20	Yuri Derevyanco, 87th Majority Electoral District, Will Party. Honorable Chairman and Honourable People’s Deputies! I want to point out today that here today we have our rural, rural and urban heads as well as what we have to do at home, but who have come, because they understand that if they don't come up with the most important idea that we have good intentions today, but these good intentions are to be strengthened by specific things, concrete actions. And we very much ask you, all the deputies elected in the majority districts, we very much ask you to uphold this law today. Because it really allows you to partially address the issue and carry out the financial self-sufficiency tasks of every inhabited area in the rural area. We ask you very much to support this law today, to the second reading work out, to add all the good ideas so that we have really a decision taken in a balanced and stately way, and one that will satisfy all our communities in rural areas.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-05-m1.u21	Thank you. I've only got one question for my distinguished colleagues in the country, and I just want you to hear it, because now the author of the bill is going to be speaking. I only have one question, Ivan Grigorovitch. Are you going to come out of the rostrum? Please, one minute, from the rostrum. I have only one question about the resource calculation of this, what is the cost, now from this rostrum, local rural budgets will get the money? We're going to fix it, and then we're going to check whether it's going to be or not.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-05-m1.u22	Dear colleagues, I would like to address all those who spoke from this rostrum and made suggestions. And especially I want to go to Anatoly Sergiyovich Matviyenka, who made the right remarks. But, my friends, we voted in favour of voluntary unification, and I emphasize the word "voluntary." This year, however, we must let rural communities survive, rural councils survive. And I very much ask, the following bills will give a powerful impetus not just to survival, but to life. The land to be passed on, for centuries, was occupied by the community, today not by the community, to hand over the land to the village councils. [[Applause]] To amend the Law on the Budget and Tax Code, the VAT Code should be left to rural communities. This will be a powerful support of billions of dollars, and then we will unite when we feel that we are masters. [[Applause]] Thank you for your support, colleagues. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-05-m1.u23	Ivan Grigorovich, what's the figure? What's the number? The number for the local budgets that fits? We don't know. Okay. Dear friends, dear colleagues, I would like to ask all deputies to take their seats in the hall, and we will now proceed to the vote on this bill. And I want to point out. Please come in, please, people's deputies, to the hall. We will now come to the vote for this bill. I would like to point out that local budgets, local communities, should be supported. And this is probably one hundred percent -- it would also have to be done for the communities. In fact, financial decentralization began in Ukraine. It's not easy enough, I'd say, but it's positive. And there are a lot of questions that we're going to have to solve on this path together with the heads of the country. Don't step back, go ahead. Am I right? [[Applause]] And by no means, fellow countrymen, don't let anyone take you to the side. We have to move forward, go to self - sufficient communities, go to voluntary unification, but only voluntarily. We're going to leave the villages self-reliant and independent, but the authorities can share them so you can have a garden, a FAP, a school bus and all that. But that's the way to go. Will you support me? [[Applause]] Unfortunately, this bill, the honourable colleagues, has nothing to do with it, but the following bills -- we promise you that a clever team of experts, including associations, has been created, including rural heads, who will be subject to serious, conceptual changes. And most importantly, the changes that will take place in the Constitution of Ukraine will be taken into account that the fundamental level in our country is a capable territorial community. Thank the Ukrainian village! Dear colleagues, let's prepare for the vote. And I'm voting on the basis of a bill (registration number 1898). Act amending some Ukrainian legislation to increase the financial self-sufficiency of the territorial communities. Please vote on the first reading as a basis. Colleagues, on the basis of that, vote on the basis. [[16:33:35]] For 217 The decision is not taken. But. [[B in m in s a l in]] Look, colleagues. Look. Calm down. Calm down! Let us now go back to the consideration of the bill. Please raise your hand to the person who read this bill. Honestly! You're looking me in the eye. One, two. Colleagues! Thank you. Thank you. [[B in m in s a l in]] Thank you. Thanks, guys. Let's do it again. Let's go back to this bill. I'd like to ask everyone to come back. Let's go back. We're going back. Please put to the vote. The offer is for return. For your return, colleagues. [[16:34:34]] For 202 No votes. [[B in m in s a l in]] Colleagues, again? Again for the return? My colleagues, once again for your return? [[B in m in s a l in]] Let's do it again.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-05-m1.u24	Guys, you don't have to ask, 'cause it's not gonna work out right now. You don't have to ask, believe me. Believe me, you don't have to ask, because it's not gonna work. Please come back. To return. We're voting for the return. Are we voting for the return? I vote for the return. Please vote for the return. But this is the last vote, I won't say it again. Please come back. [[16:35:38]] For 224 No votes. I have an offer, colleagues. I have an offer. [[B in m in s a l in]] I have an offer for the following, distinguished colleagues. I've got the next offer. I have an offer, colleagues. One more time, one more time. That's it, the last one. Please identify yourself as necessary. It's about getting back to the bill. It's about coming back. [[16:36:23]] For 203 Thank you, colleagues. Don't be upset. We'll look at it again, if we have to, re-register, consult with you, and everything will be fine. Thank you, Your Honor. Everybody, calm down. [[B in m in s a l in]] Everybody calm down. Friends, friends of village heads, listen carefully. In this room. Listen carefully. I'm asking everyone to listen carefully. Friends, please listen carefully to everyone. First of all, there was no tragedy, this is a bill one of, one hundred things that needs to be done for the Ukrainian village. I suggest we do. We've got an expert group, we'll get together next week, we'll talk about it again, we'll invite heads, we'll find the right decision and we'll vote, and let's say everything's going to be okay. Thank you, Your Honor. Don't be upset, everything will be fine. In this room, I want to assure you, there are no enemies in this room, believe me. Thank you. Let's move on, dear fellows. There are questions about the inclusion in the agenda of drafts that we didn't include with you yesterday in the agenda, that is. Your attention, Your Honor. May I have your attention, please? Registration number 2079. Ukraine's draft Act amending some Ukrainian legislation on social protection issues for Ukrainian citizens who serve in military service during a special period. Remember. This is a question of social protection, please support the inclusion initiative in the agenda of the session. We're not going to look at it today to get him to work. Please support me. 2079 for inclusion in the agenda. Please vote. We vote yes. Please vote for inclusion in the agenda of the session. [[16:38:25]] For 227 Ladies and gentlemen, I ask the faction leaders to invite members of the people to the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Faction leaders, please mobilize factions for quality work. I'm addressing all the factions of the Ukrainian Parliament, please. It's on. 2079 included. Next bill, pay attention! The draft Law on Amendments to Certain Ukrainian Laws on Improving Individual Issues of Mobilization and Social Protection for Citizens Who Are To Be Released, Attention, Military Service During a Special Period or in connection with the Declaration of Demobilization. Colleagues, may I have your attention, please? Colleagues! I'm asking for your attention. 2283. Integrating demobilization into the agenda of the day session. Please support inclusion in the agenda. Please vote. Please be supportive. Include in the agenda of the day session. [[16:39:44]] For 233 Decision taken. This is the inclusion in the agenda of the day session. Thank you. 2190. Attention! Listen carefully, too. Draft Law amending the Ukrainian Family Code to take into account information about the social assistance of the family (persons) in the protection of family rights and interests in the judicial order. Protection of family rights in courts 2190. Please, Your Honor, support the inclusion in the agenda of this important bill. Please vote. I'd like your support, Your Honor. [[16:40:49]] For 245 Decision taken. Thank you. Please invite the people's deputies to the House of Parliament. The next bill (registration 2139) to amend some Ukrainian legislation on improving mechanisms for combating terrorism was developed by our colleague, Oksana Siroid. Please, please. And a number of others are Chumak, Kožemiakin, and Sumar, and a number of other members of the Supreme Council. Please support 2139. Integrating in the daytime, just joining in the daytime, colleague. Please be supportive. [[16:41:45.]] For the 220. Dear colleagues, the draft Act amending some Ukrainian legislation on improving mechanisms for combating terrorism. Almost all the factions of Parliament have been developed. Dear colleagues, please 2139 for joining the agenda. It's a day's work. One more time, please. Prepare, please, your distinguished colleagues. Vote. [[16:42:25]] For 219 The decision is not taken. Dear fellow national MPs! Let's focus again. And calm down, please. Colleagues, it is very difficult to talk when everyone talks at the same time. Dear colleagues, 2139, author of Oksana Siroid, one of the authors is Oksana Siroid. Please, a word, a minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-05-m1.u25	Dear colleagues, distinguished national MPs, I'd like your attention. I'm asking you to listen right now. The point is that the government has proposed a bill on the recognition of the organization as terrorist. During the preparation of the bill for the second reading, it was found that individual mechanisms needed more work. In this connection, the National Deputies, along with the Ministry of Justice and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, prepared a joint bill. This bill is fully in agreement with the government. I ask you very much to put it into the agenda for further consideration. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-05-m1.u26	Colleagues, you've heard the position of Oxana Ivanovna Siroid. Please, Yuri Lucenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-05-m1.u27	Dear colleagues, I would like to support the introduction of this bill. We remember what the debate was when the decision to declare an organization terrorist was made, and many deputies said that a court decision was needed as a starting point for the trial. The bill provides this very opinion for most of the national MPs. I'm asking you to support this bill, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-05-m1.u28	Thank you, Yuri Vitaliovich. The constructive offer of Yuri Vitaliovich and the reporter. Colleagues, let's focus again. Please, look, we're going to publish lists of people who don't come to the Parliament Hall, especially at the evening session. We have to work, and we have something to do. And five times put to the vote, it's easy. I think it should come out at all, and the question is, what's important about the recognition of organizations as terrorist. [[B in m in s a l in]] Please take your seats, Your Honor. And let's re-vote the inclusion in the agenda of the session. We will not be considering it today. Please, colleagues, (register 2139) for inclusion in the agenda. Please support this bill, please vote. For inclusion in the agenda of the day session. [[16:46:19]] For 216 [[B in m in s a l in]] Once again, please. 2139. I would like to highlight the title of the bill: the draft Act amending some Ukrainian legislation on improving mechanisms in the fight against terrorism. We need to improve the fight against terrorism, don't we? Ready to vote? Please vote, please support the 2139 inclusion in the agenda of the session. Not to consider, but to include in the order of the day session. Let's vote, colleagues, on the inclusion in the agenda of the day session. [[16:47:45.]] For 225 [[B in m in s a l in]] Dear fellow national MPs! Dear fellow national MPs! It's got to be over. Once again, I'm going to put him to the vote just because it's a matter of combating terrorism. But I'd ask you, but we're not here to make jokes, so I'd ask you to determine, vote. If this position is not to vote for it, then we will not vote. But, in principle, I think I can see in the hall that everyone is ready to support it. [[B in m in s a l in]] Please, 2139 for inclusion in the agenda. Vote please, Your Honor. Please be supportive. 2139, inclusion in the agenda of the day session. [[16:48:58]] For 235 We will continue to consider this bill according to the procedure in the first reading. Next bill, 2252. 2252 is something about changes to the state budget. 2252, with regard to the inclusion in the agenda of the day session, please vote. 2252 for inclusion in the agenda. [[16:49:45.]] For-143 The decision is not taken.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-05-m1.u29	We haven't been able to vote. Please, dear colleagues, let's go back. Once again, 22,52 for inclusion in the agenda. [[16:50:23]] For 134 Thank you. The decision is not taken. Let's move on, dear fellows. Dear fellow national MPs! Dear fellow national MPs, there are several other bills that are proposed to be included in the agenda of the day session. I'd like your attention, dear fellows! Draft Decision on the Appeal of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to the United Nations Organization, the European Parliament, the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe. Attention! People’s deputies, please stay in the hall! Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe, EU Parliamentary Assembly on the violation of human rights and freedoms in the Autonomous Republic of Crimea The author is the national deputy of Ukraine, Irina Frez. The committee is responsible for foreign affairs. There is an offer to include it in the agenda of the day session. I ask you to support this important question. Ready to vote? It's about the Crimea. Ready to vote? Please, colleagues, for inclusion in the agenda of 2,260. Order of the day session. Please be supportive. [[16:51:46]] For 237 Thank you. Decision taken. Ladies and gentlemen. The Secretariat, please invite the deputies to the hall. 2049, also a very important bill. Listen very carefully! 2049: Draft Act amending the Tax Code of Ukraine on Taxation of Non-profit Organizations. The question is about Ukrainian OSBB, which should not pay taxes, and they are being paid today. The bill was drafted by the People’s Deputy, Zalishtuk, Jurinec, Chernenko, Gopko, George, Ostrich, Sumar, Kugel, Popov, Golovk, Derevyanko, and so on. That is, many deputies who have joined in drafting this bill. All national deputies please take their seats. Please, Your Honor, please vote in favour of the inclusion in the agenda of the 2049 session – on taxation of non-profit organizations. Please be supportive. I'd like your support, colleagues. [[16:53:22]] For 252 Thank you. Thank you, Your Honor. Dear colleagues, you have a draft ruling that does not need to be included in the agenda. The draft decision on recognition is such that the Supreme Council of Ukraine Order on the Election of Judges has become invalid. There is a suggestion to consider it in a simplified way. There is a proposal for a reduced procedure to consider the decision. I'm willing to vote on the proposal, 1827 on a reduced procedure. Please be supportive. There'll be a reporter, a report. [[16:54:17]] For 226 Please report, this has been a shortened procedure. Please, National Deputy Lozový. National Deputy Lozov, please. The identity, head of the Knyazevich profile committee. Please, People's Deputies of Lozova, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-05-m1.u30	Dear colleagues! Andrew Lozova, Oleg Lazka Radical Party. Who, there's a lot of people here who know that this is the bastard in Judge Burbel's robe. One of those who turned Ukrainian justice into a perjury. And I remember very well, there are people in this room who went to the courts who did this piece of shit for political reasons, which we used to talk about there, even under Yanukovich's regime, "Negros are more lucky, because they have Mandella, and we have evil, and we have Judge Burbel." This judge, in favor of the Yanukovich regime, created political executions. There are people in this room who have personally suffered from this scum. These are colleagues: Moses, Kornatsky, Taruta. There are MPs in this room, to whom Burbel has shown contempt by using President Yanukovich's administration to give him an assignment. This is Oleg Lazko, Andrew Illenko, Yuri Bublik. Burbella got to what he refused, told them that "I won't take your orders" from those he tried, tried for political reasons, tried patriots just for loving his country, just for fighting the anti-national regime of tyrant Yanukovic. And so, dear colleagues, I ask you to understand what responsibility you have and to support this determination. (Give me 10 seconds more)
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-05-m1.u31	Ten seconds, complete.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-05-m1.u32	Who calls it as if it were wrong? Of course, it is a political decision, but it is absolutely legal, since Judge Burbel has become a judge on an indefinite basis in contravention of the Constitution. There's not a five-year term yet, so we have every reason to find an illegal Supreme Council decree to elect Judge Burbela as judge on an untimely basis. I'm asking for your support. Thank you. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-05-m1.u33	Thank you. Please, the head of the profile committee, Ruslan Knazevitch.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-05-m1.u34	Dear colleagues, please don't break up. Those who differ in this situation have no conscience because there are colleagues in this room.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-05-m1.u35	Turn off the microphone, please! Please, Ruslan Knazevich.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-05-m1.u36	Dear Mr. Head and respectable colleagues! I'm asking for your attention! The thing is, the situation is completely out of the ordinary. The point is that we now have a rather difficult choice, since it is suggested that we consider a draft order for a judge to be released by cancelling the Order on his appointment. You know, according to the Constitution, there is a special order for a judge to be released, which provides for a special constitutional procedure -- the proper submission of the High Council of Justice and, accordingly, the decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. At the same time, in the motivating part of the ruling, the committee was invited to examine the fact that Judge Burbel had been elected on an indefinite basis to serve in violation of the procedure and requirements of the Constitution of Ukraine. This is about, you know, judges being appointed first for a five-year term by the President of Ukraine. And after the five-year term ends, the judge gets the right to be elected the Supreme Council of Ukraine on an untimely basis. In this case, the committee carried out a check and established the fact that Judge Burbel had actually been elected without delay by the Supreme Council of Ukraine until he had completed his five-year term in office, and he had been appointed. Thus, in fact, the constitutional procedure for his appointment was violated. In view of this, there are two circumstances that need to be taken into account, and when you make an informed legal decision, you must understand and know about them. There is a constitutional order of release, which in this case does not apply, and there is an appropriate fact of a violation of the recognition procedure. Actually, it's timeless. So the committee unanimously decided that this decision could be made exclusively by a sessional room by will. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-05-m1.u37	Please sign in, two for, two against, honorary colleagues. National MP Levus, please, People's Front.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-05-m1.u38	Dear Society, we will now consider a very important question. The point is, such as this judge, they actually led to the shootings of the Celestial 100. The boys who fought the Yanukovic regime at the time are now Ukrainian national deputies. At the very least, they deserve our partnership support, in order that people like this judge should just sit in jail, not be deprived of all opportunities. I'm asking you not to play any legal games here right now, it's an important step now to clean up all the courts and an important step so that no judge in the future can make a decision against the Ukrainian position and against the Ukrainian patriots. Please be supportive. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-05-m1.u39	People's Deputy Linko, Radical Party.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-05-m1.u40	Dear colleagues, I address everyone. The fact is, not only are the victims of Burbella, but they are interested in the whole Ukrainian people. Recall the last winter, when when Judge Burbel was making illegal decisions, a bunch of people were beaten up, Yuri Lucenka was beaten under the Holy Land, you remember that. This provoked exactly the laws of January 16 when the fabricated cases were and then wanted to legalize them. That's why we're talking to you. There's already our appeal, there's the Burbella DA's office, and we're gonna press this case, and all the violators will be held accountable. This is just the first step, and we have all the legitimate grounds for taking away this bastard Burbella of a judge's robe today, because it's a disgrace to the entire justice system and to you and me, that these people are judges. We took the first step yesterday, we took off the 3 judges' touch. Let's do another one. And so gradually we're going to push and make our justice system right. I call on you all to support, and the Ukrainian people will also support you in this. It's the right decision. So all of these remarks, which might be wrong, were wrong decisions. And you and I set these people free. We supported the Supreme Council's decision to release the "wassilk terrorists" because it was a totally fabricated case. And the Supreme Council acknowledged that. So if we admit it, we also have to admit that Burbella has a responsibility. And today it is that decision that we will be restoring justice. So all those who support it will be those who are willing to radically change the judicial system. Thank you all. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-05-m1.u41	Thank you. Please, Sergey Vlasenko, Fatherland. Then Paul Kishkar, "self-help."
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-05-m1.u42	Thank you. Dear colleagues, we have several people in Ukraine whose names have become symbols of a lack of justice in Ukraine. Three such judges were considered yesterday. A proposal for Judge Burbella was made today. I am convinced that the name stands in exactly one row, along with Kitsuk, along with other odious people. At the same time, I want to emphasize the difference between Burbella and others. We're not supposed to open this Pandora box, but we have reason to do it on Burbella. This is the judge who was appointed when he was not yet five years in office. But I point out that this is the only case we know in Ukraine. Let us not continue to use this practice in other judges, for which there is no such reason. Let us require the Attorney General's Office, from other authorities to bring them to responsibility, to submit them to the Supreme Council, to vote in a legitimate manner. I would like to emphasize again. In this situation with Burbella, we have reason to vote. I didn’t quite understand the position of the profile committee, which hid its head in the sand and made no decision and no offer to our hall. It would seem to me that the professional profiling committee should have expressed itself more clearly or simply expressed its position on the occasion of the situation. I urge everyone, in view of the obvious violations of the Constitution in the appointment of this judge, to support the proposed draft ruling. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-05-m1.u43	National MP Kishkar Paul, please. Sergei Sobolev, Self-help. Yegor Sobolev, Self-help.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-05-m1.u44	Friends! The Self-Help faction unanimously wishes to free Judge Burbel, like most other judges who have taken part in the service of power and corruption. But there is one terrible desire. We do not want Judge Burbel to return from the European Court of Justice with a large check for Ukraine and demand that he be reinstated because he suffered through a mistrial. I'd like to go on behalf of the faction to the speaker. We have a very bad procedure today. When in the night or the morning, decisions were made that we were unable to consider, discuss, and consider whether we could vote for them, or whether they would result. Let us be different from the judges of the burbel, let us do our work honestly, responsibly and with results. But for the release of Judge Burbella, we will certainly vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-05-m1.u45	It's a skill of expression. We did not make any unnecessary decisions today. All decisions in accordance with the rules will be included in the order of the day’s work of the session. Final word, minute, head of the Knyazevich Committee. Please invite the national deputies to the hall and we will now vote on the ruling that the rapporteur has reported. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-05-m1.u46	Thank you. Dear Mr. Head, dear colleagues! Well, first of all, I reject all charges against the committee. The committee took a good look at this issue and suggested, as far as I am concerned, a perfectly reasonable solution. But, Mr. Head and the honorable initiators! I think that in the long run, for example, we should complement the first paragraph of a ruling of this kind by saying, "Conceiving the validity of the Supreme Council Order of 7 June 2012 on the election of judges, number 4919 in the election of Judge Kyivo-Svetoshinin of the Kyiv District Court, uninterrupted Burbeli Jury Sergiyyovich as being accepted in this section in violation of the requirements of the Constitution of Ukraine." That's the word "as accepted in this part of violating the requirements of the Constitution of Ukraine" you might think that we're just correcting the mistake that the Supreme Council has made in the past. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-05-m1.u47	Honorable fellow members of the national MPs, for your consideration of the vote. Ready to vote? A draft Decision (registration number 1827) is being introduced. The draft Decision on Recognition of the Decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine "On the Election of Judges" is being implemented, on the basis and overall with the proposal of the Head of the Professional Committee, Ruslan Knazević, with an amendment that was announced under the transcript. Please vote, please support the initiative. We vote, please, colleagues, we vote. [[17:08:29]] For 233 Let's move on. Dear colleagues, a number of draft bills have been prepared for the second reading, including the 1840 bill, the draft Act amending some Ukrainian legislation on the recognition of organizations as terrorist. There is a proposal by the Main Committee to revert to the second reading of the bill. Dear colleagues, we have included another bill similar to the one we are about to consider in the second reading. And there's a suggestion to return to the committee to work on them by preparing for a second read. Please, Victor the King.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-05-m1.u48	Ladies and gentlemen, according to the committee’s decision, the bill, which had already been published, number 1840 — on the recognition by terrorist organizations of certain legal, natural persons. That is, the second reading committee is working on a draft Ukrainian Act amending some Ukrainian legislation on the recognition of organisations as terrorist. We're here, let me remind you, we've looked at it in the first reading, and we've made some changes by the respective MPs. This is Lucenko and others who have fundamentally changed this bill. And so there was a question about, a key question about the decision on recognition, the jurisdiction of the High Court of Appeal. Today you have registered a second bill that takes all these wishes into account. And as a result, the committee has made a decision and is proposing to support you in bringing the bill back to the Main Committee for further work and submitting it for resecond reading. Simply put, put these two bills together, prepare, consider and make a joint decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-05-m1.u49	Thank you. That's a good offer. Dear colleagues, please take your places to vote. Attention, colleagues! Attention! You have heard the report of the vice-committee Victor Mikolaiovich King on the committee's decision to return the bill for re-reading (registration number 1840). In this way, to bring one bill into a hall agreed upon for the recognition of organizations as terrorist. Please support this proposal by a profile committee. Dear colleagues, please. Ruslan Petrovich! Please, colleagues, take your places to vote for the return of 1840 to prepare for the second, for the second reading. Can we vote? Dear fellow members of the national parliament, please prepare for the vote on your return to read again. Vote please, Your Honor. Please vote. Back to preparation for second reading. [[17:13:01]] For 224 [[B in m in s a l in]] I see, I see, I see. I see, National MP Demczak. I see, I see. Dear colleagues, a proposal is made to return the bill (registration number 1840) to the committee for the preparation of the second reading. Please support this proposal. Please vote. Please vote. For a second reading, please support me. [[17:13:40]] For 240 Thank you. Thank you. 240 The decision is taken. It'll be ready. Dear colleagues! Dear colleagues, the next 1496 bill, is extremely important for all, the draft Act amending some Ukrainian legislation on strengthening the social protection of internally displaced persons (second reading). You remember that we prepared it, the bill. The committee prepared him for his second reading. Please, Dennis's Ludmila Leontievna. Attention! Everyone, please concentrate!
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-05-m1.u50	Dear colleagues, you remember that we voted on the basis of this bill. The committee received some suggestions, considered them. I want to prove to you that there were 31 offers. came to the committee of ten national deputies. Actually, 20 counts, 11 doesn't count. With regard to the proposals made by the Ukrainian people's deputies, I will note that they have been corrected by the title of the bill, it has been established that, once the documents and information on the insurance internship and the salary of internally displaced persons have been received, they will be reviewed by the decision to assign assistance, in particular by increasing it, without the documents, they will receive only a minimum; the name of article 24 is clarified; it provides for compensation to the employer for the employment of internally displaced persons; the name of the financing project envisaged by the draft law for the promotion of employment of the VPO is taken away from the bill of amendments to the existing articles. That is to say, we have already adopted such standards on December 28, 2015. Therefore, I would like to support, on the basis and in general, this bill, which will enable our internally displaced persons to take up employment on the external conditions. And you know, they're over a million, and they're waiting for us to make that decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-05-m1.u51	Thank you, Sophia Leontievna. Shall we do some repairs? 1 amendment counted. 2 is rejected. Are you insisting? Don't insist. Next, the 3rd National Deputy of the Danube. Declined. Are you insisting? None. Four-a-none. Everyone else is accounted for. The next one is rejected. 8 Amendment Rejected. Are you insisting? No, it's not. 9th count. 10th overturned. Are you insisting? No, it's not. 11, no, they don't. 13 The Amendment Is Rejected. Don't insist. The 18th amendment was rejected. Don't insist. 19th. Don't insist. 20th. Don't insist. 24th. Don't insist. All right, we've been through all the repairs, dear colleagues. Please concentrate on voting, colleagues. The question concerns displaced persons. Dear colleagues, please take your seats, please take your seats. Registration number 1496: Draft Act amending certain Ukrainian legislation on strengthening social protection for internally displaced persons. The Committee's conclusion is to accept in the second reading and in general, in the Committee's edition. Ladies and gentlemen, please take your seats. Please take your seats for the vote. Please, in the second reading and in general (1,496). Please vote. Please support, colleagues, the law on displaced persons. Please vote. Please vote, as a whole in the second reading [[17:18:36]] For 216 [[B in m in s a l in]] I want to talk to the faction leaders. Dear faction leaders, can you mobilize your deputies? [[B in m in s a l in]] Dear faction leaders! Don't be offended, I'll be by my name, okay? - to contact MPs who don't vote. Aren't you going to be offended? Please, in the second reading, in total, 1496. In the second reading, as a whole, in the committee. Please vote, please support the second reading of 1496: the draft Act on Strengthening Social Protection of Internally Moved Persons. Please vote 1496 in general. That's better. [[17:19:48]] For 245 Dear colleagues, I would like to ask the faction leaders: please invite the national deputies to the hall to work effectively. Next. No less important bill is the 1408, on volunteering, on honorary colleagues. Prepared for second reading. Please, the reporter is the first deputy head of the Committee on Family, Youth Policy and Sports, Mikola Veliczovich. May I have your attention, ladies and gentlemen?
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-05-m1.u52	Dear Volodymyr Borisovich, distinguished colleagues! The committee took a close look at the preparation of the bill for the second reading. A working group was formed to include Ukrainian national deputies, volunteers, representatives of ministries, and authorities. 53 adjustments and suggestions have been processed. The committee processed and supported 23 of them, rejected 18 and partially counted 12. According to the report, most of the issues have been removed and the task of improving the bill, which was highlighted at the time of the first reading, has been completed. First of all, a decision has been made to complement volunteerism and to help participants in combat as well as the social protection of volunteers working in the ATO zone. The committee supported and modified some of the amendments made by the deputies regarding the issue, namely, with regard to the payment to families of deceased volunteers of one-time cash assistance in the amount of 500 living minimums established by law for working persons and in the case of invalidity I, II and III groups respectively, 250, 200 and 150 living minimums. The committee is asked to determine that only children under the age of 14 may be volunteers, with the consent of parents or other legal representatives. Therefore, they cannot provide volunteer care in medical institutions, in the ATO area, and in dealing with the consequences of emergencies. In order to avoid corruption, the committee has also proposed that only natural persons and legal persons who are unprofitable may be the recipient of volunteer assistance. It is also suggested that it be determined that a volunteering agreement is made as a matter of urgency, and that a volunteer assistance agreement is made at the time of emergency relief, as well as a voluntary assistance agreement, as is the case with the recipient of volunteer assistance. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-05-m1.u53	Thank you. Is there a need for an amendment to go? One amendment. Ivan Krulko. No, there's not one minute. As amended, second reading. Is there a question? None. Please take all your jobs, distinguished national deputies. [[B in m in s a l in]] Please, Your Honor. I asked for a second reading. There's amendment number 13. People's deputy Krulko. Please, 13 amendments. Cool, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-05-m1.u54	Ivan Krulko, "The Fatherland" faction. Dear National Deputies! I would like first of all to thank the committee for organizing a very thorough drafting of this bill. All my amendments have been considered in great detail, and I am grateful for their support on the committee. All those amendments are minor, and they're not supported, I'm taking them down. And I ask the Supreme Council to consult, to vote on this bill, which should unite the Hall. This bill is awaited by millions of Ukrainian volunteers working for our military personnel in the ATO area and working in peacetime to support those in need of volunteer assistance. Thank you. Please vote in favour of this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-05-m1.u55	Thank you, colleagues. Dear colleagues, prepared for the vote of 1408. There is a proposal for a profile committee to accept in the second reading and in general, honourable national deputies. Ready to vote? Please take your places to vote. Take your places to vote. [[B in m in s a l in]] Please. [[B in m in s a l in]] When this call is made, look, when this call is made, it means that we have to vote. No, no. Just so nobody thinks the tram's passing. I'm kidding, colleagues. I have great respect. Please, colleagues, take your seats, let's vote. [[B in m in s a l in]] Maybe a Swiss Wi-Fi tram. Maybe. You're the one who's implying like Winnie's, aren't you? Please, Your Honor, we have a vote. 1408 on volunteering in second reading and in general, please vote. I'd like your support, colleagues. Please vote. [[17:25:40]] For 256 Thank you, dear colleagues, thank you. [[Applause]] Thank you, colleagues. Next, 0944. Equally important is the bill, respected colleagues. Draft Act amending certain laws of Ukraine to clarify the authorizations of notaries and the characteristics of the registration of derived goods rights in agricultural land. Decentralization in the field of registration, colleagues. It's an extremely important project. There is a proposal in the second reading and in general. And a member of the Aleksiev committee, Alexeyev Igor Sergiyovich, reports. Dear colleagues, I ask you not to leave the National Chamber. Now, I think we're going to vote fast, because it's extremely important, this bill. I would literally ask for a few words. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-05-m1.u56	The honourable chairman, honourable national deputies, your opinion is proposed to amend some of the Ukrainian legislation on the clarification of notaries’ credentials and the features of the registration of derived goods rights on agricultural land (registration No. 0944). This bill was considered by the committee yesterday at its meeting. The second reading is unanimously supported. There were 11 amendments to the legislative initiative, 10 were taken into account in general, and one was editorial. Before this bill comes to the conclusion of the Supreme Council of Ukraine's Chief Legal Authority, which has been supporting this bill with observations. One good observation I want to read under the transcript. To do that, you have to complete chapter I of the bill with a new paragraph 3 of this content. In paragraph 9 of the first part of article 38 of the Ukrainian Law on State Land cadastre, after the words “in the course of notarial action”, add the words “and/or in the course of the State registration of immovable property rights”. Dear colleagues, I would like to reiterate once again that the bill has been unanimously supported by all members of the committee. Ask me to support this bill in general, taking into account the law that I just read about the changes to article 38 of the Ukrainian Law on State Land cadastre. Thank you for your attention. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-05-m1.u57	Please remain in the podium until the vote. Did you take your card? Correction? Ruslan Petrovich, please, what's the correction?
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-05-m1.u58	Dear Mr. Head! Since I really want to support the reporter, all the revisions are counted, there is no point in following the procedure provided for in the rules. Because the rapporteurs are satisfied with the committee's decision. Please proceed immediately to the vote to shorten the time. Because there is no objection to acceptance in general.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-05-m1.u59	Thank you. Dear colleagues, considering what the reporter Alexeyev announced under the transcript. Please, Your Honor, prepare for the vote, please take your seats for the vote 0944. In the second reading and in general, taking into account the amendment announced by the reporter from the rostrum below the transcript. Ready to vote? Please, I'm putting this motion to the vote. 0944 is in second reading, with an amendment announced from the rostrum by the reporter. [[17:29:46]] For 241 Decision taken. That's a good bill. And the decision is made. Thank you. Thank you, thank you, dear colleagues. Let's move on. In the first reading, a number of drafts. Draft Act amending the Law on Volunteering (on payment of one-time cash assistance in case of death) or the disability of a volunteer when providing volunteer assistance in the area of anti-terrorist operations). Dear colleagues, there is the offer of the author Tetjana Czaroval to consider it by a reduced procedure. Please. A Word Before Consideration? Before the trial? Please, Auntie Blackwall, the author. You could have done it during the report.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-05-m1.u60	I'm taking this bill off the table because it's been amended by the bill we've voted on.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-05-m1.u61	We're supposed to vote for the shooting. Let us vote on the motion by the author of this bill. Dear colleagues, concentrate on withdrawing the bill's proposal, please vote. Please support the bill's proposal. [[17:31:17]] For 224 Concentrate, again. Sergio Taruti's card didn't work, let's do it again. Proposal to remove 1689 from the agenda as proposed by the author of the bill. Please support, colleagues, the author's proposal to remove from the agenda. Invite the deputies to the hall. Ladies and gentlemen, we vote. Please, let's be clear, let's vote. [[17:31:56]] For 232 Decision taken. The next draft of the Act on Amendments to Certain Legislative Acts of Ukraine banning the privatization of objects in the engineering infrastructure of meliority systems and land on which these objects are located (Registration No. 1128). National deputy of Gordjeev. There is a proposal to consider this bill by a summary procedure. Please decide on this proposal for a reduced procedure. As for consideration (1128), melioration facilities for consideration of the reduced procedure. [[17:32:44]] For-174 Decision taken. Please, Gordjeev Andry Anatolyevich.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-05-m1.u62	Good afternoon, distinguished national MPs! I realize everyone's tired, but a little attention. Your opinion is proposed in Bill No. 1128 of 01.12.2014 on the amendment to some Ukrainian legislation prohibiting the privatization of objects in the engineering infrastructure of the meliorate systems and the land of state and municipal property on which these objects are located. I want to draw your attention to the fact that there is a unique object in our country, that's the second one for our country and our economy, that's the second Dnipro, that's our irrigation and meliorative system. At the same time, I would like to remind you that for the northern areas, irrigation is essentially economic in nature -- it's an increase in yield. But for southern Ukraine, the irrigation system is the survival of our agricultural producers. I'll give you some statistics. Last year almost 2 million acres [2 million ha] of irrigated land was covered by slightly more than 450,000, or one quarter. Number two. For this time, free agriculture has lost more than 350,000 irrigated lands. Another number. Of the required, project-based decisions, 25,000 water - based technicians have saved only 5,000 units. And finally, for the fullness of the painting. The total balance sheet value of government meliority funds is 8 billion dollars, while the sum is 6.2 billion dollars. So, about the substance of the bill. Your point is to amend the Ukrainian Land Code, which expands the list of property and property that cannot be transferred to private property. In particular, land under the engineering infrastructure of internal and inter-economic melioritative systems that are owned by utilities.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-05-m1.u63	Please continue. Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-05-m1.u64	The other one. Lands under appropriate public and inter-economic meliorrhial systems that are owned by the state. In addition, the Law on the Privatization of State Property proposes a list of sites of state importance that are not subject to privatization. These include the engineering infrastructures of state - owned, inter-economic, and in-house melioritative systems, as well as the land of state and municipal property on which these objects are located. The GNEU’s conclusion is positive. The Committee’s conclusion is also positive. Please, Your Honor, take this into account and support our agricultural producers and do not privatise the last thing that is in the country and is strategically important, which is the Ukrainian irrigation system. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-05-m1.u65	Thank you. Please, the head of the subcommittee on agrarian politics and land relations, Sergey Volodymyrovich Hlan. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-05-m1.u66	Dear Lord Chairman, dear colleagues! The Agrarian Policy and Land Relations Committee, at its meeting on February 3, 2015, reviewed the draft Ukrainian Law on Amendments to Certain Legislative Acts of Ukraine against the Privatization of Engineering Infrastructure Objects, Meliorative Systems and Lands of State Municipal Property, on which these objects are located (Registration No. 1128), submitted by the Ukrainian National Deputies Gordjeev Andrija Anatoliyovich and others. According to the bill to articles 83 and 84 of the Ukrainian Land Code and article 5 of the Ukrainian Law on Privatisation of State Property, proposed changes aimed at impeding further privatization of the engineering infrastructure of meliority systems and its individual objects, as well as the land under them. Such changes will serve to ensure the technological integrity of the meliorrhial systems and the integrity of their functioning, and will contribute to the restoration and development of the meliorrhial systems in Ukraine. The main scientific and expert administration of the Supreme Council of Ukraine has made slight remarks to the bill and believes that the project can be adopted in the first reading. With regard to the conclusion of the results of the anti-corruption analysis of the draft legal act, the bill did not reveal any corruption factors. In the light of the above, the Committee recommends to the Supreme Council of Ukraine a draft Ukrainian Act to amend some of Ukraine’s legislative acts to prohibit the privatization of objects of engineering infrastructure of meliority systems and land of state and municipal property.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-05-m1.u67	Please finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-05-m1.u68	Please accept as a base. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-05-m1.u69	Please two for it, two for it, two for it. Yuri, in the end, Yuri Lewchenko is at the end. National MP Kornatsky, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-05-m1.u70	National MP Kornatsky, 132 constituency, Mikolayevščina When the bill was considered on the committee, the authors of the bill said that it was about the main melioration systems, the so - called national systems, and the ones to which the interiors were connected. Now I see that they've given up on this, it's going to be a ban on privatizing domestic melioritative systems and land under them. I find such a norm unacceptable, and I propose that it be excluded, or that this bill should not be supported at all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-05-m1.u71	Thank you. Please, Yuri Chizmar, Radical Party.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-05-m1.u72	I give the word to Oleg Laszko.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-05-m1.u73	Oleg Lazko.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-05-m1.u74	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. Privatizing the system of melioration is the same thing as privatizing Naftogaz or Crust. These are strategic enterprises, strategic structures in our country. Once these pipes were laid, especially in the southern part of the country: Hersonska, Mikolayivska, Crimea. Spending the national money, now some native oligarchs want to privatize it. If they want to make their own systems, let them invest their money. What's more, I know, in Donetsk, in Lugansk, they cut the pipes and put them on scrap metal, and then we have to spend billions again to make the irrigation system. That's why we, our faction, support the bill banning the privatization of melioration systems. But I would like to take this opportunity to say to the Head of the Supreme Council and to address you, fellow national MPs. Today, an extraordinary event took place in Kharkiv. The Kharkiv District Council refused to include in the agenda the issue of recognition by the aggressor country of Russia. I would like to remind you that before, the Harkow City Council had refused to recognize Russia as an aggressor country. I think your fellow MPs are extremely dangerous events. The Kharkiv area is a border area, and when both the city and the district council refuse to recognize Russia as an aggressor, they will accept tomorrow's decision and hold a referendum on the accession of Kharkish to Russia, to Belgrade or vice versa. So I think that both the Kharkiv District and the Kharkiv City Councils should be immediately disbanded as agents of terrorism that are operating anti-State activities today in conditions of Russian aggression.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-05-m1.u75	Please finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-05-m1.u76	I'm going to register and call on my fellow MPs to become co-authors of the coalition factions... a corresponding bill for the disbandment of the Kharkiv District and City Council and the appointment of the elections. We must not allow them to engage in antistate activities under conditions of war. As a minimum, release, as a maximum, of the Kharkiv city head of Kernes and the Kharkiv district's head to be shot for treason, for retreating from Ukraine, for betraying Ukraine. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-05-m1.u77	People's MP Djublik, People's Front.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-05-m1.u78	Please give the word to Brichenko Igor.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-05-m1.u79	Dear colleagues, the People's Front will support this bill because it prohibits the privatization of meliorate systems, buildings and land under objects. And one more thing. We have to support the farmer, because when we put the irrigation system into private hands, we're going to have 3-4 times the price of water tomorrow. If the state finds funds to support and restore the Russian system, we will have legal problems. As we invest, it will set up a plant system. [[B in m in s a l in]] Yes, I ask everyone to support this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-05-m1.u80	Thank you. Please, Sergey Vlasenko, Fatherland.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-05-m1.u81	Dear colleagues, the Fatherland faction also supports the prohibition of the privatization of meliority objects. But I also wanted to say something else. We had a few days ago when we had Parliament's address to Nadia Savchenko, who was starving on the 83rd day. Nadia Savchenko wrote us a letter and handed it to us through her lawyers. I'm going to allow myself to quote only part of it, "I'm learning to change tactics. Yeah, physically, I'm a little shitty, but not enough to die right now. I drink a bouleon for a while to live, to fly, to die, to be healthy. And how to fight is to be strong. I'll fight with you. And on your request, thank you for your support, I remain alive." The hope of Savichenko has stopped hunger, glory to you, Lord! [[Applause]] But we have a huge task ahead of us to see our heroin here in the Supreme Council Hall along with us. Thank you all for your support.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-05-m1.u82	Thank you. Thank you, Sergei. Please, National Deputy Winnick.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-05-m1.u83	Dear colleagues, I would like to draw attention to this bill because it prohibits privatization, including the North Korean Canal. This is a channel through which water was supplied to the occupied area of Crimea. Today, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of the Russian Federation is already addressing the issue of ecocidal issues. So this is a matter of national security today. If we allow the privatization of meliority systems, including the North Korean Canal, it says that we are actually allowing to privatize individual military units or factories that are producing tanks today. Please support the unilateral ban on privatization of the meliorrhial system in the Herson region.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-05-m1.u84	Dear colleagues! Please, Yuri Lewchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-05-m1.u85	Leuchenko, Freedom, 223 County. I'm very pleased that the coalition's representatives are finally drafting more than just how to privatize, give private capital and leave the state with nothing. Finally, there are bills that still need to be left in the State for the economic security of the State and the nation. This is a very positive step. I hope that this is not the first and not the last step in this respect and that this positive trend will continue. So I encourage the session room not to run around here right now, not to rest, not to do any culinary games. All together, it is organized to vote immediately on the basis and generally on the prohibition of the privatization of melioration systems. This is very important for southern Ukraine and is very important for the state as a whole. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-05-m1.u86	Yuri Timoshenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-05-m1.u87	Turn on Yuri Timoshenko's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-05-m1.u88	Ladies and gentlemen, I suggest you all stop, at last, piranhas, and repeat the same thing 20 times in a row. Let's finally stop arousing the aggrieved and just start voting and working faster. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-05-m1.u89	I want to point out that applause is being heard in all parts of the Supreme Council Hall. Please invite the people's deputies to the hall. Please prepare the honourable national MPs to vote for the bill. For the final word, I'm going to give the author an opportunity to generalize some of the proposals. Please, Andrew Gordiev. Andrew Gordjeev. General, please listen to your colleagues. Invite the national deputies to the hall.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-05-m1.u90	Dear colleagues, our colleague Kornatsky made a very thorough observation. But we just talked to him, there are no obstacles to the adoption of this bill before the first reading. No, in general, it's not possible. But in the second reading, we and he will introduce the correction that he spoke of, and we will eliminate this flaw. Then we'll get a normal law for our farmers. Let's support all of this and put it together in the first reading. For everyone's second reading, everyone will have the opportunity to make corrections. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-05-m1.u91	Thank you. In the light of this proposal, a vote is put to the vote. Are you ready to vote, Your Honor? The Bill (Registration No. 1128) of the Bill amending certain Ukrainian legislative acts prohibiting the privatization of engineering infrastructure, meliority systems, and land on which these objects are accepted as a basis. Please be prepared, fellow nationals. Please. Please vote, Your Honor, 1128 as a basis. Based on the base. [[17:51:49]] For the 250. Decision taken. Dear colleagues, let us consult. We no longer have time to work. We still have the bills in the first reading, that is to say, we will transfer them to the next session. Is there no objection? None. Please announce, Andrew Parobius.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-05-m1.u92	Dear colleagues, I'd like to read the announcement that came to the fore. "In accordance with the Economic Development Group's decision (since 12 February 2015) to suspend its activities, I am reporting the dissolution of the parliamentary group Economic Development in the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the eighth call. Signature: Head of the Homutinnik Group."
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-05-m1.u93	Ladies and gentlemen, I declare the evening session of the Supreme Council closed. Tomorrow at 10 o'clock, we'll continue our work.
