ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-21-m1.u1	I'm asking all the deputies to come into the hall to continue our work. We have very important drafts in the afternoon, so I'm asking the secretariat of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, heads of factions to mobilize deputies and bring them into the hall. Thank you. We go into the hall and take jobs. Dear colleagues, in a minute or two we're starting our work. Those who have not yet entered, please enter the hall, occupy jobs, prepare for hard work. Secretariat, call the deputies back to the hall so we can get started. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-21-m1.u2	Good evening, fellow countrymen! We can start our work in the evening session. Please take your seats. Turn on the "Council" system to register the national MPs. [[16:08:53]] 313 people's deputies in the hall. Ladies and gentlemen, please take your seats. I declare the evening session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine open. In line with previous decisions that have been taken, honourable colleagues, during the morning session, we have adopted a number of bills to consider now. With regard to reform of the Public Prosecutor's Office, the law (registration number 2665). Correspondingly, fellow believers, 2665, 2666, 2667. There is a 2665 proposal, author Yuri Lucenko, to consider a reduced procedure. If you'd like to be determined as to how to proceed with a reduced procedure, please support me. As far as the procedure is concerned, colleagues. [[16:10:01]] For-136 Colleagues, please gather around. I see that many deputies have not arrived. Colleagues, please take your seats. The author's proposal: to review Law 2665 by summary procedure, please vote. [[16:10:34]] For 148 Colleagues, there's a proposal by the national MPs: I'm once again putting to the vote a motion for consideration for a reduced procedure. [[16:11:10]] For-170. Decision taken. Thank you, Your Honor. Please, the author is Yuri Lucenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-21-m1.u3	Dear Mr. Head, distinguished national MPs! As we know, the Parliament of the past summons has passed the Procuratorial Act, which enters into force for the 25th of the month. If his standards are not met, there will be legal chaos in the prosecutor’s office. To understand what's going to happen, I'll tell you. According to the new law of 26, the Henprocurator’s Offices should be not district prosecutors, but locals who are chosen by a complex procedure through a conference. It is obvious that it is impossible to do so up to 26 numbers, so all the prosecution's investigators on the spot will be illegal and will therefore be held accountable for murderers, robbers, robbers, criminals. Then, the coalition considered this issue several times and reached the next compromise: we continue the Prosecutor's Office Act until the end of this session, which is until June 15. At the same time, we will make the most necessary decisions about the beginning of a reform of the prosecutor’s office, which, unfortunately, was not carried out by previous managers. This refers to the immediate introduction of a mechanism for the election of three prosecutors to the High Council of Justice, as well as a calendar, monthly timetable for the conversion of the Public Prosecutor's Office, provided for in the new pro-European law. These tasks are determined by laws 2665, 2666, and 2667. Please support the National Deputies' approach, which will effectively start reforms in the Office of the Prosecutor on a realistic schedule between the members of most factions of the coalition and representatives of the Attorney General's Office of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-21-m1.u4	Please don't limit yourself. Finish, Yuri Vitaliyovich, have you spoken?
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-21-m1.u5	I'm done.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-21-m1.u6	Thank you! The report of the committee’s chairman, Andriy Anatoliyovich Kožemiakin.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-21-m1.u7	Dear Chairman, dear colleagues! The committee on law enforcement today at 11 p.m. has actually considered the draft bill 2665 in an emergency form submitted by the Ukrainian people's deputies. In fact, this project proposes to amend section XXII, paragraph 1, of the Ukrainian Procuratorial Act, which stipulates that the law will take effect on 15 July 2015, not six months from the date of publication. But, dear colleagues, today on the committee, we discussed bill 2404-1. The committee's decision is unanimous: this bill today, now after this bill 2665 must be considered and accepted, is a condition of three factions of the coalition. And I think the committee and the committee's decision, thanks to the MPs, they supported it. Because 2404-1 is a law that will allow the Attorney-General not to beat up the bad guys, as she did for six months, but to really work out all the issues that today relate to the creation of local prosecutors, the creation of a disciplinary commission and the creation of a Council of Prosecutors. So please, Reverend Vladimir Borisovich, I ask you, after this bill, to put the bill under consideration and adoption on the basis of Bill 2404-1, as agreed, this time. And secondly, let's not forget that we still have Bill 1165 today, which we have to re-vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-21-m1.u8	Thank you, fellows of honor! Please sign two for, two against. Please, National Deputy Ivan Rybak, Peter Dusty Block.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-21-m1.u9	Dear colleagues, this bill really needs a Ukrainian society today. We must vote today, we cannot leave the state alone today, leave the state and, in fact, leave the criminality to be punished. Please and I urge everyone to vote in favour of this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-21-m1.u10	Thank you. Please, Oleg Lazko, Radical Party.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-21-m1.u11	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. As you can see, Ukraine's citizens have been over the prosecutor's bill for a long time, during which writings have been broken. Why? Because the question is really important. On the one hand, yes, the new law of April 26 begins; on the other hand, we are invited to extend the validity of today’s law. In fact, the steel prosecutor’s office, in fact a repressive body, is very far from Europe and from European standards, including respect for citizens’ rights. Therefore, the Radical Party faction insists that we adopt the necessary laws as soon as possible, including 2404-1, which regulate these issues, which turn the Ukrainian Public Prosecutor's Office into a European prosecutor's office, not a penal body that will execute any or all of the other orders of those who order them. And finally, I'm officially saying that our faction will vote in favour of this law on one condition when the deputy attorney general Saquarelidze is present at a Parliamentary meeting, takes the floor and publicly informs the Supreme Council and the entire Ukrainian public who has offered you $10 million in bribes. We want to know. And we don't have to tell you about the mystery of the investigation and everything. And I have a question: why are you doing this when you're offered $10 million in bribes? Why did you not immediately connect the one who offered you? Why the criminal case was not immediately dismissed. Therefore, let the name of the briber be known to the whole country. Otherwise, if you don't report it, we take it either as a pianist, and then it's very dangerous for a person who talks about fighting corruption, or irresponsible statements that you certainly can't afford. Name!
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-21-m1.u12	Thank you. Shurma National Deputy, Opposition Block.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-21-m1.u13	Igor Shurma, Opposition Block. We are definitely, "The Opposition Block," will not vote in favour of this bill, which, as the previous speaker said, we are against having the Stalin Prosecutor's Office. And you, the coalition, vote, I want to see which one of you goes back to the steel prosecutor's office, that's the first. The other one. Vladimir Borisovich, what's going on in this room is the answer to your reduced procedures. Because the legislation under consideration – I ask you not to interfere – these laws, which are discussed in the reduced procedure, do not allow people to express their position. It's been two months and you start talking about voting. Who voted in favour of the Act on the Higher Council of Justice, which was scheduled to be held for 60 days, no later than 27 April, in all-U.S. conferences? You didn't know it was on the calendar for 60 days. You didn't know how to count, did you sign up for not being able to make it? You're going to flatter yourself, what you've done. And lastly, tell me, who are you cheating on, and where is the truth? This morning, people were standing at the Supreme Council of the Reform Committee, activists, the Reanimation Package of Reforms, calling on the prosecution not to postpone reform. So where you're comfortable, you're appealing for reform, and where you need it, you're complaining that you're not getting to the conference. Don't fool people! And in conclusion, I fully support the previous speaker, to Deputy Henprocuror, you said in your interview that as a Georgian, I'm doing the teto and the teto. I would like to remind you that you are a citizen of Ukraine and by our laws, please describe who offered you 10 million, or you are the same as those who offered you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-21-m1.u14	Thank you. Leonid Yemen, People's Front.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-21-m1.u15	Dear colleagues! Leonid Yemeni, People's Front faction. What I can say is, we've reached, I'm sorry, just to the last. They reached out, even though they had to pass the Public Prosecutor's Act. Moreover, this bill has been introduced in its 2404-1, but it is not in the agenda of the Committees, nor at the consideration of the Supreme Council. We've just reached the last moment. But, excuse me, the faction's decision is that in 2565 we vote because we understand that we can't really leave the prosecutor's office without functions. By July 15, we vote because the prosecutor's office has to work. But in the meantime, we demand that the Public Prosecutor's Office Act be considered with legal rights, with the functions that we offer there. 2666 we will also accept and vote, because this will allow the prosecution to fill its quota with the High Council of Justice, without the Office of the High Council of Justice will be ineffective and ineffective. And 2667, sorry, we have a note. The comments are serious because there is and remains an option of prosecution against.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-21-m1.u16	Let me finish, don't limit it.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-21-m1.u17	to which we have consistently and persistently addressed, this is article 23, paragraph 5, which states that the prosecutor is in the form of, if he considers that there is a possible violation of the interests of the State, he is taking measures of pre-trial conduct. Probably. Excuse me, the prosecutor has to be responsible if he sees a violation of the law in front, in court, and has to prove his right in court, because there is a violation of the law by a state authority or local government.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-21-m1.u18	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-21-m1.u19	So as long as this rule is in the law, we will not vote in favour of this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-21-m1.u20	Thank you. Please, Oleg Berezuk, Self-Help.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-21-m1.u21	Dear fellow MPs! We are actually on the verge of making an important decision that has not been made in Ukraine since 1936. Dear colleagues, today we can start reforming the prosecutor's office, which will not be an organ of persecution, but a body of justice and protection of the interests of the state and of man. The Self-Help faction is ready to vote to postpone the bill by July 15 on one condition: the vote of Law 2404-1, which the committee today agreed to. But how will this happen? The law is not in the order of the day, it is hard to believe in the word. So I'm offering two factions who want to support, take a break now, discuss the mechanism -- and come back in 15-20 minutes, continue their work. This is a very responsible thing! We can't get the country back to the Soviet-Stalin-Usurpation Machine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-21-m1.u22	Thank you. I'll have the next offer. We're going to be looking at 65th and 66th laws that don't conflict. After the 67th and the 2404s you can consult, you don't have to stop the work of the Supreme Council. To consult; if you make an agreed decision on this matter, we will consider it. That's it. Please, Swamp Grigory Mikhailovich, Peter Dust Block.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-21-m1.u23	Vladimir Borisovich, thank you. I want to tell my colleagues at the Opposition Block that if it were the Stalin prosecutor's office today, maybe a lot of people wouldn't be sitting in this room. But today there is a situation that cannot be speculated upon. Today, we cannot leave the state without the prosecutor’s supervision. Yeah, it's not perfect, it needs to be changed, but today we need to understand that the 3-4 month extension is not going to happen. And if the Supreme Council, the deputies, the respective commissions are going to monitor everything that's going on, and there's really going to be a schedule that will allow for this time to work on the Prosecutor's Office Act. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-21-m1.u24	Thank you, Your Honor. Yuri Lewchenko, one minute, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-21-m1.u25	Leuchenko, Freedom, 223 County. You know, there's a couple of times in this room that try to keep something going. Postponing appropriate plans to be properly built in cities. Postponing various moratoriums, delaying the implementation of proper reforms. We're still running out of time. You know, I don't understand what's going to happen by July, which is actually going to allow the prosecution to do what it's supposed to do. Why, if the convention is not being held now, why is it due in a month? Why is this conference due in two months? They won't come round again. And once again, in June, there will be a draft law on the next extension. I'm now addressing some small factions of the coalition, let's say, more responsible possible than larger factions. Don't let you get divorced. They're just trying to get you divorced, push you. You're told that they're voting on the right law on reforming the prosecutor's office, and that you should vote for postponement. You're just lying. Keep your head down a little bit. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-21-m1.u26	Please, Yuri Lucenko. Then Ruslan Knazevich. Will we vote now? Please, colleagues, come into the hall and we'll vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-21-m1.u27	Dear Head, honourable deputies! I fully support the the thesis of many who have spoken, including the last statement that no one is interested in postponing. It is precisely in the sense of the arrangement to: (a) postpone the introduction of the law, at the same time today in the first reading, to adopt a law that provides for a detailed timetable for changes in the prosecutor’s office. This graph is not taken from the ceiling, this graph is taken from interviews with management, including David Sacrarelidze and Mr. Shokin's Attorney General, which shows how many months of changes can be made to complete the reform by the end of the year. And one more thing. I am deeply outraged by the habit of glued to the lips of those who do not fit in with others. The law that I'm presenting here has nothing to do with totalitarian or steel society. Because we're offering.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-21-m1.u28	Let me finish, don't limit.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-21-m1.u29	Under this law, all prosecutors are recruited at an open competition to remove all caste partitions. You don't need an internship in the D.A.'s office or an education in the D.A.'s office. All you need is a higher legal education and a victory at a competition. It's not steel, it's not totalitarian. Similarly, at the conferences, these new people will choose a new leader. And that's right. Because a different approach when older workers have to choose a new supervisor did not work in the courts or work in the prosecutor's office. That's obvious to everyone. Even children are made in love in a certain technology over a period of time. Making a change in the prosecutor's office in two weeks -- you can only imagine romances from revolution or romance from the prosecutor's office. I represent a faction of pragmatists. We're for reforms that can be done and that end up not as a pseudo-democracy, but as a matter of fact as a hiccup, but as a normal European prosecutor's office, where staff are recruited from scratch at the competition below and upwards. And it's not the other way around. Today, please stop playing with ambitions and support a coalition bill that opens the way to reform and allows you to take into account all the useful and reasonable proposals, including colleagues from Self-Help and other factions, on the second reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-21-m1.u30	Thank you. In fact, the Law 2667 applied to the sleeping of Yuri Vitaliovich. 2665 and 2666. 2665 says that the suspension of the new Procuratorial Act until 15 July, until now. And it's the final term, there can't be any permanent extensions, and all of this is conscious, and we've said it more than once, that there can't be any sequels anymore. It may be that in these two and a half months all the transformations that would take place would take place under European principles to build a quality European prosecutor’s office. This is what we insist on today. There is a need for a substitute. Please, Oksana Siroid and then David Sacrarelidze.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-21-m1.u31	Thank you. Dear colleagues, what is happening now is really very important. We should, on the one hand, allow the prosecution to work. On the other hand, do not make any concessions to the reform of the Public Prosecutor’s Office. There is a bill of MPs at 2404-1, which, along with the extension, proposes practical steps for the introduction of a valid, more faithful, adopted, but not yet valid Law on Prosecutor's Office. That's why the offer is like that. Let's take the first reading of Bill 2665, 2666, which will be the next and 2404-1, and we'll prepare for the second reading by Thursday, and we'll adopt all three bills together. I think it's going to be fair and it's going to reflect a really common position then. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-21-m1.u32	Thank you. Please, David Sacrarelidze, Deputy Attorney General of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-21-m1.u33	Thank you. Greetings, distinguished deputies. A survey was conducted in connection with 10 million. Thank you for taking such an interest in the prosecutor's office, to me personally, just me as a former politician, too, so much so important and familiar to me. I also spent 2.5 years in radical opposition. I am simply surprised that former officials have never asked such questions to former prosecutors, asked where they had billions or millions of villas, banks abroad and so on and so on. But this is not the issue of today’s discussion. In this case, a criminal case, a name, a name, unfortunately, cannot be named today because it is in the interest of investigation, but the results of the investigation will be announced, then. Maybe there'll be another version that someone has a gallows in their eyes. So with respect to both you and the consequence, let us, yes, work, continue and focus on concrete results. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-21-m1.u34	Dear colleagues, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-21-m1.u35	As far as the law is concerned.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-21-m1.u36	Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-21-m1.u37	With regard to the law, we have met with representatives of various factions on the Reform Council, we are the team that is not afraid of reform, we take responsibility for specific deadlines, for specific weeks, for a clear plan of action, we already know exactly where to start, how many people will be involved, how to form commissions for the recruitment of local prosecutors, which people will be there, what standards and tests will be introduced, how long will we see and have on appointed and elected by the open competition of local prosecutors, and so on. That is, we understand clearly that the reform of the Public Prosecutor's Office has been delayed, but it must be implemented, time-bound and moving from tomorrow. So the first phase will take place, from April to early September, we will have local prosecutors. The next few months, five months, will require the reorganization of regional prosecutors and the Office of the Attorney-General. That is, after a year we can freely convene a conference of prosecutors. And the Conference of Prosecutors will address all its issues that have been adopted, addressed in democratic systems and democratic countries and in States. So this project is ready to be presented in any format. They are regularly prepared to cooperate with all political forces and factions and to present concrete results of our work. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-21-m1.u38	Thank you. Ruslan Knazevich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-21-m1.u39	Dear Mr. Head, dear colleagues, the fact that the law has to be suspended must be a constant that is not discussed. The point is, this is where they wanted to ask, and if it does change, if the conference doesn't end and the conference doesn't go anyway. The problem is that when the law itself was enacted, there really was a technical mistake. A conference consisting of representatives of local prosecutors must be formed in order to form appropriate local prosecutors. In order to avoid such a kind of completely technical error as I am, the only way to term and work out this bill in this part. There's just no other choice. But the second bill, number 2666, is no less important. The point is that we need to change the arrangements for convening conferences of all Ukrainian prosecutors in order to form a part of the Prosecutor's Office of the High Council of Justice. I'm pointing out that the point is that up to 27 numbers, including the creation of a new composition of the High Council of Justice. And you're talking about looking at it in the first reading today. We need to sign the law immediately this week.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-21-m1.u40	Dear colleagues, I propose as follows. There is no doubt that there is a need for a period of time. What happens by July 15 does not cause any problems to return to any totalitarian system and so on, gives us the opportunity, as we have heard from the Attorney General's Office, to make a transitional period of 2.5 months, which in no way can be negatively perceived, and vice versa, the fight against crime will take place in accordance with Ukrainian legislation by the prosecutor's office. Then, all of the things about 2667, 2404-1, obviously need more advice. That's why I'm proposing today. Please take over the people's deputies. Dear colleagues, please take your seats. Ladies and gentlemen, please take your seats in the hall. I propose the 2665 bill, which makes the suspension of this Law adopted on the Public Prosecutor's Office, to vote by July 15 as a basis and as a whole. Next, let the coalition factions gather leaders or one representative at a time in order not to stop Parliament's work and thus work out a common agreed position of 2667 and 2404-1. Then they'll come back to the room with an offer, and then we'll be clear about that. Is this approach taken? Please, Your Honor, 2665 as a basis and as a whole. It's just a 2.5 month delay. Please support and vote 2665 as a basis and as a whole. Please vote. We will continue to consult. I think we'll find a common solution. Please support 2665. [[16:38:19]] For 249 Decision taken. Thank you, Your Honor, for your support, this is a normal absolute decision that needs no comment or speculation. The second position is 2667 and 2404-1, as I was saying. I now ask the factions to identify one representative and please conduct short-term consultations and provide information. Is there a vote on 2666? It's formation. You don't? Yes. 2666, there's a proposal to consider the reduced procedure, 2666 and now I'm asking the faction to start the consultation, now, 2666, on a simplified procedure, please, on a simplified procedure. Thank you, fellows of honor! Decision taken. Please, Yuri Vitaliovich Lucenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-21-m1.u41	Dear Mr. Head, dear colleagues! This bill allows the Office of the Attorney-General of Ukraine, without waiting a few months for the necessary internal administrative reforms, to form three representatives from the Public Prosecutor's Office to the High Council of Justice, which is due to work in the near future. In fact, this week, Parliament will be able to vote on its representatives to the High Council of Justice, the President is ready to put his own out, and the Prosecutor's Office will be able to provide a mechanism for the delegation of three representatives. Immediately, I want to say that the insinuation that this will be a quality of people is not related to the prosecution or the legal community has no ground. All three candidates, as far as I know, will reflect the requirements of the law and European rules to be represented by judges and lawyers and lawyers. That's why we're asking for support on the ground and in general this bill, which will allow us to compile the Higher Council of Justice, which, in turn, will allow us to finally start cleaning up the rusty system of courts that no one, except the High Council of Justice, can bring to justice. This body of the High Council of Justice and only it can clean up the judicial system. We need to fill in all quotas, including from the Public Prosecutor's Office. The bill 2666 solves this problem and the Justice Council will be formed literally this week. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-21-m1.u42	Thank you, Yuri Vitaliovich. Please, Your Honor, Andriy Anatolyevich Kožemyakin.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-21-m1.u43	Dear colleagues, the committee is once again in an emergency today, under the authority of the Head of the Supreme Council, has considered this bill, it's not particularly important today, it's just so technical. But he dies and dies after the Procurator's Act comes into effect after July 15th of this year. That's why it's the most important thing. What's the D.A. gonna do these two months, three? Or, again, "tabane," sorry about that word, this situation, because they don't want to be deprived of general supervision and investigation, which they should be, they're deprived of. Or they want to stay in the society that was before Maidan. So I would like to ask, Vladimir Borisovich, in view of the fact that the committee has decided to adopt this bill as a basis and as a whole, provided that the Attorney General is present. Unfortunately, he's gone, there's a deputy first and a substitute, this time. And secondly, the condition is that there will be a law that will be considered between these bills, a project that will allow the prosecution, sorry, not to slip away from it, you know, from this reform, and still reform, is 2404-1. If that is not the case today, I will not personally vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-21-m1.u44	Thank you, Andriy Anatolyovich. Please two for, two for against. Sign up. Please, Lozov, the national deputy of Lozov.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-21-m1.u45	I give the word to the leader of the Radical Party, whose voice awaits millions of people.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-21-m1.u46	What's the name of this leader? Oleg Lazko.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-21-m1.u47	Dear citizens of Ukraine! Dear fellow MPs! I'm primarily asking Ukrainian citizens to understand what's going on in this room. Any talk of reform, the fight against corruption, they end up in such a disgraceful vote. When decisions are made that are not agreed upon by the coalition, when there is a formal coalition, and indeed there is an agreement with the oligarchic groups, to continue the procurator’s powers. Do you think you'll be changing by July 15th? No, he won't, because Mr. Sacrallidze, who seems to be making these changes, is afraid to call him the name of whoever gave him the bribe. How is he going to fight corruption? Is there a secret to the investigation when you broke the case? Where did you register it? Don't take us for fools! You've already chosen the head of the Anti-Corruption Bureau of Sitnik, worked as a lawyer for 24,000 dollars a year, seven times in the last time before Moscow flew. He was a lawyer at Kernes. He was a business partner of Gasinsky's. And you're telling me this is the moral authority that will fight corruption? Moral authorities like those who tell them what bribes they give or are afraid to name names. Now, on this bill, which is voted: the Higher Council of Justice is the usurpation of the High Council of Justice, I am responsiblely saying, of the 21 members of the High Council of Justice as a minimum of 17 will be subject to the control of the President of Ukraine. I said, what were we fighting for? So instead of Portnos, why would the courts now be run by the Philates, the heads of the President's administration? If you are telling us that this is the independence of the judges behind Midan, do not fool us! You say to remove Parliament from influence, and you shape this influence by the President! Therefore, the Radical Party faction will not vote in favour of this law, we are against the usurpation of the judicial branch of power!
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-21-m1.u48	I would like to point out that the majority of the parliament's deputies are against the usurpation of the judicial branch of power. If there's no independent branch of government, we can't build a quality country, and we all understand that. On the other hand, if we don't postpone the entry into force of this law for these 2.5 months, that means that the whole fight against crime is null and void. Zero. In 2.5 months, nothing will happen from the point of view of the restoration of the Soviet prosecutor’s office. Write down, please, each person present here, I personally strongly oppose any general oversight as the rudimentary of the Soviet system of prosecutors, there can be no restoration of general oversight. The other thing is that we have to build our public prosecutors in a way that fully fits European legislation is that they are effective and transparent in fighting crime. I'm talking about stopping the crime of investigation and so on. We still have a lot to do in the law enforcement sector. But if we try to level each decision with slogans, we're actually going to have serious problems. The system is balanced today, and that's true, we need to get it together so that it's effective, and it's also obvious. After 2665 and 2666, there were no major contradictions because everyone understood that this was an automatic decision, and more than that, 66 laws would be in force by July 15, said Andriy Anatoliyovich, reverend, 2015 – that is, 2.5 months to prevent the law enforcement system from working. Period. And the third. What I'd like to invite you to do, my fellow citizens, is to draw up a clear schedule with you, if necessary, to define it as a separate decision of the Ukrainian Parliament, where it is clear how every day the Attorney General's Office will work and we, as legislators, will be able to implement all the necessary tools of the modern prosecutor's office on July 15th. There are three positions that no one can be warned about today. With regard to Law 2667 and Law 2404-1, it is obvious that factions of the coalition should consult on this issue. And I urge factions to single out one person now and not to interrupt the work of Parliament, because we have many other laws, including 1165, which we have not considered. In order to hold consultations, we left with an agreed position at the Ukrainian Parliament Hall. Then we'll be able to continue our work without any contradictions at all. I'm on Friday, everyone's agreed, and on Monday there's some differences again. I think, and now the factions of the coalition will be able to find a common approach here, a common language. Ruslan Knazevich, please. Guilty Victor. Then Ruslan Knazevich. Victor Krivenko, Self-help. Yegor Sobolev. Then there's Shurma.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-21-m1.u49	Colleagues! Because of the practice of lying to one another, I want to apologize to the voters. I voted in favour of Act No. 2665 that the prosecutor's office could still remain the prosecutor's office of Pshonka Stalin, mistakenly. I thought that we were voting in favour of the law we agreed upon, which would allow the European Prosecutor's Office in Ukraine to start building right now. The other one. I want to express the position of all colleagues in the faction. It's a terrible weapon. If we don't correct our Attorney General's Office, our Security Service, our IMF, our courts, they will turn against us. Those who now allow them to live will be their victims tomorrow. I told you, my friends, this morning, a search was started for people who are doing power clearance! If we don't make that choice, after a year or two the search will be arrests and imprisonments. So let us do real justice once and for all in Ukraine, not preserve the old system of criminal delinquency of all the terrible things that have been happening for years in the country.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-21-m1.u50	There's only one thing to add. According to the law, the European Public Prosecutor’s Law enters into force on July 15, 2015. What Stalin?Oh, my God! What Stalin?Oh, my God! What wheat?Oh, my God! What are we talking about?Oh, my God! Can we learn to call things our names? Since when do we start talking? Obviously, these two and a half months are not to be wasted for a moment. Colleagues, I support you all: you can't waste time. So let us make decisions that will prevent this decision. Please, Ruslan Knazevich. Then there's Yuri Lucenko. Ah, according to the recording, the Storm of the Games. Please, Igor Shurma, the Opposition Block. Yes, yes, please, Igor Mikhailovich Shurma, please. Excuse me, Mr. Igor.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-21-m1.u51	Igor Shurma, Opposition Block. And you have, you know, the presiding lord, there is some sort of hook. You just won't give me your word. And I'll tell you why. So according to the law, I'm making you notice that you're constantly violating the Rules. I'm not a party supporter of the coalition, but you have no right to comment on the MPs. Every MP will say what he thinks is necessary, including me. So please make a distinction between sessions of different administrative levels, and you are the Head of the Supreme Council of all Ukraine. So please listen to what the MPs say, not comment. This is the first time. What's going on in the hall, and the unpleasant things I'd never want to say to you, are the result that you're constantly not ready to draft the bill into the session room. You're constantly putting it into a reduced procedure, because even those professional people who are among the coalition can't express their position. I'm talking to people right now. Look what's going on in the session room! For three months, we were wiped out by a coalition meeting, and we're voting. There were never three hundred and two votes for nothing. Now a new formulation has emerged: most coalitions make this decision. This is all the result of unprepared drafts. I urge you in the hall to allow professional people to discuss all the bills. We talked about the Anti-Corruption Bureau today, which is also the result of knee bending. And last time. Henprocuror's deputy with a great conscience and calmly says that in a year, there will be a change. You know why? And he probably doesn't have the confidence that he'll be working there in a year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-21-m1.u52	Thank you, dear fellow national MP. I think you need to read the Rules in order to understand the rights of the Head of the Supreme Council and then comment on them. This isn't a faction of yours, is it? Please, Ruslan Knazevich.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-21-m1.u53	Thank you, Mr. Head. Well, those were speeches about nothing. And now, as they say, essentially. What are we talking about? The point is that at the time of the adoption of the Right to a Fair Court Act, the Transitional Regulations of the Procuratorship Act, which entered into force on April 6th of this year, were in force. And the Law on the Protection of the Right to a Fair Court stipulated that in the formation of the High Council of Justice by the Public Prosecutor's Office, it was that according to 131 articles of the Constitution the Public Prosecutor's Office was entitled to two representatives, that the Law on the Protection of the Right to a Fair Court determined that one of them was a judge, the other was not a judge. The Public Prosecutor's Office should establish the appropriate procedure for holding conferences by law that was to take effect. Today, we've moved the expiration date to the law. And so we need to re-establish the old rule of law, where it was stipulated that this kind of order should be established by the decision of the Attorney General of Ukraine. Period. All those who are now opposed to this decision are, in fact, intent on denying the work of the High Council of Justice. You don't have to do this right now.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-21-m1.u54	Ten seconds. Finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-21-m1.u55	And secondly, in order to allow the prosecution until the Agency is fully operational against corruption, it is possible to draw up administrative protocols on corruption. Because now the legal vacuum, no authority has such powers. We do.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-21-m1.u56	Please finish. Done?
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-21-m1.u57	So I ask you to correct this legal gap immediately, because this way we cannot continue to accept an absolutely absurd situation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-21-m1.u58	Thank you. Please, Yuri Lewchenko, and we vote. Please, your seats, colleagues.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-21-m1.u59	Leuchenko, Freedom, 223 County. What is now happening in the hall is indeed the result of the fact that, unfortunately, there is a lack of proper discussion of the relevant bills, is the constant intrusion of each other. And so the right bills, the right ones that really need countries, don't even find support in the coalition because inside the coalition they think someone didn't make any promises. In fact, there really is a problem here, because without the right call, the ability to properly form a conference of prosecutors, there is no possibility of launching a High Council of Justice. And today, when we're talking about illustrations of judges, even ephemeral illustrations, even if there's some, well, first step in illustrating judges, without the Supreme Council of Justice, it's impossible to do that. And when we talk about whether or not a judge needs to be released and retired right now, it's impossible to do that, actually. That's why I'm talking to the employees, to the coalition members, to all the members of the coalition. So, you know, you're always talking about what you need to do, there, political moments, some personal pierar to put on the other side, so, now, let's just say, put aside your internal coalition quarries, and make it work, even if you start sending corrupt judges away. Do so and put off your internal difficulties. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-21-m1.u60	Thank you. Dear colleagues, please prepare for the vote, Your Honor. Draft Law on Amendments to Ukraine’s Laws on Certain Issues of Ensuring the Activities of the Prosecutor’s Office (Registration No. 2666). There is a proposal to vote the bill on the basis. Get ready, fellows! 2666 as a basis and as a whole. 2666. Please determine by vote. 2666. On the basis and in general. [[16:58:14]] For 242 Decision taken. Thank you, Your Honor. Now it's Law 2667. There are differences in colleagues, there are differences in laws. I'm proposing, please, who was the author. 2667, author Lucenko. Yuri Vitaliyovich, 2667, offers. He's standing right here in the living room. You're like an author, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-21-m1.u61	Dear Mr. Head, honourable deputies, first of all one of my colleagues who said he wanted to vote, not for the transfer, but for the reforms. So this is the law and it's the reform schedule. I want to remind you again of what this law says. He says that from scratch all the prosecutors will be recruited at the competition. This competition will be organized by commissions created by the Attorney General for public participation. But not from most of the public, as someone insists. You don't have to confuse democracy and clocracy. Public organizations won't choose prosecutors in this country, that's not right. Because we know the price of fair public structures that today advocate the interest of specific oligarchic clans. So the openness and participation of the public is one thing, but the competition for the public structure will be conducted by the Attorney General, who is responsible under the Constitution for the state of crime in that country. Second, this stage will be completed literally in a few months, a local prosecutor's office will be established. Regional prosecutors will then be established. The number of prosecutors will be reduced twice. In addition, the prosecutor’s office will dispose of her incompetent post - Soviet functions. This is what the Law on Reforms in the Public Prosecutor’s Office calls. In fact, it was to be carried out by two previous Henprocurators. I'm very grateful to the representative of Liberty who's right above the party and said, "The Supreme Council of Justice needs everyone." Similarly, the reform agenda of the Public Prosecutor’s Office is needed by everyone. Yes, self-help colleagues also offer a graph. But according to the Henprosecutor's Office, he's unrealistic, he can't be executed. And secondly, what we're different from, is that self-help colleagues think that a committee of parliament should form a committee of prosecutors. It's illegal and unconstitutional.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-21-m1.u62	Finish your offer, Yuri Vitaliyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-21-m1.u63	Parliament's function. So today we are proposing to start reforms that are exactly what the timetable is. No one is going to throw, as one colleague unparliamentaryly said. On the contrary, we propose to approve the reform plan and I am willing to go even if today's decision is to adopt this bill, taking into account position 2404-1, which between the first and the second readings will certainly compromise normally. Thank you for your attention. Please support me exclusively in the first reading and start these reforms.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-21-m1.u64	Thank you, Your Honor. We have heard the position of the author of Law 2667. Can we start the discussion? Is it a consultation? Please, Andriy Anatoliyovich Kožemjakin, 2667, please. Andrew Anatoliy Anatoliyovich Kožemiakin — 2667 Well, we need to find a solution that unites us rather than separates us and that does not lose the essence of the reform of the prosecutor’s office.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-21-m1.u65	Dear Chairman, colleagues! Yes, indeed, I agree with Yuri Vitaliyovich that the reform of the prosecutor's office should still take place, I hope. But I don't agree that any committees or anyone makes decisions, or public organizations, after. And taking part directly in the appointment of prosecutors and the selection -- that's not true. The Public Prosecutor's Office Act clearly states that self-government is being created, including the Disciplinary Prosecutor's Board, which, yes, consists not only of prosecutors, local, regional and the Attorney-General's Office, but also of people who are public authorities. Yes, they determine who will be the prosecutor and who will not be next. Yes, indeed, there is a system that is transparent for frame selection. Because any prosecutor who understands that he is being pressured or given wrong orders, or instructions and written instructions, and verbally, although it is stated in the law that we are willing to receive only written instructions on the prosecutor's administrative functions, he can sue the Prosecutor's Council. What's more, he can submit to the Qualifying Disciplinary Commission, which will protect him and investigate him in the Web regime, directly so that the whole community can see what's going on with this prosecutor. And anyone who has claims, or who can accuse the prosecutor of corruption, may come to this meeting and stand up. So, dear colleagues, 2404-1 solves all the questions. And once again, this bill, 2667, was rejected by the committee. Thank you!
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-21-m1.u66	Colleagues, please, before you begin the discussion, colleagues, please sign in two for, two against. Maybe as an option, it's to find common ground. There's a suggestion that maybe when we consider this issue on the basis of proposals 2404-1, maybe we can define what the provisions of Law 2404-1 will be, I'm talking about ideas, and now we're going to talk about them, 2404-1 will win over the proposals of Law 2667. So everything will be settled in preparation for the second reading, and maybe this can be balanced in some way. Please, the Podlisecki People's Deputy.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-21-m1.u67	Please pass the word to Berezuku.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-21-m1.u68	Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-21-m1.u69	Ladies and gentlemen! The Self-Help faction calmly tells all of you: pseudo reform is a fairy tale. You can't do that and you can't do that, you can't do that, and we're already saying that third or fourth times in three months, oil and water. Either do, or don't, or be honest with society, or not be honest. That's why we're asking the Head of the Supreme Council to honor Parliament's decision by a committee of profile that has taken a decision under Law 2404-1 and to support it, not to do "make believe play," as if we're reforming. Let's stop this already. And about public organizations. So how can social organizations create society in war and in barricades be normal, and how can professional social organizations that are undoubtedly flawed, as are state organizations, then not be able to? Today, unfortunately, an institutional state that takes full responsibility for its actions is not, because it is destroyed, including those who have been sitting here for almost 20 years, there are.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-21-m1.u70	Thank you. Please, National Deputy Palamarczuk Mikola Petrovich, Petra Poroshenko Block. National MP Palamarczuk, please, Peter Dusty Block.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-21-m1.u71	I give the floor to Yuri Vitalievich Lucenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-21-m1.u72	Andrew Teteruk, People's Front, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-21-m1.u73	Please transmit the voice of Victoria Sumar.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-21-m1.u74	Victoria Sumar, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-21-m1.u75	Dear colleagues, we've talked a lot about these bills in both the Supreme Council's office and the council of the coalition, and we've talked about one thing: we need a reform of the prosecutor's office on the one hand, because we can't and can't leave the Soviet prosecutor's office. Today, we postponed the entry into force of the new law. We have until July 15th to find all the compromises. 2404-1 is one concept of the amended law "For the Prosecutor's Office." That bill that we're proposing right now is a different concept. What does that mean? That means there's no agreement in the middle of the coalition itself. The unity of the coalition is important to us. And that means that by July 15, or much faster, we have to get together and find compromise. Accordingly, we do not support this bill because there are many novelties quite strange, for example, literally in the first paragraph, the position that the Henprocurorate should report to the Supreme Council somehow changes to the position of informing the Supreme Council. Excuse me, it's a little strange when the Supreme Council humiliates itself. Chapter 23, paragraph 5, provides for the de facto preservation of the general supervision of the Public Prosecutor's Office, for which the Prosecutor's Office may suspend the decision of any authority. It's actually stopping that reform that we're talking about today. We cannot allow this today, we must seek compromises and work out compromises with a view to reforming.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-21-m1.u76	Thank you. Please, National Deputy Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. Now I think we're going to find some understanding on this issue.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-21-m1.u77	Dear citizens of Ukraine! What's happening in this room right now is a big bluff and a lie. You're told about the reform of the prosecutor's office, and they're voting for laws that actually restore Januković's prosecutor's office and turn it into a new monster that will continue to persecute, including the other. You're being told about reforms, about the need to form a High Council of Justice in order to clean up the judicial system from corrupts, and they're actually creating a monopolistic High Council of Justice, which will be governed again by one authority, as it was with Yanukovich. Only then was his first name, Portnov, who was authorized by Janukovich, after the courts, today his first name is Philatew, and there will be another name tomorrow. Dear Ukrainians! The radical party didn't go to the coalition to engage in this self-deception, we wouldn't fool voters, we wouldn't betray what we wanted for real. Look at how they vote in favour of the prosecution laws, two healthy factions of the Radical Party coalition, self-help doesn't vote in favour of helping with the restorative dictatorial laws come in, oligarchy groups come out, that's you and the whole coalition. I don't want to cheat voters, I don't want to participate in this farce, so I'm making a formal application for the focal point for the coalition. I'm not going to run a coalition that molests people who care about their own interests, first of all, that revives criminal dictatorships, corruption schemes in the prosecutor's office and in the courts that still want to run the prosecutor's office, the courts and everything else by hand. It ended with Maidan, if any of you have forgotten. But Janukovich has endured for three years, and all of us with your lies will suffer much less. Good-bye.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-21-m1.u78	Please give me a minute, Yuri Lucenko. Oksana Siroid, please. Look, I think you can get less emotional and everything will be fine.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-21-m1.u79	Dear colleagues, there has already been a lot of talk about what rules are actually contained in the law, bill 2667. I would like to refer to a few other aspects of the main threats this bill poses today. The first is a brief return to the public prosecutor's office by increasing the powers of prosecutors. The second is the concentration of the power of the Attorney General and the prosecutors. So it's the rebuilding of this pyramid that we've tried so hard to overcome, it's the procurator's mandate to define all of the orders, to assign all the positions, including the administrative ones. And finally, this is the limitation of the control functions of Parliament. Victoria Sumar has just said about the limitations of such a control function of parliament as hearing the Attorney General's report. But even more, this bill states that the Supreme Council would now have the right to release the Attorney General only if it received a message from the procurator's training and disciplinary committee for an apology. That is why the Supreme Council then exists in general if it still has to wait for the consent of the prosecutor’s authority to bring the Attorney General to justice. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-21-m1.u80	Thank you. Dear colleagues, please, Yuri Lewchenko. And then there's Yuri Lucenko. And here's the summary of this discussion.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-21-m1.u81	Leuchenko, Freedom, 223 County. Well, society, here, you see, such emotional statements about truth, lies that the laws vote. Well, you see, there are three laws here today, we voted in the prosecution's office: 2665, 2666 and now it's proposed 2667. Well, two of them are actually completely wrong, and Freedom didn't vote for them or vote for them: 2665 and 2667. And the other, 2666, on the Higher Council of Justice, is the right law. The problem is that in the coalition, it's kind of so complicated that you're changing the laws and order of the day already in the morning of the plenary meeting, in the morning, not even at night, that you don't know what you're proposing, what you're voting for. You read what you're proposing, and you won't have any coalition problems, you'll know how to vote. This Law 2667 is certainly not to be supported because it retains the old methods of human resources in the Public Prosecutor's Office. Without changing the methods of personnel assignment, without real, transparent competitions, there will be no benefit from that prosecutor's office.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-21-m1.u82	Thank you. Yuri Lucenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-21-m1.u83	Dear Mr. Head, distinguished national MPs! We Democrats are very interesting people. When we are in opposition, we tell the voters all the time that while we are in opposition, we cannot overcome crime and punish the Yanukovich regime or its predecessors. But when we get to power, instead of concentrating all the resources, we do everything we can to just destroy them. For months we debate commissions, public authorities, competitions. But this does not change the situation of punishing those who are required to punish the law and society as a whole. Today's the show day. We find a hundred ten reasons, even absent ones, because the law clearly states: competitions, direct competitions for all who have legal education. But one reads differently, says, "No contests." The law states: No restrictions, no caste partitions of the former Soviet prosecutor’s office. They say, "Save the steel model." The answer is: Many of the deputies think of themselves, of the pristineness that will be the main stumbling block of this law! I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-21-m1.u84	Please finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-21-m1.u85	Unfortunately, I see that caste, the MP's honour, has made it another time to reform the prosecutor's office and make it a democratic but radically punishing sword. That's why, if there's no agreement in the coalition, I'm asking you how the author removes this law and all responsibility passes into the hands of irresponsible ballads who have failed the punishment of thieves again!
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-21-m1.u86	Dear colleagues, look, I think first of all, let's listen carefully, please. So everyone can understand what's going on. Mechanisms for the implementation of the new Law on Public Prosecutions are needed. There are different views on how to create these mechanisms. We absolutely did the right thing by voting 65 laws, 66th. We now have two and a half months to find the right one in common with the Attorney General's Office to reform and create a quality prosecutor's office in Ukraine, the General and the public prosecutor's system in general. Second position. We don't have to argue about this. On the contrary, we need to be united in order to ensure that this law is as quality as possible, that it responds as much as possible, and that it restores confidence in the law - enforcement system of Ukraine that is sick. We also need to reform another law enforcement system. To create the National Police, to create municipal law enforcement services. This is all a challenge for us to face. I remember looking at the changes to the National Anti - Corruption Bureau Act. Yegor Sobolev won't let me lie. There were various bills. But since the bill was in agreement with the Yegor Soboljeva Committee, I think we agreed there were three weeks or a month, two weeks, two weeks working on several laws. They found one law. They're out of the room. We voted and everything was perfectly normal. The same thing I would have asked Andrija Anatoliovich Cosemyakina. Your profile committee. Gather everyone, call the Attorney General's Office, gather the experts. There are these experts in different factions. Make a quality one bill that will not disunite us but that will unite us to fight crime, corruption, bribery, and restore confidence in the law - enforcement system, particularly in the prosecutor’s office. I think it was a good offer, maybe a little emotional, Yuri Vitaliovich. Because he's also right about the fact that he doesn't want any worse, he's also suffered a lot from the Stalin Prosecutor's Office and the Stalin system, as we called it today. And I think his opinion should be taken into account here. So I would ask you, your honorary colleagues, without delay, to take the laws of 2667, and 2404, and 2404-1, to sit together and work with the Attorney General's Office on the basis of a profile committee, a decision that will guarantee strength and democracy in our country. The drafter called off the bill, and we're not going to consider it. 1165. Dear colleagues, if you remember, we completed our study of 1165. There was a signal vote, but we discussed it. Is there a need, high - ranking colleagues, to discuss 1165? Is it necessary to discuss 1165, Yuri Vitaliovich? The People's Front, is it necessary to discuss 1165? Public accusation. Vote? Please take your seats. Colleagues, please take your seats. I call on all the deputies, look at the hall. By the end of the morning session, we had a signal vote on Law 1165, reported by Andrija Anatoliyevich Kožemjakin. There was no signal vote. Now I invite the people's deputies to the hall so that we can vote on this bill. He was discussed on a full procedure. Is there no objection? Please, colleagues, the bill, the proposals, will be voted on as a basis. 1165. You have introduced a draft Act amending some Ukrainian legislation on strengthening the role of civil society in the fight against corruption (register No. 1165). There's a committee proposal on the ground. During the discussion, there were a number of valid suggestions that could be taken into account in the second reading. Please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, please, Ready? And please support this bill. Please vote 1165 on the basis. On the basis of that, colleagues. Based on 1165. Based on the base. [[17:21:37]] For-152. 152 votes. I didn't get the required number of votes. "Block of Peter Poroshenko" – 70, "National Front" – 11, "Opposition Block" – 0, "self-help" – 24, Radical Party – 14, "Fatherhood" – 16, "Rebirth" – 0, "will of the people" – 0, non-fractional – 17. Colleagues, I have an offer. Let's not lose this bill, because it's really important, let's get it back for the first time again. Colleagues, shall we support the re-reading? Shall we? Guys, I'm asking you to come back and prepare for your first reading again. Please support the return of the first to consider the matter. And there's going to be a re-reading proposal. Please vote, colleague. To return. [[17:22:56]] For 165 No votes. The factions, please. Thank you. Let's move on, dear fellows. Draft law on second reading, draft law amending the Ukrainian Tax Code (to simplify business conditions) 2381, head of committee Nasirov Roman Mihajlovich, please. Second reading, focus, colleagues. Second reading, please. Please, Roman Nasirov, 2381, Draft Law on Amendments to the Ukrainian Tax Code (to simplify business conditions).
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-21-m1.u87	Dear colleagues, Reverend Vladimir Borisovich, briefly reminds me of the essence of the matter. Two bills were introduced by the government in March this year: amendments to some Ukrainian legislative acts on certain legal aspects of improving Ukraine’s position in the Doing Business (registration No. 2382), and a related draft amending the Ukrainian Code of Taxation (registration No. 2381). As a result of a review of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on March 19, this year, Bill 2382 was returned to the government. And the bill (registration number 2381) was adopted as a basis. At the first reading of the draft (registration number 2381), the committee found that the bill had not yet been agreed upon by its developer, the Ministry of Justice, Ukraine’s Ministry of Finance, the State Fiscal Service, and the National Bank of Ukraine. We informed the Supreme Council of Ukraine in its consideration of the session. In addition, the committee urged the Government to submit a second reading of the agreed draft of the bill. In general, this work was carried out. Today we bring a comparative table to the second reading of this bill, taking into account the agreed position of ministries. The bill received 19 proposals. These are taken into account in whole and in part, or in fact 17. Two proposals have been rejected in connection with the deletion of paragraph 5, paragraph 2, of section 1 of the first bill. In addition, when working on this project, we took into account the changes introduced by the Ukrainian Act on Amendments to Certain Legislative Acts of Ukraine (for simplification of business conditions) (from 12 February of this year), which took effect on 7 April, to the Ukrainian Law on State Registration of Legal Persons and Individuals of Entrepreneurs. Part of the interaction between government registrants, fiscal authorities, and banks when they register (closure) with a tax payer. For our second reading, the editors regulate the registration of tax payers in banks and other financial institutions, including by respecting the principle of silent agreement. As a result of the deletion of the proposed first reading of the amendments to articles 14 and 183 of the Ukrainian Tax Code, only the amendments to article 69 of the Code remained. So we propose to change the title of the bill accordingly. Please support the committee's proposed editorial in the second reading and in general as a law of Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-21-m1.u88	Thank you. Colleagues, do you have any suggestions for your colleagues? The authors of the amendments, are they? You don't? Colleagues, please take your seats. 2381, second reading. 2381. Take your seats, invite the deputies into the hall.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-21-m1.u89	Dear colleagues, please take our seats and we will vote on the second reading of 2,381 so that we do not vote. Please take up jobs. So all the amendments have been discussed and taken into account, and so I'm voting on the draft Law on Amendments to the Ukrainian Tax Code (to simplify business conditions), 2381 as a basis and as a whole, in the second reading and as a whole. Please, Your Honor, determine by vote, please. [[17:29:02]] For 253 Thank you for your support!
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-21-m1.u90	253, decision taken. Dear colleagues! Next question is the draft Law amending article 35 of the Ukrainian Budget Code (for state aid to operators) (Registration No. 0909) on second reading. Please, Pavelko Andry Vasilovich. 0909. [[B in m in s a l in]] Dear colleagues! 0909, it was included on Thursday. Since we worked hard enough today in the first half, I moved it from Thursday to today. And if there's no objection, we can consider it, and there's a denial, we'll consider it on Thursday, but it's considered by the committee, introduced, it's second reading and it doesn't need. In the end, let's vote on the Saucenko ruling. Report to me in the second reading. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-21-m1.u91	Honourable People's Deputies, Bill No. 0909 adopted on 8 October 2013 by the Supreme Council on the seventh basis and in accordance with the requirements of Article 106 of the Rules, were transmitted to the Supreme Council on the eighth occasion of the second reading of such a bill. The bill proposes to oblige the chief budget administrators and to add a copy of the antitrust committee’s decision to grant appropriate State aid, taking into account the need to meet competitive conditions. The bill is a derivative of last year’s State Aid to Hostages Act, introduced on August 2, 2017. In accordance with the requirements of the Rules of the Supreme Council, the Committee on Budget Affairs, with the participation of the Antimonopoly Committee and the Ministry of Finance, has considered such a bill and proposes to make some technical and legal clarifications, namely. First, to apply this procedure, starting with the formation of a government budget project for 2014. Secondly, do not distribute the proposed procedure to local budgets. Since this is a matter to be addressed in the context of measures to decentralize government and to reform local self-government, the practice of implementing the relevant procedure for the State budget project should be taken into account. As a result of the consideration of this issue, the Committee on Budget Affairs adopted a decision recommending a bill to the Supreme Council of Ukraine number 0909, to adopt on second reading and in general as a law in the final edition, as set out by the Committee in a comparative table to it. Please be supportive. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-21-m1.u92	Dear colleagues, according to the bill, the amendments proposed are taken into account. The Committee considered all the amendments. So this was the committee's work, between the first and the second readings, each of the deputies could have made an amendment and could have discussed it and stood up for it on the committee. According to the Rules, we can only discuss the amendments that have been rejected, and therefore, according to the Rules, I will now have to put the law in second reading so that we can vote in the Chamber. And everyone will be able to determine by vote. Thus, I am voting on the draft Law amending article 35 of the Ukrainian Code of Budget No. 0909 in the second reading and in general. I would like to ask my colleagues to determine how to vote, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-21-m1.u93	I ask you to stop voting. Stop the vote, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-21-m1.u94	Please stop voting.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-21-m1.u95	Stop, end the vote. Come on, Andry Volodymyrovich, as amended, because the second amendment makes proposals. Please calm down, we have one Law on schedule for today (1567). That's why we picked up the Secretariat, all the things that were on the schedule to work more effectively today, that's all. Please, if you'll excuse me.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-21-m1.u96	Let's make some adjustments, then let's obviously write down who has a wish?
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-21-m1.u97	In the end, we're going to vote on two decisions on our Collegiate Savechenko. I'd like you to focus, we have a plenary day of 25 minutes. Now we're going to consider this law and then we're going to consider two of Savechenko's decrees. Please, Dobrenkov.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-21-m1.u98	Thank you, Your Honor! Dear colleagues, the bill is really small, it refers to the procedure for granting State aid, which is to be amended to Article 35. I have a question for number two. I'd like to make this proposal, the point of which is to actually cancel the action of part four of article 35 on the provision of state aid with an appropriate request, a copy, before the decision of the authorized State Aid Authority for 2019. That is, until the adoption of the draft Ukrainian State Budget Act 2019, this rule will not apply. And I suggest you put this number two proposal on confirmation.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-21-m1.u99	Thank you, colleagues. Here's the deal. Don't let us do it now. We can ineffectively consider this law – 0909. There's an offer: we'll move it to Thursday and run it all. We just have one bill left today. But, colleagues, according to the two decrees: we will have to move them to tomorrow, because the committee's decision is not on this point. [[B in m in s a l in]] No, colleagues. [[B in m in s a l in]] Thank you, Your Honor. Let me inform you now. So 0909 agreed: we're moving to Thursday and we're leaving it on schedule, and we're going to be working on the amendments. As for the two rulings in our college (now we will conclude meetings), please inform our colleagues. Just one order, number. Please inform the head of the committee, please. Anna Gopko. There are two decisions on our colleague, Savchenko. Please, under the transcript.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-21-m1.u100	Dear colleagues, the committee at its meeting yesterday decided to support the draft Decree 2570, but to vote on it according to proposals sent by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, in particular: the title of the address "to the President of Russia" should correspond to his primary objective – the release of Hope of Savchenko, as well as other Ukrainian citizens. Since the proposed edition indicates that the main purpose of the appeal is to implement the Minsk Treaty implementation package. Although this is an absolute priority in the process of peaceful settlement of the situation in Donbas. From the point of view of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, which has also supported the Committee in foreign affairs, we propose a more correct version of the name. In particular: "The appeal of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to the President of the Russian Federation on the need for the release of the illegally detained National Deputy of Ukraine VIII to the convening of the Savechenko Hope, all other hostages and illegally detained persons pursuant to paragraph 6 of the Minsk Treaty Implementation Package of February 12, 2015, as well as the Protocol on the results of the consultations of the Tripartite Contact Group on joint actions aimed at the implementation of the Ukrainian Peace Plan by President Peter Prashenko and the initiative of President Putin of September 5, 2014". In addition, the following paragraphs will be added to the text of the decree: how to release all Ukrainian citizens, including Ukrainian director Oleg Sensov, who have been captured in Ukraine, who have been transferred to the territory of the Russian Federation and are illegally detained in spite of their will. Use all its influence on illegal armed formations that operate in individual areas of the Donetsk and Lugansk regions of Ukraine with a view to the immediate release of hostages and illegally held persons according to the principle of "all at all". All these proposals for the MMS recommendation were taken into account by our committee. And under such conditions, we propose to support the text of the decree. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-21-m1.u101	2570, I understand? 2571 will be considered tomorrow. If the colleagues are ready. Please, Irina Heratschenko. One minute, please, Ivan Krulko. Let him report this decision, he was the author today. Turn-on. Now we're doing it from the point of view of acceptance. Cool. Then Irina Heratchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-21-m1.u102	Ivan Krulko, "The Fatherland" faction. Dear National Deputies! I'm asking everyone to pay attention. Because it will be the support and protection of our colleague, Hope Savchenko, who has been illegally held in Moscow’s butthole for a month. And, of course, Parliament is obliged to take all the measures that it can take to ensure that this courageous man, the hero of Ukraine, our colleague and member of Ukraine in South Africa is free. What is provided for in this draft decree? Project number Set 2570. It refers to the eventual execution of the 6th paragraph of these Minsk agreements, which Putinim is completely unfulfilled with regard to the exchange of prisoners of war. This must be enough to keep hundreds of Ukrainians in their buttholes who cannot be traded according to even those arrangements where Kremlin leaders sign. Therefore, it is clear that this draft decree provides for the release of Hope Savechenko, Oleg Sentsov and all other prisoners of war who are illegally in Moscow and who are illegally in the territory of the temporarily occupied territories and are to be released in accordance with paragraph 6 of the Minsk Protocols. What's more, with this project of appeal, which I think we will definitely support all the factions that enter into parliament, we will find that the Minsk Agreements are being implemented by the Ukrainian side, and the Russian side is not doing it at all and is not going to do it. Please support this Project Order number 2570. Ukrainians must be free and Ukraine will win! Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-21-m1.u103	Thank you. Please, Irina Heratschenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-21-m1.u104	Dear colleagues, you know, I want to remind all of you that, literally a few weeks ago, we made the very right decision, which Russia was recognized as an aggressor country that fought in the east of Ukraine. It doesn't seem strange to you that today we're asking the leader of the aggressor country to do something there when it's absolutely obvious that no item of the Minsk Treaties is being implemented today, as the Ministry of Foreign Affairs says. When the Supreme Council of Ukraine, we didn't even form our two-way relationship for the first time in the history of our two-way group of inter-parliamentary Ukraine-Russia. Because even in this dialogue today, when they don't want to talk to us, we don't see the point. So I think it would be very important that we don't produce any of these ideas, well, which actually won't solve the problem, but as for me, they're wrong in terms that we first recognize Russia as an aggressor country, and now we're talking to the leader of the aggressor country, please do what you have to do.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-21-m1.u105	Finish up, please, Irina Heratchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-21-m1.u106	It seems to me that Ukrainian, Ukrainian politics should be the only one in one Russian side to carry out all the points of the Minsk Agreement not only 6 points, but the first, the second, the third, the fourth and so forth. I want to remind you that, of course, we all express solidarity with Hope, and today, Nadia's mother is in New York, where she's addressing, including the United Nations, which demands pressure on the Russian Federation, which is forced to perform mine agreements. So let's define ourselves we demand to push the Russian Federation or we face Putin with our request, please do. My position is that we have to push, not ask. And so, frankly, I'm suggesting that the authors withdraw this order from the agenda, it would be more reasonable. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-21-m1.u107	Thank you. Colleagues, perhaps we will work together on this issue and vote in the morning? Please, Andrew Lozov.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-21-m1.u108	Andrey Lozovy, Radical Party of Lazka. Russia does not implement mine agreements, especially with regard to our captives. Believing that Moscow would fulfill mine deals could only be idiotic. Another German chancellor, Otto von Bismarck, wrote that a deal signed with Moscow was not worth even the paper on which it was written. Because mine agreements in general are a way to legalize the Moscow-Separatist junta in the east, in our Ukrainian Donbashi, where my late grandfather was a miner, where my grandmother grew up in Luhansk. We, our faction of the Radical Party, and all the patriots of Ukraine, recognize the Minsk Accords. At the same time, let us consider those who are in captivity, Nadia Savchenko. We say about her all the time: Nadia-Nadya, as if she was just a delicate girl, and she knows what Nadia herself liked when she was called a Saucenko fighter. He's our hero, he's a man who fought for Ukraine, and because of that, in the Moscow captivity, she barely gave up her life. Like our patriot Oleg of the Suns.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-21-m1.u109	Ten seconds, complete, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-21-m1.u110	So let's use every means of protecting and liberating our captives. But.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-04-21-m1.u111	Work on it. Ten seconds, complete. Colleagues, it is very important that our position -- this is the ruling of the Supreme Council -- be very clear and help solve this problem. [[B in m in s a l in]] It's all right. [[B in m in s a l in]] Colleagues, please. Please ask Hannah Hopko, head of the committee of profile with Irina Heratschenko, with John Krulko, and ask who would like to work on the final text as part of the committee meeting, and tomorrow we will vote on two strong decisions. Because even today, there is no committee decision. Do you have a deal, Your Honor? Thank you. We'll do it tomorrow. Dear colleagues, the order of the day is exhausted. I declare the evening session closed. Thank you.
