ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-10-m0.u1	Good morning, fellow countrymen! Please prepare for registration, we'll start our work. I think there's no doubt that in order to build a real European country with high living standards, the public service has to be professional, not diletarian. Therefore, it is very important that the legislation adopted and approved by the Supreme Council of Ukraine meets those criteria that would allow us to build a quality and professional public service and that our officials be able to do the tasks they face. I would like to emphasize that today we have a number of important issues to consider in the agenda. It's a question of creating a transparent tariff system, and in fact because of the consideration of this law, which is one of the first in the day-to-day order, we provide consumers with free access to information about electricity, gas, heat, hot will, all other residential services. We have a separate question of decentralization. This is a question of expanding the powers of local self-government authorities to provide administrative services, in fact the fourth law of the decentralization package. The question of transparency of public purchases. Infrastructural issues include construction and construction of Ukrainian roads. And it's an important environmental issue, including for the Chinese, and it's a question of reconstructing the Bortnicka station in general. But I would like to point out that today one of the most important issues that we will be considering is the question of the new Law on the State Service of Ukraine. That's exactly where I started. That this law will allow for a certain period of time to build a professional corps of government services that will be able to handle tasks and ensure the development of our state. So I want to encourage everyone today to adopt this law, to approve it, and in this matter almost a decade of history, to put a dot. I call on everyone to unite, regardless of political colours, and to make this extremely important decision — the law, the new Ukrainian State Service Act. Dear colleagues, please prepare for registration. Please turn on the "Race" system. And please register. [[10:04:29]] 340 national deputies registered in the hall. I hereby declare the meeting of the Supreme Council open this morning. Traditionally, I would like to welcome our fellow Ukrainian national deputies to their birthday. Eugène Balitsky (birth birthday, colleague) and Julius Yakovitch Ioffe. Let's say hello to a colleague on his birthday. Good and healthy. [[Applause]] We're starting our work, colleagues. The draft Law (Registration No. 2505a) on the characteristics of access to information in the areas of electricity supply, natural gas, heating, centralized hot water supply, centralized drinking water supply and second-reading water supply. I invite the head of the subcommittee, the Committee on Fuel and Energy, Nuclear Policy and Nuclear Security of the Podlisecki Lev Theophilic. Please, Leo Podlisecki.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-10-m0.u2	Please report.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-10-m0.u3	Dear Chairman, distinguished national MPs! You will find a comparative table of the second reading of the draft Law on Access to Information in the Areas of Electricity, Natural Gas, Heat Supply, Central Hot Water Supply, Central Supply and Water (Registration No. 2505a), adopted on the first reading on October 8, 2015. The committee received 28 proposals from national deputies. It's 21 counted, it's edited, it's 1 and it's rejected, it's 6. In general, taking into account the proposals made by the people's deputies for the adoption of the bill, it will allow the policy of openness to tariffs and prices, as well as ingredients for the service of thermal gas supply, and generally housing and utility services. Please support this bill as proposed for second reading as a whole. Thank you. Please be supportive. The Committee on Fuel and Energy has decided to support the bill. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-10-m0.u4	Thank you very much. Please stay in the rostrum and we'll go through all the repairs. Dear colleagues, I ask you to prepare for work, and I will call the amendment authors, and I will await your position accordingly. So that's 2 revisions. National MP Martovicki. Don't insist. Third. Martovitch. Don't insist. Four. Martovitch. Don't insist. 7th. Martovitch. Don't insist. 12th. Martovitch. Don't insist. 28th. Yuri Lewchenko. He insists. Please turn on Lechchenka's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-10-m0.u5	Lewchenko, Freedom, 223 District, Kiev City. I would now like to address the entire room carefully, not to run around the hall, but to listen carefully to this amendment. Because without this amendment, the law actually risks becoming a positive butaphoria. Explain why. The fact is that this law really gives a special person the opportunity to get information. However, there are separate sectoral laws on housing and utilities, on electricity, on heating, on drinking water and on drinking water, on electricity, on the natural gas market, and on basic laws that do not require such authorizations, and on consumer opportunities, there are no. There is a comprehensive list of consumer rights, and this comprehensive list of consumer rights does not have such powers. If you don't write all of these rules that are in this law, in these sector-specific laws, just don't go into those laws, even if you don't do it, that makes it possible for officials to do it.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-10-m0.u6	Please finish 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-10-m0.u7	This will enable officials and monopolies who do their best, not to enforce laws, but, for example, to find the capacity of a loophole to circumvent laws, to allow them to, by reference to the laws of the sector, to deny relevant information to consumers. Accordingly, I urge you to accept this simple amendment, which simply deepens these norms of this special law in each individual sector law, so that there are no such variations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-10-m0.u8	Please comment. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-10-m0.u9	Mr. Yuri, it's the right thing to do. Sadly, though, they went to the committee too late, according to the Rules, they were not considered.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-10-m0.u10	[[Unheard]]
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-10-m0.u11	No, no. There's two weeks to serve. But I don't mind if we put it to a vote now, for confirmation, and we can vote. If they are voted in, we can include them because there is nothing wrong with them. There are, indeed, changes to other sectoral narrow laws that will actually ensure that the law is implemented. I mean, I totally support it. The only thing that needs to be put to the vote is the confirmation, because we were able to look at it on the committee as they arrived in a bad time.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-10-m0.u12	I understand that the committee supports this amendment. Dear colleagues, I ask you to come into the hall and prepare for the vote. Ladies and gentlemen, please adjust to the working atmosphere, enter the hall, take up jobs. There will now be a vote for the amendment, and since this is the last amendment, there will be an immediate vote for the bill. I ask the secretariat of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to report that there is a vote and ask all deputies to take up their posts. Did you get the card? Dear colleagues! So, are you ready to vote? First, I am putting to the vote the amendment of the 28th National Deputy Levchenk, who was supported by the Committee and which committee recommends that the Hall be supported.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-10-m0.u13	It was rejected, but it was rejected.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-10-m0.u14	She's been turned down, but now. Therefore, the honourable colleagues who support the amendment of the 28 People’s Deputies of Lechchenk, please vote. Please vote. [[10:12:40]] For-143 The decision is not taken. We have thus concluded our discussion of the draft Law on the Features of Access to Information. And, dear fellows, I very much ask you to prepare for the second reading of the law right now. Please do not leave the hall, but come into the hall and take your jobs. Colleagues, there will be a vote. Ladies and gentlemen, first I'm going to put you to a vote to analyze the level of potential in the room. So I'm betting. So I'm voting for a bill on the specificities of access to information in the areas of electricity supply, natural gas, heat supply, centralized hot water supply, centralized drinking water supply and water supply. Signal voting, second reading. Please vote, please take part in the vote. Colleagues, vote, please! [[10:14:17]] For 205 There's potential in the room. I'm going to ask you to come in again, we're missing a few votes, we're going to the hall, we're going to take jobs, we're going to vote. And while the MPs are in the room, I'll give the committee of the Podlesecki committee one more minute to make the closing statement. And I'm asking my fellow MPs to come into the hall. Please, Mr. Podlisecki, you may speak.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-10-m0.u15	Dear colleagues, I would like to go back, indeed, to the amendment proposed by Mr. Lehchenko, because his amendments have simply failed to come before the committee, so they have been rejected by the committee, and in fact this is a sufficiently correct technical amendment that makes the law or the obligation to comply with the law in other narrow areas of law, such as the Housing Services Act, the Law on specialities. The Heat Gas Act, the Electricity Act and others. So I think, in principle, it's logical to put again, go back to the vote on Amendment 28, vote and support it, and then vote in favour of the bill as a whole. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-10-m0.u16	Let's listen to the committee. I'm going to make the 28th amendment again, but I'm going to ask my fellow MPs to come into the hall, take their jobs, get ready for the vote. Colleagues, if you'll excuse me for entering the working atmosphere, please prepare. And I'm putting to the vote the 28th amendment of the People's Deputy Levchenk, which is not only supported by the committee, but recommended by the committee for support in the hall. Who supports the 28th amendment of the People’s Deputy Levchenk, I ask you to vote. Please vote. [[10:16:34]] For-198 There are no votes to correct. And so, colleagues, I'm re-voting now, once again, the draft of Law 2505a in the second reading and in general, the signal vote. Colleagues, please vote, signal vote 2505a, please support, vote. [[10:17:10]] For 223 Yes, I'll put it to a vote. Anyone who hasn't made it, please take the job. So we've had two votes. We're missing literally a few votes. And so I ask my fellow MPs not to wander around the hall, but to take up their jobs and to carry out their direct duty in the Supreme Council of Ukraine, to make decisions. And I'm voting on the draft Law on the characteristics of access to information in the areas of electricity supply, natural gas, heat supply, centralized hot water supply, central drinking water supply and water supply (number 2505a) on second reading and in general. Vote, fellows! Please vote. [[10:18:25]] For 242 Can we? Welcome to the committee, welcome to the drafters. The bill was adopted. Thus, the following is the day - to - day draft of the Act amending certain Ukrainian legislative acts to extend the powers of local self - government authorities and optimize the provision of administrative services (2984). This is also a second reading, a society. And I invite you to report to the head of the Committee on State Building, Regional Policy and Local Self-Government of Dekhtyarchuk Alexander Volodymirovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-10-m0.u17	Dear Mr. Head, the distinguished national deputies of Ukraine! By order of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, the Committee on State Building, Regional Policy and Local Self-Government, at its meeting on 25 November, considered the comments and proposals that came from subjects of the right of legislative initiative to the Act of Ukraine amending certain legislative acts of Ukraine to extend the powers of local self-government and optimize the provision of administrative services (registration number 2984), submitted by Ukrainian national deputies Ljashkom, Alexeiev, Sold and others, and adopted a decision on 14 July 2015 on the basis of a review of the first reading. Prior to the drafting and preparation of the document for the consideration of the Committee, a working group was carried out by the Committee, with the participation of the National Deputies of Ukraine, experts from the Supreme Council, the Cabinet Secretariat, the Presidential Administration, the Centre for Elections, the Ministry of the Interior, the Ministry of Internal Affairs, the State Migration Service, the Ukrainian State Service for Geodesy, Cartography and cadastre, local government administrations, representatives of administrative services centres, the entire Ukrainian Associations of Local Self-Governmental Authorities, scientists, experts. So it's actually about involving the entire range of interested persons in the person of government, local self-government and the public sector, discussing the maximum range of proposals professionally, preparing an optimal version of the final draft of the bill, which is proposed to Parliament for adoption as a law. A second reading of the project from 14 Ukrainian national deputies included 158 suggestions, with 108 proposals proposed by the committee, 8 in part, 4 in editorial form, and 38 in rejection. The Committee's general discussion concluded that it recommended to the Supreme Council of Ukraine, in accordance with article 123, paragraph 3, of the Rules of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, a draft Act amending certain legislative acts of Ukraine to extend the powers of local self-government authorities and optimize the provision of administrative services as a result of the second reading, to be adopted as a whole. If the bill is adopted as a result of a second reading, and in general, we propose to entrust the Committee on State Building, Regional Policy and Local Self-Government, when preparing it for signature by the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, with the Chief Legal Authority, to undertake technical and legal work. Thank you for your attention and I hope, Your Honor, that to support your consideration of this important bill for the local self-government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-10-m0.u18	Thank you. A truly important law. I ask you to remain in the rostrum so that you can comment on the changes if there are questions. I'm asking the right-wing authors to get ready for work. And I'm going to read the rights that were rejected by the committee. So four-a, Fedoruk. Is it insisting? No, it doesn't. 5th, Lukyanchuk. Don't insist. 12th, Kugel. Don't insist. 13th, Kolesniks. Don't insist. 19th, Kugel. 17th Amendment, insists Oksana. But you are not the author of the amendment, but you require confirmation. Justify your position, please. Turn it on, Oksana Prodan, microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-10-m0.u19	Dear colleagues, the 17th Amendment removes from the law the obligation to provide information on changes to the register within 10 days. The first reading adopted the edition of "the obligation to provide information to officials within 10 days," and the amendment deletes this rule for 10 days. Thus, such information may never be provided by officials. So I'm asking you to put this amendment on confirmation because it's a little bit corrupt. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-10-m0.u20	A little corrupt, isn't it? A little bit. Please comment.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-10-m0.u21	It was an association of local self - government. We've been talking to Mrs. Oksana. Actually, I'm like, "No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no." Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-10-m0.u22	Dear colleagues, our fellow national deputy, Oxana Prodan, insists that the 17th amendment be approved. So, who supports and endorses the 17 amendments made by Dekhtyarczuk, Fedoruk and Kudlajenka, please take part in the vote and please vote. 17th Amendment to Confirmation. Please vote. [[10:24:16]] For-136 The decision is not made. 17th is a bit of a corruption amendment, not supported. And so it's being removed from the body of the law. Let's move on. 19th. Is he insisting? No, it doesn't. 28th, Fedoruk. Don't insist. 29th, Anointed. Don't insist. 33rd, Fedoruk. Don't insist. 41st, Fedoruk. Don't insist. 44th, Kolesniks. Don't insist. 46th, Kolesniks. Don't insist. 49th, Kugel. Don't insist. 30th Amendment. Please turn on Oksani Prodan's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-10-m0.u23	Dear colleagues, I am asking you to make 30 amendments for confirmation, because they change the definition of what is the registration authority. In addition to being the executive body of the village, village, or city council, this amendment is proposed to the registration authority to refer to its officials. If we accept this amendment, we will have this: we will have the head of the registration body of a certain execution, and there will be its officials who will work independently of the manager's position, and represent separately, the leader will represent this body and separately – its officials. This is a balancing of the authority itself. So I'm asking you to put this amendment to confirm and not support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-10-m0.u24	Please comment.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-10-m0.u25	Well, it's a really controversial question, it was a discussion about this moment. Depending on the position of the room, it is proposed to vote, because in this case, well, the question is quite controversial. Local government officials act in a manner determined by law rather than by others.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-10-m0.u26	I'm just going to speak to you frankly, for confirmation, and there's almost no way it's going to go through. Is that a principled position to confirm this amendment?
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-10-m0.u27	Well, it's unpractice.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-10-m0.u28	Unprinciple. Then, dear colleagues, I'm betting on confirming the 30th amendment of the Fedoruk People's Deputies for confirmation. Whoever supports this position, please vote. 30th Amendment, Fedoruk, for confirmation. Let's vote, colleagues. Please. [[10:26:45.]] For 121 The 30th amendment is not confirmed. Let's move on. 54 revisions. Anointing. Don't insist. 57th, Anointed. Don't insist. Don't you insist? 59th, Anointed. Don't insist. 61st, Kolesniks. Don't insist. 63rd, Alexandra Kugel. Don't insist. All changes are supported here. 97th, Alexeyev. Don't insist. 98th, Alexeyev. Don't insist. 99th, Kulinich. Don't insist. 101st, Kulinich. Don't insist. 103rd, Amazanov. Don't insist. 105th, Kolesniks. Don't insist. 106th, Alexiev. Don't insist. 108th, Kulinich. Don't insist. 109th, Alexeyev. Don't insist. 124th, Anointed One. Don't insist. 126th, Lukyanchuk. Don't insist. 128th, Lukyanchuk. Don't insist. 130th, Fedoruk. Don't insist. 133rd, Fedoruk. Don't insist. 134th, Lukyanchuk. Don't insist. 139th, Anointed. Don't insist. 144th, Anointed One. Don't insist. 146th Anointed One. Don't insist. 147th, Kugel. Don't insist. 148th, Ishchikin. Don't insist. 150th, Fedoruk. Don't insist. So we were able to go through all the repairs. Ma'am, is there no more corruption? Very good. And please, one more minute from the committee. And I'm asking my fellow MPs to come into the hall. A vote will take place in a minute. I ask the faction secretariat to inform the deputies that there will be a vote in a minute, and please speak.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-10-m0.u29	Ladies and gentlemen, once again, I would like to ask you to support this bill. It provides real possibilities for expanding the authority of local self-government authorities in conditions of decentralization that we talk about so much about with you. We allow united communities to create administrative services centers in united communities. We are able to create remote jobs in remote villages of united communities. We're creating a register of the territorial community that will allow communities to create strategic plans for the development of their territorial communities. Therefore, it is a great request to support this bill. This is another step towards expanding the authority of local self-government. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-10-m0.u30	Thank you very much. And please take your place, get ready for the vote. Colleagues, please, we're taking up jobs. I'll set up the alarm first, although I can see that there's support in the room. This is an important law that supports the general concept of decentralization that our state is carrying out. And I'm voting for a bill amending some of the Ukrainian legislation on extending the powers of local self-government and optimizing the provision of administrative services (number 2984) in the second reading and generally a signal vote. Colleagues, please vote. [[10:30:53]] For 244 244 is "yes", and I can put it to a vote in general. So I am voting on the draft Act amending some of Ukraine's legislative acts to extend the powers of local self-government authorities and optimize the provision of administrative services (number 2984) on second reading and in general. Vote please, colleagues. Can I have your back, please? [[10:31:36]] For 251 Decision taken. Welcome to both the drafters of the bill and the committee. Dear colleagues, I'd like to consult you. Now we have the most important bill today, this is the draft State Service Act. But there are still consultations on the final aspects of this bill. Will you agree to move on to the next? Wait a minute, we're going to go to the next bill, now I just need 30 seconds to consult with the committee head. No break, work like our classic used to say. Dear colleagues, we have consulted the head of the committee and with the Head of the Supreme Council, literally a few minutes to complete the consultations. And I'm going to ask you that while the consultations are over, we're going to look at the drafts in the first reading that go to the next chapter. 3483: Draft Act amending the Ukrainian Anti-Investigative Act. Is there a Nazarenko Viktor Alexanderovich? It's a machine. It doesn't, does it? Representatives of factions, the head of the committee and the Head of the Supreme Council. Dear colleagues, we now have a question of integration into the agenda. Let's go through these moments, how much support will they have in the room? And I'm going to count every bill, every bill, every day, and we're all going to vote. Therefore, it is proposed to include in the agenda of the day session, only to include in the agenda of the day session, the draft Act amending article 6 of the Ukrainian Law on the State Budget for Ukraine for 2015 (as regards the terms of credit for the Project on the Rehabilitation of Hydroelectric Power Plants). Who supports the inclusion of the bill in the order of the day 3564? If you'll excuse me, I'd like to vote. Please enter into the agenda, we vote. [[10:35:12]] For 207 I see there's political will, there's no discipline. Colleagues, please come into the hall, we will now be included in the agenda of the vote, so we have to be in places and vote, I very much ask you to come into the room, I very much ask you to vote, I don't ask, I insist. You're ready, aren't you? I once again put to the vote the inclusion in the agenda of the day session of Bill 3564 on the State Budget of Ukraine for 2015. Whoever supports this proposal for inclusion in the agenda of the session, please support, please vote. Please vote. [[10:36:09]] For 219 We didn't make it. I'll do it again, and I'm asking for attention and discipline in the hall. If he doesn't get the votes now, we'll move on. I'm asking you just to be careful, especially the drafters, to mobilize halls and factions. So once again, I'm putting a draft Act amending article 6 of the Ukrainian Act on the State Budget of Ukraine (3564), the inclusion in the agenda of the day session. Please vote, please support. Please vote. Careful, we're voting! [[10:36:55]] For 218. The decision is not taken. Next: 3559 is the draft Public Procurement Act, the inclusion in the agenda of the day session. Please, Kugel, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-10-m0.u31	We were brought to the committee yesterday by the conclusions of a public organization, which has now brought a very large number of comments to the government's procurement bill. So I'm going to propose to the government to finalize this bill, and then put it into the agenda, because it's going to go to the committee, and then the protests start again. So you see only the comments to the law that the government is now proposing. There's a question that they want to get out of government procurement. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-10-m0.u32	Thank you. It's just a day-to-day inclusion. Is Ivanchuk Andry Volodymyrovich? So it's... it's... Will he have another position? We've made a sound! Ivanchuk, are you trying to tell me about this? No, it's not. Then, please, I'll put it to the vote. Who supports the inclusion in the agenda of the 3559 Public Procurement Bill, please vote. Please vote. [[10:38:30.]] For-200 The decision is not taken. Next: 3555 is the draft Financial Restructuring Act. Include in the agenda of the day session. I emphasize, colleagues, it's just an opportunity and a ability to discuss it, it's not making decisions. Please prepare for the vote and inclusion in the order of the day session 3555. Please vote, please support. Please. [[10:39:09]] For a hundred and The decision is not taken. 3533: Draft Law on Measures to Stimulate External Economic Activities, Mainstreaming the Day Session. Please turn on the microphone for one minute, Mr. Pinzenik. Pinzenic, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-10-m0.u33	Dear colleagues, this law refers to the repeal of the so-called "additional import duty" to be supported. But it would be fair and fair for us to include in parallel an alternative bill that was introduced by our colleagues from Fatherland. Let them name it, and we'll vote to consider it, because they made the same bill. And I'm asking you to back me up.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-10-m0.u34	I will put to the vote a day in the order of 3533 and an alternative bill introduced by the people's deputies. If you support this proposal, please vote, 3533: inclusion in the agenda of the session. Vote. [[10:40:30.]] For 252 Decision taken. Next: 3556 is a draft Act amending the Ukrainian Tax Code to implement the provisions of the Ukrainian Financial Restructuring Act. 3556. No objection, shall we? Entry into the agenda of the 3556 session. Please vote, please support. [[10:41:11]] For 207 The decision is not taken. 3565: Draft Act amending certain laws of Ukraine concerning the identification and registration of animals. Please, Ivchenko, one minute, in the microphone, Ivchenko, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-10-m0.u35	Vadim Yvchenko, "The Fatherland" faction. Dear colleagues, "Fatherland" suggests not to include the draft law in the agenda, because under the change in the identification system it is proposed to completely remove state funding for robots from identification, registration of animals. So today the state is completely removed from this process, from these jobs, and we suggest not to include them. If there's no funds, we don't put in the budget, but the law has to have state support. This is the support of a little grandmother who has a cow. It's the same thing that, if you'll excuse me, you'll take away the tax dollars and tell them that you'll have direct support programs and then these support programs will never wait. The law has to leave, the same thing is said by science and expertise, which is not necessary, it is necessary to define an identification system so that the state can run a single person identification system. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-10-m0.u36	Thank you. Anyone want to say a word in defense of the bill? No one's gonna say a word in defense. Then I put the motion to put it into the agenda 3565: on the identification and registration of animals. Whoever supports the inclusion of this bill in the agenda, please vote. Please vote. [[10:43:15]] For-198 The decision is not taken. Next: 3325 is a draft Act amending some Ukrainian legislation on the conditions for the functioning of the natural gas market. Dear colleagues, may we vote in the order of the day session? We can, right? Please be prepared. 3325 is a day-to-day session. Please be careful. Please vote. Please vote. [[10:43:55]] For-198 Society, I don't understand. If there are no warnings, why don't we vote? [[B in m in s a l in]] Thank you, all right. 3560: Draft Act amending the Ukrainian Budget Code (on public procurement). 3560 can we vote? Please enter the agenda for the 3560 session. Support, vote. [[10:44:42]] For 225 It's just that there's obviously a lack of consideration for the MPs. And that's why I'm voting again. And I ask the MPs to take up their jobs. 3560 is a day-to-day session. Please vote, support. 3560 is a day-to-day session. Vote. [[10:45:14]] For 229 Decision taken. Next: 3351 is a draft law amending section VI, paragraph 33, of the Budget Code for Ukraine (for construction, reconstruction, repair, maintenance of roadways for general use and construction of crossing points across the State border for road connections). 3351, no warning, shall we? Please support the 3351st, please vote for inclusion in the agenda of the session, please. [[10:46:04]] For 229 We support Maxim Burbak, author of the bill. Next: 3540 is a draft Act amending Appendix 3 to the Ukrainian National Budget Act 2015 (for the redistribution of expenditure for the Ukrainian National Security and Defence Council). I'm asking you to support me, company. 3540 please maintain the order of the day session, please. 3540, scheduled for the day session. [[10:46:52]] For-195 Colleagues, I'd like to ask you to support the inclusion simply in the agenda. Society, I'll tell you, when I was Secretary of the National Security and Defence Council, all those who could be circumcised were circumcised. We drove one car all over the National Security and Defence Council. It's during the war, when we had to work around the clock. Let's support the National Security and Defence Council, boys, because we support not one secretary, we support the body responsible for the security of our state. I'm asking you very much to support me, colleagues, I'm very much asking you to vote just for getting into the agenda of the day session. Please, 3540, please support the inclusion in the agenda of the day session. Colleagues, please vote, please support. Please vote. [[10:47:57]] For 197 The decision is not made. 3390: Draft Act amending the Ukrainian Act on Voluntary Union of Territorial Communities to provide State support for voluntary unification of territorial communities. 3390, is there a warning, is there a objection, my friends? You don't? Vote. 3390, inclusion in the agenda of the day session. Please, let's make a decision, vote. [[10:48:38]] For 214 A few votes missing. I'll put it to the vote again. Please take care of your jobs. I'll put him to the vote again. 3390: Draft Act amending the Ukrainian Act on Voluntary Union of Territorial Communities. Entry into the agenda of the day session, please support, 3390. Please vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-10-m0.u37	Dear fellow national MPs, I'd like your attention. Please take your seats. This is about the inclusion in the agenda of the Ukrainian Law on Voluntary Unity of Territorial Communities. The question is about State support for such voluntary unity that takes place in every area and in every constituency of each national MP. I'd like to ask you to support this law now, to be included in the agenda of the day session. And then we're going to talk about the essence of this law and we're going to start working on it. Obviously, State support is needed because it is provided for by law. But all the other mechanisms, I think, are very important. I ask you to maintain inclusion in the agenda, and we will continue to discuss it. Colleagues, please, please, everyone. Please support the inclusion of this bill in the agenda of the session. We'll continue to work on it. I'm asking you to support everyone. We're voting for inclusion in the agenda. Please be supportive. Please support me. [[10:50:23]] For 234 Thank you, Your Honor. This is an extremely important law. So let's sit down, if you don't think he's a big match, let's make it right. But this is very important. Maxim Burbak, one minute. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-10-m0.u38	Vladimir Borisovich, it is right that we have supported the voluntary unification of the territorial communities, since, since January 1, they should be working, new heads of the united territorial communities have already been elected. And so I propose that the 3106 bill, which today stands at the end of the agenda, that we vote, be transferred somewhere, so that we can immediately support the state registration of local self-government bodies as legal persons. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-10-m0.u39	Thank you. I think by 3106 we have full understanding, and we'll get to that. Dear colleagues, we are moving on to a very important law. Draft Law on State Service. In a completely new way, the law will allow you to build a system where professional personnel will start to form in the sphere of government. I think we all have a lot of questions about the quality of public service. So this law will answer the creation of the system. It is clear that in a few years, we will have a completely new professional and quality government service, as Europe, developed economies, and a sufficiently high standard of living. You have been introduced to the draft Law (Registration No. 2490), the draft Law on State Service in a new edition. I invite the head of the Committee on State Building, Regional Policy, and Local Self-Government of Skrum Alon Ivanovna to report. Please, Alona Ivanovna, on the rostrum.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-10-m0.u40	Dear colleagues, distinguished national MPs, honourable Mr. Golovo, respectable Ukraine and Ukrainian citizens! In fact, today we have no exaggeration to make a revolution in the public service and start reforming, strategic reform of government, governance of our state, making politically impartial, neutral, independent and professional civil servants. This is an extremely important law that has been considered by the Committee of Regional Policy, State and Local Self - Rule for more than a month. We have been extremely productive in our work with the committee. I want to thank my colleagues from the committee who held more than four meetings of the working group, more than three meetings of the subcommittee and more than four meetings of the committee devoted to this important law alone. The committee reviewed the proposals and observations made by more than 125 entities under the law of the legislative initiative and introduced it into Parliament’s second reading. Were we able to significantly improve the bill after the first reading, which is also recognized by the international organization SIGMA, which has already provided positive reports and positive feedback on our law? prepared by the committee in second reading. We have preserved the key principles of the situation and maintained the main balance between the independence of the public service and the inefficiencies of politics in the public service. The committee has worked extensively on the scope of the law. Political positions, public service positions, positions, and functions of service and protective services have been divided. Individual categories are derived from the State Service, which is overwhelming for our State and for the separation of these positions and the independence of government. The secretary’s office in the ministries has also been established. This will be a senior civil servant who will manage the personnel, run the administration of the ministries. But he will carry out and help the minister to implement the reforms that the minister assumes the responsibility to introduce and to help the minister in his work. The committee also noted the political impartiality of government officials and identified the very specific authority of the head of the public service in the body. Systemically classified the positions of civil servants depending on the nature and extent of their credentials. This law also creates a commission from the State Service High Corps, which will be open-air competitions on a transparent basis, online, to select the highest public officials in category "A". We have worked extremely fruitfully with all colleagues, from all factions and groups, with the public, with international experts, with representatives of the European Union. And they've prepared a completely balanced and serious law for second reading, which I'm asking today to support to ensure that we really change our public service, change to the best for the wages of government officials, change in the government administration, and introduce the possibility of starting systemic reforms in each state body by engaging in an open competition for professional civil servants in public office and in our senior management.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-10-m0.u41	Please continue.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-10-m0.u42	Technically, I also have to report that the committee has taken into account the vast majority of the observations made by the General Scientific and Legal Department, the Ministry of Defence of Ukraine, the National Bank, the Supreme Court, the Supreme Administrative Court. At the meetings on 1st, 15th July, 2nd September, 2nd, 5th, 6th, 7th and 30th October, we've looked at 1382 straights, of which 418 are to be considered. And taking into account the clarifications noted, the committee agreed to recommend to Parliament the adoption of the draft Law on State Service on second reading and in general. I also have to say that, following the initiative of the Head of the Supreme Council, for which we are grateful, two meetings were held with representatives of factions and groups, both coalitions and opposition, where individual amendments were made that I would like to read. In general, for example, the law on the implementation of this Act is defined not as of January 1st, but as of May 1st to allow for a greater possibility of regulating legal acts. So, on the basis of this meeting, I'm going to ask the room to support the ad hoc voting procedure in a balanced way from the committee of this law. And then I'm going to give you those rights that are agreed upon by the representatives of all the factions of the coalition, and I'm going to ask you to support them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-10-m0.u43	Colleagues, we're going to have six more lines, Yuri Lewchenko is going to sound them. Dear colleagues, I'd like everyone to take their seats and concentrate now. Dear colleagues, I would like to ask everyone to take their seats, and I will now make a proposal that I have announced from Alona Skrum's rostrum.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-10-m0.u44	211th amendment removed.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-10-m0.u45	I mean, that's what we're going to do right now. I'll put to the vote ad hoc. Then there are a number of amendments, a series of amendments that we will announce, including Yuri Lewchenka. Then we're going to vote, and then we're going to vote on a balanced bill. Colleagues, do you copy? And so, I'm making a proposal for ad hoc. Ad hoc on the Committee's version and the amendments that Alona Skrum is going to make, that's exactly what I'm putting to the vote right now. It's a procedure, a procedure for review of the law, ad hoc, a procedure for review. Please take your seats. Please rephrase your proposal, Alona Skrum.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-10-m0.u46	Fellows, once again, let us make a decision on the procedure for considering this law. We are proposing from the committee that we now vote in favour of the ad hoc procedure for this bill and give us the opportunity to give us the opportunity to make a sound after that, which we have also adopted with the heads of factions and parliamentary groups. But first to vote on the procedure itself, that's a procedural question, we're not voting on the law right now.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-10-m0.u47	Dear colleagues, please, this proposal I would like to put to the vote right now, ad hoc. Ready to vote? Colleagues, we vote, there'll be an amendment to Sukhevich. Alona Skrum will announce all these amendments as a result of all the comments that have been discussed, and you will all hear them. I don't think that's supposed to scare anyone. And so, ad hoc, we vote, please support this proposal. Please be supportive. Colleagues, we vote, please support. Now you'll see that everything will be completely balanced, please support. [[11:00:35]] For 216 Dear colleagues, 216 is already very good. I ask everyone, once again, to focus on the next one, will also be reformed on pensions, including colleagues! Please, colleagues, let's once again support this logic of passage, then Alona Skrum will announce and those issues that will not be reconciled, we'll discuss them again, agreed? This will be absolutely constructive, since 1 thousand 300 amendments have been carried out by the group for months on this issue. I'd like all my colleagues to concentrate, please, ad hoc, please support her. We'll do it right. Please support me. Please back everyone up, and then we'll fix Yuri Suhevich, and we'll announce it. Please support the ad hoc proposal. Ready? Take your seats. Take your seats! Take your seats! Vote! Please support ad hoc, please vote, colleagues, vote! Please. Please support this proposal. [[11:02:02:02]] For 214 214, respected colleagues. Please take your seats. [[B in m in s a l in]] Dear colleagues, please. Colleagues, we're voting ad hoc. Please, I'm asking you to back me up again. We're voting ad hoc, just like we agreed. Colleagues, we vote! Please be supportive. Let's vote, colleagues. [[11:03:17]] For 213 Please, Alona Shkrum, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-10-m0.u48	Colleagues, I want to explain what the ad hoc procedures are. We have 1382 rights. 1382! We can make a procedural decision not to go along with each of these rights. We'll give it to everyone! We have a set of regulations that have been agreed upon in some working groups, councils. I'll sound them, and only if you support them will we put them to the vote. We also have Mr. Suhevich's papers that have raised some of you and Mr. Pinzenik, who we will also sound and we will vote separately for them. But I ask that we be able not to go every way, but to consider the bill on the very question of where the issues are and to speak only to the MPs on the issue. I promise you, this is going to go right now. The only thing that hasn't been right since the 1382s. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-10-m0.u49	Please, colleagues, once again, we'll go with you to the repairs. There are a number of amendments that need to be discussed, and we will discuss them. So I would very much like to support you. [[B in m in s a l in]] Colleagues, please, please, once again, I'd like you to focus on this, we're doing ad hoc. We are considering the special procedure of this law, and listen carefully. A thousand 300 amendments are agreed upon by the committee. If any of the deputies have a question when considering this ad hoc procedure, I'll give you an opportunity to make a statement on either of these amendments. I'm not going to put the vote on the committee, we're going to go through, there's still a lot of amendments. There'll be a report by Alona Shkrum, you'll hear it. Your amendments will be taken into account -- well, no -- raise your hand, I'll let you do that. Please, colleagues, are you ready? Ready? Who's going to have questions about the amendments -- I'm going to be able to take a position on the amendments. Come on, colleagues. I ask you to support this proposal once again, which was announced by Alona Shkrum, and I have been clarified. Please, colleagues. I understand that someone might want to overthrow the body of the law so that these amendments will now be torn apart, and all the work that's been in the months has just been thrown under the feet. Colleagues, this is just an order of review, without your votes, the law will not be passed, so I ask everyone to maintain this order of consideration of this law. Is that difficult? Please support the seats, please take your months, fellow MPs. I give my word, Anatoly Sergiyovich. Please be supportive. Please support, colleagues, this logic of consideration. Ready? [[B in m in s a l in]] Vote. Please support everyone not to lose such an important law, this is a procedure for consideration, please. Please be supportive. [[11:07:25]] For 218. Colleagues, offerings from factions. Let's do it this way, colleagues, attention! Now let's listen to what Alona Skrum will read. You'll listen to what this is about, and then we'll go back to the ad hoc review. Anatoly Matvienko, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-10-m0.u50	Dear colleagues, Vladimir Borisovich! Matvienko, the faction of Peter Dustenka. The thing is, I've made a lot of changes myself. I thank the committee for taking most of it into account. I am personally willing to uphold this law, but I need some adjustments that I insist on discussing. So there's no ad hoc. You suggest we look at the agreed first and then go through the rest. So this is what this ad hoc is all about. Then I'm going to vote, just like everyone else who's got the paperwork. And you're depriving us of that possibility. So say, first, we vote in agreement, then everyone has the right to comment on their amendment, we go to the amendment. Under these conditions, a vote may be taken.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-10-m0.u51	The same thing, you just didn't hear it, I was talking about it. About what are the agreed amendments that are in the committee's version. We're doing ad hoc right now so we don't go after all the amendments. There will be amendments to Matvienka, there will be amendments to the people's parliament, there will be amendments to the People's Deputy Levchenka, we will be able to express ourselves, you will not leave this right to the MP. But if you want to follow standard procedure now, you have to come up with all the 1,300 amendments, but that doesn't make any sense, because many of them that were approved by the committee itself have said that, and Alona Skrum from the rostrum said that. That's the logic I'm asking you to support. Okay? Colleagues, come on, I ask this logic to support all factions. I'll give you my word, no questions asked. Please, colleagues, please, colleagues. There is an understanding of this approach7. Please support this approach, dear colleagues. One minute, stop the vote. Oleg Easy, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-10-m0.u52	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. Dear Vladimir Borisovich, I ask you very much to respect our constituents, Ukrainian citizens, who have delegated us here to Parliament to defend their interests. We ask for the word, please give us the word, don't take it away. Now, about the proposal you made. Part three of article 50 of the Rules clearly provides for ad hoc procedures for the second reading of ad hoc. Vladimir Borisovich, in the past, called where the majority of the regions were, even they didn't rape so much, they were forced to look at the second reading, thousands of amendments and so on, and you rape worse than the regionals.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-10-m0.u53	Look, honestly, Oleg Valeriyovich, I didn't start it myself. If there's been a rape or a rape, I can't even do that. Please, colleagues, take this into account. I can only be very persistent in cases where these decisions serve the interests of the Ukrainian people. So I urge you and your faction to support the logic proposed by the profile committee in order to ensure that the law, which the corruptionists and the weavers fear with fear, we can accept and consider it right. So I ask you to support that logic. I underline that if there is an amendment, I will allow the people's deputies to announce these amendments. Please support this. Burbak Maxim, one minute, and we'll go to the vote. Take your seats.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-10-m0.u54	Dear colleagues, this is a fine law that we must adopt today. So let's also go with the speaker logic, and we're going to adopt this bill in ad hoc mode. Secondly, I want to remind everyone that if we don't accept this bill, the State Service Bill has been in force since January 1st since Janukovic. Is that what we want to help or what? Let's vote yes!
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-10-m0.u55	This will be another, yes, a surprise. My colleagues, once again, the logic that I sounded, which was echoed by Alona Skrum, Anatoly Sergiyovich Matviyenko, confirmed it. Please, we're taking our seats. Colleagues, what do we do? Come on, take your seats. It's not my own initiative, colleagues. There were many reconciliation meetings, and there was a committee meeting. I'll give you a chance to speak up. All right, colleagues, let's do it again. We need 226 to make that offer. I call on everyone to vote. Ready? Take your seats, we vote. National deputies, take your seats. Please vote. Ad hoc. I'll give you a chance to speak. Let's vote, colleagues. Please support this logic. Everyone will have the opportunity to express themselves. [[11:15:20.]] For 225 Colleagues, I ask you once again to support this proposal. Vote! Vote! We're voting again! Please be supportive. I'll give everyone a chance to speak, don't worry. Please be supportive. Vote! Please be supportive. [[11:15:40]] For 229 Thank you. Now calm down. Alon Schkrum is on his way. Then Yuri Suhevich will perform. Then Yuri Levchenko will perform, Anatoly Sergiyovich. And it's gonna be okay. We've made a deviation from the standard procedure, and that's normal. Please report to Alona Skrum for five minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-10-m0.u56	My colleagues, thank you so much for your support. What's the problem here, the law is really whole, it can't be balanced, we've been looking very hard at those balances. We realize that the various authorities wanted to make exceptions, and the different factions wanted specific exceptions. So we balanced it on the committee, we did it not once. And that's why I'm proposing to really move away from the committee's editorial work, to take it as a basis, to all of you who have their suggestions for taking into account amendments that the committees have not considered, we're going to be sounding them, of course. I would like to remind you once again that when I vote in favour of this bill, I will ask the Chief of the Supreme Council to entrust the Committee and the Secretariat of the Committee of State and Local Self-Government, in conjunction with the Chief Legal Authority, with its technical and legal work, because any regulation that is to be taken into account or not, will require technical legal work. So first, this is my first request. The other one. We've had two meetings with the faction leaders, the parliamentary parliamentary groups for the initiative of the Supreme Council Head, which have agreed on specific positions that I'm about to read to you. These are technical remarks. I can reason with everyone, just please listen carefully. First. In order to reconcile the main positions of the bill with the results of such a meeting, such clarifications are proposed. Predicting the validity of the law, not on January 1, as we now have in law, but on May 1, 2016. The law is difficult, complex. We need to prepare and commission the Cabinet of Ministers to prepare not one, not two, but more than 30 legal regulations. Since May 1, then, the law has entered into force. And we have been tasking the Cabinet of Ministers on a monthly basis from the date of the publication of the law to prepare and submit proposals for the Supreme Council to carry out legislative acts in accordance with these laws. I don't think there can be any contradictions to this norm. Next. Part four of article 91, to be made clear in such a statement: "The head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine's apparatus shall be appointed to office and shall be dismissed from office by the Supreme Council of Ukraine in accordance with the Constitution of Ukraine and the Rules of the Supreme Council of Ukraine." Next. To complement article 91 with a new part in such an editorial, "the head of the Ukrainian Administration's apparatus is assigned to office and is hereby dismissed from office as President of Ukraine." Next. To provide in paragraph 17, paragraph 3, of section IX, section XI, for the addition of paragraph 2 of the First Article 3 of the Ukrainian Anti-Corruption Act by a new sub-item “representatives of civil associations, scientific institutions, educational institutions, experts of the relevant qualification, who are part of a competition commission established in accordance with the Public Service Act”. I'll explain this because it's complicated technical. We have a commission from the State Service Corps, which includes representatives of public associations. We ask that the Law on the Prevention of Corruption also apply to them. They will make the decision to choose the highest civil servants of our nation at the time of the competition. They too will be forced to make declarations under the Law on the Prevention of Corruption. I think it's the right thing to support. Thank you. Next. To complete an article that deals with the question of paying public servants according to the statement made by the Prime Minister here on the previous week's work of the Supreme Council. The Public Service Fund is formed on the basis of public budget funds, as well as the funds that come into the State budget under the European Union programmes from international financial institutions, donor institutions and foreign governments. The use of such funds that come into the State budget under the programmes of the European Union and the costs of international financial organizations and other states is approved by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. And last but not least, colleagues, I must inform you that 211 Mr. Mikoli Knieżicky, Jaroslav Lesyuk, Irina Suslowy and Ostap Semerak have been called off today. Therefore, I am also asking to make editorial changes to the bill in connection with the appeal of number 211. That's all, colleagues. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-10-m0.u57	Thank you. Dear colleagues, in fact, the result of the work of the entire team and the committees. There's an offer. Yuri Suhevich. Please, Mr. Yuri.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-10-m0.u58	Deputies! Under the coalition agreement, we have committed all to the appointment of pensions according to a single principle. There's a violation in the "transitional positions" of the law. A violation because it is a return to privileged pensions. So I ask you to support my amendment 1341 and vote for it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-10-m0.u59	Please comment from the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-10-m0.u60	Colleagues, really, these are important changes in the End Positions. As for your amendment, the committee has repeatedly spoken on this matter. We noted that the pension provision of government officials should not be separate from the pension provision of ordinary Ukrainian citizens. That's why in the text of the law, not in the Finals or Transitional Positions, we predicted that the pensions of government officials were formed on general grounds. But as we communicate with lawyers and, in principle, with rational people, we understand that those people who had worked in the public service for more than 20 years or more for more than 10 years came into the public service with a contract of employment for specific pensions of civil servants paid twice as much as the EU’s contribution. On the advice of the lawyers, we feel that until the day that we publish the law, we have to fulfill our obligations to such persons. Since the publication of the law, there will be no other pensions for civil servants and there will be no pension. So with the heart of the committee with you, we really support that all citizens are equal before the law and there must be no privileges. But those who have worked for more than 10 years and more than 20 years in the public service have been appointed by a committee, including lawyers.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-10-m0.u61	Finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-10-m0.u62	including European experts, they should have a pension, according to which they have worked their whole lives. We are also afraid to create a gap when these pensions come back through the courts, through the European Court of Human Rights and through the courts. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-10-m0.u63	Thank you. It's rejected, this amendment, we need 226 to account for it. Thank you. I think before we go to the vote for the law, we're going to put this amendment, after the pensions, to the vote so that everyone is present in the room, and we're going to define the members of the Supreme Council. Next. Because it was rejected. 288 revisions. Yuri Lewchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-10-m0.u64	Lewchenko, Freedom, 223 District, Kiev City. Well, first of all, I'd like to address both the presiding and our viewers, the Ukrainian people. There is no ad hoc concept in the Supreme Council of Ukraine's Rules of Procedure of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on second reading. That is, what is currently happening, unfortunately, is being passed in principle, the necessary law is being passed, the rules are being broken, the laws, the so-called European norms that you are talking about. Instead of discussing these norms, we would have gone through half the amendments a long time ago. For example, in Western European parliaments, some bills are discussed in the American Parliament for three days. Nothing, MPs work and don't break up, they don't walk, it's okay. As for my amendment, the bill stipulates that the Head of State Service may, on the application of a civil servant, form a commission composed of at least three persons for the examination of the facts in the application, refer to disciplinary violations. However, it is not determined who may be involved in the personal composition of such a commission, that is, the decision of the director concerned. We understand which commissions this manager is going to create, which makes this standard absolutely positive. My amendment proposes to specify who should be on the appropriate committee that people should join.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-10-m0.u65	Thank you. Please comment.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-10-m0.u66	Thank you, Mr. Levchenko. We have looked very carefully at the entire chapter on disciplinary commissions, the disciplinary responsibility of a public official, and we have determined that the members of the commission are included in the same number of representatives of the head of the public service, as defined by him as government officials, this public authority, the representatives of the civil servant, as defined by him, as well as the representatives of the electoral body of the primary professional organizations delegated by the decision of that body. You also propose to include in this section experts and other representatives of public associations established in accordance with the Law on Public Associations. Again, the matter was discussed by the committee. The Committee has determined that given the number of these possible disciplinary commissions, considering that it will be necessary to look for representatives of the public all the time, we cannot oblige each commission to involve these representatives. This can be done accordingly if you agree. But we cannot commit to the involvement of representatives of the public and of public associations in every commission. This, by the way, was agreed upon by the working group with representatives of the community themselves. Moreover, order should already be laid down in regulations, let us not overburden the law by making arrangements for each one to be appointed.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-10-m0.u67	Please, colleagues, 288 amendments rejected by the committee. The author is Yuri Lewchenko, not supported by the committee, please 288. The amendment of Yuri Lewchenk, who is not considered by the committee. [[11:26:45.]] For-93 I didn't get the required number of votes. 652, Yuri Lewchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-10-m0.u68	Thank you. First of all, I'd like to comment briefly on the last response of the rapporteur on the sub-legislative acts and so on. We have a great understanding of how the Kabdin is going to make legal acts in such a way that these disciplinary commissions are completely butt-for-all. In fact, it will be, and they will also decide that everything is wonderful. Next, my amendment number 652 refers to the mandatory introduction of an anonymous test when conducting an examination for the vacancy. That is, so that there is no prior name link, so that it is not known who checks whose test, so that each candidate is assigned an anonymous number, and only under this number would they be identified when testing them. It's a perfectly normal practice, a good practice, an absolute practice of the vast majority of developed countries that are present in the British State Service, the German State Service and so on. If we want to overcome even a little bit of corruption that is now, we would have to introduce this anonymous test, or we'd know again who's checking who and they'd agree in advance, and everything would be great, and it would be the same public service as always. So please support my amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-10-m0.u69	Please comment.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-10-m0.u70	Thank you, colleagues. This is a 652. Indeed, we now foresee that candidates who have already passed the competition and who have passed the test provided for in part one of the same article are being tested in accordance with the procedure for conducting the competition approved by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. I invite you to join us in developing this order of competition, which is already being done by the State and, including, by representatives of the public and by members of the people. Well, the problem is, we can't take everything into account in the law, colleagues. Now we're trying because there's no confidence in the Cabinet of Ministers, because there's no trust in each other to take into account every detail, an anonymous test of who's going to make this test, how it's going to be made up. I'd like that legal definition, too, but that's impossible. We just have to do the control functions of the Ukrainian Parliament and ensure that the activities of the Kabmin and the acts that it will develop are controlled. But it is not physically possible to prescribe all kinds of things in a vast law. Thank you. So the committee suggested that the amendment be rejected.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-10-m0.u71	Thank you. Please, 652 amendments to Lechchenka, which are not supported by the committee. [[11:29:19]] For 131 I didn't get the required number of votes. Please, 660 revisions. Please, Yuri Lewchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-10-m0.u72	Thank you. Thank you. Well, you know, when I hear about trust in Kabmin, and let's work on Kabmin's normative acts, the feeling is that we're not living in Ukraine right now, but in some country in Western Europe, where Kabminu is very honest, where there's no corruption, where we're trying to work for people and so on. What the hell? Excuse me, please. Alona, well, that kind of thing, well, it's serious you say things like that. Which one's Kabin? The Kabin will prescribe such an order that it will be convenient to push its people, as they have always done, so there is a Parliament to balance at the time of the formation of the acts. And, in particular, my amendment to 660 -- that also applies to that. Because you were originally prescribed that a third of the competition committees were formed by representatives of public associations, the truth is, they were not prescribed, which, well, were not clearly prescribed there. You've thrown these social groups out right now, according to your amendment to 667. I'm not going to put it on confirmation so they don't tell me I'm breaking the law. But I urge you to vote in favour of my amendment 660, which still leaves a third of the competition boards, members of the competition boards from public associations, and prescribes exactly what these associations should be. Because if we give it back to the full executive authority, it will remain the same.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-10-m0.u73	Please comment, Alona Skrum.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-10-m0.u74	Thank you. Edit 660, right? Well, look, we didn't turn you down as a committee because the public associations weren't involved. Just the concept, the principles of this law on the competition commission of category "A" are necessarily four representatives involved. We rejected it because of another question, we rejected it because you wrote, "The competition for the positions of the heads of the local government administrations and their deputies is conducted by a competition commission established by the Ukrainian President's Administration." This is not in line with the principles of our law, where the only commission, without any distinction between the commission of the President's Administration or the Cabinet, the only commission from the State Service Corps was the reason. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-10-m0.u75	Mr. Yuri, do you insist on voting 660 amendments? He insists. Dear colleagues who support the amendment of the 660 People's Deputy Levchenk, we have heard the committee's position, please vote. Please vote 660 amendments to Lechchenk, please. [[11:31:52]] For the 180. The decision is not taken. Mr. Yuri, your next amendment is 1080.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-10-m0.u76	Please, 948, because there's 9, 4, 8.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-10-m0.u77	Is that your amendment?
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-10-m0.u78	Mine, mine.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-10-m0.u79	948, okay. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-10-m0.u80	Thank you. Well, first of all, Mrs. Scrum, you're a little bit. 660 reports, and that's not what they said. What you said about the President's Administration was your own original version, which you later cancelled. My amendment applied to your original version right there, and it says "President's Administration" in fact. And then you took away from the next competition boards, took away the public organizations in general, your amendment 667, but that's different. My 948th Amendment, what does it mean? This is a question of the minimum wage of government officials. And it's kind of taken into account that there really should be two minimum wages for civil servants, right? But in fact then we see in the Transitional Positions, your amendments to 1300, 1200, that it's going to be very gradual, and only in 2019 will they really get these two minimum wages.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-10-m0.u81	Please, 30 seconds, finish, Mr. Yuri.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-10-m0.u82	I'd like to go to this room right now and to the Ukrainian people. I'm not going to "fall" these amendments, 1300, because they're telling me once again that Lechenko's law is being destroyed, as you're writing on Facebook. But in fact, if a government official who makes a decision signs documents worth millions, millions of dollars, gets 1,000 100 dollars of wages, it's worth billions of dollars to a state, billions of dollars to a state that costs such corrupt government officials. However, this rule would probably need to be introduced, not since 2019, but from the following year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-10-m0.u83	Thank you. Please comment on the 948 amendment, Mrs. Helena.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-10-m0.u84	Thank you, colleagues. Indeed, the committee held a separate meeting to pay for the work of civil servants. And, fellow believers, believe me, we clearly realize that it is impossible to demand decent work from a government official who is qualified, professional, or to overcome at least minimal corruption without the merit of paying the civil servant. So the committee worked on a separate concept. We set up guarantees to raise the salaries of government officials. And these guarantees are precisely because we've counted one of your rights, Mr. Lewchenko, where it says that the size of the civil servant's official's official salary, the minimum wage, is two minimum wage, which is a little more than $1,270 today. But after consulting with the Ministry of Finance and with the government that's been visiting us all the time in the working groups and taking part, we realize that there's really no funding for this year, this budget can't be strengthened by the number of government officials. Therefore, it is suggested that we place this as a guarantee, and we will begin the gradual increase as early as January 1, 2017. And really, this guarantee is going to work completely in two years. If we're able to do this sooner, I think we should work with you to do this sooner. So do we.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-10-m0.u85	Please finish 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-10-m0.u86	The committee supported the increase in substantial guarantees and supported your amendment to increase. And indeed, we had to move for one year the beginning of the introduction of that amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-10-m0.u87	Mr. Yuri is taking down the amendment. And the last amendment he announced was 1080 amendments. And he obviously insists on the performance by Yuri Lewchenko. Please turn on Lechchenkov's microphone, 1080 revisions.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-10-m0.u88	Thank you, I'm warning you, it says here that the amendment is partially accounted for, it's not really counted at all, and this is a very important moment. The bill proposes that disciplinary commissions be set up at every government body that is established at the direction of the head of the relevant State body. That is, the disciplinary commission will be directly subordinated to a leader who will actually bring responsibility to a civil servant. Thus, the disciplinary commission will never make decisions that conflict with the opinion of the head of such a public body. I think it is appropriate to create appropriate disciplinary commissions with the central executive authority that provide and implement public policy in the sphere of public service. In this way, it will be kept in the impartiality of the disciplinary commissions. I mean, I urge you not to let disciplinary committees depend on the direct manager of that civil servant they're supposed to be looking at, well, it's absurd, it's a direct conflict of interest. What guide will allow an objective consideration of the disciplinary violation of his immediate subordinate? What are you doing, good people?
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-10-m0.u89	Please, Mrs. Helena, comment.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-10-m0.u90	My colleagues, we had a separate committee meeting again, a separate working group meeting on a disciplinary commission. Mr. Levchenko proposes principles that we have partly considered. And these are partially accounted for. But it cannot be a commission that is independent at all, and none of which is represented by the public officials of that body. I'm just reminding you again, as we pointed out by the committee, that the disciplinary committee is at least six members. And it includes a variety of representatives, representatives of trade unions, including. Representatives of civil associations may be included. Representatives come from a government official and from the head of the body. The fact that it is formed by the governing body does not mean that only its representatives are there, and you understand that. The committee's amendments are therefore proposed to be rejected, partly counted, sorry.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-10-m0.u91	So you heard the position of both the committee and the author of the amendment. Yuri Lewchenko insists on voting? Who supports the proposal of amendment 1080 to accept it fully and the committee has accepted it only partially, please vote. 1080, Lechenko repair. Please vote. [[11:38:05]] For 111 The decision is not taken. The amendments made by the People’s Deputy, Levchenko, have been completed. Let's move on to Yuri Suhevich's amendments.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-10-m0.u92	Ruslan Knazevich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-10-m0.u93	Ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-10-m0.u94	No, no, they're bugged, they're Yuri Shuhevich's repairs. I'll call them later. Or another one? Oh, please, Yuri Suhevich. Then Ruslan Knazevitch.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-10-m0.u95	Ladies and gentlemen, I ask for your support, first of all, for your support for Amendment 1341, and also for Amendment 1333. In the name of the law, I am willing to withdraw the bill, 33 amendments, and a recalculation of all former assigned pensions. Including those on the basis of the President's secret decrees by former secret secretaries of the parties. May I have your support, please?
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-10-m0.u96	Please comment from the committee. Please, Ruslan Knazevich.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-10-m0.u97	Thank you, Your Honor, Mr. Head, a distinguished reporter. My amendments, there's a lot of amendments. But I would still like to focus on two amendments that are key among my own. They refer to questions that have come to Parliament by judicial authority. You remember, Mr. Head, you received a letter from the Head of the Constitutional Court, all the courts of Ukraine, the National Court of Justice, the Council of Judges, the High Council of Justice on the grounds that you did not violate the rights of assistant judges and judges. It's about revisions 108 and 1256. I ask them to be supported because in this reference, the judicial authorities are talking about what such a narrowing of the rights of the court's employees may have consequences because they do not see any sign of unconstitutionality in such amendments. In order not to provoke unnecessary lawsuits and court proceedings, including the submission to the European Court of Human Rights and to the Constitutional Court of Ukraine, I would still like to support these amendments, which will remove the tension that currently exists. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-10-m0.u98	Thank you. 108 amendments and 256, which are rejected by the committee. Please inform the reporter.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-10-m0.u99	Thank you, Mr. Knazevitch. The committee had a conversation on this subject. And indeed, we have a clear separation, as you know, of the positions of guardianship, that is, of people who come with a minister or with a judge, or with a national deputy, press secretary, ministers' councillors, civil servants' councillors and public service officials. And by the same concept, we've been studying the legal instruments for assistant judges. Under the same concept, judges’ assistants do not go through competitively independent. They come here and they come here, and they're not career civil servants, they don't stay in court in fact, and they don't go to higher government offices. So by this concept, we discussed this with representatives of the judicial branch. We have expelled them from the public service, they are a protective service. Yes. The workers of the apparatus. I'm just going to say, it's a very important thing. Of course, the workers of the apparatus are government officials, and this is written down because we have written in article 3, which distributes to government officials the last paragraph of the other public authorities.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-10-m0.u100	Ruslan Knyazevich, once again.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-10-m0.u101	The 1256 amendment relates to what we narrow down to the rights of court officials. It's not about assistants, it's about people who work in the public service. Given that in this way we generate competition between two norms. Because there is the Law on the Status of Judges, which provides for these rights, and there will be the Law on State Service, where these rights are restricted. In view of the fact that these courts will continue to apply the standard they need and will accordingly give rise to certain conflicts of action through the adoption of judicial precedents. To avoid these things, I ask 1256 amendments to support and remove at least at this stage. We will continue to see how this situation develops.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-10-m0.u102	Please, Alona Shkrum.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-10-m0.u103	Colleagues, I don't deny the 1,256 amendments. In fact, the committee decided to reject it, but it's End and Transition. I won't deny her consideration. Let's support the amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-10-m0.u104	Thank you. The 1256 amendment is the one that needs confirmation. Before we vote, Ruslan Petrovich, the law, we will consider it. Please, Your Honor. They've been going to ad hoc for so long, and now there's no more questions. Dear colleagues, you and I have made all the adjustments, everyone has said. Yuri Derevyanko, please. All members of the People's Council, please come to the Supreme Council of Ukraine. And we'll do it before we do it.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-10-m0.u105	Yuri Derevyanko, Will Party. The honourable chairman, the honourable reporter, our amendments were mainly about the formation of a national human resources reserve and the transparency of the selection of those candidates who applied for the public service. And they envisioned a mechanism where, onlinely, everyone who wanted to go to the public service could register, and the official was obliged to invite them to the appropriate competition. Instead, all these amendments were completely ignored. And I hope that the working group that will ensure the development of a competition order that has been approved by the Cabinet of Ministers will take this idea into account so that we can freely register all those who want to be registered on a site that has to be run by the relevant authority of the public service, and this appropriate body has to invite all these people to the competition rather than manipulate those statements, those advertisements in newspapers or other things that do not actually allow them to participate in the competition. So I ask you to take this idea into account for implementation in the appropriate government decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-10-m0.u106	Please, Ostap Semerak.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-10-m0.u107	Dear colleagues, I'd like to support on behalf of our faction the procedure we've followed. In fact, the Law on State Service is absolutely necessary. And in highlighting the statement or, more specifically, the announcement by the reporter, Alan Schkrum, would like to say that we, the authors of the 211 amendment, confirm its withdrawal, which is the result of the elimination of paragraph 6 of the 8th article. And I would like this to be confirmed to the chairman and to report in the vote that our appeal leads to elimination in the text of the law of paragraph 6, and accordingly the following paragraphs change their numbering. This must be taken into account when voting. Thank you. Sound and vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-10-m0.u108	Please, Alona Shkrum.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-10-m0.u109	Thank you. I confirm under the transcript that actually removing this amendment means eliminating paragraph 6. There will be no paragraph 6 in the law, and according to technical legal work, we'll do it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-10-m0.u110	Dear colleagues, I ask you to take your seats in the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Dear colleagues, please take your seats in the hall. Vladimir Mikhailovich Litvin. Please take our seats and prepare for the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-10-m0.u111	Dear Head, I am also addressing you with a report on amendment 1256. So she'll be supported when she votes? Is that what I'm saying?
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-10-m0.u112	Yes. The logic will be as follows: we have three amendments: two by the national deputy Shuhevich, who we did not vote on, and one by Ruslan Petrovich Knazević. We will now put them before the vote and then in general, according to the results of the vote. Please, Vladimir Mikhailovich Litwin. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-10-m0.u113	Thus it is possible that in order to achieve a positive outcome, the law should be put to the vote, taking into account all three amendments in general and all. Then we support all of us together.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-10-m0.u114	There's a separate 1333, there's a proper formulation. But we're not going to lose these three amendments, I think they're all going to be counted. That's why we put them to a vote before the law is passed in general. Please take our seats, dear colleagues, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-10-m0.u115	Please, dear fellows, we come into the hall, we take up jobs. This is one of the most important bills and this week it is a global reform, and it is important that we be able to vote responsibly. Please take up jobs. Please prepare for the vote. The Secretary of the Supreme Council, please inform us that there will be a vote. Please, we're taking up jobs.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-10-m0.u116	Please, Your Honor, are you ready to vote? Now we're going to vote on the amendments. Please. And so it's 1341. Sounds like Alona Skrum.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-10-m0.u117	Colleagues, as Mr. Shuhevich has taken off the count, then we have to say that 1333 can be counted without counting, because he has removed it, and 1,341 halls can be determined, the committee has rejected it, the hall can be defined. Specpense. Okay. In fact, I'll say it again. Colleagues, this is the End Position, where it is noted that if a person worked in the public service for 10 years or more, he gets a pension in accordance with a specific article of the current Pension Insurance Act. And if it worked for more than 20 years on the day of the adoption of the law in the public service, it also receives the pension of a corresponding civil servant. Mr. Suhevich proposes that this paragraph be excluded from the law at all, i.e. all pension insurance in general even for those who worked for 20 years and more in the public service, paid double contributions and counted on a separate pension. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-10-m0.u118	Thank you. Victor Mikhailovich Pinzenik, please explain, and we will vote. Take your seats, distinguished national MPs. Victor Mikhailovich Pinzenik, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-10-m0.u119	Dear National Deputies! This is about restoring the simple norm of the Constitution. All Ukrainian citizens are equal before the law, and for all Ukrainian citizens, the only pension law must be in force. And what our colleague, Yuri Suhevich, has proposed, I ask you to support everyone in the editorial section in which he proposed 1333 and 1341. Please vote, I think with these rights, the law has a chance to be approved.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-10-m0.u120	Colleagues, and so on: Amendment 1341, Yuri Suhevich announced it, creating a single pension system. This amendment, if we support it, will make it impossible for special pensions. It's going to be consistent in our decisions that we've made before, so please support it, 1341 amendments. Ready to vote? It's a pension. Ready? 1341. Please, we're taking our seats. Please, there will be a clarification of 1,333 amendments. Please, 1333 revisions, specify.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-10-m0.u121	In 1333 the same way, if you and I decide to take out special pensions after 1341, we have to make the same decision after 1333, except for the count, as the author himself noted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-10-m0.u122	Colleagues, there's a proposal to vote 1341th, 1333rd and 1256th. And given what Alona Skrum announced from the rostrum, in general, in the second reading and in general the whole bill. Here's a proposition, dear fellows. Nope. Yeah, okay. 1341st Amendment, pension. It was rejected. There's an offer to take it into account. Please identify the 1341st amendment, Yuri Suhevich. Ready to vote? Vote! Attention, reform of 1341. Vote! [[11:53:25]] For-189 I didn't get the required number of votes. 1333th Amendment, please. Please, Oleg Easy, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-10-m0.u123	Oleg Lazko, "Radical Party." I'm talking to my esteemed colleagues and the reverend faction of the People's Front, some of which I just didn't vote for the amendment. Our amendment foresees that all Ukrainian citizens should receive a pension on the same terms as they have earned — as much as they do without any privileges. I'm asking the entire room to support the amendments to the removal of the government officials' pension benefits. And I guarantee that the Radical Party faction will vote in full for the law as a whole, taking into account the correction of Suhevich's pension insurance equal and the same for all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-10-m0.u124	Please, Sophia Denisov. Let's just calm down a little bit, fellows, so it's better when you're quieter -- it's better to work.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-10-m0.u125	Good afternoon, distinguished colleagues! I don't want to. I wanted to explain a little why such a standard is recorded in transitional situations. This is true of those citizens who have worked almost all their lives in the public service. By 2010, they had paid five times as much as they paid. They are now paying, even though they are not granted such a pension. Two-and-a-half times that. So I'm talking to Mr. Laishka, and we've discussed this with you when this problem arose, and you've agreed that it's still equal rights for everyone. If a person has already paid for such pensions, that is how they should be paid. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-10-m0.u126	Thank you. Replica, it was called. Please, a line, a minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-10-m0.u127	Dear Mrs. Ludmila Denisov, I want the citizens of Ukraine to know that government officials pay only 3 percent more contributions, let them get 3 percent more pensions, not 5 times more than 10 times as much as ordinary workers. Why did the colporteurs, why the peasants, why the milkmaids, why the pigs, why the teacher and the doctor get a copy pension, and you get everything while you're in the warm office? So we insisted on eliminating this privilege. We thank Parliament for its support, since June 1st, this privilege has been eliminated. Now you're offering to bring her back. I ask you to support the amendment, eliminate the pension privileges for government officials -- and in general vote on the progressive, modern State Service Act. Everyone has to be equal before the law, including us!
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-10-m0.u128	Thank you. Ludmila Denisov was named after him. But I'm asking you to stop switching.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-10-m0.u129	Dear colleagues, I don't think anyone will deny that I know more than anyone has told Mr. Lassie how much a person has paid. I very much ask you to turn your attention to the prosecutors, the judges, the people's deputies, the high-level civil servants. This is about local self-government, including, they paid, and now they're just going to be deprived of pensions, 200 or 300 dollars will be paid less. And that's almost 200,000. Let's think about them.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-10-m0.u130	Thank you. Colleagues, you'll learn to speak without a last name. Oleg Lazko. A name has been given. The replica.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-10-m0.u131	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. I'll tell you, Your Honor, who told me that Grandma Mania in the village tells me what she's been through all her life -- and 940 bucks a pension! My grandfather John tells me about the factory he used to work with, and he gets a penny pension! I am told by doctors and teachers who have given their lives to save people, and they receive cash pensions! That's who's telling me! At the same time, I see a holdfast in the cabinets, warm, cozy, tidy, paper from one end of the table to the other -- and 10,000 pensions a month get! Where is justice?Oh, my God! Why do you prey on ordinary workers and give everything to those they feed? So I'm asking Parliament, this is a global debate: either we live all the same, by one law, or we leave the privileged caste. That's the discussion between me and Mrs. Dennis.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-10-m0.u132	Guys, can I ask you a question? Look, the line on the line, we have to finish, but. You want to break the law? 30 seconds, Ludmila Denisov. She was named 59 seconds ago.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-10-m0.u133	Dear colleagues, I ask you to calm down! It's not a political issue, it's a question of the lives of people who went to work in local self-government and worked their entire lives as small experts to make choices, including those like you. I don't think you've always been people's deputies, but I've been a member of the Supreme Council of Crimea. And I advise you all that justice is the same for all. That 22 articles of the Constitution are equal rights for all. And now we're exacerbating the rights of these people who have worked their entire lives in the service that has given them a job, and now we need to give them the pension they deserve. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-10-m0.u134	Thank you. Dear colleagues, thank you. I'll be right there. You'd better do something polite with your wife, Oleg Valeriyovich. Colleagues, attention, attention, this is the Public Service Act, and I understand that there can be different approaches and different visions. And if you and I think that we need to make special arrangements for people's pensions, let's take this separately and talk about it separately. But talking about it now, not finding support for the number of votes, it's not right. So I'd like to ask you this. Let's support 1341 amendments, let's pass the law, this law enters into force on March 1st. May 1st, I'm sorry. We'll still be able to talk about pensions separately. But not settling it now, because this is going to tear the whole room apart. We're going to have a problem. So I would ask you to support 1341 amendments and move on accordingly. Normal logic? Now someone says yes, someone says no. I think it's normal. Let us not let this stop us from adopting this law. And so, colleagues. We're going to have five months, we're going to have five months, we're going to have five months, we're going to have five months, we're going to have a discussion, and we're going to be able to find an understanding. Because right now, we're not going to find an understanding. So I would very much like this issue to be settled now. Please, Alona Shkrum, and we vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-10-m0.u135	Colleagues, colleagues, well, actually the law on 1382 revisions, on a huge number of pages, it reloads the whole system. And as for pensions, there's one line, one. Well, let's not substitute ideas. Our law has no other approach than general pensions for all who have been working since the date of entry into force of this law. Well, the law just can't have reverse power. But, colleagues, we're in the middle of a pension reform, and we're about to have a new pension legislation. We're going to settle this, and we're going to find consensus here. We can't make this law through one line, one.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-10-m0.u136	Colleagues, come on, I'm asking you to support 1341. Let's support her. We have the law in force since May 1, 2016. We'll be able to work out some of the issues with you. We're going to have a dozen more questions that we can work out. But by our actions now and by our political responsibility, we can put an end to this question. I wouldn't want that to happen, colleagues. Please, 1341 revisions. 1341 revisions. Please, let's support, let's vote. 1341. Voting, voting. Please support now, 1341 revisions. [[12:04:09]] For-173 I didn't get the required number of votes. 1333. This is a similar amendment, announced by Alona Skrum. She kept saying that. No counting, considering that there's no counting. 1333, with no count. 1333 amendment. Vote. Vote. [[12:04:42]] For 178. I didn't get the required number of votes. Next position. This is a 1256 amendment announced by Ruslan Petrovich Knazevitch. 1256. Ready to vote? It's a normal amendment, it's not a discussion, everyone's supported it. Please support her, 1256. Please. Knjazevic, Ruslan Kniazevic, announced. Please be supportive. 1256. [[12:05:15.]] For 204 Once again, colleagues, 1256 amendments announced by Ruslan Knyazevich. About the judge's apparatus, about the judges. He advertised it, argued, 1256. Please support her. Please, colleagues, 1256. Vote. 1256. [[12:05:44]] For 196 Nor did she find the required number of votes. It is evident that these issues will need to be further settled. And now they've taken their seats, dear colleagues. Please take your seats. Prepare for the vote. Please, colleagues, please take your seats in the hall. Please. Please, colleagues. Please take your seats. My colleagues, once again, I want to confirm that this bill has entered into force since May 1, 2016. So let's take these three questions apart. Let's get some experts together. On the basis of the committee, we'll talk all the questions and settle issues and pensions. Oleg Valeriyovich, and the pensions settle the issue. Let's settle the question of the judges. We have five months to settle this issue. I'm sure we'll do it. Please support this. Ready? And so, colleagues, historic voting. No exaggeration. No exaggeration. No exaggeration of the historic vote. We've been doing this a long time. 2490: Draft State Service Act according to the decision of the Committee with proposals announced by Alona Skrum from the rostrum, with technical and legal rights, a signal vote. Please support this bill. This is a signal vote on the second reading and generally, according to my proposal. Please support everyone, colleagues. Vote. Vote. [[12:08:00]] For 255 And now we vote in second reading and in general. We're voting according to the proposal I made. Vote. The second reading is also, in general, in the version of the Committee on Sounded Amendments, which was announced by Alona Skrum, a technical legal order. We vote and ask for your support in the second reading and in general. [[12:08:31]] For 261 Colleagues, by factions, please: 104 – "Block of Peter Prashenko", 71 – "National Front", "Block of Opposition" – 2, "Help Self-Help" – 22, Oleg Laska – 1, "Fatherhood" – 17, "Party of Rebirth" – 1, "Will of the People" – 13, non-fractional – 30. Dear fellow national MPs! Welcome to the adoption of the Public Service Act! Now we have 5 months to settle all the necessary issues. All hail the adoption of this important law! I hereby announce a recess of 30 minutes in accordance with the Supreme Council of Ukraine Rules.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-10-m0.u137	Dear colleagues, the time for recess is over. I'm asking my fellow MPs to come into the hall, take jobs, get ready for work, please. I don't hear anything, don't scream. Dear colleagues, please come into the hall and prepare for work. We don't even have enough to make decisions about a reduced procedure. I very much ask the deputies to come into the hall and take up jobs. Dear colleagues, we should now continue to vote for the inclusion of drafts in the agenda, but there are not enough deputies. Wouldn't you mind if I went over the agenda of the day's first reading, and then we'll come back when there's a high mobilization in the hall? Is there any objection? Thank you all for your understanding. And I'm going to read first, and here we have the first draft of the Act amending the Ukrainian Act on Counterintelligence (3483). This is a professional, specialized law, which is not conflict-free, and I ask to vote in favour of its consideration in short notice. Colleagues, I'm asking you to vote 3,483 for the reduced procedure. Please support your colleagues. Let's vote. Vote. [[12:56:03]] For 109 Well, can you give me some advice, do we go into a long procedure, do we go full-time, or do we go into full-time mobility? What ideas? 40 votes. The faction secretariat, please invite deputies to the Hall, as well as the secretariat of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. I ask you to support the review of the reduced procedure, the draft law on counterintelligence. Well, there's a briefing. You don't have to do the briefing during the Supreme Council meeting. Colleagues, please come into the hall. We'll wait two more minutes until the briefing is over and the deputies enter the hall. I'm asking you to come into the hall and take up jobs. Faction managers, please mobilize the special warehouse. The Secretary of the Supreme Council, I ask you to invite the deputies to the Hall. Dear colleagues, can we vote? Once again, I ask you to support a simplified procedure for a specialized law on counterintelligence (3483). There is an offer to consider it in a simplified procedure from the committee head. I ask you to vote and I ask you to support the consideration of the reduced procedure. Please, let's vote. [[12:58:11]] For-123 Please come into the hall, we're taking up jobs. 3483, colleagues. Sergey Lechchenko, please do not leave, but come into the hall. Please, every voice has a weight, well, society. We can go in full procedure right now, it'll take an hour. And a lot of important bills we just can't think about, it's all very simple and very banal, logic as simple as possible. I'm asking you to back me up. Colleagues, please. So, your honorary colleagues, the People's Front, the Petra Prashenko Block, please vote for your jobs. Let's start the discussion, you can finish your discussions. So I'm going to re-supply Bill 3483 on a reduced procedure. If we don't get enough votes, we're going to go to the full procedure. So, 3483 is a reduced procedure, please vote, please support. Please vote. [[13:00:16]] For-147 Three votes, three votes. Take your seats, please, colleagues. It's like school. Please, 3483, we vote in favour of a reduced procedure, please. Responsiblely and in an orderly manner, we vote, 3483, please support. We're voting on a reduced procedure. [[13:00:52]] For-146 Thank you. Let's start with the whole procedure. [[B in m in s a l in]] How could you fail if I had spoken five times before? All right, I'll set it up one last time, company, I'll set it up one last time. If not, let's move on to the full procedure. We'll be looking for an hour, there's no problem. For the last time, I put to the vote the proposal to deal with question 3483: counterintelligence, under a reduced procedure. Please vote. Please be supportive. Please. [[13:01:47]] For-152. Thank you. Decision taken. The head of the State Border Service, Nazarenko Viktor Aleksandrovich, is invited to report. Please. Please report.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-10-m0.u138	Thank you. Dear Andrew Volodymyrovich, distinguished national deputies, good afternoon. For none of us is the news that Russian aggression against our nation has many hybrid manifestations. One way is by actively applying the entire arsenal of forms and methods of subversive activity of its special services. To this day, our military forces are under intense pressure from Russian divorce agencies and other special services, targeted by the media, and under constant psychological strain. At the same time, 10 or 12 thousand military personnel perform tasks in small groups of 2 or 3 people, and sometimes in one person. They have been operating for a long time in isolation from their troops, particularly in the Ukrainian-Russian area of more than 2,000 kilometers in direct contact with the aggressor country's specifics. Under such conditions, the border needs strict counter-intelligence protection. Ladies and gentlemen of the national parliament, the adoption of the bill will enable us to respond more effectively and in a timely manner to the extremely negative impact of foreign intelligence on the staff of foreign authorities. The proposed bill is supported by the Ukrainian Security Service, which is in agreement with all interested ministries, the government has determined the purpose and supported reliance on units and the internal security of our counter-intelligence service. The Chief Scientific and Experimental Authority and the Committee on Safety and Defence of the Supreme Council also supported the adoption of his bill. Ladies and gentlemen, I will be very grateful for the support of this bill. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-10-m0.u139	Thank you for the report. You can take your place. I invite the head of the National Security and Defence Committee of the Pashinsky Sergey Volodymyrovich to report, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-10-m0.u140	Good afternoon, dear fellows! Good afternoon, Mr. Chairman! I'm going to take a little unusual approach to my speech. Now the four laws are in order of the day that apply to our safe and defensive block. Now it's an important law on border guards. Because of two drafts, the defense order. And we've been working on this law for over six months, and it has to become a cornerstone for the transformation of the Armed Forces. But I have just learned that one of the coalition factions is not voting. I publicly declare and appeal to the Self-Help faction, we support, of course, the position not only of yours, but of any normal person, that the situation in Bloody Rose needs a solution in Parliament, we will support that decision. But please, let's not blackmail each other, let's be more responsible about our duties. You know, the commission's head from the People's Front, Leonid Jemetz, has taken a clear position, our faction supports him. But do not block the legislative process, do not block the laws on defence and security. I'm asking you to back this room up this bill in the first reading.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-10-m0.u141	Thank you. Dear colleagues, is there a need to discuss? Please sign in: two for, two against. Please take part in the discussion. So, Ishchenka. From the ground or from the rostrum? Chumak, Chumaku's passing. Please, Victor Chumak. Turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-10-m0.u142	Dear colleagues, this is an important law for the border guards, although it is technical in nature. This law confers on the internal security units of the border guards the right to conduct counter-investigative activities in their own interests, especially in the territory where the anti-terrorist campaign takes place. I ask you very much to vote in favour of this law. I have great respect for my colleagues in the Self-Help faction, and I have great respect for their political position. But please, this is an important law that the border guards need in order to exercise their powers to make an exception for me as an ex-foreigner, their great friend, and to vote in favour of this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-10-m0.u143	Thank you. From "self-help," who's going to be speaking? You're an underling? Please, Podlisecki.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-10-m0.u144	I ask you to give the word to Jehor Sobolev.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-10-m0.u145	Please, Yegor Sobolev.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-10-m0.u146	Honorable Parliamentary Colleagues! The Self-Help faction is always behind a constructive review of all the bills. We have deep respect for this idea, its authors. Unfortunately, we will not vote in favour of any decision by Parliament until Parliament finds a solution for the Horn of Curve. We spent three days in talks with all coalition partners to find a common solution. By morning it had been found and had begun to break. The largest faction in the Parliament of Peter Prashenko has not yet appointed its co-author of the Law on the Appointment of New Elections in Bloody Rose. We understand very well that without the Peter Prashenko Block, no decision can be taken in Parliament. In these circumstances, the Self-Help faction cannot vote in favour of any other decision in Parliament, while people are standing on the streets of the Horn of Curve, and today there is a new threat of violent opposition. As the Supreme Council, we have to answer that question and then return to others. Thank you for your understanding.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-10-m0.u147	Melniczuk Sergei, "The will of the people."
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-10-m0.u148	The People's Will Group will vote against this bill. I'll explain why. On the front, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs did not, nor did the Ukrainian Security Service actually carry out a counter-investigative operation with its complexes. activities. Only at the end of the day did the BSS start working. So I think there's going to be enough of those complexes that work in the Ukrainian Security Service, that state that's already expanded in the Ukrainian Security Service, that the special operations centre of the Ukrainian Armed Forces is also going to work. But border guards have to do their work, and the Security Service and the Operations Center have to do their work. We need to decompose the flies and the cauldrons separately. And we have an additional body that will listen not only to the enemy but also to listen, then to the back, we don't need it.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-10-m0.u149	Thank you. Storm Igor Mikhailovich, Opposition Block. Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-10-m0.u150	Igor Shurma, Opposition Block. Dear colleagues, I would like to remind you that we are now considering a draft law amending the Ukrainian Anti-Investigative Act. And it turns out that we're not currently considering this law, which is important, yes, for the authors at least, and we're looking at the results of some coalition disagreements and trades. The problem with the Ukrainian Parliament and life today is that we should give ourselves credit: the State and Parliament live by the laws of Ukraine or do not live by the laws of Ukraine. If she does not live by the laws of Ukraine, the future is very bad in that country. And now, essentially. I'm offering trades on the Curved Horn and counterintelligences to go to different places and come to a healthy point of view. What is proposed by the law? Involved in counterintelligence and coordination of the Ukrainian Security Service have provided internal and own security for the State Border Service. In accordance with the law, Ukraine’s State Border Service is responsible for ensuring that the state’s border and sovereign rights are intact within Ukraine’s exclusive economic zone. In doing so, the basic functions of the service are clearly set forth in article 2 of the Law on the State Border Service of Ukraine, where the project does not change. This means that when this is accepted, the responsibilities that are not hers will be placed on the ministry. Not her responsibilities, it means that people will do the work and get the money for it. What is the name of the situation when people pay money and when they do not do their own work? So this law needs, as a minimum, refinement.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-10-m0.u151	From the People's Front, Sergey Pashinsky, please. From "The Fatherland" later. People's Front, Pashinsky.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-10-m0.u152	Dear colleagues, I'd like to make myself clear. Because the proputin provocateurs are talking about non-proprietary functions. It is about fulfilling the State’s legal obligations. And in these legal obligations, we include counterintelligence inside, in the border lane, along with the Ukrainian Security Service. The second question. No wiretaps, no complexes, no other heresy. It is only about expanding and deepening the powers of the State’s foreign service. I'm asking all members of the coalition to vote, to support this law. The border guards, we're sorry, 350 people died. Even if we respect the memory of the fallen heroes, let us support the ministry.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-10-m0.u153	Sergei Sobolev of Fatherland, then Oleg Lazko. Please turn on Sergei Soboljevo's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-10-m0.u154	Sobolje, Fatherland. Our faction will uphold this law. We believe that in the context of a real war, the foreign service, especially one that carries its responsibilities directly in the zone or in the zone of contact, should have special units that, with coordination by the Ukrainian Security Service, should carry out such measures. This is completely out of the question for another bill, and the previous speakers here have mixed up with another bill that we're looking at separately. This is merely the coordination of internal security work in the foreign service, which is taking place according to current legislation, will now be so as not to violate any article of the law. Thus, we feel that this law must be upheld. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-10-m0.u155	Please, Oleg Lazko.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-10-m0.u156	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. Dear colleagues, I am surprised to hear in this room a discussion about whether the foreigners need counterintelligence units. This may be asked only by those who do not understand the specifics of the activities of the foreign service. Especially in today’s conditions, when we have an enemy on our border, when much of the border is lost today, and we do not control it. Therefore, the discussion is irrelevant, and we should allow the border guards to have the opportunity of counterintelligence in order, first and foremost, to protect not only the border but also the lives of the border guards who are currently carrying this service, risking their lives. Hence, sincere gratitude and respect for the border guards of our country’s borders. And the Radical Party faction will support this bill, which will make it possible to protect our borders even more powerful.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-10-m0.u157	Thank you, Your Honor. I want to tell you, it's so impressive sometimes that we live in a parallel world. It's like it wasn't a year and a half ago when the invader came to our land. And the border guards were the first to strike. Without enough weapons, without sufficient intelligence, there is no means to support it. They were surrounded, they were under fire from both sides. They did not have the necessary information to make operational decisions. And war continues today, and today they are at risk every day. Sergei, I'm talking to you. In northern Lugansk. I won't give you my word, I won't mention your last name. In northern Luhansk, when our border was like sieve, we did not know or suspect the Russian diversors. We allow our services to have more means to detect the enemy’s preventative attack. And it's a matter of security and defense, not political intrigue. We once made many mistakes in political intrigue here, when we failed to see the main thing through secondary, allowing the Harkow Agreements and many other things to be accepted here. Let's put politics aside a little bit and think about the main thing: the security of our nation. Dear colleagues, I would like to call for a postponement of discussions, a postponement of political schedules and a vote. And that's why I'm putting to the vote Bill 3483 on amending the Ukrainian Anti-Intelligence Act (for internal and self-security units of the Ukrainian State Border Service) on the basis of the committee's proposal. If you'll excuse me, I'd like to vote. Signal vote. Vote, signal vote. [[13:17:33]] For 210 I'd like the deputies to come into the hall, please take your seats, prepare for the vote. I'm asking you not to go out, but to go into the hall, and now there's going to be a vote on the ground. Dear colleagues, I'd like you to come into the hall and take your jobs. Let's give it a minute. The MPs are on their way. We'll wait, we'll wait for the deputies to come, that's a very important question. Okay. "Peter Prashenko's Block" is not a word, and I'm giving Irina Heratchenko a speech as long as the MPs meet. All right, I'll give it to you. Please, Irina Heratschenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-10-m0.u158	Dear colleagues, on behalf of our faction, I would like to thank all the boys from the Horn of Curve, who are very much in the ATO area, indeed, serving Ukraine, including in the foreign armies. And let's thank them. And I want to address the representatives here of the Bloody Horn. Please give me your order, the simple people of the Horn of Curve, the Self-Help faction, or right now, to block the law that is necessary for ordinary border guards, including your city's residents, and to block it through political intrigue. That now it must be supported and then come to an important law that our faction also supports regarding the election in Bloody Rose. Please give the order to your deputies. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-10-m0.u159	Thank you. Kishkar, turn on the microphone, Kishkar, one minute, and then we vote. Please come into the hall.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-10-m0.u160	Dear friends, all conscious deputies do not need to explain the importance of voting for the Curved Horn. But this does not require putting all conscious people on stretches. To that end, we need to support all the normal bills that are passed into the hall. And this bill is such a law. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that it is simply an extension of the possibilities for the participation of border guards in the conduct of any or all of the other counter-intelligence activities carried out by the Ukrainian Security Service. There's no extra, no extra clearance for the foreign service. That's why we take and uphold good law, thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-10-m0.u161	Thank you. Now I'm going to put it to a vote, I hope that the issue of national security is going to be outside the political debate and I'm asking the MPs to prepare for the vote. I'm re-voting, 3483, the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Act on Counterintelligence as a basis, a signal vote, please vote, please take part in the signal vote. Let's vote, colleagues. [[13:20:45.]] For 222 It's not there, it's very busy. Please take up jobs, company. I'm asking you to take a job, come into the hall. I'm asking you to come into the hall, take your jobs, get ready for the vote. My colleagues, I'll bet you again. I didn't make it. A few people didn't make it, raised their hand. Once again, 3483, on counterintelligence, security and defence. Signal vote. Please vote. [[13:21:34]] For 233 Thank you. Dear colleagues, I therefore put to the vote the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Act on Counter-Intelligence (for internal and self-security units of the Ukrainian State Border Service) number 3483 on the basis of this. Please vote, please take part in the vote. Please. [[13:22:10]] For 233 Decision taken. Congratulations, and thank the border guards. And you will always find support in our Hall among our deputies. Good luck! The next bill is Bill 3388, the draft Act amending Chapter VI, the Final and Transitional Provisions of the Ukrainian Budget Code (to stabilize the reserve energy fund). [[B in m in s a l in]] I ask you to support the consideration of the reduced procedure. Please support the proposal: a reduced procedure. Please vote. [[13:23:26]] For-136 Dear colleagues, I ask you once again to prepare for the vote and to take part in the vote for the reduced procedure. Colleagues, I'm once again making a proposal: a review of Bill 3388 under a reduced procedure. Please vote. Please vote. Please be supportive. [[13:24:00]] For-144 Dear colleagues, if there are no votes, we will follow the full procedure. Do I get it right? I'll put it to a vote for the third time.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-10-m0.u162	I'd say yes, even the fine city of Curve Horn.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-10-m0.u163	the proposal for a reduced procedure. If there are no votes, let's move on to the full procedure. So please prepare for the vote. I'm voting on a motion for a summary motion for Bill 3388. If you'll excuse me, I'd like to vote. [[13:24:52]] For-160. Decision taken. I invite the reporter, Deputy Finance Minister Chevalov Artem Valentinovich. Please go to the rostrum.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-10-m0.u164	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Volodymira Borisovich, distinguished national MPs, I will present two bills, because these are the next ones covering this issue, the bill 3388 and 3389. These two bills presented to you today are a continuation of a comprehensive energy reform that Ukraine and our citizens have been waiting for for for 20 years. It's reorienting and diversifying gas purchases, ensuring transparency and financial responsibility in the activities of NAC Naftogaz Ukraine, refusing the Gazprom monopoly, and, above all, ensuring the energy security of our state. We can't let the aggressor state continue to control our energy market. Earlier this year, you supported the revolutionary changes in the reform of the Ukrainian natural gas market in line with the principles of the third European Union energy package, which were developed as part of the preparations for the second World Bank development policy loan. These changes have already begun to work by opening our market for free competition, which can further reduce prices for blue fuel and improve the quality of gas consumers. Now, honourable Members, you have the opportunity to continue to support these changes. For the past five and a half years, the government has taken a number of steps to achieve a deficient operating activity for the company to get the company out of the financial mess it was in after decades of reckless management. And we already see the early signs of this work. Yes, if in 2014 the Naftogazu deficit was more than $10 billion, which the state had to cover at the expense of the state budget, this year it was reduced to less than half a billion dollars and, starting next year, Naftogaz can function at all without a deficit. We were able, together with our international partners, with the participation of the World Bank and the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development and the International Financial Organization, to agree on an almost $1 billion renewed credit line for Naftogaz. These changes will allow for the introduction of new, long - term financing mechanisms for the purchase of natural gas. We have already signed a loan agreement with the EBRD for $300 million for three years and thanks to the changes proposed today.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-10-m0.u165	Please finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-10-m0.u166	We've already signed a loan agreement with the EBRD, and today's changes will allow us to sign five-year World Bank guarantees for $500 million. And today's bills will give Naftogazu the opportunity and henceforth to ensure the constant passage of heating seasons, to diversify natural gas markets, to ensure the timely filling of underground shelters. Bill 3388 proposes to complement the Budget Code's "Final and Transitional Positions". Please consider making changes to the bill before you, and to the second part of the first paragraph after the words "set what" to add to the figures and the words "until January 1st, 17th."
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-10-m0.u167	Thank you. Please take your place. 3388, co-reported by the head of the budget subcommittee, the Committee on Budget Affairs, Andrew Gordjeev. Andrew Gordjeev, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-10-m0.u168	Good day, Vladimir Borisovich, distinguished colleagues! The Committee on Budgetary Questions considered the bill and recommended the following. To recommend to the Supreme Council Bill 3388 to adopt the bill as a basis and to entrust the Committee on Budget Affairs to redraft the bill for the second reading under reduced procedure. At the same time, Minfin may initiate questions about the adoption of such a bill as a whole, if there are no objections to national MPs, the bill can be adopted as a whole as a law, provided that the proposed new provisions of the Code are limited to 1 January 2017. Thank you for your attention. Please be supportive. Do you mind if someone does? In general.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-10-m0.u169	Thank you. Please sign two for, two against. Please, National Deputy Novak. Victor Mikhailovich Pinzenik.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-10-m0.u170	Please pass the word to Pinzenic.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-10-m0.u171	Ladies and gentlemen of the people, distinguished Vladimir Borisovich. This is about the first law package that we talked about yesterday, and the changes to the Budget Code provide for a deviation from the standard procedure for granting State guarantees, because it is about introducing a new instrument to provide guarantees on the side of the state. What are we talking about? I was talking yesterday about an idea that relates to the granting of guarantees for Naftogazu loans, under. the government's guarantee, and that's what the deputy minister of finance was talking about. But there is another tool when a contract is guaranteed by a Ukrainian partner. These are new tools that we didn't have. Therefore, the amendments to the Budget Code provide for the possibility of applying another instrument, the conditions and scope of which will be provided by the State Budget Act of Ukraine. This is all that is contained in the changes to the budget code. I urge my colleagues to support this bill. I think it can be voted on as a whole.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-10-m0.u172	Thank you. Please, Alexei's Igor, People's Front.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-10-m0.u173	Please pass the word to Leonid to Yemen.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-10-m0.u174	Leonid Jemetz.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-10-m0.u175	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I would like to address you not only as your colleague and deputy, but also as the head of the temporary special committee for the review of violations during the re-vote in Bloody Rose on 15 November this year. I want to say that our commission approved yesterday's report to which it established that there were substantial violations that led to the inability to determine the outcome of the elections. I fully support those of our colleagues that we cannot deprive the inhabitants of the Horn of Curve of their constitutional right to choose their city head. And that should be our first question. I demand that Parliament put this question to a vote, and I demand that the MPs join in taking a decision on this issue. And I also announce that until this issue is put into the agenda, I refuse to vote for other issues. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-10-m0.u176	Dear colleagues, we have to finish this discussion now, because we started it. That's the first one. Second position, I now have two MP factions calling the People's Front and the Peter Poshenko Block to announce the break. So now we're going to finish this consideration. And please 3388, Oleg Lazko.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-10-m0.u177	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. Honourable citizens of Ukraine, a bill that is currently under consideration, is being proposed to allow government guarantees to be issued for billions of dollars to buy gas because. A billion dollars, a billion dollars. How many dollars did you get already? How many of those loans did you get? Who saw it coming? Here we're told that you have to buy import gas. Where is the native gas that Naftogaz buys 1518 bracelets for a thousand cubes? Why isn't he with Ukrainian citizens? Why do Ukrainian citizens have to pay for 7200 gas for a thousand cubes? Why should today’s criminal authorities rob these citizens? Which one of you oligarchs put that money in your pocket? Who's taking them away from people? Those who came here with this law. You want to raise billions! We will then hand them over, for to your authority the end, we will come to power tomorrow, and what should we do? Instead of paying our wages, our pensions, what should we do? We have to pay off the loans you've acquired. All Ukrainian citizens, grandchildren, our great-grandkids have to work on your loans. Enough of this disgraceful politics! Stop robbing people! Enough of this country's bankruptcy! Change the coalition, change government, change power, create a new coalition, we're ready to take power and change the country! Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-10-m0.u178	Honorable fellow national MPs, can we make one point by law? May I? When we buy gas. Attention! Just listen. When Ukraine buys gas, we are required to pay for it. When we buy it in Europe, we have to pay for it. But we always have a heat and gas problem. That's why the World Bank is willing to issue a guarantee for us, that we're counting on it, but we're going to get gas first. So it's not a classic loan. You just have to realize what this is about. Don't substitute ideas. Dobrenkov, Opposition Block.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-10-m0.u179	Thank you, Vladimir Borisovich. Dear colleagues, you have just commented on the instrument that wishes to implement our existing legislation. Instrument for the provision by the State of guarantees in the form of the Cabinet of the Ministers of Ukraine to fulfil their obligations. But that's not gonna work out as much as you just said. Because in any case, the State is final in providing guarantees. Ukraine, which will be subject to these obligations in the event of non-payment. It is calculated naturally from simple taxpayers, at the expense of the State budget. At first glance, the draft law was innocent. But the fact is that these rights, by means of these rights, will enable the existing Government to actually legalize the instrument of concealing the State-guaranteed debt. I already mentioned yesterday that the bill on the budget for the following year was published on the website of the Ministry of Finance of Ukraine. Thus, there is a government-provided debt of about two trillion rubles, representing more than 95 per cent of GDP. An artificial painting is also added to this embarrassing picture, and I would say a veiled extension of the State-guaranteed debt beyond the amount I have just said. Therefore, the increase in the deficit of the hidden state budget in the context of economic development has been short-sighted in terms of both the current situation and our future generation, which unfortunately will be paid for these debts.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-10-m0.u180	Please, Your Honor, from the Victor Pinzenik faction, and then to Andrew Gordeev, and we'll finish the discussion, all of it.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-10-m0.u181	Dear colleagues, I don't usually know how to scream like some of my colleagues, and I'm not gonna do that. I'm not going to open up a secret when I say, "Friends, there's winter all over the world," and in winter, there's seasonal gas injections. Ukraine is no exception in this case. You have to create a seasonal reserve, in any case you have to take credit for it. The fundamental question is the loan at which the bet. I won't open the secret again if I tell you that we can't borrow it ourselves, because we have a very expensive bet. The loans guaranteed by the World Bank or the European Bank or another bank that then requires government guarantees are close to the LIBOR rate. So the question of this decision, the price: we're going to pay 10 percent in currency, or we're going to pay LIBOR at the rate -- that's what this is about. We're saving Ukrainian citizens' money, or we're saving citizens' money. And the last. In fact, this law doesn't spell out the conditions -- conditions will be written in the Budget Act. And I'll understand the discussion when we're in the Budget Act.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-10-m0.u182	Please, Victor Mikhailovich, finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-10-m0.u183	Now it's just about a formal rule, and let's postpone the discussion when the Budget Act is voted on. I'm asking you to support this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-10-m0.u184	Thank you. Andrew Gordjeev, one minute, please. Did you hear Victor Mikhailovich say what he said? He spoke of the essence of this law so that we would not replace it. We're doing a good job -- we're giving up Russian gas. Please. 13:39:2
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-10-m0.u185	Dear colleagues, we, on the one hand, block Crimea from feeding the invader. On the other hand, the European Union imposes sanctions on Russia as an aggressor in our territory. And on this side, today, when we have to issue a guarantee to buy gas in Europe, we block it. Who are we after that? Let's be consistent. It's about state guarantees to the World Bank to issue credit to our Naftogazu in the purchase of gas in Europe so that we can fill our vaults, that's all. And here's the question: do we support Putin's aggressor with his gas, or are we for our healthy economy and our energy dependency? Thank you all.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-10-m0.u186	Thank you, Your Honor. The discussion of Law 3388 is complete. I can see that emotion is not calmed here at the moment. That's why I have the next offer. We talked about it. There's an offer from two factions. In accordance with part seven of article 51 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Rules, I hereby declare a 30-minute recess at the request of two MPs. Let me remind you that this is the Peter Dusty Block and the People's Front. So I'm going to call it a break. But in view of the adjournment of the morning session, at the same time, I declare closed the morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. And the evening session will begin at 4 p.m. Thank you, all of you, dear colleagues.
