ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-13-m1.u1	Dear National Deputies! I'm asking you to take your seats. In view of the fact that the morning session of the Supreme Council has been declared closed, we are opening an evening meeting. I'm asking the National Deputies to prepare for registration. The faction leaders would like to invite members to the Supreme Council Hall so that we can continue our work. Dear fellow national MPs! Dear faction leaders! I ask you to invite the people's deputies to the House of Parliament, and we continue our work. Please turn on "The Council" to register the national MPs. [[16:11:26]] 305 national deputies in the hall. I declare the evening plenary session open. Ladies and gentlemen, I expect that at 4:45 p.m., the High Council will be in the General Staff Hall and will inform us what the real situation is in the ATO area right now. And now I'm announcing the beginning of the first-reading drafts. And the first bill (registration number 1059). I would like to make a proposal, honourable national MPs, that this bill, which we are considering in the first reading, should be considered in a simplified procedure. Is there no objection in respectable fellow members of the national MPs? I would like to point out that we need to make a decision by 150 votes in favour. So I'd like to ask, honourable national deputies, to concentrate. And I'm putting it to a vote. The first reading of the bill follows a reduced procedure. Please vote in favour of the summary procedure. [[16:13:06]] For-143 There are no deputies, they don't want to vote. We didn't make it? Again, colleagues. I would like to vote on Bill 1059 on a reduced procedure. Please vote. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. Please vote in favour of the summary procedure. [[16:13:33]] For 175 Decision taken. Please invite the reporter, National Deputy of Ukraine, Alexander Volodymyrovn Kugel. Please, Alexandra Volodymyrna.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-13-m1.u2	Thank you, Sir Head, dear friends. The only request, Volodymyr Borisovich, is to consider my bill and the next one, and then to put the vote with the hope that we will have our colleagues brought to the hall to vote. You may have been approached by electoral officials, who, in 2009, were able to make changes, that if a person built a house, or, remember how they built their houses in the village in Soviet times, who knew that they needed to be put into use. And then in 2009, we made such a rule that these houses in the country, small houses, house houses in the country, you can get them without paying the fines, you can get them into operation. Why did this become necessary? Because when there was a situation that needed to be either an inheritance or a sale or a donation to the children’s home, it was unregistered and unregistered, it had no ownership rights. And then this was 2009 and 2010, 2011, and 2012. In 2013, it was, in the last year it worked, and in 2014, about a hundred thousand asked only the Ministry of Regional Development to continue this idea, because unfortunately, we should note with you that there is no state-level position on the public education channel following the Supreme Council bills adopted. And many people only face this norm when there is trouble and it needs to be arranged. And so with this short bill, we ask that we continue to do so for another year, as far as possible in the first reading and in general, because there's nothing to change, we ask the state broadcaster to do so.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-13-m1.u3	Please, let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-13-m1.u4	Three times ten.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-13-m1.u5	All of it. We're done.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-13-m1.u6	I'm kidding. I'm kidding.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-13-m1.u7	In the morning session.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-13-m1.u8	Give the commission to make changes. I note that this rule works without applying fines to those persons who put it into service. Now, the question is, if the illegal land area isn't just on its own land. And one last question. That these are just small houses and small apartments that have citizens who have built.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-13-m1.u9	Thank you, Alexandra Volodymyr. I'd like a co-reporter, member of the Committee on Construction, Urban and Housing, Alexander Marchenko. Please, Your Honor, I beg of you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-13-m1.u10	Honourable Vladimir Borisovich, distinguished colleagues, committee at its meeting on 24 December 2014, having considered the draft Law on Amendments to the Ukrainian Law on the Regulation of Urban Activities (for adoption of construction works built without permission of construction work) (registration number 1059), submitted by the Ukrainian National Deputy, Kugel Alexander Volodymyrna. The bill proposes to extend until 31 December 2015 the term of the building amnesty for the adoption of buildings built without the permission of individual housing, garden, tax buildings, farm buildings and buildings, public buildings and buildings and the construction of the agricultural assignment of the first and second categories of complexities built by 12 March 2011. The Committee on Anti-Corruption Prevention and Anti-Corruption reported that anti-corruption expertise in the bill did not reveal corruptive factors and found that the project met the requirements of anti-corruption legislation. The main scientific and expert office of the Supreme Council of Ukraine believes that the bill can be adopted as a basis. Conclusion of December 10, 2014. Taking into account the importance of considering the matter, the committee unanimously decided to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine the adoption of the draft law on first reading as a basis. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-13-m1.u11	Thank you, Your Honor. Is there a need to discuss this law? I think so. But there is a proposal to vote on the basis and, in general, to continue the possibility that they could register their buildings, the individual buildings they were building by the end of this year. I think it's perfectly normal and we can do it. Please, National Nasalik.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-13-m1.u12	Good afternoon! Mr. Alexander, a question to you as a city head. Please tell me, who will be responsible if, as a result of the construction of the wrong engineering building, we get a tragic accident? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-13-m1.u13	Unforeseeable, respected colleagues, the answers to that question. But I can tell you that everything that's going on is owned by the owner and it's obvious. But we're not talking about these buildings today, these buildings are built by people, especially in rural areas, the private sector and these buildings can be built and, excuse me, in the 1950s. Allowing people to register their own possessions. My own houses, that's what I said. So I think it would be absolutely appropriate to go on a date. Since there is no more discussion on this subject, I would like to concentrate on the national MPs. Dear colleagues, the registration number of the 1059 bill, because it only continues to be a residence registration period built by people or public buildings, including in rural areas, I will now lay it as a foundation and as a whole. So I'm asking everyone to prepare, your honors, please prepare yourselves. Please prepare for the vote. Please, get ready. Faction leaders, invite your deputies to vote. Vote? Dear colleagues, I am voting on the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on the Regulation of Urban Activities on the Adoption of Construction Objects, which was built without permission to carry out construction work (registration number 1059). I'll put him to the vote on the basis and in general. Please, Your Honor, vote as a basis and as a whole. Please vote. On the basis and in general. [[16:21:46]] For 259. Decision taken. [[Applause]] Thank you, Your Honor. Next bill, registration number 1084. I also suggest that we consider it as a reduced procedure. I ask the MPs to concentrate, if there is no objection, I'm voting on the proposal to consider this bill in a simplified manner. Please vote, vote in favour of the summary procedure. Review of the reduced procedure, by the reduced procedure. [[16:22:21]] For 199 Decision taken. Please, National Deputy Martovicki Arthur Volodymyrovich is a reporter for this bill as author. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-13-m1.u14	Dear Vladimir Borisovich! Dear colleagues! Your consideration is proposed for consideration by the draft Act amending the Final Provisions of the Ukrainian Law on Urban Activity Regulation (Registration No. 1084). The draft law aims to remove real difficulties that affect both natural and legal persons who intend to form or use land and property after 1 January 2015. Similar problems will be faced by local governments without the ability to meet people’s demands, and in some cases by government authorities, due to the almost complete absence of zoning plans, or detailed plans, of the areas of the population. In line with the current legislation after 1 January 2015, the process of transfer to ownership and use of land from state or municipal property has virtually stopped, since the main condition for carrying out these operations is the existence of a zoning plan, or a detailed territorial plan. Taking into account the considerable cost and the long-term development of urban documentation, the lack of adequate funding for the work being done at the expense of the budget, as well as the difficult political and economic situation in the country. The development of such documentation has not been fully carried out until 1 January 2015, i.e. in most of Ukraine's population, the process of transfer to ownership and use of land and legal persons from state land or municipal property since 1 January is not being carried out, whereas the primary objective of land collection is to organize land relations, to establish the rights, to ensure payment for land use. In view of the above, it is necessary to amend the legislation in force by 1 January 2017 to extend the deadline of paragraph 6 and.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-13-m1.u15	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-13-m1.u16	The Ukrainian Law on the regulation of urban activities (for the transfer of land from state or municipal property to property or the use of natural and legal persons for the absence of a zoning plan or a detailed territorial plan). Failure to legislate in the proposed edition will in general stop the development of the regional communities of Ukraine and have a negative impact on the strengthening of the principles of local self - government. Therefore, in view of the relevance and necessity of the bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-13-m1.u17	Let me finish my offer.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-13-m1.u18	I propose the adoption of Law 1084 as a basis and generally as a law. Please be supportive. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-13-m1.u19	Thank you, reporter. Before I pass on the word, I'd like to sum it up a little bit. Look what's going on. There is no city-based documentation: master plan or zoning plan. This means that any official can transfer the land to one side or the other to his own discretion by decision of the local council. And I think it's unacceptable, because we're making chaos, that kind of scheme can cover the "dirty" use, the shadowy use of land in the territory of the territorial communities, and from year to year the issue continues. So we need to think about how to ensure some degree of competitiveness, but not extend for another two years what needs to be in every inhabited area. A general plan, how you're going to develop a low-floor area, where you have a high-floor, multi-floor area, and so on. It's a system of territorial development. You can't break that. That's what I think. I'm not judging today, but I'm stressing it. I want to tell you the next thing, I see your gestures, so I can tell you that I've developed a master plan, I know what it is. I can tell you that if there's a desire to do quality work, it doesn't interfere with anyone, including representatives of any political force. They made a master plan, developed, approved everything else. Please, a co-reporter. And then we will. Deputy Head of the Committee on Construction, Construction of Housing and Utilities, Sabashuk Peter Pavlovich. It's just a proposal, based on the whole thing.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-13-m1.u20	Your Honour, Mr. Head! First of all, I want to thank you all for the big day of the builder today. We are now considering so many important laws for construction, which is, frankly, unprecedented. Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, I'll be brief. The committee considered this law and the committee expressed its "yes". There is the conclusion of our Chief Scientific and Scientific Administration that it can also be accepted as a basis. But I don't want to talk to you like I did. The head of the committee, as the builder and representative of the Ukrainian builders. We cannot live without this addition to the law. We've been doing this all of 2014 because we haven't had the opportunity to think about tomorrow, to take away the land. And it's not even just taking the land away, but on the land that's in your property, we can't design and we can't get the technical conditions. We'll stretch. may have lasted 2014 without this law. Maybe even 2015 by the middle of the year this is going to be. But in the 16th year, construction will stop completely if we don't make our decision today. By the way, Mr. Opposition Block, if we're going to rebuild Donbas, I doubt we're going to find a city there. The master plan of the barrier. And while building on Donbas, rebuilding Donbas? With the adoption of this law, there will be an opportunity at the level of village and city councils to make decisions about construction. So I ask all of you who think today not only about 15 years, but also about 16 years, and how the building industry will work, to vote in favour of this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-13-m1.u21	By fully supporting the builders, I will say the following. Tell me, colleagues, can you build a nice big house without a project? Can we? We can't. Now, please tell us how to manage the land, if the community does not know, is approved. For example, there is a park or square, and it is not defined by the master plan. They took it, handed it over, cut it down -- and build any house you want. I think we need to take this very carefully again. Perhaps we should do so in order to vote for the earth. But if it's on competitive grounds, for example, because of the auction, or if it's touching recreational zones. But it's not a whole question, it's a question of discussion. Please, there was a co-reporter, two against, two against. Two for, two against. Burbak Maksim Yuriovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-13-m1.u22	My word to my colleague Mikola Trochymovich Fedoruk, who is really an expert in this field.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-13-m1.u23	Mikola Fedoruk.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-13-m1.u24	Thank you. Mikola Fedoruk, People's Front, Chernivci. The point is that, honourable colleagues, similar amendments and changes to the previous summons have already been postponed, this is the decision to abolish this law by 1 January 2015. Sadly, most of the local councils did nothing during this period. If we cancel out again, that's what it's all going to be. That's why the People's Front faction doesn't support the bill or vote. It doesn't stop the construction, it doesn't have to be scared, it has to do the PDP, it has to do the zoning and the master plan, and everything will be fine. So once again, it can't go on forever. On one occasion, we continued to call in the past. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-13-m1.u25	Thank you. It's totally understandable, it's a professional, it's a high-quality position. Please, come on, Egor Sobolev "self-help," please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-13-m1.u26	Colleagues, the Self-Help faction will vote against this law, this law is the lobbyism of the builders. Four years ago, they got a simplified procedure for getting lots of permits and licenses just in exchange for the promise that cities will make planning and zoning, that residents will know that you can make two-story houses here on a multi-floor, and there's nothing you can do about it. And since then, this promise has been proposed by the builders to every parliament to postpone each year, and this has been proposed to our Parliament. This law is a continuation of barbaric construction and a continuation of the huge corruption that is being done around this barbaric construction. That is why we will vote against it in full, and we urge other colleagues in Parliament to do the same.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-13-m1.u27	Thank you. Please, Nechayev, National Deputy, Alexander Igorovich, Opposition Block.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-13-m1.u28	Please pass the word to Matthew's Sergey Anatolyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-13-m1.u29	Sergey Anatolyovich Matvienkov, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-13-m1.u30	Motvienkov, 57th Mariupol County. Dear colleagues, I, today we have some kind of conversation here that goes beyond the theoretical plane, if we speak theoretically, it might be to what extent the rights speak. There really must be a road map, we really need to understand how this area needs to be developed, we really need to understand who's running this land and how we're doing the construction. But let’s go down a little bit to our sinful land. This plan should be developed by local councils, there is not a penny there today, and if we do not go there now, we will simply, as the builder has said, stop construction in cities, we will not be able to organize these plans today, prepare these plans. Therefore, let us also propose that this treaty be extended. You want, let's take him on first reading. Let's put on some kind of containment. But as an element of it, we must take it today in order to take the next step so that we do not stop the development of our regions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-13-m1.u31	Thank you. I don't want to ask you a question because it's not worth that much and it could be in any kind of documentation, including building. Please, Fatherland faction, National Deputy Rybchin.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-13-m1.u32	Please pass the word to Sergey Eutushka.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-13-m1.u33	Please, Sergey Eutuszek.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-13-m1.u34	Dear colleagues! What I'm saying is that the Ukrainian City Activity Regulation Act is good, but really today we have to say that two thirds of the population in Ukraine have no detailed plans for the construction or zoning plans. I don't want my colleagues to think it's a lobbyist act. But still, how do we fill in the proceeds today when in those areas, in those administrative and territorial units where there's no detailed plan for the construction or general plan to auction on the ground? How can you fill in the income section? And what I would like to say is, if even a state today cannot afford the social costs of our ATO soldiers, please tell us, if the head of the territorial community is able to allocate land, why not do so to him. That's why there's an offer. The Fatherland faction, of course, will not vote on this bill as a whole, but proposes to vote with a recommendation for leaders of the territorial communities as money managers. Allowing for another year to complete the master plans or plans for the city’s construction and then to vote in general. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-13-m1.u35	Thank you. We already have a pro, against, Dmitri Andriyevsky. Please. Then there's Andrew Illenko. In a minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-13-m1.u36	Dear Volodymyr Borisovich, distinguished colleagues! All decisions must be made consciously. Now, I want to explain that if we don't vote today, the local budgets will lose hundreds of millions of dollars. In Kiev, for example, about half a billion dollars are planned to be set up in this budget to sell land on land leases. Moreover, it will not be possible to make even a remodeling of a school, a kindergarten, not just a building, or even a reconstruction, because it is necessary to put the documents on the ground. So let us make decisions consciously. Still, I suggest in the first reading that we really do work on protective mechanisms. Obligation of local communities to carry out appropriate work so that these detailed planning plans for the territory will be drawn up by the following year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-13-m1.u37	Thank you. Please, Andrew Illenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-13-m1.u38	Andrew Illenko, the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union. We think it's definitely a lobbyist bill. And he lobbies the interests of unscrupulous builders who, ignoring all laws, ignoring all common sense and rules of human cohabitation, boldly build green areas, zones of rest, destroy historic buildings, destroy the city itself as such. What happens in Kiev and other major cities when we just see whole scars on our cities' faces as a result of illegal activity. Finally, we must obey the law. And we should finally think, not about the interests of the great capital and the builders in this case, but about the interests of the ordinary simple Ukrainian who wants to be in a comfortable city and who wants to know how his city will develop for tens of years ahead, and clearly understand that it will be a comfortable city, and a city, indeed, to live there safely, qualityly. So, of course, we will vote against it, and we urge everyone not to support this terrible lobbyist bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-13-m1.u39	Dear colleagues, I have another offer. I think making decisions right now would be quick. I suggest that, given that it does not just have to be deferred or deferred, this problem needs to be settled once and for all. So that cities, villages, and settlements, and settlements in general would be created, not for building cranes, but for people, a city for man, not the other way around. So this is very important. So I would now suggest that we focus on the drafting of this bill to the committee, once again consider it so that there is no corruption to determine the approaches, the priorities, including the competitiveness of providing land, so that we don't violate the city's green box, I mean parks, squares and everything else, settle it and pass it on to the interests of the territorial communities. And this is very important. So, in my opinion, it would be a perfectly normal decision to turn him back to the profile committee of the Supreme Council. Let us continue to discuss, refine, and consider how it will be done. Dear colleagues, no objection? None. I'm voting for the return of Bill 1084 before, for the preparation of the committee to prepare for the re-reading. Please vote. [[16:40:20]] For 116 The decision is not taken. It's about to be overturned by this bill. Please, Your Honor, there's a proposal that was on the committee -- that's the basis for accepting it as a basis. I'm voting on the committee's proposal as a basis. On the basis of Bill 1084, based. [[16:40:58]] For-60 The decision is not taken. What are some suggestions? Did you break the law? Let's move on. Sergey Sobolev. Sergey Sobolev.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-13-m1.u40	Sobolev, the Fatherland faction. Dear colleagues, we still have a decision to make. Well, you know, the corruption that is now going to end very badly, let's say it's six months if the year doesn't work. Clearly, two years is unacceptable. But over the six months, they have to develop master plans for the development of cities. You realize that this is going to end up with no general plan, no land being issued, and so we're actually balancing the entire urban economy. So there's only one question. It's not about the recreational zone, any of it. But, read, current legislation today forbids doing so if we do not defer it for at least six months. So the proposal is to either, in fact, re-vote for work on the committee and then return it. But otherwise this law will be removed from registration at all.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-13-m1.u41	There is an offer by Sergey Soboljev to put to the vote to return to the committee for work. Concentrate, please elaborate, and speak all the questions on the committee publicly, clearly, to everyone. You will consult with the Association of Cities of Different and Large and Small, then we will make decisions. Is there no objection? I'm betting on the vote, please concentrate on getting back to the committee to prepare for your first reading. Please identify yourself by voting back to the committee for re-reading, for re-reading. Return to the committee for re-reading. [[16:43:09]] For-140. The decision is not taken. Thank you. Next. The decision is not taken. Registration number. Dear colleagues, the bill is rejected, he did not vote. The bill was rejected. Dear colleagues, we have a representative of the Ministry of Defense. We have a representative of the Ministry of Defense we can hear him now. Please, I'd like to concentrate, and I'd like to invite you to the Supreme Council rostrum. Please inform. Please inform and introduce yourself for five minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-13-m1.u42	I would like health, my fellow Chief of the Supreme Council, to be respected deputies. General Bondar, Representative of the General Staff with a brief report on the status and location of the anti-terrorist operation. Head of the Chief Command Centre of the Armed Forces of Ukraine. Let me tell you something. During the past week, distinguished national MPs, known as the DNR and the LNR, have intensified military pressure and are actively firing at our positions. This especially began to feel after January 2 and now. During this period that has passed, the total number of gunfire from the Armed Forces is 84 shots, now 47, this is the sixth morning. The most difficult situation is in the Stanitsa Luganska district, Donetsk Airport, and the shootings in the area of Mariupol have increased. Considering that Donetsk Airport is one of the most complex areas, the leadership of the Armed Forces, the General Staff, taking into account the highlighted, strengthened the area, there was another rotation of military personnel. As a result of the latest shootings during the period that passed, there were six wounded who are now being evacuated. Soldiers who are there are provided with ammunition, first of all, and correspondingly with food and water. I would like to point out that, at the present time, a representative of the so-called DNR, Comrade Zacharynenko, said yesterday that there would be no more rotations and no more injuries, respectively. So, starting yesterday, active shelling of the area began. At present, the situation has stabilized, but at the same time there is a threat of further fire on our positions. The leadership of the General Staff of the Armed Forces of Ukraine is currently holding a meeting with the anti-terrorist operation headquarters, where possible threats can be addressed, and options for dealing with these threats. I would also like to point out that today is about purpose. BM-21 was hit by a missile fire system on a civilian bus. Terrorists in the area, at Dokuchayewska, struck Dokuchayevska, resulting in the death of ten civilians and about 13 wounded. At the same time, in Dokuchayevsk, there were correspondents, according to information, correspondents of local and Russian television channels, for the purpose of how our armies would strike back in response to the city center. But given that this was an provocation, other measures are now being taken to stabilize the situation. I would also like to say that seven corridors have been created and identified for the purpose of repairing the ATO area’s security clearance for the civilian population and for the transportation of products, medicines, and goods of everyday use. And really, at this point in the gap, there was this missile strike that led to.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-13-m1.u43	Please let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-13-m1.u44	The report was completed. Ready to answer the question.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-13-m1.u45	Thank you, sir. Please, from factions on one question. Please, Borislav Bereza. From the Radical Party faction, they passed on the word. Let's sign up from factions for questions. From the factions on the question. Out of the way. Please, Opposition Block, Danube Sergey Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-13-m1.u46	Please pass the word to Zvigilski.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-13-m1.u47	Yuchim Zviagilski, please, National MP.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-13-m1.u48	Dear General, what about the miners who work all four shifts? They have to be taken to work and taken away from work. And here's the case: the night shift. They don't let in time, so the buses stop. And what do we do next? It may be necessary to find such a mode of work that miners who work around the clock can take them both to work and to work at home. How can this be resolved?
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-13-m1.u49	I would like to point out that, for this purpose, the ATO headquarters has established a Coordination Centre and sectors according to the direction of the coordination groups, which are composed of representatives of local authorities, the IMF, the BSS, which implements and provides a population gap for both work and other issues. Such problems occur both in the area of Mariupola and elsewhere. So this, on the one hand, is an important question, but in any case, until active attacks are stopped on the terrorist side, we have to stop the movement, and then, after the shootings have stopped, we can resume the work. Because we do not have the right to risk the health and life of people.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-13-m1.u50	Thank you. Please, Self-Help faction, Kishkar Pavel Mikolaiovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-13-m1.u51	Thank you. I've got one. I forbid you, Mr. Major General, to quote Zacharyczenko here and any "U." I still have uncensored words. So that it doesn't sound like it in this room. You didn't do anything to keep Zacharychenk out of our army! Now, my questions. I wonder if you have enough authority to use all the proper measures. Well, I don't know what you're doing there. Does the President have any influence on you? I don't know anyone else. Do you have sufficient authority to influence and solve this problem in our behalf? That's the first question. Why was there no long - range artillery involved in the attack on the airport today? That's two. It's a criminal matter, by the way, right now. You can write it down. And can we, as an MP, help you to make a radical change in the situation on the front? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-13-m1.u52	Excuse me? First of all, I'd like to apologize if I called those so-called leaders. The other one. Power and means. [[B in m in s a l in]] I do. [[B in m in s a l in]] I apologized more. [[B in m in s a l in]] The means, the power.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-13-m1.u53	Dear National Deputies! Please! Respectable! Here comes the general, the warrior. He'll report. Informs. Do you think he's less in pain than you and me? [[B in m in s a l in]] Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-13-m1.u54	I would like to report that there are forces and resources. This is a goal of constant rotation, including at Donetsk Airport, including ammunition. Today, however, because we have moved factories to repair technology and weapons, new equipment, new equipment, new equipment, and new equipment are being delivered. She may not be as perfect as we need her, but she's still missing her. That's the first one. The other one. After work of artillery, after work of the Soviet Union. The designated object, the airport, is covered by heavy artillery units, a calibre of 152 millimeters, and also by reactive battery units (RPCs) of the city. In addition, separate tanks and tanks work in this direction.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-13-m1.u55	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-13-m1.u56	and mortar batteries. So for the time being, that's enough. But once again, I say that the situation is constantly changing, it's getting complicated, it's constantly needing to influence it. The report is complete.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-13-m1.u57	Thank you. Please, People's Front, National Deputy Brichenko Igor Vitaliyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-13-m1.u58	Igor Brichenko, People's Front. Please give me the word of Yuri Berezi.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-13-m1.u59	Yuri Bereza, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-13-m1.u60	General, I have one very important and important question. During the rotation at Donetsk Airport, there is information that our military personnel are being searched and missed by separatists. How appropriate is this to reality? And the question right away is, what did you do to make sure that, if that's true, what did you do to keep it from happening? What help is needed from voluntary battalions to destroy this blockade or from the Supreme Council?
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-13-m1.u61	I would like to say that the question is correct. And somewhere perhaps during the rotations that took place under the mission of the OSCE, on the other hand and on our side, there were times when food, water, and other materials that were delivered to the airport were taken care of during the rotation. Yet, I would like to point out that this has been done only for one purpose: to preserve human life and health. That's the first one. Second, it is still to show that we trust and implement the memorandum of ceasefire and tried to avoid provocations. That's the main thing about these actions. Real for the present, for the present.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-13-m1.u62	Let me finish. I think so.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-13-m1.u63	A decision is now made because it is really, well, a humiliation of the dignity of the military and the Armed Forces. Therefore, it is decided to rotate in other ways without this humiliation and care for those military personnel who carry out the rotation. The report was completed.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-13-m1.u64	Thank you. Peter Prashenko's Block, Chumak Viktor Vasilovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-13-m1.u65	General, I have two questions for you. The first question that comes out of what is being answered. Please tell me, do you have the organizational and military capabilities to provide you with the military airport's defences with everything you need: weapons, technology, ammunition, and rotating freely or, let's say, more or less freely? That's the first question. And the second question. Is there an organizational or military capacity to improve the fortification facilities that can be built or the engineering facilities at the airport itself to protect the military personnel who serve there? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-13-m1.u66	I'd like to be very careful when you say it, sir, so that we don't betray someone there. information you don't need. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-13-m1.u67	Got it.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-13-m1.u68	They're military operations, operations.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-13-m1.u69	I would like to point out once again that this group that is located in the airport area and also in the airport subventions that support operations directly in the airport terminal itself is sufficient, it's provided with ammunition, and especially those units that really support them without. Well, the possibility of continuous transportation and ammunition and food. At the same time, the rotation of the special composition that is found directly in the terminal is somewhat difficult in the new terminal house, but again I would like to say that we are working on this issue because there are some problems, because it does not allow, for example, during the day to rotate or without the use of any other kind of force.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-13-m1.u70	Thank you. Please, Ivan Krulko.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-13-m1.u71	Ivan Krulko, "Fatherland" faction, please give the floor to colleague Igor Lucenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-13-m1.u72	Please, Igor Lucenka.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-13-m1.u73	Thank you. Your Honor, General! I personally took part in the protection of the village of Piska, which is covered by the Donetsk airport, and you know what really bothered me the most? The fact that artillery is used in our fire systems is a command: not to open fire first. [[Applause]] Of course, because of our capabilities, we convinced our army not to obey this command, but they are still army men who have to do what their generals tell them to do. So I have a question, actually, on what grounds is this order still in effect? I'll remind you that any reference to any memorandum is legally unfounded. Because Ukraine did not make any memorandums with terrorists. On what basis is this command now in force? Can you tell me, please?
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-13-m1.u74	Excuse me. So this command works as long as we don't have a fire strike in our position if we're hit in our position, we're going to have a fire. The report was completed.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-13-m1.u75	Please, Oleg, Oleg Easy. Please, Oleg Lazko.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-13-m1.u76	We'll talk separately if we do.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-13-m1.u77	Your Honor, a report from the General Staff, you just said that you allowed the Ukrainian military search of Russian invaders to be humiliated in order to preserve the lives and health of the people. In my opinion, in order to preserve the health and life of Ukrainian citizens, Ukraine needs to be freed from the invaders, not humiliated before them, to allow weapons to be taken and counted as patrons of the Donetsk Airport. Today, 10 civilians were killed in Dokuchayevsk by terrorists, 14 injured. Taking this opportunity, I'm addressing President Prashenko, the government, let's follow the example of France, millions of people, Ukrainians have to go on an anti-terrorist march against Russia's war in Ukraine. And we invite all the world leaders to come to us just as we came to France and to support the international community, Ukraine in the fight against the Russian occupation. And you, sir, have a way out.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-13-m1.u78	Thank you, General. It was more of a wish than a question. One last question. Borislav Berez from the non-fractional and we put a dot.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-13-m1.u79	General, we are very grateful to you. I'm glad you came here, even though we were waiting for Mr. Husband. And I'm probably going to ask you a question that concerns everyone here. Tell me, please, where is Mr. Male? Why didn't he come? And also, who will be politically and criminally responsible if, today, a princess airport is seized? We were told that three days of the tower, a tower that was being shot with tanks, was enough. In response, 5 minutes were issued in three days. That's what the fighters in that tower said. I have a question. Tell me, who will be responsible? Why isn't the technology of the enemy attacking our positions being destroyed? Also, tell us by which time the ministers of this Government will send their deputies instead of being here themselves. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-13-m1.u80	Ladies and gentlemen, first of all, I would like to say that the Chief of General Staff is carrying out the tasks defined by the President, and I cannot tell you where he is.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-13-m1.u81	I know where he is, but I can't say it.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-13-m1.u82	That's the first one. The other one. Political responsibility. Perhaps we all carry the political as well. As soldiers, we have military responsibility for activity or inactivity. So all the forces and means that are, those efforts are being made by the Armed Forces, the General Staff, they're aimed at liberating the territory, preventing the death of the civilian population. And the Armed Forces will carry out the President's mission to liberate territories that are captured by the enemy. The report was completed.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-13-m1.u83	Thank you, sir. I'd like to say one thing that's very difficult for our boys today. And we have to understand that. And thanks to their heroism, today they hold their positions and do everything they can to win this war. And I think they demand not only our words today but the great respect and support they receive today. And I've heard a saying that from the state they get exactly what's so big: tanks, planes, BTRs, weapons. Many are still volunteering and helping today. And we have to be consolidated with you to support the Ukrainian army. Every Ukrainian military man who gives his life today sheds blood for the sake of our native Ukrainian land. That's why I want to thank the General. I want to applaud every Ukrainian soldier. [[Applause]] Say, "Glory to Ukraine!" And thank you for coming. [[Applause]] And there's a question, you'll come to the reception. Thank you, thank you, sir. Thank you. Please. Please move on to the next day’s consideration of issues of order.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-13-m1.u84	I'll stand here until you give me your word.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-13-m1.u85	You can stand here. We're going to be looking at the bill right now. Draft Law on Amendments to Certain Ukrainian Laws on Protection of Ukrainian Information Television.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-13-m1.u86	We have to have respect for the military. Respect. Dear colleagues, I ask that we vote to consider this bill for a reduced procedure. I'm asking for a brief vote on the bill. [[17:06:44]] For a hundred and Please, Your Honor, we have a bill to amend some of Ukraine's laws on the protection of Ukraine's information radio area. We have a report by the head of the Committee on Culture and Spirituality. Mikola Leonidovich, no problem at all? Let's report from the scene. Please, Nicholas the Prince's Bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-13-m1.u87	Now I want us to figure out whether we're doing cheap pianists or we're trying to protect the country. [[Applause]] What's going on now? [[Applause]] We have a bill banning serials that promote the occupation army and the powers of the invaders on Ukrainian television. There was so much pressure to. There was a lot of pressure on the Supreme Council not to vote on this bill. Because the huge lobbyist oligarchic forces in both Ukraine and Russia are in favour of continuing Russian propaganda. Unfortunately, we now see this scenario coming true. So I very much ask the national MPs not to pay attention to the circus, but to listen seriously to what I'm going to say and support this bill. The Committee on Culture and Spirituality, at its meeting on December 24, reviewed the draft Law on Amendments to the Laws on Protection of Information Television, introduced by the People’s Deputies of Knieżicky and Denisenko, and supported the bill. The chief scientific and expert office of the Supreme Council's apparatus, in its conclusion, has made a number of observations and believes that this bill needs further work. After examining the findings of the Supreme Council's Chief Scientific and Expert Authority, the National MPs completed the bill and took into account all the wishes of the scientific and scientific administration. In particular, the following items are added, the distribution, the screening of films in Ukraine that are popularized by law enforcement agencies, the Armed Forces, other military forces or the forces of the occupying state, besides audiovisual works of Soviet production that were produced before August 1991, will carry a fine of between 50 and 100 minimum wages for each case of distribution or demonstration. And then, according to the text, the Committee of the Supreme Council on Cultural Affairs, taking into account all the observations of the scientific and expert administration, completed the bill, essentially introducing responsibility for the demonstration.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-13-m1.u88	I'm asking the author of the law to finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-13-m1.u89	Thank you. The Committee of the Supreme Council on Cultural Affairs requests support for the bill and to vote on it as a whole. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-13-m1.u90	Dear colleagues, we are considering a bill. Please, we have two "for", two "against". Please sign up for the performances. Everybody, take your seats, respectable colleagues, nothing happened, it's okay, sit down. Let's do two for, two against. Please, Sergey Sobolev, Fatherland, Bill 1317.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-13-m1.u91	Sobolev, the Fatherland faction. Dear colleagues! We have carefully considered this bill at a faction meeting, and we believe that this bill can be adopted in the first reading. Before the second reading there are a number of amendments that we would like to make, and if he vote on the basis we will support him. We believe that this bill should address, in the end, all the issues that relate to the propaganda of terrorist organizations that directly support terrorists, invaders in Ukraine. And these are the armed forces of the regular Russian army, the armed forces of the mercenaries, and that is why, in order to resolve these issues, we need to enable our monitoring authorities to stop broadcasting such programs. But there are, unfortunately, a number of points that are not regulated in the bill, so we are voting on the basis, and then we can put it to the vote after the revision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-13-m1.u92	Based on what I heard. Please, Peter Prashenko's Block, National Deputy Gorwart Robert Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-13-m1.u93	I give the word to Mikola Tomenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-13-m1.u94	Mikola Tomenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-13-m1.u95	Dear colleagues! Our faction will support this bill in the first reading, because I would like to remind you that this topic was a topic that was relevant in the previous event. And, in particular, I introduced a similar bill with my colleague Viacheslav Kirilenko, but unfortunately, then most of the Supreme Council, the real majority, was oriented towards cooperation, or support for "Russian peace". I hope today we have most of the support of the Ukrainian world. But nevertheless, as the classic says, there are so many problems in small things that can harm us. The point is that an official who will examine and determine which series or movie to ban by coming out of the articles can create major problems. For example, article 151 is called "The distribution and demonstration of films that promote certain organs of the occupying state and promote the values of criminal subculture." We have some criminal subculture experts in the faction, and what some of the authorities of the occupying state are, I haven't found any experts in our faction. Similarly, it is a problem to interpret the prohibition or non-banning of films, in which, for example, at least one of the main characters of the film or characters of the second plan is the person who has committed or intends to commit the crime. And a lot of things that could lead to fantastic abuse. That's why we're in position. Ideologically, we support, but in the second reading, obviously, the experts on television and radio talk that will control it, and the experts on "Dirkino," and obviously the representatives of our Committee on Freedom of Word, Information Policy should be involved, "Dergetelradio" involved. And make sure we understand.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-13-m1.u96	Let me finish, please, Mikoli Tomenka.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-13-m1.u97	And to formulate standards in a way that the official would not interpret, but he clearly understood: if in the series the heroization of the NCCD or any other Russian disaster, and so on, and so on, he has no right to show it in the theaters. But clearly, it makes sense. Therefore, the first reading is supported, actively worked out, and voted on as a whole.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-13-m1.u98	Thank you, Mikola Volodymyrovich. Please, People's Front, Oleg Medunica. Please, Oleg Vjacheslavovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-13-m1.u99	Please pass on the word of Victoria Sumar.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-13-m1.u100	Victoria Sumar, please, People's Front.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-13-m1.u101	Dear colleagues, we are talking a lot about the information war -- and we are not taking concrete, practical steps in which Ukraine can lead it. It's a bill, come on. brings into line the situation that we have today in Ukraine in the information space. We can talk a lot about the fact that bans are not the best method, and that's obviously true. But not for a country that is currently actually fighting and continuing on the air of its national television channels, it's still broadcasting, and it's promoting, in fact, even the armed forces and the subunits of the occupying state. Obviously, this was to be done from the beginning of the occupation. So the People's Front supports this bill, will vote for it in the first reading and in general. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-13-m1.u102	Thank you. Please, fellow citizens. Krivenko, national MP. Victor Mikolaiovich. Please, National Deputy Krivenko, Self-Help.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-13-m1.u103	Dear Chairman! Dear colleagues! The Self-Help faction supports the need for this bill as quickly as possible, which was to be a year ago, because it is an adequate response to the actions of the occupying country. There's a note to the bill. Let us now accept it in the first reading and commission it by Thursday, to prepare it for acceptance as a whole in the second reading. That's why they can't make it, which is a two-pronged bill that needs to be voted on as quickly as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-13-m1.u104	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, what other proposals? Olga Cervakova. It's not supposed to be there. If you'd like to speak, please. Vote. We'll vote on the basis that I understand. This is a consolidated position. I vote on the basis. Please, Olga Cervakova.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-13-m1.u105	I have a question for the reporter. Dear Mr. Reporter! Continued with my colleague Mikola Tomenka's question. Regarding 151 articles. You're talking about what is a state of occupation and what distribution is. You want to ban the whole movie. the distribution of the entire production of the occupying state. I want to remind you that in Ukrainian legislation, that definition is "occupationary state." Now, I have a bill from our colleague Baloga that proposes to recognize Russia as an aggressor country. But an aggressor country and a state of occupation are different things. Accordingly, if we don't have a clear norm or we don't adopt a law that regulates which country is the occupier state, we're just going to make this law a dead norm that won't work. What do you think, maybe it's better to adopt a law first that deals with the issue of the occupying state and then adopt a bill that prohibits its production? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-13-m1.u106	Thank you, Your Honor. There's only one nuance here is that if we now vote it as a basis, in the first, we're going to work on the second reading, and all of these questions will be settled. Well, questions aren't foresight. But we can take him on the basis, and there are no problems. Oksana Sold, one minute, and we're done. And we'll vote. Please. Based, based on. I'm asking the people's deputies to take their jobs, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-13-m1.u107	Dear Volodymyr Borisovich! I ask you to base and put to the vote a reduced procedure for preparing for second reading. Then, within a week, we can work it out quickly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-13-m1.u108	I don't think there's any point considering plenary weeks. Oksana, it doesn't make any sense, because it's plenary weeks. You know, we're going to do the same thing by the plenary next week, so it doesn't make sense to pass. Dear colleagues, I ask you to take up your jobs. I will now base a bill to amend some of Ukraine's laws to protect Ukraine's information radio area as a basis for the first reading (registration no. 1317). I ask you to prepare for the vote and please vote. 1317 is based on the first reading. 1317 is based on the first reading, respected colleagues. [[17:19:43]] For 240 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, please concentrate, please. Concentrate. Thank you. The factions, I said. The following law, the draft Act amending certain Ukrainian laws on social television and radio broadcasting in Ukraine. Registration number 1357 and 1357-1. Reported to the chairman of the Committee on Freedom of Speech and Information Policy, Victoria Petrovna Sumar. Please, Mrs. Victoria.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-13-m1.u109	Dear Mr. Head, dear colleagues. Obviously, I would very much like Parliament to focus on two fundamental tasks: security, defence, and reforms. This bill, which we are about to consider, and hopefully we support, is a real reform of the information sphere, which has been talked about in Ukraine for at least the last 10 years by all journalists, all public activists, including politicians, because they are. virtually every president is talking about what he's going to do, and we still haven't got a hand on it. The point of the law is actually to create an independent channel based on national language. In fact, change involves clarifying procedures for very important things, including the definition of the mechanism for the establishment of the National Social Broadcasting Organisation and its institutional and legal forms and sources of funding. In fact, without these changes, we can't make a truly independent social language. Our task today, and the essence of this reform, is to get the state television channel out of the state, under the influence of the Cabinet of Ministers, and to create a real alternative on its basis to private television channels that are now known to be controlled very often. In the law, we have foreseen the principle of moments, this is the creation of an organization-law society, a public stockholder society, the withdrawal of the UTR from public speaking to create an innovation based on it, because once again, because Ukraine is in the midst of an information war, we need an active innovation. And also increasing the role of journalists in defining editorial policy. I'm going to say right now that there's an alternative bill, and we've talked to both the author today, and the Peter Prashenko Block faction, that some things have to be agreed upon in this bill, and in particular, we agree to the proposal, and I ask you to take it into account, that when we create a public stock company, even in the first reading, there should be a ban on the alienation and privatization of the property of this National Television. Next. We have to compromise on the creation of individual legal persons of television, and the radio has no particular problem with this and find a position on regional state broadcasters in order to work on a second reading formula to ensure that local communities can influence this district radio company, which obviously should remain, but should work according to the standard of the social language. The committee, all members of the committee signed as authors under this bill, for which I am grateful to my colleagues. And it has also been worked on by experts from the Council of Europe, this is Ukraine's commitment to the Council of Europe and the International Organizations, I believe that the Ukrainian Parliament is now ready to make this reform, a real reform in the information field. Requesting that the bill be supported in the first reading so that the committee could work out, take into account all the suggestions, and we went on second reading, and we could form a supervisory board as quickly as possible, and turn the state television into a social channel. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-13-m1.u110	Thank you. Thank you, Mrs. Victoria. Please, Mikola Tomenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-13-m1.u111	Dear colleagues! I am proud to have been one of the coauthors of the Social Television Act that we adopted in the previous call. Since it was not a simple situation at the time, we were opposed to proving that social television and radio talk were required to create, not for European structures, not even for grants, but for social radio organizations in Ukraine that would not be an alternative to commercial channels that would make programs, movies, and content that were interesting to a simple person. That promotes values, not that that are created for advertising. This is the kind of channel of public speaking that does not include commercial advertising with alcohol and beer. There can't be a double approach on this channel that we take for cheap, something abroad, because we don't have a way of formulating a software network. Now we have a unique social product on the First National Channel -- Indian films in Russian translation. So I have a question. Is that an example of a social television channel? Do we still want to show this? What can't we do about Ukrainian education, about our talented kids winning competitions all over the world? Can't we talk about scientists or Ukrainian tourism or Ukrainian sports? It's a social television mission. And then, when we voted this bill in line with the deadlines, the government should have offered us an offer by November 15th to what mechanism to create these channels. Unfortunately, in the government they won, in the previous, in the government of the proselytes, I mean, they won the approach that should be followed in the Bolshevik way. So they're going to take it down to the ground. Hence, it is possible to privatize and create a new legal person who, in fairness, by selling that property, will begin to create a new, honest channel of public speaking. Fortunately, both the Cabinet of Ministers, when considering the matter, realized that it was an illegal approach, and Minniest did not support it. And now there's a bill in which, unfortunately, there's a lot of rules that don't apply to social television, but it's about how to privatise district television companies, national radio companies, and create a single legal entity and give a few people the right, the law states in chapter XV of the "Mino NSTU" by one government (to understand that the government of the National Social Radio Company is a few people) can alienate property to 10 percent of the value of assets, according to the latest annual financial report. We had to explain for two weeks that social television is not privatization. It's content and it's independence. Happily, today we began to find common ground. I've registered my bill with one goal, that the logic of the privatization channel that was offered means that we're going to lose the best we have. In this version, there was no social radio as a legal person. Today we have a radio: The National Radio Company is "The Flash," and it's "Culture." This is the only area of Ukrainianism that has been preserved in the media system. That's over 200,000 storage funds. And so to think about the possible privatization of this, I think it was wrong and unfair. So we agreed that we could support a bill that clearly prescribes the second reading, first, not the elimination of district television companies, the national radio company, and other subjects of the new creation, but the reorganization. The other one. The national radio company is transformed into a social radio company, where there will be three companies: a public - policy radio, a cultural radio, and a youth radio. They're a separate legal person. Because you can't do three radio companies on TV with a trailer. And the most important question we've discussed on the faction is probably the fate of district television companies. We know the complexity of the situation, we know the political situation as governors' changes, they've changed their position. But, my friends, if we don't save and give the district councils rights, we're talking about decentralization, if we're willing to use regional radio companies to create social radio channels with a governance structure like Kiev. So this isn't the governor going to be the head of the district council, it's the Supervisory Board, where all the factions of the district council are represented and, after the competition, the representatives of the public. Then we keep our local speech, and we don't throw people out on the street. If the district council or the city council says we don't have the money and we don't want to invest in the public speaking channel at the district level, then it's really property and this property can become part of the public speaking channel as a general Ukrainian, if that happens. So we have to write clearly, obviously in the law we've already talked to my colleagues and Olga Cervakova, and with Ivanna Klimpush-Cincadze about that maybe this is a separate article in the law that will write the algorithm differently. For example, we give the local community the right to turn a district television company into public speaking, and if it does not want to do so, then this property and real estate is transferred to the legal person of a national social television company. So these things are very responsible, my friends. If we, God forbid, allow a merger into one legal person and the right to manage property as recorded here even without the Supervisory Board, without the State Property Fund, without the Antimonopoly Committee. You don't know what we have today is the balance sheet value that. The National Radio Company – we have a balance sheet of over 200 million dollars, the National Television Company – a balance sheet cost of 270 million dollars and 440 million debts. So that's what it means. This means that if this law is voted out without our amendments and warnings, it means that somewhere the price is, let's say, three radio companies in central Kiev with a radio house, with a phonetec, with everything there will be worth a million dollars. Well, are we out of our minds here? What's accumulated over 80 years in Ukrainian culture is to sell to someone. So once again, our faction is voting now and will vote in general only if we create a social television channel, not a private channel. Our faction will only vote if it is clearly stated that it is not liquidation but reorganization. Our faction will vote only on the condition that the entire block dealing with matters of privatization will be excluded from this law, and the chapter, article 15 of the property will be prescribed in the current law. You can sell land and transfer property, but it's done according to the Cabinet of Ministers and only on competitive grounds with the understanding that it's a piece of land there, so nobody needs it, and it's going to develop public television. And we're going to vote on the condition that the social radio, which consists of three channels, is a separate legal person. So she feels confident and continues to promote Ukrainian culture. And we're going to vote on the condition that district television companies are future channels of social broadcasting, where the local community can see what's going on and control the local government and so on. And not to put in front of the fact that we have district television companies that will be sold off the land, and the baskets that will remain will be moved into the rent-a-room. So once again, my friends, I want to warn you that this is too responsible. What has been created in the last period cannot, as it were, be a boon to a few people who want to make a fashionable and attractive commercial channel for themselves at budget costs. That's not what I'm saying. We pay from the budget for social television. So we have to control how these funds are used. Similarly, it is obvious that we will forget our subscription fee. Friends, what's the subscription fee? More than 80 percent of citizens say no pay. They're still, give them a pension, they're still going to be a subscription fee for social television. So the approach is government funding, sponsored voting and advertising, but within the reduced, without alcohol and everything else, because it's a commercial channel. So once again, my friends, with these warnings, with the points that I have in my law, the faction is ready to support in the first reading and asking the committee to engage labour groups, not to ignore, there live people work on the National Radio, on television, not the owls, and people work there. And they work with them, and only then will they adopt the bill as a whole, then there will be social television, not private, government or party TV. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-13-m1.u112	Thank you. Dear colleagues, if I understand correctly, then we can look at it in the first reading on the basis of what will be taken into account in Victoria Sumar's proposals, which she has heard from the rostrum, so I understand the commonalities, then including the proposals of Mikli Tomenka, who has just sounded them, which of them are duplicated, but they are common. To prepare for second reading, based on 1357. 1357 on the basis that the second reading will be followed by proposals made by Nicholas Tomenck and Victoria Sumar as agreed decisions. I can put it to a vote on the ground, or are we going to talk about it for a long time? I'm laying the groundwork, prepare, please, your honors. Bill (registration number 1357, please prepare. Draft Act amending certain laws of Ukraine on Social Television and Radio Broadcasting in Ukraine. Based on both the base and the first reading, taking into account the suggestions that were made on the platform of Victoria Sumar and Mikli Tomenka. Please put the vote on the basis of the first reading. Please vote. On the basis of the first reading, taking into account the suggestions made by Mikola Tomenck and Victoria Sumar from the rostrum. [[17:35:43]] For 230 Decision taken. We're still gonna need the factions, please. Peter Poshenko's Block 97, People's Front 71, Opposition Block 1, Self-help 25, and so on. Thank you, Your Honor. The next bill is the registration number 1423, but before that, I'm going to suggest that we consider it as a reduced procedure, no objection? In summary, please prepare yourself for the summary procedure, please vote. For consideration of the reduced procedure, for consideration of the simplified procedure. [[17:36:37]] For 201 Decision taken. We're looking at bill registration number 1423. Reported by Ukraine’s National Deputy Olga Vadimovna. Correspondent is head of the Committee on Veterans and Disabled Persons, Alexander Yuriovich Tretyakov. Please, 1423. In the rostrum, 1423.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-13-m1.u113	Dear colleagues! I welcome you, Olga the Mantis, head of the Health Committee. I have no doubt that you are voting for life and health and social security for those people who have given you the opportunity to be in this room today. This is about people who have become disabled as a result of events in Maidan. Today there are several hundred such people. Dear colleagues! Your attention please, because I think we've given up on some really important events. A busload of people had just died, and we all just kept quiet and swallowed it together. I now ask you all to stand up to remember those people who died in the last few hours while we are sitting here with you. And I really don't want us to accept heroes posthumously again, and I want to stand here and lay out new laws about new crippled people and their welfare. Can I have a minute of your silence, please? [[A Minute of Silence]] Thank you. I'm asking us not to scold, and even though we are living in a military time that is still undetermined and unrecognizable, don't forget about it. On December 9, another hero of the Celestial 100 died. He was injured in February, and only December 9th left his life. And it is by voting for this law that the amendments to article 7 of the Ukrainian Law "On the Status of War Veterans, Guaranteeing Their Social Protection". I ask you to uphold this law and restore any part of the justice that has been violated. Those who ordered the shooting of the rangers have not yet been punished. Those who pressed hooks, triggering chickens, have not yet been punished. The wounded soldiers of the internal forces and the Berkut, which I also assisted in Maidan, received compensation, received support from the state. Those people who were protecting Maidan didn't get anything. So your vote for this law will allow you to partially restore the justice that we all have to restore here with you. I want to thank the head and the members.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-13-m1.u114	Let me finish, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-13-m1.u115	I would like to thank the head and members of the Committee on Disability Issues who have considered and supported this law. This law will be adopted with amendments to the adoption of the procedure for granting status to persons with disabilities of war, to bring legislation into line with this law and to ensure that ministries and other central authorities bring their legislation into line with this law. Please support this law with the amendments and comments made by the committee of the Ministry of Profile and Profile. Thank you. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-13-m1.u116	Please, the committee's co-rapporteur, Alexander Yuriovich Tretyakov, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-13-m1.u117	After such a speech, Olga the Mantis added it was really very difficult to add. I'll tell you one thing. Everyone must have realized that during Maidan there was a real war: there were soldiers, there were explosions, there were automatic lines, there were many deaths. That is why we must really adopt this law in order to really make people with disabilities equal to those with disabilities during Maidan to those with disabilities in the war and to benefit from it. According to the GSP to date, there are some 900 people. That would therefore be a great budgetary burden for the country. And the 900 people who are there must indeed receive all the benefits of the State. All of it.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-13-m1.u118	Thank you, Alexander Yuriovich. Questions are not provided for by a reduced procedure. I think there's no doubt about the importance, yes.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-13-m1.u119	If there are any questions, I'm ready to answer.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-13-m1.u120	No questions asked. I think we should put the bill on the ground as a whole. Oh, no? Paul Pinzenik, please. If there is a denial, you cannot.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-13-m1.u121	Dear colleagues, the People's Front faction supports the adoption of this bill on the basis of the first reading. However, I must point out that the bill does not eliminate certain shortcomings that may be corrected in the second reading. Please support the committee's decision and put to the vote the issue of support as a basis. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-13-m1.u122	Let's take the first base so that we don't make any mistakes. Oh, no? Head of the Third Party Committee, please. Based, based on. All right, colleagues, I'm asking you to get ready. I'm voting on a bill, registration number 1423, draft law amending article 7 of the Ukrainian Law on the Status of War Veterans, guaranteeing their social protection. On the basis, including the Committee's conclusion on the basis. Please vote. In the first reading, on the basis. [[17:42:58]] For 233 Decision taken. Based on the base. Next, dear colleagues. We have a number of decrees of the Supreme Council. Judgement 1,340, author of Greenevich Lilia Mikhailovna, head of the committee of rapporteurs. I'm asking for a reduced procedure. Am I betting on a reduced vote? Is there a need? Come on. In short, 1340 and 1013 are two decisions. I'll bet the vote on a reduced procedure. It's got to be okay. [[17:43:50]] For 207 Lilia Mikhailna, is there a need to report? The Supreme Council wants to vote. Is that what I'm saying? [[B in m in s a l in]] Lilia Mikhailovna, no objection?
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-13-m1.u123	But it's not. Let me say a few words.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-13-m1.u124	Okay. Please. Your right.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-13-m1.u125	Dear colleagues, I'm only going to take this opportunity, because this refers to the parliamentary hearings of "Education, Health and Social Welfare for Children with Psychological Development Disorders" -- a little statistics to make us aware of this. In recent decades the number of children in Ukraine has dropped by 19 percent. And every year, half the time, there are more children with psychophysical disorders. And now we have 2 percent of the child population of children with disabilities. Therefore, let us keep it in mind and do something in our place for the benefit of these children. Please vote in favour of the parliamentary hearing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-13-m1.u126	Dear colleagues, I am voting on the basis and in general the draft regulation (registration number 1340) is the draft Resolution on the adoption of Parliamentary Hearing Recommendations on Education, Health and Social Welfare for Children with Psychological Development Disorders: Problems and Their Solutions. Please vote. Please be supportive. [[17:45:30.]] For 239. Decision taken. Dear colleagues, I'd like to refocus. We have a decision of 1013, which is extremely important – a draft decree on the commemoration of the memory of the Heros of Ukraine, which gave their lives for the freedom and independence of Ukraine. Victoria Sumar reports. I'll remind you, it's a reduced procedure. Please, please, Victoria Petrovna, if necessary. Turkey's Alexander Valentinovich was supposed to be the reporter. Communicator, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-13-m1.u127	Dear colleagues, we have just remembered the fallen minutes of silence. And this decree, Mr. Oleg, you also talk about it a lot, it's about the eternal memory of those heroes who die today for Ukrainian independence. In what way? You know, when Russian military aggression started, the first 200 came in, sometimes there was nowhere to hide, especially when it came to big cities, and you know the problem, that's how Ukraine treated its heroes who gave their lives. And then this idea came up to create memory lanes in every city where Ukrainian heroes would be buried, and in the city of Kiev, create a pantheon of Ukrainian heroes. Because you know in Ukrainian history there's been a lot of talk about that, well, in modern history, at least before the revolution on the ground that we lack national heroes, but today they're definitely not missing because every dead person is a real hero of Ukraine who gave his life for territorial integrity, for independence and for the rest of us. And that's why these alleys, these are practical solutions, but the main thing is ideological stress, the country has to remember its heroes, and these places have to be memories of the memory of the children, where there's going to be different memorials. The request is now to approve this decision as a basis and as a whole. And to truly pay tribute to all those who have died today, and unfortunately every day, we have these sacrifices that are now on the watch for Ukrainian independence.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-13-m1.u128	Thank you. The text of the decree? 1013 is the text of the decree? [[Noise Nodes]] There's one thing. Please, Igor Lucenka. We're going to vote now.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-13-m1.u129	Dear colleagues! In fact, the Ukrainian Institute of National Memory developed the concept of the so - called Ukrainian National Pantheon. So together with the institute experts, we have this proposal. Put paragraph 1 of this decision in a slightly different wording, in this wording, if I can read, "Support the public's initiative to create the Ukrainian National Pantheon in the central part of the capital city of Ukraine, the hero city of Kiev, and in other cities of Ukraine, the heroine of Ukraine." This is a proposal from the Ukrainian Institute of Memory.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-13-m1.u130	I don't think there's any objection. I don't think there's any objection to that. Please, Mrs. Victoria Sumar.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-13-m1.u131	I said that given this amendment, especially the pantheon. The request for support is absolutely accepted with the offer of Yuri Lucenka, who was also named in.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-13-m1.u132	For the money of the local budgets. It's a recommendation. The decision is of a recommendational nature. It says that the Supreme Council decides to support the public's initiative to create the pantheon's heroes in the central part. Recommend that the Cabinet of Ministers consider the creation of an appropriate memorial complex in Kiev and recommend the Cabinet of Ministers to local government administrations, local self - government authorities, to take the necessary steps to create a memorial for Ukrainian heroes in the relevant cities of Ukraine. That's the whole text of the decree.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-01-13-m1.u133	Dear colleagues, I am voting on draft act 1013 as a basis and in general, taking into account the proposal that was made by the committee head and by the national deputy Igor Lucenk. Vote please, Your Honor. Please vote. On the basis and in general. [[17:50:16]] For 247 Decision taken. I'll rule you in. [[Applause]] Honorable National Deputies, in view of what happened. Dear colleagues. Honorable national MPs, distinguished colleagues, the order of the plenary meeting is exhausted. And I declare the evening plenary meeting of the Supreme Council closed. The next meeting will take place tomorrow at 10 a.m. Thank you, Your Honor.
