ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-19-m0.u1	Good morning, dear fellows! Please come into the hall to start our work, take jobs. The Secretary of the Supreme Council would like to invite the deputies to the Hall. And I'd like you to take your jobs.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-19-m0.u2	Good morning, fellow countrymen. Please take your seats for registration. Please take your seats. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to inform you that today, in accordance with the mandate of the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the site of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, statistics will be formed on the attendance of members of the National Assembly and the participation in the vote. Let's be clear. Attention! Top twenty-five top scores and the worst. Yesterday during the Conciliation Council, yesterday during the Conciliation Council, I went to the media, to the public organizations to carefully analyze attendance, and together with you, honourable colleagues, with most MPs, we started with the whole public, we started a wide company called "Stop, walkaway!"that the passersby be very insolent and all understood who was chosen to work in Parliament and make decisions, and who was chosen not to come here at all. So I would ask you to be responsible for your duties. And in this way, I want everyone to be the best about the attendance and the results of the vote. At this point, the system will just be fixed when the card is inserted, if you don't vote, it will be fixed that you don't vote and you have a high chance of getting into an anti-rating. That's why I would recommend that everyone vote either "yes," or "against," or "restraint." Well, there's no fourth option. This is a recommendation. There's no fourth option, so it's your job to do it, but. That's right. And that's why. [[B in m in s a l in]] So, honourable colleagues, I would ask you to consider this, this is a statistic that is completely public. I would also like to inform you, Mr. President, that yesterday, as a result of the Conciliation Council, I gave a mandate to the Committee on Budget Affairs and the Committee on Social Policy to start official consultations with the Cabinet of Ministers, the professional ministries on the possibility of compensation for pensions and salaries. And according to the results of this work, to inform the members of the Supreme Council, profile committees that, how, how and what resources can be made to address this very important issue. Dear colleagues, thank you for taking your seats. Let's start the registration. I'd like to turn on the "Ray" system. [[10:08:01]] 321 deputies are in the hall. I declare this morning's plenary session open. I want to inform you, Your Honor, in accordance with Parliament's work plan today, we will vote on a number of issues, and we will vote on a number of human resources issues. In particular, with regard to the election of members, two members, of the High Council of Justice, of the Supreme Council. All I'm stressing is that we have three candidates to choose from, but today we're only going to consider two candidates that have been submitted, according to the legislation, for consideration by the members of the Supreme Council. In this regard, I would like to invite the head of the People’s Commissioner’s Committee of the People’s Republic of Chernenka to take note of the organization of the work of the Counting Commission, and we will continue our work as high-ranking colleagues.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-19-m0.u3	Dear Chairman, dear colleagues! For the organization and the holding of a secret ballot on the appointment of members of the High Council of Justice, it is necessary to hold the first meeting of the Counting Commission. Members of the Counting Commission of the Supreme Council of Ukraine are requested to meet in five minutes in Room 5, in the towers of the 3rd floor, above the session hall. Let me remind you of the composition of the Military Commission of the Supreme Council: Chernenko Alexander is the head, the Contingent Roman Josephovich is the deputy head of the Military Commission, Sidorovich Ruslan Mihajlovich is the secretary, Aleksiev Igor Sergiyovich, Arjev Vladimir Igor Igoryovich, Artushenko Igor Andriyovich, Vojcicka Victoria Mikhailovna, Gzdziov Mikhajlo Olexiyevich, Gordjeev Andrija Anatolievich, Dovbenko Mikhajilo Volodymyrovich, Ephraim Irina Aleksiyivna, Korchik Vitali Andryovich, Kuprienko Oleg Vasilovich, Melnichuk Ivan Ivanovich, Pavelov Kostin Yuriovich, Papiev Mikola Mikolayovich, Šlemko Dmitry Vasilovich, J. Colleagues, please, five minutes upstairs, so we can get the form approved quickly. Thank you!
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-19-m0.u4	Dear fellow national MPs! According to the Rules, we have Tuesday and we have 30 minutes to speak from factions and groups. In the meantime, a meeting will be held in accordance with the Counting Commission and we will continue our work. Please, I would like to remind you that the beginning of the vote on the members of the High Council of Justice will take place at 11 p.m. 45 minutes per plan. Please sign up for statements from the factions and parliamentary groups from the rostrum, please. Please, Egor Sobolev "self-help", please. Oleg Berezuk? Oleg Berezuk, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-19-m0.u5	Ladies and gentlemen! Today, you and I are being tested every day in front of people who are watching us very closely, at every step we take. They don't expect us to do the perfect work, they can even forgive us the mistakes we make, but they can't forgive us, and they can't forgive us for the evil and the non-working. What am I talking about? You and I have set up a commission on the HKG committee to study the quality of tariffs, and this committee has concluded that tariffs have been miscalculated. And please don't take it for granted, fellow MPs and citizens like populism. Populism is when good things are said for no reason. We're going to the Cabinet of Ministers, to the MPs who could do this, to be able to admit their mistakes, to correct them, and to build trust, to build people's trust in power and power in their branches. Without trust, however banal this may sound, and we always repeat it, without the trust of reform and change. So there's an offer to the Cabinet of Ministers, to the committees, to the President's Administration, to sit together, honestly correct the mistakes and move on. This is a principled position that will raise the country's trust in power in this country. Second, Honorable Colleagues, High Council of Justice. The Higher Council of Justice is a very important body, unfortunately, our faction says quite frankly, we can't find people today who could just offer a list at that time. Three factions are looking for a compromise, professional court case and, above all, a moral person who could work in this field. Therefore, we ask you to be patient and not political. What's more, we've talked to those candidates that you've offered, honourable coalition colleagues, one of them suits us, and the other person that we can't give up because of non-professional communication and not a professional approach to this highest moral authority of the state as such. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-19-m0.u6	Please, Victor Vasilovich Bondar, Rebirth.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-19-m0.u7	Dear Vladimir Borisovich! Dear colleagues! We've been working with you for six months in this new warehouse, a new government has been formed over the past six months, there's an active coalition, but unfortunately we don't see systemic approaches in the work of the Supreme Council, we don't see systemic approaches in the work of the government. And unfortunately, all we see is a situation where every day there are arguments in the hall, on the TV channels, and even among the members of an active coalition. And this leads to the fact that in almost six months, virtually no social issues have been resolved. From the point of view of business, there is no new economic policy, no tax breaks. We, the MP's Rebirth Group, have demanded and asked the Conciliation Council on more than one occasion to introduce a new Tax Code to reduce the amount of taxes and review their quality. To reduce taxes on wages, to enable us to develop business, industry, unfortunately, no one can hear us. We've been talking from the very beginning, and now we're saying that there's absolutely no tariff policy, we don't see any transparency in the formation of tariffs, that we have to make a decision to vote on the government's report on how tariffs are formed, on what basis and what the government will do to simplify the subsidy system to raise pensions, minimum wage, to allow people of the poorest sectors of the population to get out of this crisis. Unfortunately, no one can hear us, it's back in the dark, and no one even wants to look. We're talking about a lot of talk about decentralization, about changes to the Constitution, about the fall being the local elections that should have already changed the system of local elections that were delegated to them: financial, regulatory, authority to appoint territorial authorities, and this is the change to the Constitution. We have four weeks left to do this. Unfortunately, no one can hear. We're talking about decentralization starting with small questions. We demand that the same Law on Land Use Change be laid down so that rural councils, district councils, have the right to make their own decisions and distribute land, to increase pastures, graveyards, and so forth. No one hears, no attitude. That is why we demand that the Law on Parliamentary Opposition be put to the vote so that there is a real opportunity in the opposition today to influence the processes in Parliament, to form the agenda and so that we can make decisions that will really enable people to work. The other one. We demand a report from the Minister of Health on the policy that is now taking place in the field of health care. The breakup is happening, nothing is changing. We suggest listening to those Georgians who are leaving the government today because there are no reforms. What's going on? Why is reform in the Ministry of Justice a failure? Why do we not see specific matters in the Ministry of Internal Affairs? What's going on at the Ministry of Economics? Why do these people leave the government? Let's see, there are systemic problems. Unfortunately, no one does.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-19-m0.u8	Thank you. Please, Alexander Wilkul, the Opposition Block.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-19-m0.u9	Respectable people of Ukraine, distinguished people's deputies! There is not one law or bill on the agenda of this plenary week that has been proposed by the Opposition Block. We urge each week to consider laws that require immediate application. It is a stabilization of the economic situation, the indexing of wages and pensions, and a peaceful settlement in the east. But the authorities persist in ignoring these proposals and pushing the country towards bankruptcy. Initially, they went into the pockets of Ukrainians, took wages and pensions, collapsed the banking system and the national currency, and increased their debt to foreign creditors. City-based enterprises have now been put on sale in a crisis. The next step is the total sale of Ukrainian lands. We had foreseen this situation and in December passed Bill 1071, extending the moratorium on the purchase and sale of agricultural land. The issue of the sale of Ukrainian land should only be considered in a referendum, not by the people's deputies, nor by the Cabinet of Ministers of this matter: the sale or sale of Ukrainian land should be decided only by its master, the Ukrainian people. We firmly oppose the embodiment of the country. And for attempts to sell strategic assets for kopecks in a crisis, the Government should be retired. Against the background of intensive consultations, at the level of the Norman Quartet and the United States Parliament should take the initiative in political resolution of the situation in the east. We just don't have a solution. The opposition bloc will address the Constitutional Court today on historical laws. We have asked the President to veto, but unfortunately these laws have been signed. And now the names of streets and cities from local budgets are going to be billions of bracelets that will be removed from the roads, from the roof, from the heat meters, from the local budgets just to take more of that money. And tens of millions will be in line for the new documents, increasing the ideological divide of the country. Is this the first priority for a country that has been brought to poverty? We don't think so. We don't have tens of millions of Ukrainians thinking that way. I am fully responsible for the fact that more than 80 per cent of the Dnepropetrovsk population in the referendum will say no to the city's name. These issues must be addressed in local referendums rather than in policy-making, ignoring the views of the communities. In addition, OSCE statements yesterday say that the laws adopted threaten the freedom of conscience in the country and lead to the suppression of critical voices in society. Therefore, the Opposition Block is being referred to.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-19-m0.u10	Ten seconds, complete.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-19-m0.u11	Parliament must address, not political speculation, but the real problems that exist in our country. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-19-m0.u12	Please, Sergey Pashinsky, People's Front.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-19-m0.u13	Dear friends! Six months ago, we, the newly elected deputies, created a coalition government, formed a coalition, and took responsibility for the situation in the country. What happened in six months? A small term, by the way. On the one hand, we can say that for the first time in many, many years, as a result, for example, the first four months of overturning the budget is about 20 billion dollars. That's a big number in our terms. What's going on in this room? We passed a huge package of laws -- laws that allowed for financial, military, social stability. What's going on now? After the government of Yatzenuk had taxed the oligarchs for the first time in the history of Ukraine and had begun to actually take state property and pay the budget revenues that everyone wants to share now, Gordienko came up with some sort of rail charges. After Habakkuk declared a criminal case against Ljovczyn and Firtash the following day, he was ordered to resign. After I, as chairman of the committee, stopped the production of diesel fuel from 100,000 tons, when my colleagues and I stopped the actual smuggling (the word does not return to call them colleagues), last Friday I was accused as the head of the Defence and Security Committee of stealing oil products from the Ministry of Defence and handing them over as a yellow liquid to a private company. You know, I went to court, and of course I did my fair name by pronouncing, and these people are going to apologize. But that's not the point. The question is that political outsiders and our military enemies are now implementing a scenario for the destruction of our state. And this scenario is very much like what happened to us in the country in 2005, when there are lies of accusations, when there's mud spilling that leads to the actual destruction of the state. I want to address all members of the coalition. Each of us has his own representative in executive power. Let us better report for those successes, and let us be our representatives, and let us remember that criticism is the path to development, and lies and slander are the destruction not only of us, but of the destruction of the entire state. We have no choice but to conduct the program that we voted for in this room together. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-19-m0.u14	Thank you. Please, Oleg Lazko, Radical Party.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-19-m0.u15	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. Honorable citizens of Ukraine, distinguished colleagues of national MPs! In my opinion, this plenary week, the Ukrainian Parliament is to devote one topic to the protection of the social, property and economic rights of Ukrainian citizens. Finally, a number of laws were passed aimed at strengthening the country’s security of the army. The time has come to mention people and to adopt laws that protect the rights of people who raise the standard of living. Especially wages, pensions, scholarships, social assistance to those who need it most. Because today we see a catastrophic rise in prices in pharmacies, in housing, in markets, in shops. Instead, we see virtually devalued wages and pensions of the vast majority of Ukrainian citizens. The Radical Party faction therefore insists on the urgent consideration of bills aimed at wage indexing, pensions, scholarships, social assistance, and other incomes of the population. When someone tells me that there's no possibility in the budget for this, I say that's not true. Here's a table in front of me, "help with the implementation of the General Fund of the State Budget for January 2015." Overcoming the total fund of $21 billion,400 million. Here are the possibilities to index wages and pensions. A large number of Ukrainian citizens did not take advantage of their rights, did not form a subsidy. This year’s budget provides 25 billion dollars for grants. Here are some more reserves to raise, index wages and pensions. One and a half billion dollars was arrested by the Yatsenuk government. Janukovič's accounts, stolen from the state budget, are immediately executed by the court and confiscate the $1.5 billion into the state budget, and here are some other reserves to raise salaries and pensions for Ukrainian citizens. In addition, this year, the Ukrainian State has to pay $344 billion for the service and payment of external debts. I call on the government to immediately conclude negotiations with external creditors and, if they don't go to debt restructuring, to cancel part of the debt, to declare default. And 344 billion dollars in the budget this year are going to index wages and pensions, create jobs, raise the standard of living of Ukrainian citizens, finance an army, military-industrial complex, that's the real policy in the interests of the state, that's what we stand for.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-19-m0.u16	Please, Arthur Gerasimov, "Peter Dust Block." People's Deputy Cervakov, Petra Prashenko Block.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-19-m0.u17	Thank you. Good afternoon, dear fellows! I want to remind you that an IMF reform is planned in the Ukrainian Parliament this week. And our faction supports those bills that have been put in place to reform the Ministry of Internal Affairs, because it's really mature and it's even mature. But I want to say that no reform will help, especially if it's prescribed on paper and practice is completely different. And the IMF continues to maintain the methods of the penal NKVD, which now remain from the previous authorities. I'd like to inform you that the Obukhiv Police Department has violated a criminal case regarding the intervention in the private life of the Barwara Chebotar. This is the daughter of the Odessa Deputy Minister of Internal Affairs who wrote a statement on ZIK's journalists for being near her house, where we remember, obstructing their activities and beatings. After that, this minister’s daughter, the deputy minister, writes a statement of interference with her private life. Journalists are now beginning to receive messages. It's a shock edit. And journalists view this as a pressure on the editor and as an attempt to intimidate journalists for the revealing material that has been leaked for some time in the press. On behalf of journalists, on behalf of the entire journalistic community, I am addressing the Minister of Internal Affairs in no way to use a criminal tool as a criminal tool. And please refrain from the methods of your predecessor, Zacharychenk, in such very dangerous matters. I also want to say that yesterday there was an argument that, as if this criminal case had been committed for beating journalists and journalists, it was as if they had been beaten. I also turn to the minister to say that this is not true. Because I am thoroughly aware that a criminal case has been committed in connection with meddling in private life. And I don't want to be intimidated by journalists right now, as in Yanukovich's day. Also, I ask the Minister of Internal Affairs to inform you that a criminal case has been committed for beating up journalists, for the fact that they have been attacked. And was it violated by article 171 of the article “Infringement of legitimate professional activity? Our faction hopes that the matter will be brought to an end. And instruments such as criminal justice will not be used by the Ministry, as in the shameful days of Yanukovich. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-19-m0.u18	Please, Julia Timoshenko, Fatherland.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-19-m0.u19	Good afternoon, everyone. Dear colleagues, I would like to thank all the members of the working group right now to find out the objectivity of the tariffs, which of all the factions worked for almost a month, studied each figure, analyzed all the documents, especially thanks to the head of the working group from Self-Help. I'm holding this report in my hands right now, which I'm sure will be approved tomorrow. And in this report, there's a consolidated idea that I want to quote right now. "The fixed prices, the energy tariffs, the utility services are unfounded and require additional calculations to correct them." This suggests that we must immediately stop the abuse of all Ukrainians, which is called the establishment of new tariffs. At the same time, it was found on the basis of the work of the working group that we do not have enough Ukrainian gas for the population, and if we quote the working group report now, we have a surplus of Ukrainian gas to supply the population and the Heatcommunergo. This means that tariffs can be at least 2 times smaller because if they don't take part in imported gas two times less. And I would ask Parliament to consolidate around this task and make sure that we do it and that people throughout the country don't curse politicians, parliament, government and everyone who thinks of raising tariffs one-on-one and the other-on-one. And I also want to let you know that the norms that are designed for the consumption of heat and gas in those apartments where there are no counters are just absurd. We compared, along with the mayors, the same houses that don't have counters: 2-3 times the difference between the volume of gas and the heat that they write on a person in those buildings that don't have counters. It's corruption, mega-corruption! And either we stop it with you, or we will be at the back of our calm and apathy to continue the abuse of the Ukrainians. I would also like us to settle this in literally days. Two bills have been introduced on tariff regulation, and they need to be put in and adopted. And it's the indexation of pensions and wages. Thank you, Prime Minister, for him.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-19-m0.u20	Please, Julia Volodymyrna, 30 seconds, finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-19-m0.u21	Thank you, Prime Minister, for listening to what should be done immediately with the indexation of pensions and salaries, the law should be voted on this week. And that means we're going to take down the illegal total burden of social injustice that lies on people. We'll be fine, we'll put everything in place one step at a time. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-19-m0.u22	Dear fellow national deputies, we have finished speaking from factions and groups. In view of the fact that, at the time of the last meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, the National Deputy of Ukraine, Nemirovski Andriy Valentinović, for technical reasons, did not receive material from the Central Electoral Commission, which we were not aware of, regarding the registration of the National Deputy, I invite the formation of an oath by the National Deputy of the Ukraine of Nemirovský Andrija Valentinović. Please, Andrew Valentinovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-19-m0.u23	I swear allegiance to Ukraine. I commit myself to upholding Ukraine’s sovereignty and independence by all my actions, caring for the welfare and welfare of the Ukrainian people. I vow to abide by the Constitution and the laws of Ukraine, to carry out my duties in the interests of all fellow countrymen. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-19-m0.u24	Welcome! Dear fellow national MPs! Let's move on to the agenda, please note, we have a series of three dozen laws that we need to consider for inclusion in the agenda. And I have a proposal as always: not to go specifically to every law, but to look at all of them according to committee submission, to put into the agenda and to go into the practical consideration of these draft laws -- this will allow all committees to start their work on a subject matter. During the discussion, you will determine whether these bills should be considered and supported, and you will make recommendations to the Ukrainian National Deputies in accordance with your decisions. So I see there are suggestions, please, Paul Pinzenick. Then it's national. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-19-m0.u25	Dear colleagues! In general, without objecting to the proposal to include all drafts in the agenda of the day session, the People's Front insists that the bill 2698 be excluded from this list, as it completely breaks the budget of the Pension Fund and makes a withdrawal in the matter of pension reform. As well as Bill 2823, which has a significant impact on the state budget of Ukraine and applies to excise duties on means of transport. We deny these issues and ask the coalition to support us in this. Thank you!
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-19-m0.u26	Thank you! I'm on it. Please, National Deputy Shurm.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-19-m0.u27	National Deputy Igor Shurma. Dear Vladimir Borisovich! The opposition block won't vote for the dig and explain why. A whole series of bills that we would like to support are made by 30, that's a dozen. There are some that we could support. But let's say 2890, by the way, the bill's author is you, the text is missing. How can we vote for such things? This is the first one. And second of all, we warned that all the bills adopted by the Supreme Council before the New Year's rush needed to be finalized. Today, 30 bills of amendment and additions, you made mistakes, now you start using them, and you're resubmitting the same bills. So we're not going to vote for that order with a spear, if you put it separately, then the faction will express its decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-19-m0.u28	Thank you. Yuri Lewchenko, please, a minute, then Yuri Lucenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-19-m0.u29	Lewchenko, Freedom, 223 District, Kiev City. Mr. Chairman, the Parliamentary Coalition, I'd like to address you now, all of you, to follow the rules. The fact is that we have laws that are now being proposed to include a spear in the agenda are completely different. There are very positive bills for the country, there are very negative bills for the country and put them to a full vote now, it completely breaks the logic of parliamentaryism and the logic of the work of the Supreme Council. By the way, I'd like to, you know, take my surprise at Mr. Pinzenik's speech, the first deputy of the regulatory committee who, as acting as chairman of the regulatory committee, says on the one hand that he doesn't mind voting for everything together, but on the other hand he says, let's take a couple of pieces off. In this way, in order not to be vilified by anyone who prefers it, let us vote separately under each law so that each MP has the opportunity to express his or her personal position.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-19-m0.u30	Please, no more I see suggestions. Now I'm going to put to the vote the proposals that have been made, the next room will be determined, then I'll give you the opportunity, I'll give you the word. One minute, Ivan Krulko. Please take your seats, dear fellow national MPs. Ivan Krulko minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-19-m0.u31	Honorable Head of the Supreme Council, distinguished national deputies! I'm asking for your attention! I ask that he be put to the vote for inclusion in the agenda contained in the list. And the Fatherland faction will vote for it. At the same time, we are firmly opposed to the proposal to exclude from the list Bill 2698 is a bill that provides for the restoration of a full pension for working pensioners and the abolition of this incomprehensible 15 per cent tax for working pensioners, which has been imposed on violations of the Constitution and legislation. Let's not make people laugh, let's not tell them again what they should be doing, let's re-establish the Constitution and the legislation. That's why all the laws that are on the list are voted on, and the faction of "The Fatherland" will support it.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-19-m0.u32	Thank you. Please, Yuri Lucenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-19-m0.u33	Dear Chairman! Dear colleagues! Our faction stands ready to support the vote for the inclusion in the agenda of the proposed bills, with one exception, bill 2823 on the introduction of cars into the customs territory of Ukraine we consider as clearly lobbyist, one that does not correspond to the coalition agreement, so this number 2823 is asked to be excluded from the list of those bills that are included in the consideration.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-19-m0.u34	Thank you. Please, Oleg Lazko.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-19-m0.u35	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. The Radical Party faction supports Parliament's proposal to vote in favour of all the bills at the same time. At the same time, we propose, our proposals, to include in the agenda and to consider a bill on automatic housing subsidies, because today millions of people cannot benefit from these subsidies. We insist that we put it in the agenda and consider a bill on wage and pension indexation for budget and pensioners. Stop robbing people! We insist that Parliament consider immediately today the return of 15 percent of the pensioners who have been retired. There's a re-enactment of the budget's income. Stop making these incomes at the expense of the common people! The budget should be charged at the expense of the oligarchs, at the expense of economic recovery, at the expense of job creation, not at the expense of poor pensioners.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-19-m0.u36	Thank you. Please, colleagues, take your seats. Dear colleagues, please take your seats. There will be a Coalition Council in two hours. There are a number of issues that need to be reconciled, as I understand, between the factions of the coalition. And now I'm going to put to the vote what's causing no objection. Because one faction won't vote for another, the other faction won't vote for another. I support everything that's been said, including social draft laws. But I don't want us to have any further problems right now. So please, the laws announced today by John Krulko, Oleg Lazko, and Yuri Lucenko, we will discuss separately. And those exceptions that Paul Pinzenik made, we will speak separately, and we will be able to consider after the Council of Coalition meetings, which will be a decision. So I'm asking you to prepare now. I'm referring to the inclusion issue -- it's just for inclusion in the agenda of the day session -- of the draft laws that are set out accordingly in the agenda for the consideration of the agenda for today. Please prepare for the vote. Ready? Ready? Today, with the exception of 2698, 2823, the fact that factions have different positions. Once the positions on the Coalition Council have been reconciled, we will be able to vote together. So please vote in general, with the exception of 2698, 2823, which should be discussed on the Coalition Council at two o’clock. That's what we agreed on yesterday. Please, colleagues, let me vote in general. Please vote. Please vote. There are many important laws, they should not stop, their consideration. Please vote. [[10:46:04]] For 218. 218, respectable colleagues. Let's do it again. We've been prepared, I'm re-voting this proposal, fellows! I'm making another offer. We haven't been able to vote, I understand. Please be prepared. They took their seats. Take your seats, please. Once again, I am putting this motion to a vote, on the agenda as a whole, with the exception of two laws. Then we will discuss these laws today at two o’clock. As agreed yesterday you were in the coalition, I heard it, it was with me. Please. Please vote in general. Please vote. [[10:46:56]] For 235 Decision taken. Colleagues, look. Everyone's in favor, but I'm stressing that at two o'clock two laws. 2698 is important for pensioners; what Oleg Lazko said is no less important; what Yuri Vitaliyovich Lucenko said is no less important. There are other laws (self-help colleagues) that are equally important. Sit down, discuss, and we will vote after the Council of Coalitions. Thank you, Your Honor. So let's move on to the day-to-day issues. Let's move on. [[B in m in s a l in]] You've already spoken with motive! Please read this procedure. Please, Your Honor, draft Decree 2612. Project Decisions. Attention! Draft Decision to terminate the mandate of the Ukrainian People's Deputy Kulić V.P. Reported to the committee’s first deputy head, Paul Pinzenick. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-19-m0.u37	Dear Chairman! Honorable National Deputies of Ukraine! The Committee on Rules at its meeting on April 8th considered the application of National Deputy Kulić Valerija Petrovich for the establishment of parliamentary powers under article 81, paragraph 1, of the Constitution of Ukraine, article 4 of the Ukrainian Law "On the Status of Ukrainian People's Deputies". Presidential Decree No.189/2015 of 31 March 2015 No. 189/2015 of the Ukrainian People's Deputy Kulić was appointed head of the Montenegrin Regional Authority. The committee decided to bring the members of the committee to the Supreme Council's consideration of the Supreme Council's decision to terminate the term of office of the People's Deputies, registered number 2612. Please be supportive. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-19-m0.u38	Thank you, Your Honor. Is there a need to consider in detail? Come on, let's vote. Please prepare for the vote. Prepare to vote. For your consideration, a draft decree has been put to the vote on the permanent suspension of the powers of the People's Deputy Kulić. Registration number 2612. Vote please, Your Honor. Please vote. [[10:49:35]] For 298 Decision taken, my dear fellows. Before we go to the human resources issues that do not need to be included in the agenda, simply informed, the draft Law, registration number 2742, on amending some of the Ukrainian legislative acts on building the institutional capacity of the National Bank of Ukraine. The bill was introduced by the President of Ukraine. There is a proposal by the deputy head of the National Bank to consider this bill. Ladies and gentlemen, the draft Law 2655 on amending the Ukrainian Law on Plant Quarantine (to reduce administrative burden) will be introduced to your consideration. Ivchenka Wadima People's Deputy Project. Please have the author’s suggestion to consider it as a reduced procedure. Please define the draft Law, 2655, by a reduced procedure. As far as consideration is concerned, the reduced procedure is concerned. [[10:51:04]] For-191 Thank you. Please, 2655. Vadim Yvchenko, report.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-19-m0.u39	Vadim Yvchenko, "The Fatherland" faction. We've already considered this bill, you know, in 1875. This is the Law on Quarantine Plants, which is now transposed and greatly improved. We've taken into account today's proposals for science and expertise, agrarian associations, the Ministry of Agrarian Policy and Food. The bill proposes to liberalize the quarantine of plants significantly, reducing the level and risk of corruption. I mean, Kabmin's already made a difference. Today, quarantine certificates are issued within 24 hours, not as before, for five days. We want to write this down today by the law. Dear colleagues! The main provisions of the bill are, as I said, the issue of a quarantine certificate for 24 hours. Implementation of individual lists of export controls, import, re-export, transport of goods from one area to another. Providing public access on a website that will be drawn up in the central executive body for exporters who need to know clearly which country needs which certificates, whose fumigation and so on. I'm asking you, colleagues, to support me. It's really a deregulation project and it's going to make our farmers much easier to export or import agricultural products. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-19-m0.u40	Thank you. Dear colleagues, please sign in two in favor, two in favour. Please sign in, two in, two in. The national deputy of Evtushok, Fatherland.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-19-m0.u41	Sergey Eutuszek, Equinox, Fatherland. Please give the floor to Ivan Grigorovitch Kirilenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-19-m0.u42	Ivan Grigorovitch Kirilenko, please, Fatherland.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-19-m0.u43	Dear Chairman, dear colleagues! Kirilenko, the Fatherland faction is calling for the entire House to uphold this law. Friends, the third country in the world to export grain. This can be both proud, and there are indeed words of thanks to the farmers today who make up Ukraine’s breadth glory or restore it. Friends, of course, need 30 million tons of grain through the ports, through the vessels, through the Panamanians, to be transported through what is said to be a transshipment. And of course, very good food, very good food, especially when issuing quarantine certificates. We're cleaning up a major corruption component, we're simplifying exports, we're getting closer to the standards our neighbors are working for, and they're happy to take a ride, in Constance, to other ports, not going to Ukraine, where they're supposed to pay bribes. Guys, we're cleaning up this ingredient. Let us, on the one hand, support this law in both the first and the second readings. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-19-m0.u44	Thank you. Please, Yegor Sobolev.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-19-m0.u45	Please pass the word to John the Peacekeeper.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-19-m0.u46	Dear colleagues, the Self-Help faction will certainly support this bill. It's very important that we continue to deregulation. As has already been pointed out, the revocation of the certificate is a significant step in overcoming abuses. We should also bear in mind that reducing the burden of deregulation on the market is also a reduction in the costs that our manufacturers bear, and that is an increase in the price for them. That is why we will certainly be supportive. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-19-m0.u47	Please, People's Deputy Ostap Semerak, People's Front.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-19-m0.u48	Dear colleagues, the People's Front faction will support this bill in the first reading. And I would like to point out that the drafters of the bill, which in the vast majority represent our coalition colleagues and the Fatherland faction, have supported the reform of agriculture and the deregulation of relations in agriculture. Many of the regulations and novelties laid down in this bill have already been put into effect by the Cabinet of Ministers. And I'm very pleased that the coalition finds common ground and supports the government's reformist movements. And I hope that this bill, after further reading, will be adopted as a whole. Today, the People's Front faction proposes to vote on it in the first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-19-m0.u49	Thank you. Please, Gregory Mikhailovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-19-m0.u50	Grigory Zabodný, faction of the Peter Dusty Block. I'd like to point out that this really needs a bill, but it's not just export, it's import. And today, as a result of the fact that we've closed down a lot of research institutions, we're very much importing both seeds and planting materials from abroad. So the term one period for issuing a quarantine certificate is nothing to be said about. I need to do a good research, and I strongly believe that we should also write down a rule before the second reading in order to strengthen the work on quarantine certificates, especially imported seed and garden material. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-19-m0.u51	Please, Angus Taras, head of the profile committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-19-m0.u52	Thank you, Vladimir Borisovich. There's a way to sum it up. Colleagues, a really important bill, is a step towards deregulation in the regulatory framework in the area of phytosanitary requirements. But there are really a few comments, and that's why the committee, after considering this bill at its meeting, decided to support the bill in the first reading. Therefore, we ask that this bill be supported in the first reading. And those questions that, including Grigory Mikhailovich Zabolotny said today, we'll be able to work on a second reading. Thank you!
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-19-m0.u53	Thank you. Dear colleagues, please prepare for the vote. There's a committee proposal, we've discussed this bill in detail and there's a committee proposal to vote on it on the basis of the first reading, and then we'll look at it in preparation for the second reading. Is there no objection? Please prepare for the vote, the draft Law amending the Ukrainian Law on Plant Quarantine (to reduce administrative burden) prepared by the National MP Ivchenko has been introduced to your vote. There is a proposal for the committee to consider it as a basis. Please, Your Honor, please identify yourself, please support the base, please vote 2655. We're voting on the basis. [[10:59:55]] For 307 I want to tell you, colleagues, here's this service: "Stop, walker!"the service has a magical meaning today -- 300 votes plus. Thank you, fellows of honor! Here we go: The draft Law on Amendments to Chapter XX of the Tax Code of Ukraine (registrations 2617, 2617-1) has been introduced for your consideration. There is an offer by the authors to review these draft laws by a reduced procedure. Please identify yourself with regard to consideration of the reduced procedure. [[11:00:50]] For 193 Decision taken. Please, National Deputy Victor Halasyuk, please report. Then he is the national deputy of Krivoshea.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-19-m0.u54	Dear Volodymira Borisovich, distinguished colleagues of the National MPs, I present to you the bill of 2617, which is written by: Oleg Lazko, Tomenko, Halasjuk, Južanina, Ostrkova, Ednak, Rosenblatt, Hmil, Kirsch, Antonistak, Dobrodomov, Lopushanski, Dubininin, Krivoshea, Jephimov. This bill is included in the economic chapter, the legislative plan for reforms designed to carry out the mandate of the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. This bill is part of a legislative package aimed at supporting one of the areas of Ukrainian industry, woodworking and furniture. It temporarily, I emphasize temporarily, by 1 January 2017, until the ban on the export of unprocessed wood is fully in effect, frees operations from the import into Ukraine of wood-processing equipment and dryers from import VAT. Why is this necessary? So that Ukrainian producers who can't take credit at a bank under 2 percent do what European manufacturers do so that they can rearm their production in Ukraine so that they can expand their production and benefit from the bill of 1362 on the ban on the export of roundwood that we have adopted. Any economic law needs to be considered through the prism of four indicators, jobs, export revenues, investment coming into the country, and taxes. So this bill is fully tested on all four indicators, it has a positive impact on the Ukrainian economy, for the Ukrainian industry. Dear colleagues, I would like to urge you to support this bill 2617 along with the following bill 2618, which has a similar effect, only it applies.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-19-m0.u55	Please finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-19-m0.u56	Dear colleagues, there will be an All-Ukrainian gathering of Ukrainian carpenters on Thursday, let's give a positive signal to the development sector in these difficult times, let's show that we don't just care about defense, not just about the social sphere that we care about to lay strong foundations for economic growth. Because it's only through these laws that you can fill the budget, create jobs, secure a stable bracelet. Dear colleagues! Once again, I would like to thank the drafters of the bill and all the members of the tax committee led by Mrs. Jujanina, who supported it. Let's take this step to meet the Ukrainian manufacturer, meet the woodworking industry and build a strong woodworking industry in Ukraine. Please support, thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-19-m0.u57	Thank you. Please, People's Deputy Kryvoshea Hennaday Grigorovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-19-m0.u58	Thank you, dear friends! Dear National Deputies! Dear Ukrainians! First of all, I want to thank the group of colleagues who introduced Bill 2617 and invited me, as author, 2617-1, to become co-author of the first bill. In this regard, I ask that you remove my bill from the agenda, and I ask all MPs to support the bill, which I am also coauthor of. At the same time, I would like to point out that, dear friends, today we have a rather difficult situation with the timber industry at large. And it's going to be a big prospect and a positive, if we give our business a year and a half to enter, with possible investments, to import at the premium prices of equipment. But I pay attention -- it's only a year and a half before January 1, 2017. As a member of the People's Front faction, I appeal to everyone to support business -- this applies primarily not only to big business, but to small and medium-sized business. This will provide additional jobs, allowing a large number of our Ukrainians not to go abroad, but to work here in places to get a decent salary. Therefore, it is a great request to support the bill. Thank you all for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-19-m0.u59	Thank you. Please, the head of the Committee on Tax and Customs Policy, Nina Petrovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-19-m0.u60	The Honourable Head, honourable national deputies, the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Tax and Customs Policy at its meeting on 22 April 2015 and 13 May 2015, reviewed the draft Law on Amendments to Chapter XX of the Tax Code of Ukraine (as regards the specificities of the taxation of imports into customs territory of Ukraine and the supply of timber equipment in customs territory of Ukraine to the customs territory of Ukraine) and the alternative draft Law on Amendments to Chapter XX of the Code of Taxation (as regards the specificities of taxation of imports into customs territory of Ukraine and the supply of agricultural equipment in customs territory of Ukraine). The bill (registration number 2617) proposes temporarily, by 1 January 2017, to exempt from tax on added-value imports into customs territory of Ukraine and supplies in customs territory of Ukraine of woodworking equipment under codes 8465 and 8419 320000, according to the OCTZED. For this purpose, subsection 2 of Chapter XX of the Tax Code, "Transitional positions" of the Ukrainian Tax Code, is proposed to be supplemented by a new sub-item of the corresponding content. Unlike Bill 2617, the alternative provides for a longer term – by 1 January 2018 benefits for tax exemption for added value. National deputies to the committee meeting in support of the idea of developing a woodworking sector have noted that the granting of VAT benefits to individual industries leads to distortions of competition in the market. In addition, Bill 2617 requires technical law because of the definition.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-19-m0.u61	Please finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-19-m0.u62	Codes 8465 and 8419 320000 require clarification, according to the UCTZET classification. The proposal for an alternative bill is proposed for further consideration. In view of the foregoing, the Committee decided to recommend to the Supreme Council a bill of 2617 to be adopted as a basis. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-19-m0.u63	Thank you. Please give me a minute, People's Deputy Rosenblatt. And the National Deputy of Solovay. And we're going to go to the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-19-m0.u64	Dear colleagues, today is also a historic moment when we are not simply adopting laws that introduce a moratorium on the export of raw materials, and we are also providing opportunities to create jobs and businesses. This law, which aims to create new jobs today and to import equipment into the customs territory of Ukraine, is very much needed. Lifetime, where 70 percent of the pines are concentrated, today has only 30 percent of the possibilities of processing them. If we don't make it possible to import into the territory, so that we don't pay taxes, but we do have the opportunity to buy better equipment for this money, a modern one that will allow people to just work and enjoy themselves. From the Peter Prashenko faction, I urge you to support this bill in the first reading and allow you to create new jobs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-19-m0.u65	Please, National Deputy Solovay. Sign two for, two for against, please. We sign up, colleagues, two for, two against.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-19-m0.u66	Yuri Solovay, MP's strike group. Dear colleagues, I am very pleased that the Ukrainian Parliament has begun to consider the bills that envision the creation of new jobs and the development of the economy. Because, especially if we go back to the issue of woodworking, in the last 20 years, Ukraine, which has been one of the leading countries in the field of woodworking, in the field of production, has turned into a raw country, into a country that exports a state today exclusively forest round. One such barrier was the tax and customs policy that was carried out in our country, not to involve investors, but to intimidate them. And that's why this bill is going to allow the production that hundreds of thousands of Ukrainians in Poland, Romania, Hungary are working for us today in Ukraine, and make sure that these Ukrainians who are working there today start working in our country. And that's why I'm addressing every conscious MP who's on the Supreme Council of Ukraine today to support this bill. What's more, it's not just today that we're on the verge of a woodworking industry, but I think it's time for us to raise such bills and in a number of other areas of the economy that.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-19-m0.u67	Thank you. Ten seconds. Finish up. Thank you, finish. Please, Slippery Grigory Mikhailovich. Then there's Yuri Timoshenko, the People's Front.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-19-m0.u68	Thank you for the opportunity. Grigory Smoky, Peter Dust Block. I want to say that wood, like grain crops, has a time when it's planted, when it's growing and when it's growing. And given that the forest also matures, it is also a crop and needs to be removed in time, we need to keep in mind whether or not we have the assurance that in one year there will be investments in Ukraine that will enable us to quickly build processing enterprises and to recycle them tomorrow, to implement them in Europe and in the world. As a result of this, I would like to propose that the Minister of Agriculture and the Minister of Economic Development be obliged to promote or create groups that should step up their investment to build such natural enterprises. Otherwise, we're going to have the possibility that we're going to take off the crop, it's going to be a year, and by the way, it has the ability to corrupt as much as anything else, and we can use good building materials just for wood. So the bill is good, it opens the door for investment, but please take into account what I'm asking you to take into account. Give the ministers a commission to look for investment for this industry. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-19-m0.u69	Thank you. Please, Yuri Timoshenko, People's Front.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-19-m0.u70	Friends, no doubt. This law in a bunch of 1362, this is thousands of jobs for our people, this is the development of the Ukrainian manufacturer. Please, everyone, without hesitation, vote in the first reading as a basis. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-19-m0.u71	Thank you. Please, Oleg Lazko. Wait a minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-19-m0.u72	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. I appeal to all honourable fellow national deputies to support this Law 2617, and to the next 2618, which provides for exemption from VAT and import duties on woodworking equipment. Previously, you and I voted the Act on the introduction of a moratorium on the removal of roundwood from Ukraine, and now you and I create favourable tax conditions to encourage the development of a domestic processing tree. I stress that woodworking is a key area for many areas of Ukraine, it's an additional huge revenue to local budgets, it's a major job creation. Because 23 years you and I have opened an internal market for import, destroyed our own manufacturing base. And today we have problems with both the Pension Fund and employment and so on. Let's solve these problems, let's create jobs for our own.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-19-m0.u73	Thank you. Please, Tetjana Ostrkova, Self-help.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-19-m0.u74	Dear colleagues, you and I voted in favour of the Law on the Prohibition of the Export of Roundwood Forests, which is now on the President's signature. And now, taking this opportunity, I'm turning from the Self-Help faction to the President. And we all hope that this law will soon be signed and effective. The proposed bills are fair in combination with the Prohibition Act. " And the Self-Help faction is asking to support them on the first reading as a basis, because we need to take a closer look at the incomes of UKTZED. Today comes business information that not all, not all woodworking equipment is included. Also, it is necessary to add a description of the equipment in order to make it impossible to import any other equipment that should not be extended to the aid. We also suggest that we have banned exports of all wood since 2015 and exports of pines since 2017. So you might want to think about the increase between the first and the second readings.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-19-m0.u75	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-19-m0.u76	on the increase in the duration of the benefit to 2018. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-19-m0.u77	Thank you. Please, Vitaly Hometic, Rebirth.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-19-m0.u78	Dear colleagues! Dear Mr. Head! An MP's Rebirth Group to support a bill that deals with the support of the woodworking sector. But at the same time, we think that when we work on second reading, we need to look at why we put two years of support in this area. This may suggest that someone has already ordered some equipment and that the equipment should be entered immediately by the end of the year. Thus, when such laws are implemented in support of one or another field, they are viewed as a minimum of five years if this branch needs State support. That's why our MP group "Rebirth" is going to vote in favour of this bill on the basis even because the factions and coalitions have finally begun to think about rebirth and they've put in the law the title "Restoration of Industrial Production." Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-19-m0.u79	Thank you. Please, Michael Head, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-19-m0.u80	Mikhailo Golovko, the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union, 164 constituency, Ternopolishte. Ladies and gentlemen, the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union will, of course, support this bill. After all, in our previous call, we initiated a moratorium on the export of raw materials and rounds. And thank God Parliament voted on this bill. And we're waiting for the President to sign it. And so the second step for us from the parliamentarians is to support the woodworking sector and the whole economy, this approval is exactly, canceling VAT and the moment for importing woodworking machines and other equipment that is very much needed for this sector, because this is creating jobs, this is investment, this is coming into the budget, this is paying taxes, this is wage payments, this is going to be able to develop this sector. Of course, there was a desire for some to privatize it and lead to bankruptcy. So our task is now to help them and to develop the forest sector and the timber industry in Ukraine. Thank you. We'll be supportive. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-19-m0.u81	Thank you. Anatoly Hirschfeld.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-19-m0.u82	Dear colleagues, I believe that this law must be upheld. This is probably the first candidate in Ukraine to release high-tech equipment from import duty. Well, here's two more things to think about. First. First of all, we in Ukraine must learn to do this equipment ourselves and all the prerequisites are there. This should therefore be a limited period, I agree with my colleagues, 2-3 years, and should be a priority and be determined by the Ministry of the Economy. Second moment. This practice needs to be extended to other industries, as today many industries need to be updated. And when we don't have a very good investment climate, to put it mildly, high-tech machinery would certainly create new places in different industries. This practice should also apply to other industries that deal with agriculture, the automotive sector, the aviation industry and so on. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-19-m0.u83	Thank you. Colleagues prepared for the vote. Please, Taras Kutov, head of the committee, Peter Dust Block. Wait a minute. Please, let's get ready.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-19-m0.u84	Dear colleagues, I am pleased that we are focusing on a systemic approach in this room today, not just budgeting. I am pleased to see that MPs with good education today have a complex view of things. Think about where the investment would come from and where it would come from today. And actually, this is going to be a substitution when we're closing exports and the people who had the negotiable funds in this queen business are of course going to be interested in redirecting their investments into this sector. And that's why in a cut of two years it's possible to do that. So this is a very nice project, and I'm very pleased that it's very complicated for Parliament to look at things today. And I want to thank both Victor Halasyuk and Gennady Kryvosha for the fact that such drafts appear in the hall. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-19-m0.u85	Thank you. Colleagues, your vote is submitted to the draft Law registration number, as a result of the first reading, 2617. There is a proposal to accept, as a result of the first reading discussion on the basis of the bill. Everyone, please prepare for the vote. And I ask you to vote 2617 on the basis of the draft law, on the basis of that. Registration number 2617, please vote. Based on the base. [[11:22:05]] For 282 Decision taken. Thank you, Your Honor. The next draft of the Law is 2618. It's the Final and Transitional Positions of the Customs Codex of Ukraine. We can take it as a derivative without discussing it. Is that what I'm saying? It's like a derivative. Please, Your Honor, at the suggestion of the national deputy Halasyuk, there is a proposal without discussion to adopt the draft Law (registration number 2618), which is a derivative of the law that we have adopted as a basis, 2617. Please, Your Honor, there is a proposal to vote 2618 on the basis. On the basis of that, please vote. 2618 is based. Based on the base. [[11:23:08]] For 272 Decision taken. Thank you, Your Honor. You are being reviewed by the draft Law (Registration No. 2742) amending some of the Ukrainian legislative acts to build the institutional capacity of the National Bank of Ukraine. First Deputy Head of the National Bank, Alexander Volodymyrovich Pisaruk, reports. There is a proposal to consider this draft law in a simplified procedure. Please specify a simplified procedure for dealing with this issue. [[11:23:48]] For-162 Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-19-m0.u86	Dear Mr. Head, distinguished national MPs! First of all, I would like to thank the Supreme Council very much, the deputies for supporting the important bills that are being drafted for the participation of the National Bank of Ukraine. In particular, there is a bill to increase responsibility for transactions involving persons and for the financial results of bank owners and shareholders. Today we are introducing another bill for your consideration, amendments to the National Bank of Ukraine Act, aimed at enhancing the institutional capacity of the National Bank of Ukraine. The bill was developed by the National Bank in collaboration with experts from the International Monetary Fund and is a structural beacon of the IMF’s enhanced funding programme. We've missed the moment of his approval a little bit, and I apologize for that, because it's taken a long time, but we have to accept this bill and preferably by the end of May. I would like to stress that this bill does not require or require any new powers for the National Bank of Ukraine. The main two topics that he has set up, all the changes to the National Bank Act relate to: first, strengthening the fiscal independence of the National Bank and secondly, optimizing its administration and functioning. The first topic of strengthening fiscal independence is primarily the creation of general reserves sufficient to secure the activities of the National Bank and then the ban on pre-financing of funds into the budget before the National Bank's financial statements are approved by international auditors. The second cluster of issues foresees an increase in the impact and authority of the National Bank, including on internal audit control and the risk management of the National Bank. There is also a reduction in the number of members of the National Bank Board, an increase in the number of meetings, and the entry into service of members of the National Bank Board. With regard to changes in government, the National Bank’s administration is expected to reduce to 6 people.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-19-m0.u87	Please continue, you have one minute to complete.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-19-m0.u88	The head and five deputies, as well as the gradual transformation of government into a more collegiate body. All of this is in line with international standards and is the direction in the development of the National Bank, the development of the National Bank like the central banks of the developed countries of the world. So I very much ask the deputies today to support the changes to the National Bank Act. Thank you very much. If there are any questions, I am happy to answer them.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-19-m0.u89	Please, dear colleagues, John Fursin, head of the Committee on Financial Policy and Banking. Please, please, Alexander Volodymyrovich, take your seats.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-19-m0.u90	Honorary colleagues, at the meeting of the Committee on 12 May, discussed a draft Ukrainian Law amending some Ukrainian legislation on the development of the institutional capacity of the National Bank of Ukraine. The project is designed to create legal conditions for the implementation by the National Bank of Ukraine of its constitutional tasks, as the central bank of the State, which has a significant impact on the financial stability of the State, as well as the purpose of implementing separate provisions of the National Bank Act in accordance with European practice and commitments made by the Ukrainian side to the International Monetary Fund. The main scientific and expert administration of the Supreme Council of Ukraine concludes with a remark to the bill and notes that it would be logical to obtain an appropriate expert opinion from the National Bank of Ukraine in order to make a balanced decision. By letter, the National Bank of Ukraine reports its full support and notes that the adoption of the bill is a necessary step for Ukraine. Since the strengthening of the political independence of the National Bank of Ukraine, its internal capacity and development in the relevant internal processes is an obligation of Ukraine in accordance with the Memorandum on Economic and Financial Policy, in conjunction with the International Monetary Fund, the Programme and the Enhanced Financing Mechanism. At the same time, the adoption of appropriate legislative changes by the Supreme Council is a structural beacon by the end of April 2015. In view of the foregoing, a constructive discussion of the committee’s individual positions arose during the discussion of the bill at the committee meeting. As a result, it was decided to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine the adoption of a draft Ukrainian Act amending some Ukrainian legislation on the development of the institutional capacity of the National Bank of Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-19-m0.u91	Thank you. Please sign two for, two against. Sergey Sobolev, please excuse me, Sergey Sobolev, Fatherland.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-19-m0.u92	Dear colleagues! The law is no doubt very important, and the law establishes a clear order to prevent the admission of an additional emission center and the pressure of the government on the National Bank in order to prevent the issue. But we pay attention, our faction supports it in the first reading, but we pay attention to a number of very serious warnings that are in this bill. First. We're focusing on the terminology used in this law, well, it can't be used in a law that regulates the activities of the National Bank. What is this investment aimed at securing Nazbank's activities, part of its income to distribution, financial stability, the financial system, so we're going to write a scientific tract, will we have clear definitions that will then matter when we consider the issues directly related to this bill? More important things. There is no doubt that this law provides very good control over the activities of the National Bank on the part of the Council. But at the same time, the law for the first time sets wages for employees of the National Bank and the Council of Banks, which is unacceptable. On the other hand, we point out that the law has a number of aspects related to the state budget. There has never been such a thing as creating a reserve fund for the National Bank. These functions are performed by the State, not by the National Bank. We would like to draw attention to this when we consider it in our second reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-19-m0.u93	Thank you. Please, Ruslan Demczak, Peter Dusty Block.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-19-m0.u94	Dear colleagues, the law passed by the President, was supported by the Committee on Financial Policy and Banking. And those remarks that were made by our colleagues, we're going to take a look at the committee and work on the second reading. And also this law, I want to emphasize that it actually improves many positions: the number of people on the National Bank's Supervisory Board is decreasing, and in the National Bank's administration. And I also want to emphasize that this law is the law that is in the International Monetary Fund matrix. We expect a tranche to support our financial sector. That's why I'm asking you to uphold this law. And the Peter Dusty Block will vote in favour of this law as a whole.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-19-m0.u95	Thank you. Please, Oleg Lavrick, Self-help.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-19-m0.u96	Oleg, Lavrick, Self Help. Of course, this bill is very much needed, and we need to make decisions very quickly in order for it to come into force, because this is one of the norms of the International Monetary Fund. However, we had a long discussion on the committee, and the committee’s decision to support the law was taken with one vote. The bill has a number of important observations and warnings that are worth saying. First of all, the bill invalidates the rules and procedure for the release of members to the National Bank, and the new procedure is never established by the bill. The bill invalidates the responsibility of the Head of the National Bank to the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Members of the National Bank’s government and other officials of the National Bank, the National Bank’s Board, the experts involved are not responsible for their actions or their inactivity. However, lawsuits against such individuals are considered actions against the National Bank of Ukraine. Given the importance of the bill, the Self-Help faction calls on the council to send the bill to the committee for further work, and now it is not supported. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-19-m0.u97	Please, People's Front, National Deputy Savichuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-19-m0.u98	Please pass the word to Natalia Katzer-Buchovsky.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-19-m0.u99	Good afternoon, dear colleagues. As has been said, we all understand how important an independent National Bank is to the stability of Ukraine’s financial system. This bill is extremely important and the People's Front faction will support it in the first reading. But we need to understand that there are very important and controversial points in this bill -- such as the inability to challenge the decisions of the National Bank in court, only on procedural grounds. Also, as a colleague in Self-Help pointed out, the question of what appeals to members of the National Bank Board would be considered to be subpoenaed according to the National Bank. It also raises questions about how the National Bank's income is distributed. So there are a lot of comments to this bill and to the second reading, we have to express them and go very closely to the adoption or non-admission of this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-19-m0.u100	Please, Oleg Easy, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-19-m0.u101	Oleg Lazko, faction of the Radical Party. I want to inform Ukrainian citizens and my fellow MPs that the Radical Party faction will not support this bill. For a number of reasons. First. The bill removes the reporting rule of the National Bank of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Instead, some kind of ephemeral interaction is recorded. What kind of interaction, we see that we couldn't get the Head of the National Bank to the rostrum for a long time. Similarly, the responsibility of the Head of the National Bank is cleared. Instead, responsibility becomes collective, and so it's absolute irresponsibility. And so on the occasion that this important bill is being considered in Parliament right now, on behalf of the faction of the Radical Party and millions of Ukrainian citizens, I ask the President of Ukraine to submit to Parliament an application for the release of the Hontareva from office of the Head of the National Bank.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-19-m0.u102	Dear colleagues, we have discussed this bill. Invite the deputies to the hall. A draft law has been introduced to the Ukrainian Parliament. There's a proposal for a profile committee, a profile committee, to take it as a basis. There are a number of questions that have been asked by deputies today from various factions, professional ones. I propose to adopt it now as a basis, this bill. He will immediately proceed to the parliamentary procedure. And between the first and the second readings, as we've always done with you, to work with him on issues that are important for us to take them into account. And to the second reading by consensus to vote on this draft law as a whole. So I think it's perfectly logical, without delay, that we can adopt this bill. So I'd very much like to ask my colleagues to take their seats right now, my distinguished colleagues. Please, colleagues, we're taking our seats. There's a proposal for us to take this bill as a basis, I would like to reiterate, as a basis. This means that in Parliament on the basis of a committee, we will look at it and work on it. Please, colleagues, are you ready to vote? Ready? Dear colleagues, ready to vote? Please, on the basis of draft Law 2742, draft Act amending certain Ukrainian legislation on the institution-building of the National Bank of Ukraine. Please support only on the basis, and we will then work with you to prepare it for the second reading. Please vote, please support base 2742. Let's vote, colleagues, please support as a base, as a basis. [[11:39:41]] For the 220. Who didn't make it? [[B in m in s a l in]] Okay. Let's go back. Look, six votes isn't enough to keep him working, that's the law. Well, what's that? Please, colleagues, prepare. Please, for your return, is the invitation of the National Deputies to vote in favour. We have focused, please, colleagues, on our return vote. Please support me. Please support: on return. [[11:40:26]] For 238. Thank you for your support. Colleagues, this is a perfectly normal decision: on the basis of that. We will continue to work on the committee. What are you doing? On the basis of that, please support. Colleagues, based on. Please support this bill on the basis. [[11:40:49]] For 231 Thank you, Your Honor. Decision taken. Still, as all colleagues have said, he is now on the committee. On the committee, work on it, make a comparison table, put on a confirmation of what is needed. And it'll be a good law. Thank you for your support. The law was passed by the President. Dear colleagues! 1141, which means we're moving on to the appointment of members of the High Council of Justice. The candidates, who were introduced by the faction recommended by the faction of Peter Prashenko and the faction of the People's Front, were brought to the attention by the Supreme Council of Ukraine. I want to remind you that the vote is going on in secret. The Counting Commission is responsible for the organization of the vote. The candidates met with factions of Parliament, they are present today in the hall. I don't think it's necessary to discuss them again, because each faction has met, discussed, asked questions and made decisions accordingly. So I would like to invite the head of the Counting Commission of the People's Deputies of Chernenko. Please, sir.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-19-m0.u103	Dear Chairman, dear colleagues! There was a meeting of the Counting Commission of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Of the 18 members of the sitting committee, 14 were present, that is, the meeting being convened. Let me remind you that according to article 8 of the Ukrainian Law on the Higher Council of Justice, two of the three members of the Supreme Council of Justice appointed by the Supreme Council of Ukraine should be judges. Therefore, two separate ballots will be handed to you in accordance with part five of article 208 of the Supreme Council’s Rules. One of them is used for candidates who are judges. And the other one's for the other candidates. At its meeting, the Supreme Council of Ukraine’s Counting Committee approved this form of ballot papers for secret ballots. One ballot is made in green and the other on yellow paper in the form of a rectangle with a black inscription. The ballot papers for secret ballots will be issued by the Counting Commission at the registration desks only after the presentation of the licence of the Ukrainian national deputy. Ladies and gentlemen, may I remind you that, in accordance with part three of article 39 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine's Rules, ballots are held in a secret ballot booth by means of a ballot that shows the will of Ukraine's national deputy. After that, the ballot box will be placed next to the booth. Two candidates for the secret ballot for the appointment of members of the High Council of Justice were Malowajsky Alexi Volodymirovich and Mamont Irina Jurijivna. If you support a candidate, you make the corresponding check of any of the support boxes, if you don't support the candidate, you make the check in another appropriate box below. The receiving of ballots by Ukrainian national deputies will take place from 12 to 12 hours 45 minutes in the second floor towers at the registration desks. After receiving ballots and passing secret ballot booths, Ukrainian MPs throw ballots into one of the boxes installed near the booths. Thank you. At 12 o'clock, please approach the registration.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-19-m0.u104	Dear colleagues, we have heard information from the head of the Counting Commission. I'm announcing the start of a secret ballot procedure for electing members of the High Council of Justice and continuing our open-ended session at 1:00. Please, dear fellows. At 12:45. At 12:45. Please, Your Honor, take part in the vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-19-m0.u105	Ladies and gentlemen, according to the Counting Commission, the voting procedure has been completed in secret. And I invite the head of the Counting Commission, Alexander Chernenko, to announce the results of the vote and the decision of the Counting Commission. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-19-m0.u106	Dear Chairman, dear colleagues! Protocol No. 2 of the meeting of the Counting Commission of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. They heard about the summation of the secret ballot for appointment as a member of the High Council of Justice. A secret ballot for the appointment of a member of the High Council of Justice included the candidature of Malowajsky Alexi Volodymirovich. On the basis of the results of the secret vote, the Digital Commission established: the number of national MPs who were recognized as being 421; the number of Ukrainian national deputies who received ballots for secret ballots – 326; the number of national deputies who participated in the vote – 322; the number of ballots declared invalid – 1; the number of votes cast as candidate for Malowajki Sergey Volodymirovic – 269; the number of votes against 52. Pursuant to article 131 of the Constitution of Ukraine, article 8 of the Ukrainian Law on the Higher Council of Justice, Chapter VII and Article 208 of the Ukrainian Law on the Rules of Procedure of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, the Counting Commission decided: to be appointed as a member of the Supreme Council of Justice of Malowajk Olex Volodymirovich. Protocol No. 2A meeting of the Counting Commission of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. On the summary of the secret ballot for appointment as a member of the High Council of Justice. The nomination of Mamont’s Irina of Juryivna was included in the ballot for the secret ballot on the appointment of a member of the High Council of Justice. On the basis of the results of the secret ballot, the Counting Commission has established the number of national deputies who have been recognized as being 421. The number of Ukrainian national deputies who received ballots for secret ballots is 326, the number of Ukrainian national deputies who participated in the vote is 322, the number of ballots declared invalid -7. Number of votes cast for candidate Mamontov Irina Yuriovna 261, number of votes cast against 54. In accordance with article 131 of the Constitution of Ukraine, article 8 of the Ukrainian Act on the Higher Council of Justice, chapter 7 and article 208 of the Ukrainian Act on the Rules of Procedure of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, the Counting Commission decided to consider the appointment of a member of the Supreme Council of Justice of Mamontov Irina Yuriyevna. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-19-m0.u107	Thank you! So you and I, the honourable colleagues, have heard the report of the Counting Commission and according to the report, and the decision of the Counting Commission has been announced by the members of the High Council of Justice of Malowajki Alexi Volodymirovich and Mamont Irina Juryivna. In accordance with legislation, members of the High Council of Justice immediately after appointment make an oath at a meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. I invite you to take an oath on the stand of the Supreme Council of Ukraine as a member of the High Council of Justice, Alexia Volodymirovich Malatik. Please, I beg you to make an oath.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-19-m0.u108	Good afternoon, distinguished national MPs! Good afternoon, Your Honor! Swear by a member of the High Council of Justice: I, Malowaki Oleksei Volodymyrovich, have sworn, honestly and impartially, to exercise the mandate of a member of the High Council of Justice to ensure the formation of an honest, highly professional, independent judiciary of judges with the aim of upholding laws and ethics in the activities of judges and prosecutors. 19.05.2015. Personal signature: Malewowiki Oleksei Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-19-m0.u109	Thank you. Welcome to Alexi Volodymyrovich's election and entry into office, congratulations. Please take your seats. Sign an oath and pass it on to the Head. Please invite a member of Irina Yuriov Mamorantov, High Council of Justice, to take an oath to the Supreme Council’s rostrum. Please, Irina Yuriovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-19-m0.u110	Good afternoon, distinguished national deputies of Ukraine! The oath of a member of the High Council of Justice. I, Mamantova Irina Yuriovna, have sworn conscientiously, honestly and impartially to exercise the mandate of a member of the High Council of Justice to ensure the formation of an honest, highly professional, independent judiciary of judges with the aim of upholding the law and ethics of judges and prosecutors. May 19, 2015. Personal signature. Thank you all very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-19-m0.u111	We welcome Irina Yuriovna with her election, with her appointment and her appointment as a member of the High Council of Justice. Congratulations, fellow believers, and we wish you success in your very responsible work. Dear colleagues, in accordance with previous decisions, we have with you two motions from the Prime Minister of Ukraine, who has been brought before me for Parliament's consideration, a draft decree on the appointment of Terentiyev as head of the Antimonopoly Committee of Ukraine, Yuri Alexanderovich, as well as a decision to appoint the head of the National Property Fund of Ukraine, Igor Olegovich Bilous. This issue has been addressed in all factions of Parliament, there have been appropriate discussions, there is a position, including factions and coalitions. So I have a proposal that, taking into account the discussions on the factions of these candidates, we will now consider the appointment of the Head of the Antimonopoly Committee and the appointment of the Head of the National Property Fund of Ukraine. Accordingly, there is no objection to my understanding? Accordingly, I ask everyone to take their seats in favour of the draft decree of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, introduced by the Prime Minister of Ukraine, and to consider this decision in short motion. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. [[13:50:27]] For 203 Please, Your Honor. A decision has been made regarding the consideration of this decision. Do we have the right submission, is there a desire to speak out of factions? Please take a minute from the factions. Sign up for a minute from the factions for questions. Is there a need for candidates? They were all on factions, right? There is a proposal to vote. Please, Oleg Lazko, a minute from the rostrum. Please, Terentieva, Antimonopoly. Victor Halasyuk, please, two minutes. Please, two minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-19-m0.u112	Dear Vladimir Borisovich! Dear colleagues, national MPs! The time has come to turn the Antimonopoly Committee into an active body to protect the interests of industry, to protect the interests of consumers. We need to not just appoint or appoint a leader of this body today, we need to adopt those priority bills that are designed to ensure transparency in the activities of this body. This is what matters today. So it's not like there's one thing about one company, and another there's another there's a different attitude. There must be a clear, single, transparent approach to the implementation of European antitrust legislation. Do you know how many problems there are today for industrialists to join energy networks and so on? That's why we have to put an end to it. The Antimonopoly Committee is one of the key bodies that allows you to protect the consumer's interests. The extent to which it functions clearly depends on economic growth. This tool can also provide an acceleration of economic growth, or a preservation of the oligarchy state of the economy and raw materials that has emerged today. So I propose very carefully, very considerately, to take this vote, to weigh all the results of the interviews that were with the candidate, to the extent that these people can actually ensure the effective work of the Antimonopoly Committee. I also call on those laws that are set out in the Legislative Reform Plan, which is designed according to the mandate of the Head of the Supreme Council, to consider them in the first order, as far as the Antimonopoly Committee is concerned. We have to provide a legislative regime for demonopolization and delligarchization in Ukraine. And this has to be done in a transparent way, in a legislative way, without any exceptions. And this should not be in any way an instrument of political or any kind of persecution.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-19-m0.u113	Thank you. Thank you. Dear colleagues, is there still a need to discuss candidates? [[B in m in s a l in]] Come on, please. Please, Igor Shurma, the Opposition Block.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-19-m0.u114	Igor Shurma, Opposition Block. I want to say that as a opposing force, we don't vote in favour of a staff assignment. But I want to emphasize -- it's too bad that Vladimir Borisovich took the tube, he's picking up the phone when I say -- that there's another time of the lie. The Supreme Council is a faction of all: both those who join the coalition and those who refer to the opposition forces. So you might be told that since the beginning of this session, no representative has come to the faction to discuss or to meet the faction. You said he was on all the factions. I can tell you, with nothing against Terentiev or against Igor Billous, we won't vote, we haven't heard from those people. They're not coming. Whether or not they are allowed to walk. And that today, Vladimir Borisovich, is not the only lie. When we voted in favour of the agenda, you said that there were bills that were being drafted. Thus, Bill 2890, where you are the author, is also absent at all, which is a violation of the Rules, article 96. You don't have to tell lies to people in the rostrum.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-19-m0.u115	Thank you. Please, Fatherland, Alona Shkrum.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-19-m0.u116	Alona's splinter, Fatherland faction. Dear colleagues, we all know that in order to change this country, we need fundamentally new and quality professional decisions and expert professionals who will not be assigned by quota principles, not by party quotas that will be the best in their business, and which can be discussed both with the public and with the national MPs, and with the expertise. Without trust and party quota principles, we cannot choose the most deserving people. I really hope that this is the last time that we have this situation at all and that through reform and public service and government, we will finally have open-ended transparent competitions and discussions on such excessive positions in the state. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-19-m0.u117	Thank you, Your Honor. Please, the Ptishnik People's Deputy.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-19-m0.u118	Dear colleagues, our "Unification Self-Help" faction, as you already know, only acts for professional purposes and appointments on a competitive basis. We only support the principle of public discussion of any candidate for any government office. But at the same time, we realize that the situation that has happened with the Antimonopoly Committee, when there is no longer a checker for more than a year, when the Antimonopoly Committee's work has been completely ineffective lately, when there is an investigation into small and medium-sized businesses, and when the oligarchi business is not mentioned at all, it is unacceptable. We appeal to Mr. Yuri Alexandrovich, and we ask you to carry out your assignments, to carry out your obligations, especially to our factions, to those markets you called, and to carry out checks on them. When currently active in the U.S. The head of the Antimonopoly Committee says that the energy supply (last week) has occurred, that the energy supply is nonmonopolyed and that it is separate.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-19-m0.u119	Ten seconds, complete, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-19-m0.u120	when other small markets are monopolies, that we're talking to you and asking you to carry out expert testing and energy research. And yet, to tell you the truth, is DTEK a monopoly on this market. And we want to draw attention to the fact that any body, and the head of the Antimonopoly Committee, should first and foremost defend the interests of the state.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-19-m0.u121	Thank you, thank you, dear colleagues. They talked me out of the candidature. I put two rulings to the vote: 81, 82 on short notice. Please, is there a need to speak on the holding fund? Please, Oleg Lazko. Two minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-19-m0.u122	Oleg Lazko, faction of the Radical Party. Honorable citizens of Ukraine, distinguished colleagues of national MPs! Now it's really not just about human beings. The appointment of the heads of the Antimonopoly Committee, the appointment of the head of the Holding Fund, is a matter of the state's economic strategy. What kind of economy are we building, what kind of economic agenda are we implementing? Because the Antimonopoly Committee is the fight against monopolies, it's creating a level playing field for both the big and the small. And when we talk about the State Property Fund, it's a matter of a state strategy for privatization. Now, today, the government is offering to privatize an entire list of enterprises. Some of them are strategic, they're profitable enterprises that take and say, let's sell, because we're going to find an effective owner. We've already found an effective owner in the 1990s -- five oligarchic families that took away the entire industry for free -- people have been given vouchers that can only be hanged on a toilet, and to this day they have no dividends, no part of their property, which the entire Ukrainian people built with their coat of arms. Today we're offered again, let's sell. Why? What kind of fool sells things that don't have a price? It's time to buy, not sell. And in order for the Ukrainian budget to be able to buy, you have to create jobs, you have to rebuild national production. And I call on those who offer us to sell state property, start with yourself, sell your property, and then sell state property. The same applies to the sale of land. Look at me, I'll be on this rostrum with the Radical Party faction dead, but we won't sell the land, we won't let the villagers rob us, and we'll let the peasants walk in the bars on our home land. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-19-m0.u123	Colleagues! Colleagues, I'm exercising my right to continue. For the continuation, 15 minutes for the continuation of the session and the submission of a motion for a vote, honourable colleagues, I present a motion for a vote submitted by the Prime Minister of Ukraine. Please take your seats. Draft Decree (2881) on the appointment of Terentiev Juriy Aleksandrovitch as Head of the Antimonopoly Committee of Ukraine. Please vote in general for the draft Decree 2881. Please vote. Please support the submission of the Prime Minister of Ukraine. Please vote and vote. [[14:01:38]] For 266 Decision taken. The draft regulation (registration No. 2882) introduced by the Prime Minister of Ukraine for your consideration is the draft Decision on the appointment of Billous Igor Olegovich as Head of the State Property Fund of Ukraine. Please vote in general. Please vote. [[14:02:08]] For 258. Decision taken, my dear fellows. Let's welcome the head of the Ukrainian Antimonopoly Committee of Elections. Welcome! [[Applause]] I think you've got a lot of serious work to do. And part of these questions were heard today by the national deputies of Ukraine. We also welcome the appointment of the Head of the National Property Fund of Ukraine, Billous Igor Olegovich. Welcome, Igor Olegovich! Dear colleagues! There's an offer, one minute. There is a proposal made by the Prime Minister supported by factions of the coalition. Not all of them, but the Peter Dusty Block and the People's Front. Let's announce a 30-minute recess for faction leaders' consultations. And then continue our work until the issues of order are exhausted. Such an offer, such an offer was made. I have the right to vote. I'm gonna run the coalition council now. If we have to, we'll keep working. Ladies and gentlemen, please concentrate. Let's vote for this proposal. If we see that we need more time, we'll do it. We have a number of important things now. Listen carefully. Guys, we have a number of very important issues that we need to consult on. But based on what I have to put to the vote a continuation of work, I'm asking you to support it. If there are other thoughts, then we will correct them. But we're just limited in time. Please be prepared. It's a 30-minute break. Come on, in 15 years. Up to 15 hours off. At 15 o'clock we're going into the hall and we're still working, guys. Please support this. Listen, we're having a discussion right now, you know how important the questions are? Please support this. Continue the morning session. Yuri Lucenko, please. One minute out of the procedure, Yuri Lucenko. Please take your seats, distinguished national MPs.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-19-m0.u124	Dear Mr. Head! Dear colleagues! In fact, the Prime Minister of Ukraine has asked us today in a special way to vote on the strategic law necessary for the country's livelihood. So now we're going to have profile committees so we don't violate the Rules of Procedure, about. From the Prime Minister's speech, you'll hear how important and important he is, and most of all acceptable, I'm sure, for the entire coalition. Now we can't advertise it in order for international negotiations to end as we plan. But please, when calling on the responsibility of each coalition member, ask him to support the agenda proposed by the Chief of the Supreme Council. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-19-m0.u125	Friends, once again, what's the point that we're going to take a break, not two hours, but an hour, what's wrong with that? A year. And then we'll continue our work. That's why I'm asking you to support it, my friends. Please, let's support it. I'm asking you to back it up. Please, I'm asking you to support this. Please support your colleagues. Please vote. I'd like your support, colleagues. Please support this. [[14:05:42]] For the 220. Six votes, as always, were not enough. Melniczuk, Barna, and Pashinsky I see. Let's vote, colleagues. These are procedural questions, they don't need to be included in the agenda, more specifically, in the mode of our work. Please support this. Three o'clock to resume our work, please support, friends. Please, colleagues, back up. I'd like your support, colleagues. Thank you. Please be supportive. [[14:06:16]] For 222 That's better. I'd like your support, Your Honor. By three o'clock. Please vote. Please be supportive. I'd like your support, colleagues. What's the point of working from the third hour, what's the problem? No one says we have to vote. Well, less of a one-hour break, what's the big deal? Please, please, support. Please support. Please. Vote. Please support me. Vote. Please support the offer. [[2:07:01]] For 222 Guys, no, listen, you guys. No, I don't. This vote affects your performance. Please, please, we're four votes short. Four votes is not enough. We'll start not at 4 o'clock, but at 3 o'clock. One minute, calm down, please! I would ask all the deputies to support this by voting. Please support. Vote, please. [[14:07:47]] For 228 Thanks to the real patriots. At 3 p.m. we continue the work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Thank you for your support.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-19-m0.u126	Dear fellow members of the national parliament, we continue our meeting. Please, take your seats in the hall. Please take your seats in the hall, we'll continue our work. Colleagues, let's make a signal vote: how many colleagues do we have in the hall, or are we ready to continue our work? We have questions for the following, colleagues, we have questions about the inclusion in the agenda and the simultaneous adoption of two draft laws that will be presented by the Prime Minister of Ukraine. Names of these laws: Draft Law on the Specificities of the Enforcement of Laws with State-guaranteed Debt and Local Debt and, as a development of this Act, amending the Budget Code again. The relevant bills are registered on the site of the Supreme Council of Ukraine and have been considered by the profile committee. There's a proposal to consider these two bills, this is a proposal for coalition factions, and I'm going to put it in order of day and at the same time for decision-making. Please, Your Honor, by signal vote now confirm the inclusion and consideration of this issue of order. I ask all colleagues of the Ukrainian People's Deputies to support these important bills, allowing the Prime Minister to present these draft laws for further decision-making. Please, high-ranking fellow national MPs, a signal vote on the inclusion and consideration of these two important bills (registers: 2898 and 2899). I'd like your support, Your Honor, please. Prepared for the vote, colleagues? Please support, we vote. Please vote. Please vote, colleagues. [[15:27:07]] For 204 There is no need for national deputies in the hall. [[B in m in s a l in]] Please, colleagues, do it again. Let's put the order in and start the discussion. Please, please. When it comes to inclusion and simultaneous consideration, colleagues. Please support this initiative, please vote. Please, colleagues. Please be supportive. Please, let's support the inclusion and decision-making process, the decision-making process. [[15:28:10]] For the 220. That's better, dear fellows. Please invite me. I see we're not there yet. We'll be there in a minute. Please, colleagues, prepare. Let's try it again. Ready or not, a minute? Everybody take your seats, please. Let's go, colleagues, take our seats. We are voting for the inclusion of two bills at the same time. Vote please, colleagues. Come on, let's vote. Please support inclusion in the agenda. Here come the deputies, come in. We vote on the inclusion of two draft laws, 2898 and 2899. Please support me. [[15:29:50]] For 234 It's much better now, dear fellows. Decision taken. I'd like to have a word with you. Let's vote on the simplified procedure, but then we can ask the question from the factions. Let's have a brief hearing, but let's not limit the Prime Minister to both the speech and the question, and speak from the factions. Yes, please, now we're going to vote short. For supporting a brief discussion. From the factions we will speak and please support. [[15:30:45.]] For-170. Please, Arsenius Petrovich Yacenuk, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-19-m0.u127	Dear Mr. Head! The Honourable Coalition of the European Choice, the Honourable People's Deputies of Ukraine! We've been working with you for months to stabilize the Ukrainian state's finances to fill the budget, to reduce the debt burden from the Ukrainian budget and to allow people to feel that living standards are changing. That wages can increase, that jobs can be created in Ukraine, that citizens' incomes can be indexed, and that life in Ukraine will simply be better. To this end, Parliament, government and coalition, together with the President of the country, have taken very many real steps to reform the country. And these steps are now marked, primarily by our external creditors. After the last summit "Ukraine – the European Union", it was first noted in the official documents of the European Union that Ukraine is not simply talking about reforms – Ukraine is conducting, Ukraine has implemented and Ukraine will continue to implement these reforms. We are receiving support from our international partners. But this support isn't enough if you and I don't make the right and strong decisions, not just to balance the budget, but to remove the debt burden from future generations so that our children, our grandchildren, don't pay for the debts of Viktor Yanukovich. This is the task of this Parliament. As part of our cooperation with the International Monetary Fund and other foreign creditors last year, we received a financial support package. And what I want to point out is, yes, we got $9 billion from our Western partners, but we gave $14 billion credits to Western partners as well. Is this fair for a country in war and fire? I think that the country's private creditors should take real steps to help the Ukrainian people fight Russian aggression, stabilize the economic situation -- and actually become a European state in a European way of life. I'd like to describe to you the overall economic and financial situation, so that you just know where and where we are and what situation we're in, let's do it again. We had total debts last year -- when I became Prime Minister of Ukraine -- about $72 billion. In a year, we reduced our debt by $3 billion. That's good. It was 72, it was less than 70, it was almost 69. But we can't go on living by the formula: taking new loans to pay off old loans. This formula has to end. The total amount of the country’s external liabilities today is $70 billion. Ukraine's external debt figure, for example, was only 17.6 billion on January 1, 2008. Viktor Janukovic and his gang managed to take $40 billion in three years, which they lost. The people did not feel it, the money, but the government budget was strained, and it owed to every Ukrainian, every Ukrainian family. I want us to free the Ukrainian people from the debt yoke that is now in the country created by Yanukovic and his followers. Think about it! In the current year alone, the total budget for external payments is equal to the amount budgeted for the entire national security and defence budget, which is 90 billion dollars. 90 billion dollars we have to get out of the budget and pay off our external creditors on debts we didn't take. What does the government of Ukraine offer? We started a negotiation with our creditors. We started negotiations for the simple reason that even if we count the total amount of support. I'm sorry to load you with numbers, but I have to. So you can understand a fairly simple arithmetic that shows the real picture. Even if we take total financial assistance from our external partners, that is, from the International Monetary Fund, from the Great Seven countries and from other contributors, for four years this amount of aid is $25 billion. Four years old. So out of these $25 billion, we can only use a maximum of 15 to pay off external debt. And the balance of $10 billion is going to fill the country's gold reserves, which, by the way, have grown and are now allowing monetary and exchange rate stability. So, we have you at our disposal, we have 15 billion dollars for the next four years. It's in the asset. Now in our liabilities, how much do we have to pay off our debts? In four years, Ukraine should pay only $30 billion in external debt. In addition to external debts, we still have to pay our internal debts. That's plus $17 billion. So, dear friends, arithmetic is 15, and 47 are guilty. The question is how to pay. Of the Ukrainians' pockets, we can't pay these debts anymore. I am addressing members of Parliament from this high rostrum, and I am also addressing our external creditors. It is solely about private creditors who own Ukraine’s foreign government debt. This is not about state - owned Ukrainian banks that pay their debts. And I want to emphasize separately: this debt operation that is being carried out by the government of Ukraine along with our creditors. There is no negative impact on either Ukrainian banks or exchange rate, and vice versa, it will be positive, because after this operation, Ukraine's debt will be smaller. And that means that trust by both creditors and investors will be greater because the Ukrainian economy will be healthier. What do we ask our external private creditors to do? Once again, private creditors. To listen to the offer of the Ukrainian government and to restructure the debts of Ukraine, which are owned by private creditors under the terms proposed by the Ukrainian government. Over the next four years, we need to get more resources from this restructuring or reduce the burden on the Ukrainian state from external debt to a total of about $15 billion. Now the government is asking you to give the Cabinet of Ministers, I stress, the law, and we will decide whether or not to exercise this right – the right to impose a moratorium on Ukraine's external payments on debts owed to exclusively private creditors for the list of such obligations, which is an addition to this law. We want to pay, but we want to pay for the conditions offered by the Ukrainian government and the Ukrainian state. And we ask private creditors if you want to support Ukraine, if you treat Ukrainian citizens fairly, and the Ukrainian state that suffers from Russian aggression, which suffers from a war that lost 20 percent of the economy that lost because of the Russian aggression of Crimea, where tens of thousands of Russian military soldiers trample on Ukrainian land! Help, not by word, but by dollar! More specifically, billions of dollars. And the Ukrainian people will appreciate that. And that's going to be real, and it's going to be real, and it's going to be real, and it's going to be a real answer, and it's going to help Ukraine, and it's going to help Europe as a whole. That's why, honourable national MPs, we ask you to adopt two laws that allow the Cabinet of Ministers to do so if necessary -- that is when we do not deal with our creditors, and we hope that we will deal with our creditors -- allow us to introduce a moratorium on external payments on the list defined in the appendix to the bill. Let's help the Ukrainian people save money, get resources to index citizens' money. And let us free our children and future generations from this debt yoke created by Yanukovich and his predecessors. Please be supportive. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-19-m0.u128	Thank you. Dear fellow national MPs! We've determined what we're going to give literally a minute away from the factions. I think we'll start with that. Oleg Romanovich Berezuk, Self-help, please. From factions per minute. Victor Krivenko, Victor Krivenko, Self-help.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-19-m0.u129	Good afternoon, dear fellows! What I'm saying is that we're going to uphold these laws. This is an opportunity for the government. That's not a terrible word for defult. And it's a very important information policy to explain. But I'd like to make one point of what this law refers to, first and foremost, tools and tools, it's going to be 3 billion dollars before Russia. So I urge all my colleagues to support these laws and to get involved in explaining them, because they will have a positive effect on our nation at this critical moment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-19-m0.u130	Thank you. Is there a desire to speak from the Fatherland faction? Thank you. Please, Oleg, it's the Radical Party faction. Then Victoria Sumar, People's Front.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-19-m0.u131	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. I want to thank Prime Minister Arsenia Yatsenyuk for finally hearing the radical party's position. For six months, we're asking you to start negotiations with creditors on the cancellation of external debt. When we wrote the Coalition Agreement, we first said that the tens of billions stolen by Yanukovich should not be paid; the Ukrainian people should not pay for the Yanukovich gang. You've been thinking about this for six months, thank God you're finally up to it, and you finally came here to the Supreme Council and this bill. I support, our faction supports this bill. We should not pay the billions that Janukovich's gang has robbed, much of that money for Russia's so-called debts that are killing our people today. Free Crimea, release Donbas, then we'll pay. As long as the foot of the invader is not given to the Ukrainian land, no bracelets are given to the invaders and no one else.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-19-m0.u132	Thank you. Please, Victoria Sumar, People's Front, then Yuri Lucenko, then.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-19-m0.u133	Dear colleagues, few in the world, have faced the challenges faced by Ukraine. Having a post-Soviet legacy, having a corrupt completely corrupt system of Viktor Yanukovic, having a war with Russia's superstate, and actually not having any military or serious assistance from any other partner. Obviously, in these circumstances, love for Ukraine must no longer be claimed, and love for Ukraine must be done in specific ways. In this case, restructuring is Ukraine's ability to fight the enemy, win the war, start a path of economic growth. This is the way our international creditors should meet. I thank the government for such an initiative and the People's Front faction will definitely support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-19-m0.u134	Thank you. Please, Yuri Lucenko, Peter Dusty Block. And please, MPs, take your seats, we'll vote. Please, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-19-m0.u135	Dear Mr. Head, dear colleagues! This bill is a difficult decision. And in fact, we're going on the thintest ice, and at the moment, Parliament is making the last attempt to help the government restructure the debt. Yes, it is true that these debts are not taken by this government, mainly by Yanukovic. And when they're waving their hands out of this cotton block somewhere, they're going to have to say where they are right now. But it's a very difficult document that will allow either an agreement with creditors, or we'll enter into a technical default. We are aware of this and we are allowing the government to get out of the situation. There's nothing to applaud, the country is in a very difficult economic situation, and we're making an adequate decision. I'd like to support you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-19-m0.u136	Ten seconds, finish up, Yuri Vitaliovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-19-m0.u137	I propose to support this bill by giving the government every opportunity in this situation to find solutions with international creditors. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-19-m0.u138	Please, just a minute, "The Cloud." Then he's the head of the subcommittee.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-19-m0.u139	Igor Shurma, Opposition Block. We have political discussions here in Parliament. And, Arsenija Petrovich, I am addressing you because I would very much not want the Prime Minister to continue to engage in these political discussions. I'm not going to be Janukovic's lawyer, I haven't been to Parliament at this time, and I haven't worked in the government, but let's tell people the truth. Today, Ukraine is in a difficult position A whose external loan bonds are these: 2005, 2006, 2007? Did you get a little tired in your memory when you call it one last name? And please tell me, the external borrowings of operators, the 2005 U.S. U.S. U.K., 2006, 2009 is whose debt? A 2009 loan from the state-owned enterprise Ukredstupac, a local loan from the Kyiv City Council, was issued in 2005. Arsenius Petrovich, call all the presidents and all those responsible for those loans. Today we need to scratch it all together. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-19-m0.u140	I only have one clarification: I listened carefully to the Prime Minister's speech: there were 17 billion debt on January 1, 2008, and 40 billion plus your answer for the period 2010-2013. Please, please, Andrew Gordjeev from the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-19-m0.u141	Dear colleagues! The Committee on Budget Affairs today promptly reviewed Bills 2898 and 2899, and recommends that the Supreme Council of Ukraine accept them as a basis and as a whole, establishing that Bill No. 2898 is in effect by 1 July 2016. Please be supportive. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-19-m0.u142	Dear fellow members of the National Parliament, please put to the vote the draft Law (Registration No. 2898), submitted by the Prime Minister of Ukraine and approved by the Professional Committee with the amendment, which was issued from the Supreme Council's rostrum as a whole. 2898. I ask you to take your seats and we will now vote in general. Ready? 2898, according to the decision of the committee and with the bill issued by the national deputy, Gordjeev, according to the decision of the committee. Ready to vote? We vote in total 2898, we vote in colleagues, we vote in votes. [[15:51:34]] For 256 Decision taken. I would like to inform you that the honourable colleagues who, apart from factions and coalitions, voted for the non-fractional deputies as far as I can see. Thank you, Your Honor. And the next draft law, which is the result of the already adopted law, is the 2899 draft Law amending the Ukrainian Budget Code in relation to the adopted law on the specificities of the enforcement of offences with State, guaranteed debt and local debt. The decision was also taken by the committee, and it was taken as a whole as a result of the examination of the identity committee. So I'm putting this proposal to a vote. 2899, according to the committee's proposal, as a whole, on the basis and as a whole. Vote please, Your Honor, 2899. This is a continuation of the decision to change the budget code. Please vote. Please support everyone, colleagues, this is not just a matter of coalition, this is a matter for the whole country, including all the deputies. [[15:52:51]] For 246 Decision taken, my dear fellows. Decision taken. Thank you, dear colleagues, for the decision you have made. Please, next. Arsenius Petrovich, please, a word. Prime Minister of Ukraine Yacenouk Arsenij Petrovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-19-m0.u143	The honourable coalition, the distinguished national deputies of Ukraine, would like first of all to thank the Head of the State Property Fund and the Head of the Antimonopoly Committee of Ukraine for their appointment. And I hope that these two high-level owners will carry out the tasks you've given them on factions and those that match the law of Ukraine and the need for reform and the restructuring of the Ukrainian economy. And I want to thank you separately for adopting these laws. Let me work for the good of the country.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-19-m0.u144	Thank you. Dear colleagues, you are being examined by draft Law 1483. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-19-m0.u145	Dear colleagues, there is a suggestion that this bill should be considered in a simplified procedure. Is there an understanding and support of the hall? Yes. Please vote in favour of the reduced procedure 1483. Please support me. [[15:54:21]] For-182 Thank you very much. The report invites Ukrainian national deputy Nasalik Igor Stepanovic, from the rostrum, please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-19-m0.u146	Dear friends! Believe me, this law is no less important than the two that have passed it. We've long ago said that human life is the highest value and probably the Ukrainian nation in the last year has felt the truth of this process. We are deeply inclined to follow those who died in this war, but today in peacetime we are wasting more people in order. And not just because we don't have specialists, we have good medical specialists, these specialists have nothing to treat. Although today I am more convinced of who is hosting these receptions, from 35 to 50 percent of the people who come to the National MPs are coming to these receptions by means of some form of medical assistance. The problem would seem simple, the state delegated its powers, defined the subsidy, but unfortunately, this subsidy, dear friends, is not enough to pay and not enough energy. Then the question is, What should the doctor do? The idea of the bill is quite simple and its purpose is to give Ukrainian citizens the right to life. Of course, any city budget knowing that this authority of the state raises issues of education, medicine, culture, sports at the back. This bill provides the opportunity: (a) to consolidate and share the responsibility of the city budget and the state budget. If I say that after the adoption of this law, or the adoption of it on the first reading, all the city budgets will run and they'll set up the necessary funds to ensure that those hospitals that are on the balance sheet are hospitalized.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-19-m0.u147	Please, 20 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-19-m0.u148	That's not true, of course. But the fact that we give doctors the chance to still have the opportunity to treat them is, of course, there is no doubt about it. That's why I'm asking. This law is not a panacea, but it gives people the right to life. And I'm asking you to back him up. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-19-m0.u149	Thank you. The co - report is invited to attend by Olga Vadimovna, the head of the Health Committee. She's not in the hall, as I understand it, is she? Then we will immediately move on to the discussion. Dear colleagues. Olga the Mantis, will you report to us? We're waiting, we're waiting. Olga Vadimovna is already approaching the rostrum. And we invite her to the report, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-19-m0.u150	Dear colleagues, the Health Committee asks you to support the proposed law because it offers a completely new opportunity for local councils and for the Ministry of Health to start working. And I'm asking you very much to support this proposal, because it actually gives new changes. And by the decision of the Health Committee, we ask that this law be upheld.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-19-m0.u151	Thank you very much. Dear colleagues, is there a need to discuss this bill? Yes, the Radical Party. Yeah, if there's only one faction, how about we give you a word, and that's it? [[B in m in s a l in]] Is there, yes, a need? Okay. Then we write two for, two for against, please. There's a recording of the performance. Yevlahov, Peter Dustenka's Block. He's handing it over to Santa Tomenkov, isn't he? Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-19-m0.u152	Dear colleagues, the bill presented by our colleague, Igor Nasalik, forces us to look at this situation in the area of health care and to think about how parliament can engage in health reform. I know that there is a group of support for the Georgian Diaspora and those who believe that in the near future we will have the best health care in the world. But with all due respect for the Georgian diaspora, we must do something to reform health care. I think the first thing is that. Everything about primary health care. I'm not talking about super-complicated operations. As long as we have the Constitution and legislation, we must guarantee free primary health care. In this regard, I support the position of Igor, who spoke about the need to balance central and local budgets so that we can understand that everything relating to emergency medical care for key diseases that are addressed to ordinary people with a minimum pension is subject to a minimum wage as a State. So in this part, we have to support the bill, and then we have to think about how we move on: where we have a state health insurance system, where we can support the state of those categories that are socially incapable of doing all of this. But today, most of the bills in force that we haven't canceled, where it's supposed that we're compensating or providing support for people, let's say, drugs and so on, they're not being implemented. It is simply necessary to invent or re-invent and say that we are capable as a state of execution, or to admit that people who are in charge of health care are unable to do so. My proposal is to support the first reading and think about how to work with the government to ensure that this law is implemented.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-19-m0.u153	Thank you. Kuprienko gives the word to Oleg Láška, the Radical Party of Oleg Láška.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-19-m0.u154	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. Dear citizens of Ukraine! Dear fellow national MPs! I want to remind you that in Parliament last time we met. It was my bill that was supported and voted on and signed by the President. It's about a moratorium on hospital facilities. But is this law being fulfilled? No, it's not. And today we see that hospitals continue to be closed, especially in rural areas, in district centers, in cities. Who gave people the right to be deprived of the right to receive medical care? Who? The person who gives the command in the village to close the FAP, or to close the cardiology center, or the maternity home. Do they think about those people, those births, those retired colporteurs who can't walk 100 meters in the street? And in the village, they shut down the infirmary, they shut down the FAP, and they say, "Go to the center, get help." But Grandma and Grandpa won't make it to the center, and no one's waiting for them in that center until they get there. As a result, millions of Ukrainian citizens today are deprived of access to adequate medical care, especially for elderly people. That is why we demand that the Ministry of Health actually reform the medical sector. And real reform in terms of the Radical Party is providing quality services to our citizens. Not reform in their sense, it's all closed, and let them go to Chernigs or Kiev from the White Church to have children. We're here to get people real medical care, so if there's no way in the village to support the FAP, put a ambulance in there, get him on medication, put a doctor or a poltergeist there. But for a person, especially when he is old enough to live, when his heart is pounding, when his feet are not worn, to have attention to support, and to have proper medical care. We owe these people. Atone for your debts!
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-19-m0.u155	Thank you. So we can. No, self-help, please. Oleg Beresuk. And I'm asking the National Deputies to come into the hall. A vote is about to take place.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-19-m0.u156	Dear fellow MPs! Unfortunately, the medical sector is one of the most catastrophic sectors in Ukraine that does not provide quality services. And the full burden of spending lies on patients and on doctors who are learning, buying their own expensive materials, taking money from patients, surviving themselves, and further away from the center and any city, the worse. This law is on medical ethics, they say, like a dead park. He doesn't decide much. It allows local budgets to help their citizens a little bit. We require the Ministry of Health and the Cabinet to immediately submit to the faction, at least in the hall, a law on health sector reform, which we will not introduce for one year, but we must start and show people the way of medical reform. And today.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-19-m0.u157	Thank you. So, dear colleagues, please come into the hall and take your jobs. Now we're going to the vote. We had a discussion. The Special Committee proposes to adopt the bill as a basis, and I will put this proposal to the vote first. Thus, the draft Law amending Ukraine’s Health Law (number 1483) is put to the vote on the basis of the first reading. Please support: based. Vote. [[16:05:55]] For 224 This is the neglect of the national MPs. I'm going to ask you to be more careful, to go into a hall that's not in the hall, who's not at their jobs. It could be a bill of any MP when it's his own -- everyone's experiencing when the other one -- might not be there. So please vote for the return to the vote on Bill 1483. Please support the return to the vote. Please vote. [[16:06:43]] For 213 We have no support or power to vote, dear colleagues? We didn't make it, did we? I'll do it again. If we do not get the required number of votes, we will have to move on to the next proposal: send the subject to the legislative initiative. So, colleagues, once again, I'm going to put the vote back to 1483. And I have a request to the national deputies to take up jobs, to enter a hall that is not in the hall. So please support the return to the vote, Bill 1483. Please support me. [[16:07:47]] For-187 Thank you. The next suggestion is to return the subject of the legislative initiative so that the bill is not lost to the Supreme Council at all. Is such a proposal supported? Let's put it to a vote. Return the subject of the legislative initiative. Please support this proposal. Vote. [[16:08:22]] For 235 Thank you. Decision taken. Let's move on to the next bill of order of the day. Next draft of the Act amending article 10-1 of the Ukrainian Act on Social and Legal Protection of Military Servants and Members of Their Families No. 2234. Both the bill's authors and the committee's chairman are asking to consider it in a simplified manner. Let's support our colleagues. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. [[16:09:19]] For-167 Thank you. The report invites the Ukrainian national deputy Trelyaków Alexander Yuriovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-19-m0.u158	Honourable People's Deputies, Bill No. 2234 on Amendments to Article 10-1 of the Ukrainian Act on Social and Legal Protection of Military Servants and Members of Their Families (for military leave). The current wording of article 10-1 of the Ukrainian Act on “Social and Legal Protection of Soldiers and Members of Their Families” does not fully cover the characteristics of the granting of leave to the Armed Forces of Ukraine from other military formations during the period when mobilization was announced. With a view to correcting this deficiency, the bill proposes: the first is to grant the right to soldiers who did not exercise their right to annual basic leave during a special period and to use it in the course of the following calendar year, including several parts; the second is to grant leave for the first year of military service to all military personnel other than airmen. To date, only military personnel and contractors have such a right. The draft was drafted jointly with experts from the Ministry of Defence. The National Security and Defence Profile Committee proposes to vote for it as a whole. There's still a little clarification. I would like to request separately, after the adoption of this bill, that lawyers and the relevant committee be given the opportunity to submit a technical notice to streamline the numbering of paragraphs of article 10-1 of the Ukrainian Act on Social and Legal Protection of Soldiers and Their Families. This is due to the fact that, since 18 March, there have been changes to this law and this number has already been occupied, and we are moving it forward as follows. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-19-m0.u159	Thank you. The co - report invites the head of the Committee on Security and Defence, Sergey Pashinsky. He won't come out of the rostrum, please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-19-m0.u160	Dear colleagues, it is certainly correct that, every day or every plenary week, we are improving legislation in part of the social protection of military personnel. This law is extremely simple. It gives military personnel the right to transfer the leave, which is scheduled for each military officer every year for the following year, if the restrictions imposed on the speciality of the leave are in place for military personnel during a special period. This does not require additional budget spending, but it creates additional motivations for our military, military, and security forces to carry out their service, to protect our codeons, and to protect Ukraine. The committee considered the bill and the bill received the unanimous support of the members of our committee. So from the committee, we're going to propose this bill as a basis and in general today, taking into account the technical law that the author of the bill was talking about. And so I ask the Chamber to consult and vote on this bill. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-19-m0.u161	Heroic glory! Dear colleagues, the bill is a simple one that makes life easier for our fighters. Is there a need to discuss? Please, Artem Vitko, please turn on the microphone. One statement and we'll go to the vote. Dear colleagues, please enter the voting room. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-19-m0.u162	Artem Vitko, Radical Party. Before I was elected as Ukrainian national deputy, I was commander of the Lugansk-1 battalion, and how do I know that we need to improve the legislation that is now. And that moral-psychological state supports the needs of our military personnel, who have a very high moral condition, but this law will support our military officers. The radical faction and the Radical Party as a whole have consistently been the entanglement of the Ukrainian Armed Forces and are supporting, in any case, the Armed Forces. Thank you for your attention!
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-19-m0.u163	Thank you. I see there's unanimity support. Kishkar, please, Kishkar from the rostrum microphone, one minute, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-19-m0.u164	Paul Kishkar, "The Self-Help Union." Of course we're going to support this law, but I would like to emphasise that it's worth developing, and probably the committee has to take priority in this matter, and the two fundamental bills are about mobilisation and mobilisation as the basis for the new mobilisation process. Because so far we have journalists taking rifles and walking like shooters, today we have artists from the Lvivsky Theatre and putting them in shape like ordinary shooters or machine guns. This is wrong; it systematically violates the logic of these social ties and communication between the military and society. And the second is usually about the social and legal protection of military personnel and their families. What Is Systemicity? This is military service from the beginning, when I was called into military service, when I signed the contract, and before I was finished, before I was in reserve or retired. These must be system laws. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-19-m0.u165	Thank you! I ask you to proceed to the vote. Society, if we want laws to be passed and this is our goal, not our goal just to support them, let's vote better and support our military, our soldiers. So, please. Well, he's taking down an honorary MP, so I see an honorary MP. Thank you, Igor! Are you making a performance or insisting? Igor Lucenko insists, please turn on the microphone. Igor Lucenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-19-m0.u166	Dear friends! From the Fatherland faction, I am empowered to say clearly that we support this bill, and I want to emphasize that the military has received a permanent, permanent failure by the state to perform its duties on them. And in order to reduce this debt to them, we need to immediately vote on this bill as a whole. And no day without such bills! Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-19-m0.u167	Thank you! I also support the immediate vote, but then we all discuss it together. Society, I just have a question when at the beginning of my consideration of this bill I ask if there is a need to discuss. No hand in the hall. Then please warn ahead of time when there is a need for discussion and we will go through the whole procedure, there is no problem with it, just be careful. Please, Dennis, turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-19-m0.u168	Dear colleagues, there's nothing to discuss in this bill, and that's why I just want to support those that we vote in favour of this bill, on the basis and in general. And the People's Front faction will do just that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-19-m0.u169	Thank you. So I'm putting it to a vote, and I'm asking you to come to the Hall, your honorary colleagues, to draft the Act amending article 10-1 of the Ukrainian Act on Social and Legal Protection of Military Servants and Members of Their Families (for military service leave), number 2234, on the basis and in general, of the law that was issued by the author under the stenogram from the Supreme Council rostrum. Please, on the basis and in general. If you'll excuse me, I'd like to vote. [[16:17:57]] For 254 Thank you very much. Thank you for supporting such an important bill for our fighters. Let's move on to the next day's draft of our law. This is the draft Act amending the Mining Act of Ukraine to clarify the order of compensation for the payment of utility services, No. 1634. The author of the bill, the rapporteur, asks to vote in favour of the shortened procedure. Let's support our colleague Michael Bondar and vote in favour of the shorter procedure. Please support the reduced procedure. [[16:18:46]] For 172 Thank you. The report invites the head of the subcommittee, the Committee on Fuel Energy, Nuclear Policy and Nuclear Security, Bondar Mikhailo Leontijovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-19-m0.u170	Dear colleagues! your opinion is proposed by the Ukrainian Act amending the Mining Act of Ukraine to clarify the procedure for compensation for municipal services (registration No. 1634). The proposed legislative initiative is aimed at ensuring the same level of social protection for the same category of miners who live in buildings with different types of heating. Central heating or individual, in the absence of the first. To achieve this, it is proposed to clarify in the Mining Law of Ukraine the types of heating used by mining workers and mining workers who are disposed of, or canned, pensioners who have worked in mining, coal processing, in industrial enterprises of disabled persons or in families of workers who have died in production, coal processing will have the right to compensation for subsidies from the State budget for the cost of municipal services for free of charge of the coal they receive for their consumption. In particular, such compensation is intended to be given to individuals in the case of both central and autonomous use or individual heating, where coal as fuel is not used. The Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the Fuel Energy Complex of Nuclear Policy and Nuclear Security, at its meeting on 4 March 2015, reviewed the bill and proposed it to the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the basis of its first reading. The Anti-Corruption and Anti-Corruption Committee has concluded that there are no corruption factors, and the Chief Scientific and Expert Office of the Supreme Council of Ukraine supports the adoption of the selected project as a basis for the first reading. Please support in the first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-19-m0.u171	Thank you. This is also a precise social law, please say, honourable colleagues, is there a need to discuss it? There is no need, then I ask you to prepare for the vote. Dear colleagues, please come into the hall and prepare for the vote. There is a proposal to accept as a basis, and the clarifications that may be in the bill will be brought up for second reading. I'm asking you to support our colleague, National Deputy Michael Bondar. And I'm voting on the draft Act amending the Mining Act to clarify the order of compensation for municipal services (No. 1634). Please vote in the first reading as a basis. Please support, colleagues, we vote. [[16:22:12]] For 211 I see not all colleagues have arrived. So once again, I'm going to ask all my colleagues to come into the hall and take jobs. It's a social law that makes it easier for our citizens to bear that incredible burden today, which is, during difficult times for Ukraine. I ask you to be more careful, and I ask you to be more responsible. Now I'm betting on the vote for the return. So please support the return to the vote on Bill 1634. Please support and vote for the return. Please vote. [[16:23:04]] For 211 Please turn on the factions. Dear colleagues, there is a discussion. If there are any warnings, let's just give these warnings a heads-up, just let me know if there are any. Please, Igor Gus, please, the People's Front. Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-19-m0.u172	Dear colleagues! Igor Gus, 19th constituency, representing Shakhtarsk and Novovolinsk. I can't understand a number of colleagues here from factions, especially the Peter Dusty Block. Today, our miners are in a very difficult situation — mine closure, rallying, and so forth. We proposed with a number of colleagues, a normal bill. Today coal miners are given the opportunity to live in their private homes. But those miners who live in apartment buildings can't use it. There is a proposal to give money directly to these people, their families. Many of them are sick, you know. I can't understand why -- we're being watched by people -- we're going through this today. That's disgusting! I'm asking a coalition colleague to keep this right and necessary bill for miners. Colleagues, back up!
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-19-m0.u173	Thank you. Please, Nasalik, Peter Dust Block.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-19-m0.u174	Mr. Gus, I'll tell you why the Peter Dust Block doesn't support your initiative. You literally failed 10 minutes ago. You just broke the law that gave people the right to life. Why do you think we should support you now?
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-19-m0.u175	Come on, let's go. Dear colleagues! We have a strange trade: law by law. Come on. Once again, I invite all the deputies into the hall, and I'll make my last call for a return. Please, dear fellows. I'm asking you to come into the hall of all the people's deputies. And I ask you, colleagues, not to replace the bill with a bill. If necessary, we'll go back to the previous one. I'm asking for political trade. Not to replace it with the need to help ordinary citizens of Ukraine. To them, this is a wrong and incomprehensible approach. That's why I, my dear fellows, am asking to vote again now. I ask you to support the position to go back to voting for this bill. Can I count on support, colleagues? [[B in m in s a l in]] Then please. Why? It's already in the vote. Please, 30 seconds out of the procedure. Please turn on the microphone. I told you. Please, Radical Party. Cooper, the Radical Party.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-19-m0.u176	Oleg Kuprienko, Oleg Laska Radical Party. The proposal to assign the Supreme Council apparatus to print the names of all the national deputies who do not vote in favour of this law, to personally drop them off on all the mines, and stick them on the board of announcements.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-19-m0.u177	Thank you. There's already been a performance from Peter Dustenk's Block, if you'll excuse me. In the discussion we give one word from the faction. I put to the vote, return to the draft Act amending the Mining Act of Ukraine to clarify the order of compensation for municipal services, number 1634. Please vote. [[16:27:33]] For 236 Thank you so much for your common sense. And that's right, we have to have common understanding. And now I'm betting again. Draft Act on Amendments. There is no such thing in the Rules. Draft Act amending the Mining Act of Ukraine to clarify the order of compensation for municipal services, No. 1634. Please support the first reading as a basis. Please vote. [[16:28:18]] For 234 Thank you very much. Now on the basis of the vote. Please give me your word. Fish, please. "Block of Petra Prashenka", Deputy Rybak. Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-19-m0.u178	Ivan Rybak, 202 constituency. Dear colleagues, I have personally abstained from voting in favour of this bill, because if we're giving benefits to miners today, we should be giving benefits today, providing both to doctors and teachers, and to everyone, to everyone, to everyone who needs it.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-19-m0.u179	Thank you very much. Let's go to the next bill, 2576. [[B in m in s a l in]] We've moved on to another bill. There's a proposal from the reporter and there's a proposal from the authors of the law that we should consider it as a reduced procedure. Please vote on the reduced procedure of 2576, please. [[16:29:39]] For 171 Thank you, colleagues. The report invites the Ukrainian national deputy Zhuri Andriy Valeriyovich. Please go to the rostrum.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-19-m0.u180	Comrades, good afternoon! We are considering a bill on fair taxation of the income of natural persons. The bill is designed by virtually all members of the coalition. I want to thank my co-authors -- Oksani Prodan, Nina Jujanini, Oleg Lazko, Viktor Galasyuk, Oleg Krishina, Auntie Ostrikova. The idea of the bill is simple enough. Very often we have such that when we accept some changes or some bills, we do not count others. Today, wages - up to 10 minimum wages are taxed at 15 per cent, above 10 per cent - are taxed at 20 per cent, everything is logical, everything is normal, but it has not been considered that the only social contribution to pay is up to 17 wages. So today we have a situation in the state where between 10 and 17 wages we have an additional 5 percent of the incomprehensible burden on the wage fund. We have raised statistics from the Ministry of Finance and the State Fiscal Service. At the expense of this additional workload, all categories of pay actually receive the lowest number of taxpayers — about 130,000. And the amount of wages in this range hasn't actually changed in the last three years. So the pay goes up to, it goes up after, and here it doesn't change. The bill therefore proposes a simple thing while the only social contribution is up to 17 wages, a tax on the income of the natural person is 15 percent. There is no single social contribution – the rate is 20 percent. The bill brings terminology to the only definitions in both the Tax Code and the only social contribution. And the bill has also changed the ratio of a single social contribution from 0.6 to 0.4 since 2016. I would like to point out that this bill, supported by the Ministry of Finance, has a positive conclusion from the Ministry of Finance. And taking into account its minor text, I ask you to support it as a whole. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-19-m0.u181	Thank you. The co - report invites the head of the Tax and Customs Committee, Eugene Nina Petrovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-19-m0.u182	Dear National Deputies! The Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Tax and Customs Policy reviewed the draft Law on Amendments to the Ukrainian Tax Code on Fair Taxation of the Income of Persons between 10 and 17 Sizes of Minimum Wages, submitted by the Ukrainian National Deputies. The bill proposes that the tax base for the income of natural persons and the base for the sole social contribution be adjusted. An increase from 10 to 17 percent of the minimum wage of a person's salary tax base is taxed at 15 percent of the person's income tax. The amount of income that's going to exceed the 17 times the minimum wage rate is going to be 20 percent now. The determination of the maximum amount of the single contribution base, not of the subsistence minimum for working persons at the time of the assembly, but of the minimum wage set by the law on 1 January of the reporting year. Also continue to apply a lowering factor after January 1, 2016 to determine the single contribution of 0.4, which will encourage employers to legalize the income of the employed. During the discussion of the bill, national MPs, members of the committee, expressed support for the bill and noted that the harmonization of income tax bases and the only social contribution would help legalize wages, reduce the possibility of so-called salary optimization at this interval. That's from 12,000 180 dollars to 20,000 170. As a result of the bill's discussion, the committee decided to recommend Bill No. 2576 to the Supreme Council of Ukraine as a basis and as a whole.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-19-m0.u183	Thank you very much. I know that there are willing speakers, and that's probably why we're going to do a two-in-pro, two-again. Please, Your Honor, record a statement, sign in. Thank you. Please, Kocheljeva, uh, pass it on to Halasyuk. Please, from the rostrum.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-19-m0.u184	The Honourable Chairman, the Honorable Fellow People's Deputies, the faction of the Radical Party strongly supports this bill. Why? Because it reduces the tax pressure on the payroll fund, it allows for the legalization of wages, you just have to think about it, in Ukraine over 500 billion dollars of legal wages and almost as much wages as is paid in envelopes. So it's through the adoption of these kinds of bills that we're going to get that wage out of the shadows. If we don't change our approach with you, and by adopting such laws we don't create attractive conditions for intellectually bridge business, then our economy will remain raw, oligarched and corrupt. Ladies and gentlemen, if you think about it, if a piece of wages in a metal factory is about 6-7 percent, for example, in an IT business it's up to 70 percent. So these laws need to be adopted in order to change the structure of the economy, so that there's a significant added value, because there's going to be a significant added value, there's going to be other taxes coming into the budget, and that's pensions, that's social costs, that's a strong army, that's a strong education. Therefore, honourable colleagues, the faction of the Radical Party calls for the adoption of this bill not only in the first reading but in general today as a law. And it's going to be an important step that we're going to show that we're actually making real reforms aimed at moving our economy towards a modern order, not just doing some secondary things. Dear colleagues! I urge you to support this bill as a whole. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-19-m0.u185	Thank you. Yes, I'm asking faction two to go, two to go. Please, Oksana Sold.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-19-m0.u186	Dear colleagues! I ask you to support this bill and I now address all factions. What does this bill foretell? Two things: first thing -- we're equalizing the taxation of the income of the natural person, so those who today have between 10 and 15 minimum wage pay more than those who have a salary above 15 minimum wage. We're aligning and making it gradually go up depending on how big people's incomes are -- that's the first part. We make the difference between the income tax laws of individuals and the Single Social Contribution Act is one part of what we do. And there's another part. In our time, you and I have decided on the ratio of the only social contribution. And there are businesses, there are employers who started coming out of the shadows and paying the only social contribution at 0.4. In that law that we passed with you, the rate was 0.4 to 1 January 2016. This bill predicts that 0.4 will apply to all those who have come out of the shadows who have brought their wages out of the shadows. And so I'm asking you to support this bill now so that those people who pay legal wages, so that those people who are officially paying all their taxes from their incomes understand that they're paying in their state, paying in vain, and that you and I are working here on the very people who work in Ukraine. Thank you and I would like to support this bill as a whole. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-19-m0.u187	Thank you! If you'll excuse me, it's the people's deputy, Ostrkova.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-19-m0.u188	Dear colleagues! This bill is another step for all factions of the coalition to implement a plan to get individuals out of the shadow of their earnings. The first step was to adopt the March 2 law as one of the first steps to improve the legislation. Taking into account the changes proposed in this bill, employers will be able to reduce the overall burden on the Labour Fund from 56 percent to 34 percent, of course, provided that wages are raised accordingly for a reduction factor of 0.4. We need to give you and business a clear signal now, so a business that believed the state and brought wages out of the shadows. However, in the next 2016, the lowering factor will apply not to 0.6, as is now envisaged, but 0.4, the business will expect us to do so with you. And it's perfectly logical to raise the tax on the income of individuals from the moment that the only social contribution is no longer paid, which is proposed in this bill. So we ask you all to support it as a whole. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-19-m0.u189	Thank you. National MP Galchenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-19-m0.u190	Please pass the word to Deputy Dudenkov.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-19-m0.u191	People's deputy to Dudenkov, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-19-m0.u192	Thank you, Your Honor Chairman. The opposition bloc wants not to be part of the so-called democratic coalition, but in any case it will support all legislative initiatives aimed at the childization of the Labour Pay Fund. A coalition official here said that we have 500 billion dollars worth of work. Based on statistics, we have only 400 billion dollars from the Ukrainian Pension Fund. With regard to the shadow wage, it is estimated that the State Fiscal Service is some 150 billion dollars. But closer to the substance of the bill, really the bill proposes progressive things such as increasing the threshold for applying the reduced rate under the DFO from ten to minimum wages and applying the coefficient, which the bill's author has already detailed. But in addition to supporting this legislative initiative on the basis and in general, I would like to refer to the Chairman of Paris, who abuses his position as the person who holds the plenary session and does not, in particular, give representatives of the Opposition Block any position on legislative initiatives that we have not voted on. I would like to point out that this legislative initiative that we did not vote for does worsen the situation of the miners that we represent. So, Mr. Paris, please turn your attention to this part of the hall. You've crossed the line with your abuse.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-19-m0.u193	Thank you. All I want to do is point out the person who was speaking. First of all, I'd like to ask for the correctness of the statement. The European Choice Coalition is not a so-called coalition, it's a coalition created in Parliament under the Constitution. I want to tell you that you have already made a breakthrough in Ukraine in your statements and position. And about the miners, I want to respond to you. You first robbed the miners, you came to Parliament on their behalf, and when it comes to supporting the miners, you block the support of the miners that you most pillaging. And the next. The rules clearly provide that when there is a record of factions, there is a recording, and everyone who has entered this record receives a word from me as the lead man. And I'm going to ask everyone to follow the rules. And we're going to work on the schedule and nothing else. And I would very much like to ask you to be more correct in your comments, because your invalidity can lead to the invalidity of many deputies who will make you notice. Thank you. So let's go to the vote for this bill. There's a proposal for the committee to take as a basis and in general, yes. This is a proposal from the committee. I ask the honourable deputies to come into the hall and prepare for the vote. Please, whoever's in the towers, please come into the hall, the vote is about to begin. Take up jobs. Thus, the bill amending the Ukrainian Tax Code (for the fair taxation of the income of natural persons from 10 to 17 per cent of the minimum wage) (No. 2776) is voted on as a basis and as a whole. 2576. Yes, 2576. (Did I say otherwise?). 2576 as a whole. Dear colleagues, please support. [[16:44:16]] For 275 Thank you for your support. We go to the next bill of order, this is a bill amending some of the laws of Ukraine to strengthen the guarantee of the rights and freedoms of internally displaced persons (2166) and it is a request from the authors that we consider the bill as a reduced procedure. If you'll excuse me, I'd like to vote in favour of a reduced procedure, please. [[16:44:59]] For 177 Thank you very much. The report invites Ukrainian National Deputy Skrum Alona Ivanovna, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-19-m0.u194	Alona's splinter, Fatherland faction. Dear National Deputies! Dear colleagues! As of May 13, 2015, more than 283,000 displaced persons have now been registered in Ukraine, according to the United Nations Agency for Refugees. And let's face it, I think very few people in this room can even imagine what it's like to be forced by war, or because of occupation to leave their home and move to another territory. For the time being, before becoming a national deputy, I also worked in the right to defend an even more executive partner of the United Nations Agency for the Rights of Displaced Persons and Refugees. And unfortunately, I know very well that because of corruption and because of such falcons, Soviets, bureaucratic procedures in our authorities, very many displaced people can't even get help about forced displacement, and so they can't get their children into kindergartens and schools, they can't get a job. In fact, they cannot carry out the rights and duties that all other Ukrainian citizens have under our legislation and international legislation. This bill significantly simplifies these bureaucratic procedures, and it prohibits asking for help on registration, for example, in the Donetsk region, or in Donbassa, or in occupied territory, because a person could live and work at Donbassa for 5, 10, 15 years and could prove it, but by law he cannot even get this help in order to exercise any other rights and duties. This law is drawn up with international organizations, with representatives of those organizations that meet every day with displaced persons who know their problems very well. It is supported by a rehabilitation package of reforms, has worked for more than a month, and has brought together most of the coalition’s factions. So today, I ask you very much to support it -- and to prove that the Ukrainian State is still capable of taking care of all its citizens, and we are able to ensure that all Ukrainian citizens, including those who are forced to move, are worthy of their existence. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-19-m0.u195	Thank you very much. The co - report invites the head of the Committee on Human Rights, the National Minorities and the International Relations of the Nemira Grigory Mihajlovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-19-m0.u196	Dear colleagues, this is the map that shows where 1 million 283,000 of our fellow citizens are in Ukraine, and they are now referred to as "movementists" or "inwardly displaced persons." They are in each area of Ukraine. Hence, the weight of the law, or the changes proposed by the bill, applies to these citizens. I would like to stress that the Human Rights Committee, on April 8th, has considered this bill, unanimously suggests that it be considered in the first reading and on the basis. I emphasize that these are things that the government could, in principle, correct with its decisions. Sadly, though, after the adoption of the Basic Law, this was not done. Therefore, at the legislative level, it is proposed to remove the bureaucratic obstacles facing internally displaced persons, regarding the receipt of information, about the registration, and on the facilitation of access to humanitarian assistance by our fellow citizens of international humanitarian organizations. I refer to colleagues from all factions, whether they belong to the majority or to the opposition to support this law on the basis. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-19-m0.u197	Thank you very much. Dear colleagues, are there willing to share in the discussion? We're voting, aren't we? That's the basis. We can, if there's any correction, fix it. So I ask the National Deputies to enter their workplaces, to get as close as possible to their cards, so that they can vote. The bill amending the Ukrainian Law on Strengthening the Guarantee of the Rights and Freedoms of Internally Moved Persons (No. 2166) is therefore put to the vote on the basis of the first reading. Please vote. [[16:50:04]] For 242 Thank you so much, colleagues, for being so cohesive. Let's move on to the next bill of order of the day. Draft Law on Amendments to Certain Legislative Acts of Ukraine on Improving the Legal Regulation of the Guarantee (No. 1789). There is also a request that we consider it as a reduced procedure. Please vote. [[16:50:43]] For 155 Thank you. Please invite the head of the committee’s committee on legal policy and justice, Alexeyev Igor Sergiyovich, to report. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-19-m0.u198	Dear colleagues, your opinion is proposed by the draft Act amending certain legislative acts to improve the legal regulation of the guarantee (registration number 1789). It should be noted that the Guarantee Institute is one of the most effective and effective ways of fulfilling the obligations that are used in world practice. At the same time, individual provisions of domestic law contain major gaps and shortcomings that complicate the application of law. For example, the Civil Codes and the Master Codex contain a variety of subjects that can act as guarantors. Such legislative uncertainty creates major problems in the application of law. And this bill proposes to unify the positions that are in the Civil and the Code of Hostages. It should also be noted that the rules of the Civil Code, which provide for the replacement of the parties to the obligation, cannot properly be taken into account in the specificity of the relationship that arises in a guaranteed relationship. In this regard, it is also suggested that the provisions of the Civil Code be supplemented by a standard that takes into account the specificities of the guarantee relationship with respect to the replacement of the guaranteeing party. In addition, the draft Law proposes to provide for a colossal attachment to the location of the guarantor. Such a legislative proposal will make it easier to choose a law that will be applied when it is chosen. when applied, when considering disputes arising from a guaranteed relationship with a foreign element. In general, the bill is not difficult, but it is very important. Please be supportive. There's a positive conclusion from the scientific management.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-19-m0.u199	Thank you very much. Knyazevich will be speaking from the committee, right? Please welcome to the report from the Committee of Ruslan Knazević. Please be careful. Ruslan Knyazevich, please come to the rostrum. You can take your time.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-19-m0.u200	Thank you, Your Honor Chairman, Your Honor. At the request of the Head of the Supreme Council, on January 19, 15, the Committee on Legal Policy and Justice considered, at its meeting on February 11, 15, a bill amending certain Ukrainian legislative acts to improve the legal regulation of guarantees (registration number 1789), dated January 19, 2015, submitted by the Ukrainian national deputy, Alekseiev Igor Sergiyyovich. According to an explanatory note to the bill, it was designed to amend existing legislation to improve the legal regulation of the guarantee and aimed at improving the definition of guarantees, the elimination of collegiates in the list of guaranteed entities, the determination of the order of the replacement of the parties to the guarantees, the definition of a coalition bond that would simplify the process of choice of law in the consideration of disputes arising from guaranteed relations with a foreign element. Since the Supreme Council’s Chief Scientific and Expert Office believes that such a bill can be accepted as a basis and the Committee on Prevention and Anti-Corruption considers that it meets the requirements of anti-corruption legislation, and taking into account the relevant discussions that have taken place on the committee, the Committee unanimously decided, on the basis of the above facts, to recommend to the Supreme Council a draft Act amending certain legislative acts to improve the legal regulation of the guarantee (based on registration number 1789). Accordingly, Your Honor Chairman, please take into account the conclusion of the committee when voting in this room. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-19-m0.u201	Thank you very much. As far as I can tell, there's a need to talk, right? We're voting, aren't we? Is that a common position?
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-19-m0.u202	The same is the hall. Okay, then I ask the deputies to enter the voting room. Dear colleagues, I'd like you to come into the hall and take your jobs. I am voting on the draft Act amending certain legislative acts to improve the legal regulation of the guarantee (number 1789). Please support the base, on the basis, please. [[16:55:53]] For 242 Thank you for your support, for your productive work. We move on to the next draft of the Act amending some of Ukraine's legislation on supporting child sports and physical education of children (number 2067), and also asks the rapporteur to proceed with a reduced procedure. Please support the reporter. Vote. [[16:56:32]] For-166 Thank you. And the report invites the head of the Committee on Family, Youth Policy, and Sports. The palace of Arthur Leonidovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-19-m0.u203	Dear Chairman, dear colleagues! Following the entry into force of the Ukraine Amendments and Definitions Act on January 1, this year, some laws in Ukraine have become obsolete, the problems of physical culture and sport have greatly deteriorated. A major concern of sports professionals was the provision of an adopted law on the introduction of salaries for teaching children in children's sports schools. Reducing the minimum number of physical lessons in general and vocational schools from three to two per week. Cancelling the ban on reducing the existing network of state and municipal institutions of physical culture and sport. These legislative changes can lead to a significant outflow of children from child-to-child sports schools and a deterioration in the quality of physical education of children in educational institutions. In connection with these national deputies of Ukraine, Palatnym, Veličkovich, Tomenk, Silantiyev, a bill has been drafted to prevent negative consequences. In particular, closing down child-to-child sports schools, reducing the number of students. The bill proposes to reinstate in the Ukrainian Law on Physical Culture and Sport the rules on the obligation to predict the position of physical professionals in preschool and other educational institutions. An increase in the minimum number of physical culture lessons in general education and vocational and technical institutions from two to three per week. Banning the reduction of existing networks in state and municipal institutions of physical culture and sport without the consent of the profession. the central executive authority. And cancel the introduction of pay for teaching children in children's sports schools. The adoption of this bill will contribute to the normal functioning of children's sports schools in Ukraine and improve the quality of children's education in schools. Please be supportive. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-19-m0.u204	Dear colleagues, an important law is needed. I think we need to back him up with the whole band, but one of the authors wants to speak, right? Are we ready to vote? Ready to vote. Then please ask the people's deputies to take their jobs, go into the hall, support the right proposal for the physical training of our children, our young men, future soldiers. I request that this vote be taken as appropriate. And so I'm voting on the draft Act amending some of the Ukrainian legislation on supporting child sports and physical education of children (number 2067) as a basis and as a whole. Please support, please vote. [[16:59:56]] For 246 Thank you to the drafters of the bill, to the profile committee, to the Chamber of Arthur Leonidovich, and to pass the following bill. The next draft of the Act amending certain laws of Ukraine regarding the restoration of social justice and the non-poverty of the population (number 1085) is also an offer to be considered by a reduced procedure. Please support me. [[17:00:40]] For a hundred and Thank you for your support. The report invites Ukrainian national deputy Feldman Alexander Borisovich. Will there be a report from the rostrum? Feldman's not in the hall, is he? Why don't you tell me, and the Secretary of the Committee on Social Policy, Employment and Retirement, Wesselova Natalia Vasilovna, are you ready for the report? Please go to the rostrum.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-19-m0.u205	On April 22, 2015, at its meeting, the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Social Policy, Employment and Retirement, reviewed the draft Law amending certain laws of Ukraine on the restoration of social justice against poverty (submitted by the National Deputy of Ukraine Feldman and others). The draft Law is proposed when calculating the consumer price index, the value of which is the basis for the population’s monetary income index, to take into account the dynamics of price increases as a result of the fluctuation of the currency exchange rate. To restore the performance of the standard of part two of article 42 of the Ukrainian Act "On general government pension insurance", which provided for each year starting on 1 March of the current year, if the average salary or income in Ukraine from which insurance premiums were paid in the previous year increased the ability to recalculate previously assigned pensions with the application of the salary from which the pension was assigned, increased to a coefficient corresponding to not less than 20 per cent of the increase in average earnings or income in Ukraine from which insurance contributions were paid. And to recognize that the Ukrainian Law "On Preventing Financial Disaster and Creating Prematures for Economic Growth in Ukraine" has become invalid. In support of a legislative initiative aimed at raising the standard of living of the population, such as improving the material status of pensioners, the Committee considers it necessary to make such comments on the draft Law. According to the methodology for calculating real wage indices approved by the Ukrainian State Statistics Service Order, consumer price index.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-19-m0.u206	Please add 20. Try to get in at the time.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-19-m0.u207	Yes. The consumer price index is characterized by changes in the overall price level of goods and services that buy the population for non-productive consumption. It is an indicator of changing the value of a fixed set of consumer goods during the current period. And the factors that affect price levels are, among other things, the cost of production, the quality of the product, the exchange rate change, and so on. So the single line in the Ukrainian People's Income Index Act is just one of the factors that is not relevant.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-19-m0.u208	Ten more seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-19-m0.u209	Furthermore, the bill does not meet the requirements of article 90, part 8, of the Ukrainian Rules, which stipulates that if changes to other laws are necessary before the bill is implemented.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-19-m0.u210	I'm sorry, I'm asking you to sound the committee's position and come in in in 10 seconds. Please, 10 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-19-m0.u211	The position of the committee is to return the subject to the right of legislative initiative to draft a draft law.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-19-m0.u212	Thank you very much. Dear colleagues! I'd like to consult you if we have such a committee decision -- it's almost obvious that he's going to get a number of votes in the room. We can now enter into the discussion in 10 minutes and waste time discussing other bills. But there is a need for discussion, is there? We vote, there is a general position to vote. Dear colleagues! I suggest there's a requirement for discussion, right? Please, if required, then we'll put it to discussion. Two for, two for against, please sign up. Please, Pavelka, the Peter Dust Block. Please turn on the Caplin microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-19-m0.u213	I would like to address the authors of this bill in my speech. Of course, by choosing a bill. between the bill, which is actually a social genocide against Ukrainian citizens, and the bill, which, on the contrary, contributes to the stability of the situation, the assistance of Ukrainian citizens, every Ukrainian national deputy in this room will choose another. However, we need to understand the sources of the problems that have emerged today in Ukrainian society in the Ukrainian economy. This is the thieving work of Janukovich, his guidebooks and parts of those who are in the hall today and who write these bills. I'd like to advise you to write non-populistic legislative initiatives that obviously won't be accepted in this room because there's really no money in the country. Better make suggestions on how to improve the work of the Ukrainian Security Service, the Ukrainian Attorney General's Office, the Ministry of Internal Affairs, so that they have more authority to do serious work to arrest most of those who robbed Ukrainian society and to return to the country what you, the authors, have been robbed, has not been paid for these 23 years. I can vote yes. And so many of my colleagues are probably going to do the same. But you and I clearly understand that the solution to this problem is in two planes. First. You have to pay back everything you robbed. The other one. We must force the government to work effectively today. New jobs, new taxes, new Ukrainian citizens' income -- that's the only thing that's going to fix the situation today. It's not populism that's multiplying by irresponsibility.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-19-m0.u214	Thank you very much. Lieutenant Anton, People's Front, please. Out of place, right?
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-19-m0.u215	Deputies! The title of this law sounds very pleasant to the ear of every citizen who receives a very small pension, a very small salary, but I rarely ever do, agree with Mr. Sergey Kaplin of the Prashenko Block, but I can say yes, this law is populist. The People's Front faction therefore proposes that it be returned to the author's work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-19-m0.u216	Thank you so much! Debenkov, Opposition Block, please turn on the microphone. The Queen's passing, from the rostrum, please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-19-m0.u217	Respectable colleagues, distinguished present! We can discuss for a long time: who doesn't like the title of the bill, who doesn't like the author of the bill. But we must all understand that today the country is living in the social end of 2013, the minimum pension in the country is 894 bracelets! Well, it's not real for people to live on that money, and we have to admit it. We therefore call for a vote in favour of the bill in the first reading, to work it out, to bring it to the working model for second reading, but today to give people the opportunity at least for a dropper, but to raise their social standard. And you can be here, you know, long-standing philosophies about "foreigners." But I want to tell you that you're not going to feed this country, and you're not going to fool people anymore, because every person in this country has, unfortunately, begun to live three times worse this year. And we are all adequate people, we all understand that there is a war in the country, that there is a difficult socio-economic situation, that everything is difficult. But when you adopt the Decommunization Act, which will cost 15 billion dollars of money from the budget, respected colleagues, let us be honest and give people money, index their pensions and index their salaries. Therefore, we call on you to support the bill, to adopt a package of social laws today and to consider the bills proposed by the Opposition Party, namely, to raise social standards in our country, to give people normal pensions and wages. Thank you for your attention and I hope you understand!
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-19-m0.u218	Monsieur Igor Volodymyrovich, Radical Party
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-19-m0.u219	Igor Mosiyczuk, Radical Party. I wonder, where were these feldmans, royals, and with them a year ago, two years ago? What social justice and social standards were they concerned about when they robbed the Ukrainian people and the Ukrainian state? What can they talk about now? They say, give up your pension, give back what you stole, give back what you stole from people! Return what you stole to the country. Your colleague Schurm voted against the provision of aid, the social security of the military, and you're talking about social justice. May the people see social justice from you. Social justice will be when prosecutors knock on your door and ask where your belongings, cars, palaces abroad and the country come from? This bill is a provocation brought to Parliament with one goal: to show how wolves line up in sheep's hides, in the defenders of the people's interests, those who have robbed the people now begin to defend it. And the pensions that we're talking about here and the wages that Mrs. Queen was talking about here from the rostrum, they really need to be indexed, but not by the populist laws that this gang is proposing. We suggest rejecting the bill and not going back to it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-19-m0.u220	Thank you. So we have a proposal from the committee. Names weren't mentioned, they were talked about thieves in general. If that offends you, then you have to speak. So there is a suggestion from the committee that the subject be returned to the right of legislative initiative for further work. And the committee's proposal is the first to vote. Thus, the draft Law amending certain laws of Ukraine on social justice and the prevention of poverty of the population, No. 1085, is proposed for the bill to return the subject to the right of legislative initiative for work. Please vote, we vote, to return the subject to the right of legislative initiative for further work. [[17:14:11]] For the 110. The proposal did not receive the required number of votes. That's why the bill is being removed. It's more like a foundation, isn't it? Please, from the procedure, we have to go through all the steps. Please raise your hand first, please, Mr. Litwin.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-19-m0.u221	Dear Chairman! I look at these discussions, and they remind me of boys who, when they're teenagers, they're going to compete for who's going to run a bigger stream. Let's, if we're talking about people, we're going to talk absolutely about social protection. And the procedural issue, in accordance with the Rules, is always the first to put the issue of the adoption of the bill on the ground. If this decision is not taken, then the proposal will come into effect and the committee will vote. We need to re-vote this question.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-19-m0.u222	Please, from the Opposition Block, Royal, please, repeat, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-19-m0.u223	Dear colleagues! If we want laws to start working in our country in order to implement them, we must at least start implementing basic laws and have, at least, basic respect for our colleagues. There is a procedure, there is a Rules, and now a fine previous speaker has said how the procedure should proceed. Why, when we are passed by the Cabinet of Ministers, bills that take away pensions from people, introduce pensions taxes, raise tariffs, restrict social protection today, these bills are voted in this room, departing from the Rules, and are voted on by a full majority. When a bill has been passed in the last few months that protects the rights of the people, you are in violation of the Rules, you do not give the floor, and you break the law. We insist that there be a vote as stated. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-19-m0.u224	Thank you. Please make your last speech, Kurpienka. Cooper, this is the last performance. And let's go to the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-19-m0.u225	Cooper, Oleg Lachka Radical Party. If we follow the procedure, according to the Rules, such populist laws must first be broken into the adoption as a basis and then put to the vote to return the subject to the legislative initiative. It will be by law and by justice. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-19-m0.u226	Thank you. Dear colleagues, pay attention! I ask everyone to listen carefully. And I would like to stress once again that the full consideration of the bill goes clearly into procedure. And there's just trying to either take our job or take our job as long as we can so that we don't adopt a number of laws to defend the country that we need. All who wanted to share in the discussion took part in the discussion. The first was the committee’s proposal. Now I'm going to put the proposal on the ground. If she does not get the required number of votes, the bill will be regarded as rejected. And I'm asking that we close this question quickly and move on to important issues. So I'm voting on the draft Act amending some of Ukraine's laws to restore social justice and prevent population poverty (No. 1085) as a basis. Who's behind it. I ask you to vote. [[17:18:07]] For-60 Thank you. The bill is rejected. Let's go to the next draft of the law: about making changes. Ah, excuse me, a line for Shurma. Speaking of thieves, Moses mentioned Shurma. Please, reply, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-19-m0.u227	Mr. Andrew, who is a thief, we will see after a very short period of time. Please hold yourself back a little. And now I'm going to go to that MP who doesn't really get to vote, only reacts to the color red or green. So I always vote, not avoid voting. And my position, why I didn't vote for the military's leave, is that this is where the social standard of injustice is laid down. On the front line today, people who are part of the service and contractors are putting their lives on the line. These vacations that we give to this law apply only to contractors. And that narrows it down to the right of professional service. So I have every right to express my position. A thief may not vote at all. I have expressed my position openly and have the right to justify it.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-19-m0.u228	Thanks for the line. Next in the vote is a draft Act amending article 7 of the Ukrainian Act on State Social Assistance to Lowly Families on the Social Protection of Families, whose Members own or own land, number 1350. And the reporter author is also asking to support the review of the reduced procedure. Please support me. [[17:19:59]] For-162 Thank you. The report invites Ukrainian national deputy Woznouk Yuri Volodymyrovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-19-m0.u229	Dear colleagues, your opinion is proposed by Act No. 1350, amending article 7 of the Ukrainian Law on State Social Assistance to Lowly Families on the Social Protection of Families, whose members own property or own land. You know, today is kind of like a day of goodwill. We supported children's sports, we supported miners, we reduced taxes on wages not for the poor themselves, but we did. This law proposes that another good thing be done. What's the deal? We have poor families, families of peasants, whose lands are today. Yeah, they're, like, 6 ha or more. Sadly, these families today do not have the right to receive State social assistance from the State. It's disgraceful in today's mode. And we need to make this right. What is she talking about? Regarding the fact that a family that is underprivileged has the right to receive State social assistance by making a declaration that has similarly revealed that it is underprivileged, Please let us put such a fat dot in our good work today and vote in favour of this amendment, and we will support the poor families of peasants. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-19-m0.u230	Dear colleagues, I would like to ask you in the hall whether there is a need for discussion? [[B in m in s a l in]] There's a need. Then if there's a need, we write two in favour, two in the opposite. Please. Please, Dunayev Sergey Volodymyrovich. Are you from the rostrum or from the rostrum? Out of place, please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-19-m0.u231	Dear colleagues, please give the floor to the Ukrainian People's Deputy Royal Natale Jurievne.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-19-m0.u232	Who? I'm sorry, I didn't hear.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-19-m0.u233	Respectable colleagues, distinguished present! The opposition bloc will support this bill because we all understand, as a result of the Government's unprofessional, unthinkable, non-systemic policies, that the socio-economic situation in the country is deteriorating every day. In this regard, it is regrettable that every day poor families in our country are becoming more and more. But the social standard has not been revised and since the end of 2013, low-income families have not received a single copy of their income indexation. But the Government has managed to reduce 12,000 social workers last year, those who went to each family, helped to organize the family's household, helped children to go to kindergarten, helped parents to get a job, and thus reduced the number of poor families. Today, this system is paralyzed. Therefore, we believe it is necessary to change approaches now and to provide opportunities for our families who are unable to organize their own lives today and to generate income, at least to receive State assistance and support. But we also believe that, for second reading, this bill should be finalized. In addition to expanding the accrual base, we must index the social standard. To allow our poor families today to feed their children to at least go to school and at least allow them to see the light at the end of the tunnel today. Not the scary train the government started today.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-19-m0.u234	Please, Krulko Ivan, the All-Ukrainian Motherland Union. Out of the way, please. Turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-19-m0.u235	Ivan Krulko, "The Fatherland" faction. The Fatherland faction will support this important bill. And I'd like to explain why. It is totally unfounded when the law determines that a low - income family that owns or owns a land of 0.6 or more hectares is freed from the possibility of receiving help. Why? According to the same law, a low - income family is recognized as having less income than a minimum of living. Hence, the amount of income itself should be the criterion that determines whether the family needs to be assisted by the State or not. Not ownership or use of the land. Moreover, today’s legislation defines a very subjective category. It's whether or not this area is producing revenue. Who needs to determine whether this area brings income or not? So I think this law needs to be adopted. We have to support the village, we have to support those people who are actually holding Ukraine on their shoulders today and holding the Ukrainian economy. And what's more, my fellow respects, let's finally make a decision this week to index wages and pensions, let's make a decision to reinstate pensions to those who have earned their pension, you can't make a pension with taxes, you can't destroy those people who work for that state today. So we vote in favour of this law and we take down those rules that are subjective and which include a corrupt component, because any employee can determine whether such a family is low-security, whether it receives State aid or not. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-19-m0.u236	Thank you. Please, from Peter Dustenk's Block, Capplin Sergey Mikolayovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-19-m0.u237	Kaplin, Peter Poshenko Block, Poltavsk district, 144th constituency. Well, first of all, Natalia Yuriovna, the village brought to the pen a part of your team that is now present at the Opposition Block along with Azarov and Janukovic. Secondly, when you start criticizing the government, you first gain the right, because when you voted for the Prime Minister, only two people in this Parliament pressed the red button me and my colleague on the block, you hid in the bush all together. And now that you've seen the government's failures, when you've seen its hopelessness, you start to speculate and make a pianist. Thirdly, Peter Dustenka's Block has always supported the peasants and the village. Recall how we, along with Oxana Prodan and Taras Kutov, succeeded in continuing to sell and survive our meat and milk. Fourthly, we will support this initiative. And five, we shouldn't stop at that. The villagers have to give an adequate price for gas, they have to pay three times less. Simple people in the village cannot survive at such a price for gas. Next. The villagers need a normal pension. The villagers need social protection. And the last. We must guard Ukraine's cradle, our village. This is our last hope of saving the country from bankruptcy. Not the prime ministers and the new ministers, but the hardworking rural hands, the people who save this country from bankruptcy, and we will have a prosperous country, and this country will prosper with the hard hands of Ukrainian women, Ukrainian peasants and their children who remain in the village and will save our daughter Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-19-m0.u238	Korczynska gives the word to Oleg Láška. Please, Oleg Lazko, from the rostrum.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-19-m0.u239	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. What do you kids know about the village? I'll tell you about the village. You're laughing, you parasites! What are you laughing at? That people in the village don't have wages, they don't have jobs?Oh, my God! Are the children of peasants going into the city going abroad?Oh, my God! What about the gindel of young people? Isn't there any FAPs in there?Oh, my God! In the past, three cows stood in the same yard, and today, one cow in three villages. And you, the children of asphalt, are talking about the village? You're 23 years of independence saving the village! You buried it because you don't know what Ukrainian land is, because you don't know what it is to walk barefoot on that side, to spin cows and bulls, because you didn't grow up in the village, so you don't care about the village! What do our peasants need today? What's important: the job, the ability to sell its products, people now need cheap loans, cheap fuel-oil materials. Possibility when grandparents worked in the village, give them cheap medicine, give them gas cheap, bring them a car of wood, let their children learn and have a job! And then you'll talk about the village. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-19-m0.u240	Thank you! I'd like to invite you, 30 seconds, to the Queen's replica, 30 seconds. And then he's the head of the committee, the representative of the Kunicin committee. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-19-m0.u241	Dear colleagues! With all due respect to this honourable congregation, I would like to say one thing: Let us at least read the names of the bills. Well, if there's really not enough time to figure out what our colleagues are offering, at least a name. I want to say that this bill, it wasn't about the village, this bill about poor families. So, colleagues, please let's support the underprivileged seven and vote. And behind the village, the next bill, we'll have to support Laško, what he said! Please support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-19-m0.u242	Please, one more minute, Headhead, and then Sergey. Society, we're going to have an endless discussion, all the factions got the word. The People's Front hasn't said a word yet, has it?
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-19-m0.u243	Mikhail Golovko, the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union. Dear MPs, colleagues, we've heard a lot about a poor suffering village, but what I'm saying is that Parliament has almost never helped that village, helped it, no one lends loans to peasants, no one gives them any other conditions that would help them run agriculture. Today, milk prices are practically forcing peasants to carve cattle, the only cow - feeding plant, and they are without livelihoods. And that's why it's our job to support such bills, not the other way around, to create conditions for our village to be destroyed. I realize that someone wants to take away Ukrainian land for nothing so that the villagers can all go abroad and leave the villages and die. But we have to create conditions to protect the village. And so, by the way, this very week, Thursday is supposed to be looking at a law on raising the purchase price of milk. And I urge you to support this bill and the milk price project. Thank you. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-19-m0.u244	Heroic glory! Indeed, "The People's Front" had no performance if "The People's Front" insisted. From the rostrum, please, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-19-m0.u245	Dear friends, first of all, I want to support Oleg Laska and disagree with Mrs. Royal, because what you're reading, you probably don't understand, 0.6 or 60 hundred of the land in the city, at least in Kiev, is definitely none of the low-income families. So I want to point out that we really need to read what's written there. That's the first one. The other one. Dear friends, you are ready to support. And there's this proposal: let's vote it as a whole. And we're all going to close this discussion once and for all -- and we're going to show how we're all ready to support socially vulnerable groups. The People's Front faction is ready to stand by and vote for it. I'm asking all deputies to support low-income peasants and low-income families, including those in need. Thank you, dear friends. People's Front faction for the people!
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-19-m0.u246	Thank you. We need to hear a position from the committee. Please, Sergey Volodymyrovich Kunicin. Say the main thing: Does the voting committee allow for a basis as a whole?
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-19-m0.u247	Ladies and gentlemen, the committee has considered this bill. And I don't think it matters where a person is born, where he lives, whether on asphalt or in the village. Indeed, we have adopted laws that beat millions of Ukrainians: we have taxed pensions. Therefore, the committee unanimously supported the bill and felt that it should be accepted as a whole.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-19-m0.u248	Thank you very much. Dear colleagues, I ask you to enter the hall of those who are in the towers to prepare for the vote. And I am voting on the draft Act amending article 7 of the Ukrainian Law on State Social Assistance to Lowly Families on the Social Protection of Families, whose Members own or own land (No. 1350). I'm putting the proposal on the ground as a whole. Please support me. [[17:35:17]] For 255 Thank you for your support. Welcome to the drafters. [[B in m in s a l in]] And I put it on the ground as a whole. I said, on the basis and in general, society. And so we voted. Next bill. We're a little off track here, guys. We have 25 minutes left, and we still have four laws in the first reading. At least two of them have to go through. Please, next. Draft Act amending certain laws of Ukraine on pension insurance (No.1466). The reporter asks for a reduced procedure. Right? I'm asking for your support, colleagues, short notice. [[17:36:12]] For-167 Thank you for your support. And I invite you to the word of Kirilenko Ivan Grigorovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-19-m0.u249	Dear Head! Dear colleagues! Ivan Kirilenko, "Fatherland" faction. In the package of measures to strengthen the security of our country, the social support of the country’s defenders and their families is very important. We've demonstrated this over and over again in this room. Therefore, the purpose of this law is to enable former military personnel to receive their dues, unaccounted for and unpaid pensions, without limitation of time limits, is the first norm, and the technical but important clarification of the order of application of the individual rules of the Pension Insurance Act is the second. So the bill provides for the restoration of social justice for the military, namely: to supplement the valid norm of article 51 of the Ukrainian Law on the Pension Insurance of Persons Released from Military Service, a provision according to which the calculation of a completely legal pension is not carried out by the public authorities who issue the reference for the calculation of pensions as a result of the date of creation of the pension without limitation. Why so? In accordance with article 63 of this Law, all pensions appointed under this law are to be recalculated due to a change in the size of at least one type of financial security of the corresponding categories of military personnel. That is, the allowances, the supplements, the promotions and the premiums in terms of the size of the legislation. Recalculation of pensions takes place at the time of the creation of the right to recalculation of pensions and takes place in the order established by the Cabinet of Ministers within the terms provided for in part two of article 51 of this Law. According to this order, such censuses are carried out without the military’s personal involvement or appeal, but only by the submission of the State authorities that issue the credits for the recalculation of pensions. That's why in case of military detection.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-19-m0.u250	Please, how much? Please, 10 seconds, let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-19-m0.u251	Therefore, if a military violation of his rights is detected, he cannot recover his dues, since the law in force limits the period of retirement on an annual basis.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-19-m0.u252	Ten more seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-19-m0.u253	In fact, military pensioners are today in this regard without legal rights. And we can settle this today. In addition, in chapter 15 of the Ukrainian Act on "Generally Compulsory State Pension Insurance", the word "predicted" should be replaced by the word "predicted" that.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-19-m0.u254	Please give us a chance to finish. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-19-m0.u255	that it will be possible to clearly interpret the requirements of this law regarding age and internship in the assignment of pensions to the military. I'd like you to support the profile committee, pros, science and expertise, as well. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-19-m0.u256	Thank you very much. There is a co-reporter, the co-report invites the head of the Committee on Social Employment Policy and Pension Insurance, Drauk Sergey Evseyovich, from the rostrum. Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-19-m0.u257	Honorary colleagues, the Committee on Social Employment Policy and Pensions, discussed the bill at its April 8th meeting and generally supported the bill. However, considering that there have been observations from the Chief Scientific and Expert Office, as well as from the Budget Committee on the moment of entry into force, such as on other issues, the Committee proposes that the Supreme Council adopt the bill on the basis of the first reading, entrust the Main Committee in preparing for the second. prepare it for second reading, taking into account the comments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-19-m0.u258	Thank you very much. Colleagues, is there a need to discuss? Yes, yes, he raises Oleg Easy's hand and that's why, society, two in favour. Two is "against". Please log in. As far as I can tell, Ognovich is speaking the word Lašek. Oleg Láško will speak from the Radical Party.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-19-m0.u259	Oleg Lazko, faction of the Radical Party. I want to thank my colleague John Kirilenko very much for his concern with the problems of pension insurance for the military. It's a very timely, very correct question. And the faction of the Radical Party, of course, unanimously, all as one, and we urge the entire Parliament to vote in favour of this law. And allow ex-military personnel to receive a pension in justice. So that the law can properly account for this pension. But at the same time, our faction requires the government, the parliamentary coalition to consider pension issues, not just military personnel, but all categories of Ukrainian citizens. We see that the overturning of the revenue of the public budget for January-April is 21 billion dollars. So we think it's absolutely time to vote on the law and return to the pensioners 15 percent of the pension they stole! Who has the right to take 15 percent of their pension from those who have worked their whole life?Oh, my God! Who has the right to give their lives in order to save the country from the Chernobyl plague, to retire today?Oh, my God! That is why we demand that the coalition, from the government immediately, bring to Parliament tomorrow our law that we have registered and return their pensions to the pensioners! It's not about pensioners, it's not about the poor! Take it from the oligarchs, take it from those who rob the country! Steal less! Fight corruption! And give to retirees, to black people, to veterans, to disabled persons what is theirs! Retire their pensions!
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-19-m0.u260	Thank you. Gerasimov Arthur Volodymyrovich. Gerasimov. Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-19-m0.u261	Arthur Gerasimov, Block of Petra Dustenka. The Peter Prashenko faction will certainly support this bill and other bills aimed at improving the pension security of our citizens. And I would also like to draw your attention to the fact that in the difficult conditions that our pensioners are in today we really have to be very consistent with any bill that aims at improving the lives of this particular category of population. So once again, I'm saying that the Peter Prashenko faction supports this bill and I call upon all colleagues to support it in a consolidated manner. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-19-m0.u262	Sergey Sobolev passes it on to John Kirilenko. From the rostrum, right? Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-19-m0.u263	Dear colleagues, two important details that came out of the context of our conversation. The first major detail. We realize that today’s military forces, which today defend honor, freedom, independence of our Fatherland, will be the former tomorrow, and this law applies to the former ones. So we're cleaning up evil in this law, which is the next thing that a military officer does, he doesn't know which moment, we've decided somewhere to give this category, somewhere else to add some social benefit, he doesn't know it, and the law predicts that it's automatically going to happen to the former. That is, he who sheds blood today will fight, tomorrow will be former, and will fall under this wickedness. The trick is that it doesn't work for the Pension Fund, yes, and the Ministry of Defence, the Ministry of Social Protection and other services, and they're either forgetting, or in their vanity, and that's why tens, hundreds of thousands of people, are suffering tomorrow from those who are fighting today. Guys, let's get this evil out of the way. We're voting for it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-19-m0.u264	Thank you. Dear colleagues, there has been a proposal to vote on the basis as a whole. Is it supported by a hall? Is it a denial? The hall is supported. Then I'll put it to a vote. People's deputies please come into the hall and take their jobs. I am voting on the draft Act amending certain laws of Ukraine on pension insurance (No. 1466). Please vote, we decide. First on the ground, I'm sorry, first vote on the ground. On the basis of that, please vote. [[17:46:12]] For 223 I don't think it's just the national MPs. I'm asking my colleagues to come into the hall and take jobs. And I'll put it to the vote for the return. So I'm voting on the proposal to go back to voting for Law 1466. Please make up your mind, please vote. [[17:46:52]] For 222 Dear colleagues, who. Has anyone been able to vote? Let me put it third time, fellows! I'm asking who's in the towers, who's not in the hall, please come into the voting room. I'll put it to the vote again. I'm asking you to come into the hall and take your jobs. So I'm betting on the return of the draft Law amending some of Ukraine's pension laws, 1466. For the return, please vote. [[17:47:46]] For 224 Ostrich's not here yet? I'll do it again, but I'll put it last. Society, I ask you to be very careful. I'm putting the last vote to return to Bill 1466, please. [[17:48:30.]] For 227 I now propose to vote on the basis of the draft Act amending some of the laws of Ukraine on pension insurance (number 1466). [[17:49:00]] For 227 Thank you. Let's go to the next bill. I have a feeling there's no way he's been through. No, there are those who deny it. The Society, excuse me, is one who denies it in general. I'm not putting it to a vote. And I'm showing you who, Oleg the Meduntary. Society, we've passed the stage, we've supported the committee's proposal. The next bill is no less important than this one, so please go to the next bill, which is consistent with what you've already discussed, about internally displaced persons. And there is a request that we look at it quickly and support it. 1835. There is a proposal from the authors to consider it in a simplified way. And please vote in favour of the summary procedure, please. [[17:50:13]] For-163 Thank you. The report invites the Ukrainian national deputy Amazanov Andriy Vitaliyovich. Please, from the rostrum. I'm going to ask you as concisely as possible, because we have limited time.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-19-m0.u265	The honourable chairman, the distinguished colleagues of the national MPs, has come to the point that today we have considered a cross-cutting subject, indeed Bill 2166, which we have all successfully adopted. This bill, 1835, is equally important, it treats the rights of internally displaced persons fairly widely and is intended to ensure the constitutional rights of internally displaced persons, by way of including internally displaced persons in the category of citizens who have additional guarantees to promote employment, to forgive the order of entry into office of a civil servant, for such persons. The granting of priority rights when the number or status of employees is reduced, or labour rights are guaranteed. It frees internally displaced persons from the payment of duty for the restoration of lost documents that bear witness to a person. They exempt such persons from the payment of their duties for the registration of residences and provide, in fact, extra-curricular placement of children in preschool and general education institutions and transfer to a state higher education institution, a vocational and technical institution with compulsory accommodation for those who do not have housing. We all realize that there is now a war, there are now more than one and a half million internally displaced persons, we should not forget their rights. And when a person comes to Kiev, Frankivska, Lviv, and so on, he should know that his rights are guaranteed, that he will bring his child into a kindergarten, or a general educational institution. So, dear colleagues, today has been very detailed about the schemes for the residence of internally displaced persons, about the need to respect the rights of such persons, so, dear colleagues, I very much ask you to unanimously support this bill. It is supported by the Social Policy Committee, and the National Public Service Agency has all pointed out that it is appropriate to adopt the bill on first reading as a basis. So, dear colleagues, I very much ask you to vote in favour. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-19-m0.u266	Dear colleagues! There's a proposal on the ground, which means that there's going to be a chance and a time to look at it. I might ask you to support this as a basis, because we have the next Dennisov bill as important as it is. And, if you please, your permission I will put to the vote immediately. Is it supported? Thank you, Your Honor. Prepared for the vote. It's about voting on the bill. Thank you, thank you. There is a requirement to discuss. Thank you. Then I'd like you to sign two for, two for against, please. Eutusek Sergey Mikolaiovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-19-m0.u267	Please pass the word to Alona Skrum.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-19-m0.u268	Scum, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-19-m0.u269	Alona's splinter, Fatherland faction. Colleagues, I just need to explain why I won't support this bill. I received a few conclusions from the displaced persons themselves. And unfortunately, I find this bill quite populism. And I can explain why. Because he operates declarations without real mechanisms to implement the stated purposes and without being able to implement those declarations. Moreover, I believe that it will actually promote social tension because it will give displaced persons discriminatory, unrealistic rights. For example, the extra-detached right to housing is that while we have thousands of people in turn in Ukraine to get housing, a million people will be able to get them in turn. This will not be done, but it will increase social tension. And the settlers themselves have sent us such a conclusion to the faction that it is not necessary to treat displaced persons as incapacitated, underprivileged persons. They just need to create normal conditions, create jobs -- and they're going to earn their own lives and defend their rights. So unfortunately, I find this bill not legal, but political. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-19-m0.u270	Please, Fishbuck Ivan Petrovich, Peter Dusty Block.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-19-m0.u271	Please pass the word to Sergey Kaplin.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-19-m0.u272	Please, Sergey Kaplin.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-19-m0.u273	Sergey Kaplin, Block of Petra Poshenko, Poltavsk district, 144 constituency. First of all, on behalf of our faction and the entire Parliament, I would like to thank these sincere, good, ordinary people from all over Ukraine: from the West of Ukraine, from the Western regions, from Central Ukraine, from the South and from the city of Kiev. Because they are caring, they pay attention to our displaced people, to those who have been plagued by war to leave their homes. We will support this bill because it is our MP's duty to protect those people who have fled from the hell that is happening in the East today. We are obliged to pay great attention to each citizen separately, to each family, regardless of his or her position, because they will return to their Ukraine to the East, and they will be the best, most effective agitators of all Ukrainian, all patriotic. They will learn a major lesson from our concern. They'll tell those who stayed there and even those who voted their time in these stupid referendums that Ukraine is the only one. It's strong, it's powerful. This is a test for our country, and we must go through it with pride. We must go through it with dignity. This must unite, unite, bring our nation back together. I am convinced that the country will live a stable and normal life again. And we have, we are obliged to adopt such bills. And take care of other social guarantees and help for these people. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-19-m0.u274	Fedoruk Mikola Trohimovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-19-m0.u275	Ladies and gentlemen, the People's Front faction unanimously supports this very relevant law. As for those colleagues who have fears that there are no mechanisms here, the mechanism can be developed by means of regulations. Therefore, we propose to vote on the basis. And all of them, if they do, will be included in the second reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-19-m0.u276	Thank you. The Danube is Sergey Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-19-m0.u277	Dear colleagues, please give the floor to the People's Deputy of Royal Natale Jurievne.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-19-m0.u278	It's a royal one. From the rostrum.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-19-m0.u279	Respectable colleagues, distinguished participants. The opposition bloc will definitely support this bill because they have already spoken here. Today, we would like to thank the volunteers, thank the local authorities, the people who have taken responsibility for more than a year. And thanks to their efforts today, they support our fellow Ukrainians with Ukrainian passports who have come home to Ukraine to get help, support and protection. Regrettably, this bill will not solve all the problems that exist today, and this is more than a declaration of Parliament's readiness to be constructive and just today. We therefore demand that the Government adopt an integrated programme of State support for displaced persons, provide a programme of employment, social protection and, of course, remove those rules that the Government has adopted by decree 79, which violate human rights, violate the Constitution. I would like to remind you that the Government, in its 79th decree, likened the settlers to ex-cons, forcing people not only to receive a residence certificate, but also to have an additional registration if the place of residence was changed. And today it allowed the Migration Service to walk around the homes, in the homes where the settlers live, and to check if they really live there -- it's unfair and unconstitutional. And we call upon the Government to correct its inhuman errors and to give our settlers the opportunity to feel dignified and secure in our country, they have earned it. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-19-m0.u280	One minute, Oleg Lazko. Yes, the People's Front has already spoken.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-19-m0.u281	The author is finished. They haven't come out of factions yet. Oleg Lazko. We'll talk as much as we want, yeah. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-19-m0.u282	Oleg Lazko, faction of the Radical Party. Of course, our faction will support this bill, which is aimed at supporting forced displaced persons, and let us call our words, refugees -- Ukrainian citizens, patriots who were forced to leave their permanent residence. Because otherwise they would be at risk for their health, for their lives because they love the country, for their remaining Ukrainians and patriots. And not their fault, but their misery that the authorities did not protect them, that the authorities did not stop the terrorists and, in particular, the block of thieves that solved the war on Donbassa and allowed the occupation of Crimea. I address all Ukrainian citizens who live under the peaceful skies. Support the children, support the women, movers from Donetsk, from Luhansk. God, don't let anyone be in this situation. God forbid you let anyone lose.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-19-m0.u283	Please give me 10 seconds to finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-19-m0.u284	God, let no one lose their home, lose their own land. Especially when you're older. Our support is vital to them today. These are our citizens, these are our people. And we will free our own Donbas and Crimea, and they will return home.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-19-m0.u285	Thank you. The author is given another minute. Please, Anointed Andrew Vitaliovich. I'll continue with the Council's work for 15 minutes until 18:15, and please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-19-m0.u286	Dear colleagues! I am very grateful to all who make positive assessments of this bill. We all need to understand right now that we have people, very many people, more than a million 300 people who need our help right now. And so we have to think about not how to vote, not vote, we have to vote not for the bill, but we have to vote for those people who are now deprived of their normal living and who are forced to live in the barns, we're not talking about those people who can afford to take down the penthouse in Kiev and come to two Mercedes. Now we're talking about people who can't take their own kids into kindergartens and can't take their own two-story apartment. So, dear fellows, I am very grateful for your support, we will support this bill, and we will support mothers, children, people who have been forced to leave their homes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-19-m0.u287	Thank you. I want to confirm that your proposal is based on the law, right? Based on the base. So I'm voting on the committee's proposal. Please come into the hall, national deputies, and take up jobs. Adopt a draft Act amending certain legislative acts of Ukraine to ensure the implementation of the constitutional rights of internally displaced persons (number 1835) as a basis. Please support this bill as a basis, please. [[6:03:13]] For-191 Thank you. Who couldn't vote? Guys, can I explain to you in two minutes what happened, okay? Let me explain. Ten minutes ago, there were voices in the hall, and this law could have already been voted out 10 minutes ago. But it was important for five people to say that they were very supportive of this law, that they were more supportive of one another. Ten minutes later, we did not adopt two more laws that were in order, very important, and we heard five people supporting the bill and now there are no votes in the room. That's what I'm saying to our next job. Of course, that's why I call, so I give my word under the Rules, but I call for responsibility. When there's an amendment to the law, when there's a special thought, but when there's just a need for a cell to tell each other who's more supportive, it's going to have to have the effect now. Dear Society, we must now understand how to get out of this situation. I'm asking the author one minute because there are no votes in the room. Please, author of Amazanov, 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-19-m0.u288	Thank you, Your Honor Chairman. I have such an offer. I see that they've really split up, so bear with me that my bills are being considered at the end of the day. And I'm asking you to have a signal vote now, and if there are voices, we can support it, and if not, I ask you not to tear it down, to adopt this bill, and to move it with the first question tomorrow.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-19-m0.u289	According to the Rules, we cannot do so; we can return the subject to the legislative initiative. Let's make a signal vote, or do we have enough votes to vote on? Dear colleagues, I ask you to enter the hall of all those who are still in the towers and do not leave the hall, please come into the hall. So, your honors, we're holding a signal vote, whether we're enough to vote effectively, please vote yes, but it's a signal vote, it's not a bill. Please vote, green button is yes. [[18:05:46]] For 215 Unfortunately, there are no required number of votes in the room. Who's running? One, two, right, here we go? Three made it. Let's do it again then. Then please repeat the vote, vote in green, please vote in favour. [[18:06:18]] For 216 There aren't enough votes in the room. Dear colleagues, we will consult the regulatory committee on how to proceed. Please, just a minute. Dear colleagues! But that's not enough, count it, 24. My colleagues, I ask you one thing, we haven't been able to read all the questions on Friday, I'm going to continue my work until 18.15. I'm asking you to give me the opportunity to use these eight minutes so that I can read your questions so that they can go to work. Is there no objection? And in eight minutes, I'll close the evening session. It's a deal. Then I read honestly, and please listen carefully to the questions. Thank you. So Vladislav Buharev's request to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for the allocation of funds from the State Budget of Ukraine for the capital repair of the student dining room of the Suma State Teacher's University of Makarenko. Group of People's Deputies (Markević, Sotnik) to Prime Minister of Ukraine for appointment as Prime Minister for Economic Development Minister Alexander Borovik. Vladimir Aresonkov to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the integration of the newly built gas pipeline in the village of the city type Nova Bilocorovich of the Lugin district of Žitomir region into a single gas supply system. Rudika's branch to the Deputy Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Regional Development of Construction and Housing of Ukraine, to bring the order of the setting of the heating season into line with the regulations. Sergia Rudika to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for the implementation of the capital repair of roads of national importance in the region of Smiljansk, Kamyansk and Cherkas region of the Cherkas region. Ruslan Knazević to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the protection of the property rights of the citizen of Kushnikov Olga Borisovna. Alexia Honcharenka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the urgent amendment to the Ukrainian Cabinet Order of 12 May 2015, issue 271 on transparent and competitive privatization in 2015. Mr. Timchuk to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the results of the investigation of the activities and omissions of former heads of the Ministry of Defence of Ukraine and the General Staff of the Ukrainian Armed Forces, which undermined Ukraine's defence. Valery Davidenka to the Ministry of Finance of Ukraine, Ministry of Education and Science of Ukraine, Chernigiv ODA to address the urgent issue of proper financing of the education sector of the region of Chernigiv. Jaroslava Dubnević to Minister of Agriculture Policy and Food of Ukraine, Acting Director of the State Enterprise Ukspirt to restore the operation of the structural units of the State Enterprise Ukspirt. Sergija Kaplina to the Head of the National Bank of Ukraine, acting as Head of Finance and Credit Bank, on the implementation of effective measures aimed at not allowing delays in payments for contracts of term bank contributions to investors of the Public Shareholders Association Bank Finance and Credit in Poltava. Sergey Kaplina to the Deputy Prime Minister of Ukraine - Minister of Regional Development, Construction and Housing of Ukraine on the use of measures to upgrade fuel and thermal energy standards for heating housing and public buildings with the aim of reducing social tension and avoiding significant financial pressure on the population due to a substantial increase in tariffs. Jury Bublika to the Attorney General of Ukraine, U.S.A., on the destruction of the Ukrainian gas sector in the region of Poltav. Gregory Times to the IMF, head of the Ukrainian State Service for War veterans and ATO participants on the use of measures to grant ATO status as a participant and to provide housing for National Guard members of the Ukraine of Rilova Mikola Viktorovich. John Rybak to the Minister of Finance of Ukraine, acting as Head of the State Water Agency of Ukraine, on the need for urgent measures to continue financing the restoration of hydrotechnical facilities and the conduct of steering work in the territory of the Nepolkovetske Village Council and the Orsovetske Rural Council of the Kitzman region of Czernovec. John Rybak to the GPU, U.S.S.S.A. on the non-use of Ukrainian law enforcement measures to bring criminal responsibility to the guilty for the illegal sale of the Public Shareholders' Energy Supply Company Czernovcioblanergo at a low price. Paul Rizanenka to the first deputy head of the National Registration Service of Ukraine regarding the legal registration of property rights for immovable property as a result of bankruptcy proceedings. Edward Matviychuk to the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, Odessa ODA, Odessa City Council, Odessa Road Service in Odessa Region regarding the need for an objective and impartial review of the Odessa District Medical and Physical Dispensor on the urgent repair of the road at 2nd Kulikovo Street, house 4. Eduard Matviychuk to the Civil Service, Ministry of Justice of Ukraine, Ministry of the Ministry of the Ministry of the Interior, Authorized Supreme Council of Ukraine for Human Rights regarding the need for an objective review of the appeal of the resident of the Kyiv district of Odessa Claudia Grebenjuk regarding the renewal of her constitutional right to housing. Alexander Onishchenka to the GPU, Minister of Ecology and Natural Resources of Ukraine for the illicit production and implementation of sand by the Society with limited responsibility of Hydrorecoresurs within the village of Brovarsky District of Kyiv. Vasil Nimchenk to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the opening of criminal proceedings against government officials led by Prime Minister Arseny Yatsenyuk of Ukraine in the case of corruption and the theft of state funds. Vladimir Parasuka to Prime Minister of Ukraine for the appointment of Vladimir Rubanka as representative of Russian oligarch Constantine Grigorisin as Head of the State Energy Inspectorate of Ukraine. Vladimir Parasuka to the U.S.S.A. on the number of cases of service inactivity, charges of covering drug trafficking, conversion centers, corruption, and abuse of the office and total inactivity of the prosecutor of the Lviv district of Roman Fedik. Group of People's Deputies (Jurinec, Gobiak) to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on speeding up the process of changing tariffs to centralized water supply and water supply. Group of People’s Deputies (Crivoshei, Stasuka) to the Head of the KIM on ensuring the unbreakable hot water supply in Kiev Igora Brichenka to the head of the National Securities and Stock Market Commission to promote the cessation of illegal activity of the active management of the corporate non-State pension fund of the National Bank of Ukraine by reducing the assets of the Pension Fund and by preventing the raiding of the investment facilities of the corporate non-State pension fund of the National Bank of Ukraine. Alexander Villkull to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the threat of environmental and technological disaster due to a massive fire in the Blackwater Desert Special Unit. Alexander Vilkula to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for not allowing the International Sports Gymnastics Tournament to take place among adults and young people from 21 to 25 May 2015. Oksana Korczynski to the minister of interior affairs of Ukraine about the need to purchase special equipment. Oksana Korczynski to the Chief of General Staff, Commander - in - Command of the Armed Forces of Ukraine, for information on the purchase of special communications equipment. Olesia Long to the Cabinet of Ministers on the allocation of funds for the reconstruction of the free housing fund of the village of Lisov for the resettlement of military personnel and displaced persons. Olesia Long to the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine on the need to take action to protect the rights and legitimate interests of members of OSB Jubilee. Groups of National Deputies (Lukyanchuka, Babanka) to the GPU, the Ministry of Internal Affairs on gross violations of Ukrainian criminal and procedural legislation by officials of the law enforcement authorities of the Kyiv region. Jury Lewchenka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the use of urgent measures to restore hot water to the residents of Kiev, which was halted as a result of the unscrupulous actions of the private monopolisist Kievenergo and the government's inaction. Jury Lewchenka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the illegal transfer to the administration of the Ministry of State Enterprise of the National Institute of Integrated Technical and Economic Research, which is strategically important for the economy of the security of the State and the responsibility of the Ministry for ineffective administration of the property and illegal activity of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine on these issues. Dear colleagues, 6 hours 15 minutes, we've been able to read all the questions. I want to say hello, the day was important and productive. And at this plenary session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, I declare closed. I'll start work tomorrow at 10 a.m. I ask you all to come, important tomorrow, a serious agenda. I'm asking everyone to meet me in the hall tomorrow morning. Thank you. See you tomorrow.
