ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-22-m1.u1	Dear fellow MPs, please come into the hall and take your seats. The secretariat of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, please report on the start of the evening session. Heads of factions please invite deputies, please come into the hall and take your seats, please. Dear colleagues, once again I ask everyone to come into the hall and take up jobs. We don't have enough people to start our work. I'm asking you to come into the hall. Please report on the start of work. Dear colleagues, we're not enough in the voting room. I ask the heads of factions for factions' secretaries to invite MPs into the hall. The secretariat of the Supreme Council again requests to report on the start of the evening meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-22-m1.u2	Ladies and gentlemen, please take your seats. We can continue our work according to the decisions we have made. Congratulations!
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-22-m1.u3	These are the children of the Donetsk region! Welcome, children of honor! [[Applause]] Right now, you're smiling so much that you're always smiling. Good for you and for the best! And we're glad you're in the walls of the Supreme Council of Ukraine today. Dear colleagues, please take your seats. We can continue our work according to the decisions we have made. The Prime Minister of Ukraine, Arseny Petrovich Yacenuk, and members of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, participate in the work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Dear colleagues, I ask you to prepare for registration, please prepare for registration. Please activate the "Council" system to register Ukrainian national deputies. [[16:22:11]] 353 national deputies are registered in the Supreme Council of Ukraine. I declare the evening session open. Today, colleagues, December 22, Ukraine celebrates Diplomat’s Day, diplomatic service. I want to take this opportunity today to welcome all our diplomats, all those people who. Let's say hello. [[Applause]] who perform their duties conscientiously every day in the fight for Ukraine, for democracy, for our European integration. I would also like to welcome the parliamentarians who are devoted to this service as diplomats. I want to wish everyone success in this very, very difficult field. I think in the 2016 budget we have to correct injustices in terms of Ukrainian diplomacy, there are issues that we have to adopt and resolve -- I think we will resolve -- about increasing the financing of diplomatic service. And I would also like to wish us, all the deputies of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, whatever it may be, but to be diplomats. And because of diplomatic ability to resolve any contradictions that may arise among the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Dear colleagues, please take our seats. Oleg Valeriyovich also rightly pointed out that today is Energy Day. Let's welcome energy with a professional holiday. And I want to wish, colleagues, that again, like every professional holiday, I will celebrate the role of Parliament. I wish each of us, of those present, only positive energy, especially in the Supreme Council of Ukraine Hall, clean, light energy and good energy. Colleagues, we're taking our seats. So we have two draft decrees: these are special orders for dealing with issues related to the 2016 budget. And from what I understand, we have a huge desire to support them. Do I get it right? Let's check the readiness of our vote. Come again. Good luck. Colleagues, signal vote. We're taking our seats. This is a signal vote in favour of the resolution on the order of consideration, signal. Colleagues, let's all concentrate now, let's vote so that we can begin our consideration of the agendas related to the budget. Please give me a signal vote, 3,000 per order. Let's vote it out. Vote. Let's see how many votes we have. [[16:27:30.]] For-170. Not enough people's deputies in the Supreme Council of Ukraine so far. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to urge you once again to vote on these two decrees, to start the process of discussing laws that relate to the adoption of the 2016 budget. In the course of the discussion, we will continue to determine whether to vote on a law or not. Well, please, colleagues, let's try the vote again. The committee. We still have a tax committee sitting down there with a lot of national deputies. Well, I can see that now. Let's re-vote for a I ask all the factions and groups of parliament that are non-fractional to take part in the vote. Ready? Once again, we vote, we vote, we vote, we vote, we vote, we vote, we vote. It's a procedural, purely procedural question. [[16:30:49]] For-167 No number of votes required. Ladies and gentlemen of the National Parliament, committees and committee meetings are still on their way. And we're going to need to announce a recess now until the committee meeting is over and the national deputies will return to the hall. Dear colleagues, then you and I agree that a 30-minute recess will be announced. At 5 p.m., we'll continue our work. I'd like to ask no one to break up. At 5 p.m., we'll continue our work. 17 years. 17 years. Thank you all. Please invite all your colleagues to the 17th hour room.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-22-m1.u4	Dear fellow national MPs, we take our seats and continue our work. Dear colleagues, please take your seats. I would like to inform you once again, fellow honourable Members, that we need to adopt a decree on a special order of consideration of matters and to continue to go to the specifics of each bill. And I would like every national MP to be aware of their responsibility for this, because collective irresponsibility is not welcomed. So I would ask everyone to take their seats now, to prepare for the vote, to support the proposal for a special order of consideration, these are two decisions and we will continue to move on specific issues. What, we don't want to keep the simplified system with you? We want it for the small business. Do we not want to solve the problems of maintaining financial decentralization with you? We do. Can we be against you in order to reduce the sole social contribution to your salary? It's okay. We're supportive, too. But just standing there and supporting it well, we need to support the logic of professional consideration and discussion. Please, colleagues, take your seats. Dear colleagues, please take your seats and we are voting in a signal vote of 3,000. Signal vote, let's see what we are. Please, colleagues, let's do it. Signal vote. Decision 3000 is procedural. Vote. [[17:15:15]] For-198 So, colleagues, factions. Block of Peter Poshenko – 84, People's Front – 67, Opposition Block – 2, Self-help – 0, Oleg Ljashka Radical Party – 14, Fatherhood – 10, Rebirth Party – 13, Will of the People – 0, non-fractional – 8. Colleagues, I'm addressing all the deputies of all the factions and groups of the Ukrainian Parliament, you can explain your position why you don't vote for it. Colleagues! Please, let's re-vote, maybe the situation will change. Vote. This is a vote, please. [[17:16:40]] For 212 Much better. Victor Mikhailovich Pinzenik, one minute, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-22-m1.u5	Dear National Deputies! Dear Volodymyr Borisovich! By noon we had voted that we were working on all draft laws related to Ukraine’s budget. I have the following suggestion: The list of these laws is defined by decree 3000. We agreed, which we would not consider, which we would complement. My suggestion: one by one, let us determine the procedure and consider the bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-22-m1.u6	Dear colleagues, given that our plenary week has 22-25 numbers, it is in these two decrees that we have to work with you to prepare them for final approval, including. Aah!? Including the budget itself. So it's very important to make this procedural decision, it opens the way for us to talk. So please, colleagues, come on. I give my word to the Prime Minister. I'm asking everyone to take their seats and now we're voting again. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-22-m1.u7	Dear Volodymyr Borisovich! Honorable National Deputies of Ukraine! For several days we have been actively working with members of Parliament to approve changes to tax legislation, and the government has gone to all agreements and compromises to have a successful vote. And in order for the Ukrainian State Budget Act to be passed by the end of this year. I ask the members of Parliament to come to the debate on the agenda. That is why we need to vote on the draft regulation on the specificity of the consideration of all issues of daily order for adoption of both tax legislation and budget. So we have to make a decision to start looking at these bills. Therefore, honourable Members of Parliament, I ask you to support the ruling. And let us go in an articleistic manner, according to the law, to vote and to adopt the laws necessary for the country.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-22-m1.u8	Colleagues, please, we need to go beyond the law in order to express the position of the Ukrainian Parliament. Just don't look at it, I don't understand who's doing what's bad to who. I understand that we're in enough extreme conditions with you, but these documents are expected by the country. And I think that each of us should have the right level of responsibility for the decisions we make. And just not to vote -- well, it's a position, I think, very, very weak and irresponsible. Dear colleagues, let's do it again: a signal vote under regulation 3000, this is the Rules of Procedure (3,000-P), please support this decision and we're going to vote. Ready? Please vote 3,000-P, we vote. [[17:20:12]] For 227 Colleagues. The factions. Dear colleagues, let's try 3,000p according to the proposal I've made. Vote? 3000p, according to the proposal I announced earlier, we vote. Please support, colleagues, all of you, independent of groups and factions, 3,000-P, let's vote. Please vote. Vote, colleagues, 3000-P please all support. [[17:20:55]] For 206 Stop voting. My colleagues, once again, I ask everyone to take their seats so that we can start our work. Ladies and gentlemen of the national council, please. [[B in m in s a l in]] 3000-P is a draft decree on the specificities of the draft bill procedure relating to the adoption of the draft Ukrainian Law on the State Budget for Ukraine for 2016, which is replaced by 3631, replace the bill on the gambling business itself, and including 3688 is a point of change to the Tax Code. [[B in m in s a l in]] I said that. Please, once again, I propose to vote in favour of this draft ruling as a whole. Ready? Dear colleagues, I ask you to support a procedural decision, independent of the opposition, in the coalition. Please support me. I'm asking you to support me. Procedural decision. And we'll keep working. Please, I'm begging you to back me up. We're voting 3,000-P with the proposals I've announced. Please support everyone, colleagues. You don't have a vote. Please be supportive. All right, all right. All right, everybody, let's take a vote. 3,000-P. Vote? Please support me. [[17:22:47]] For 210 [[B in m in s a l in]] Dear colleagues, please repeat the offer: 3000-P. Stand your ground, please! Please take your seats. We're voting 3,000-P with proposals. Ready? Ready? Voting, voting. 3,000-P with offers. Voting, voting. Please be supportive. Please support everyone. [[17:24:10]] For 218. Well, I can see the situation is changing. Absolutely. Please, colleagues, 3,000-P with the suggestions I've made. Take your seats, please. Ready? 3,000-P, ready? Please, all of you, Your Honor. We're voting 3,000-P with the proposals I've made. Vote? Vote. 3000-P with proposals, we vote, we vote, 3000-P with proposals, we vote, colleagues. Please support everyone, please support me, colleagues. [[17:25:07]] For 230 230, thank you. And 3000-P1 as a whole, we're voting, 3000-P1. It's the same thing, it's derivative, we vote, 3000-P1, we vote. It's the same thing, it's the committee prepared. Vote, colleagues, please. It's the same thing. [[17:25:32]] For 208 Colleagues, 3000-P1 are the same thing, the characteristics of the budget itself. I'm asking you to support this, this is a procedural decision, please. 3,000-P1 and we're starting the day-to-day discussion. Vote, 3000-P1. Ready? Vote, vote, 3000-P1, vote, vote, please support. [[17:26:07]] For 214 We have a proposal, colleagues, we have 10 votes left. Please support this procedural decision. Let's vote, all of it! We vote, colleagues, 3000-P1, we vote, we vote, we vote, 3000-P1, we vote and we go to the agenda, we debate, we vote in total 3000-P1. [[17:26:51]] For 229 Decision taken. Thank you, colleagues. According to factions, Peter Poshenko's Block – 107, People's Front – 74, Opoblok – 0, Self-help – 0, Radical Party – 14. Thank you for your support. Fatherland is 11, Rebirth Party is 17, thank you for your support. And six non-fractional. Colleagues, and now we're moving on to the day-to-day issues. Questions with the adoption of the state budget. Dear colleagues, 3627. 3627 is a draft law amending the Ukrainian Act on the administration of public property (for the right to receive part of the net income (profit) (registration number 3627). There's an offer to consider it as a reduced procedure, please. Short-term procedure, please support. It's a simplified procedure. [[17:28:08]] For 180. So, respectable colleagues. Please report to the Deputy Finance Minister of the First Games.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-22-m1.u9	Good day, Reverend Vladimir Borisovich, distinguished national deputies, distinguished members of the government. You have before you a draft Act amending the Act on the Management of Objects of State Property. What is the point of this bill? We have a state today that is the only owner who has been limited to the ability to influence dividend policies of enterprises that are state-owned. There are two restrictions in this law: in the case of unitary enterprises – 15 per cent, in the case of monopolies, where 50 million or more, i.e. large enterprises – the maximum dividends can be 30 per cent. We propose that the government be able, depending on the financial situation of the enterprises, to determine for an appropriate period the size of dividends and appropriate dividend policies for each enterprise and to remove the restriction that is currently in the Law on State Property Management. Please support and enable the government to define dividend policies in public sector enterprises. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-22-m1.u10	Thank you. Please report. Head of the Committee, Andrew Ivanchuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-22-m1.u11	Dear Mr. Head, distinguished national MPs! At its meeting, the Committee on Economic Policy considered Bill 3627, introduced by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, and decided to recommend the adoption of the bill in the Supreme Council as a basis and as a whole. The bill is intended for the administration of public property. It is suggested that the size of the calculation by state-owned unitary enterprises is not less than 30 percent of the net profit. In 2016, this will allow an additional 5.2 billion dollars to be added to the state budget. I would very much like to support you as a whole. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-22-m1.u12	Thank you, Your Honor. In fact, there was no objection at the meeting of the working group that this law should be adopted as a basis and as a whole. Now, please write two in favour, two in the opposite. National MP Victor Halasyuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-22-m1.u13	Honourable Volodymira Borisovich, a respected colleague of the national MPs, is certainly in need of effective administration of state property. No questions asked. Effective management of state-owned enterprises is needed. But what does that mean? This means absolutely clear, transparent, comprehensible reporting, and this means a differentiated approach to the activities of each enterprise. What does the government offer these businesses to do? Today, 15 percent of state enterprises are taken away, and the government is offering to take at least 30 percent, which is less than 30 percent of that can no longer be legal. This is totally unfounded. Because there are companies where you can take 100 percent of the profits, because they don't have the capacity to continue developing, you can take all of them. And there are companies that have to leave all 100 percent of their profits in order to develop, because look at what's the investment component in the budget. You'll see what a huge accumulation in Ukraine today is, essentially, an investment in the future. Today in Ukraine, the government is proposing that this be less than 10 percent the following year, today it is 12 percent. In developing countries, that's over 20 to 25 percent. In China, that's 45-46 percent. If we do not sow today, there will be no harvesting tomorrow. So you can't squeeze out all the last juices, including without consideration, including from state-owned enterprises, you have to have a differentiated approach, where you have to collect 90 percent of the profits from one enterprise, and from the other, you can have 10 percent or all of it. This will give normal economic development, normal government ownership, only it has to be justified and transparent, not all under one ridge. Therefore, the Radical Party faction will not support this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-22-m1.u14	Please, Ivan Krulko. Alona Shkrum.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-22-m1.u15	Ivan Krulko asks for a word.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-22-m1.u16	Alona's splinter, Fatherland faction. Colleagues, of course, what's the point here. And I agree with the previous speaker. The situation should be levelled when government unitary enterprises pay either 30 percent or 15 percent of the government’s income, while other enterprises with a share of the state are 50 percent. We agree that this situation needs to be levelled. But really, the government has not given any criteria, no explanation of exactly how it will determine whether there will be discrimination, whether it will be, what decision, what it will depend on. There have to be criteria, there has to be a really differentiated approach to every state-owned enterprise depending on its financial situation, its ability, its ability to train or not to train an enterprise to privatize. So it's important for us not just the government to give us short-term drafts for the budget and to prepare for budget night, as we see it now. And in order for the government to make a comprehensive decision about government ownership, running state-owned enterprises is a whole section of our coalition agreement, a colleague. He was running competitions for independent directors of these companies, and he was differentially approachable to each of them so that we could finally become aware of the normal governance of government property, not the only corruption that we see there. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-22-m1.u17	Natalia Royal.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-22-m1.u18	Dear colleagues! What does the Government offer? The Government proposes that 5.2 billion grevens withdraw working money from public enterprises. Why? Recently, the Prime Minister told us that 95 billion are in the treasury account, that there is money in the budget, that we are all in the country, thank God, well, and that is certainly good for all of us. What do we get by the fact? In fact, we will receive corrupt public enterprises, which will propose to sell the following bill – sell for kopecks, sell during the crisis. That is to say, it is largely a bill on the fictitious bankruptcy of state-owned enterprises. Therefore, I believe that such a bill cannot be supported categorically right now. And I would also like to remind the Government that the working money of enterprises is primarily jobs and wages. Today, wages in our country have exceeded the maximum in the last 10 years and amount to more than 2 billion bracelets. Therefore, first of all, we believe that public enterprises today must be accounted for by payroll debts. Second. Revolving money today to reinvest in the creation of new industrial productions and to create new jobs today, and to preserve existing jobs. The financial risks of each enterprise should then be assessed, for each enterprise to approve its development plan and only thereafter, individually, to consider complicity with the State budget and the budget of the enterprise. Therefore, the Opposition Block is categorically against the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-22-m1.u19	Please, Victor Krivenko, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-22-m1.u20	Dear colleagues, first of all, I want to support the initiative that we need to determine the share of revenue that is being removed from the state budget, but clearly remove the phrase "no less." And to vote on this bill of technical law with this very remark. Mr. Halasyuk is right and that is the opinion of many deputies. And I want to point out that this situation was the reason why we didn't do the coalition deal. You and I wrote down a year ago that we're destroying the corporate legal form of a state enterprise as a class that we're doing corporate equity, we're making stock companies, and we're even leaving 100 percent of the state property of those enterprises that are strategically important to us. But we're creating supervisory boards where the clerk is responsible for the decisions he makes, not under the table, how this is happening now, we're creating audit committees, we're going to have to understand the world and we're going to have to go this way, nothing done in a year. That's why we're willing to support it, but by cleaning up the phrase "not less than 30 percent." Let the government be defined as being delegated by the people, the Supreme Council.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-22-m1.u21	Thank you. So the point was that Victor Halasyuk and Victor Krivenko were saying that the word "no less" was taken away? Julia Timoshenko, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-22-m1.u22	Dear colleagues! Of course, it would be absolutely right as a state as the owner to remove part of the profit. But at the same time, we have to take into account that today the country is in crisis and the cost of the credit resources that can be involved with the unitary and state-owned enterprises today cost 30, 35, 40 percent and no more. So that means that if we take them out of circulation, and at least 30 percent, that means that they put 70 percent in the budget, we just destroy, we bankrupt the unitary and state-owned enterprises. Our proposal to write "not more than 30 percent" and then it would be logical for a period of crisis. Let them share with the state and it's only for government and unitary, but not more than 30 percent of net profit, then it'll be fair.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-22-m1.u23	Thank you. One minute Sergei Mishchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-22-m1.u24	Sergei Mishchenko, Kyivščina. I remember when this rule was adopted that if profit is more than 50 million, 30 percent, if less, is 15 percent to the state budget. When the Cabinet of Ministers spoke at the time, it was an offer to vote for it, because the development of these enterprises, the unitary enterprises of state were in such a way that it was a chicken that carried golden eggs, and they would not be privatized. I see what I see now, if I leave the word "no less," it's 50, and 60, and 70, it's actually the destruction of state-owned enterprises to privatize them. Why was there then a government that proposed to develop these state-owned enterprises and to fill the budget, now to destroy them? The question is: Buy for nothing.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-22-m1.u25	Thank you. Please, Prime Minister, a word. Arsenius Petrovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-22-m1.u26	Honorable National Deputies of Ukraine! As always, thank you very much for the warm and warm discussion in the walls of the Ukrainian Parliament. I would like to remind you that a valid standard of legislation provides for 30 percent for unitary and 15 percent for other state-owned unitary enterprises. The Cabinet of Ministers would like to make the following request. As a result of the approval of financial plans for the corresponding and current year by each enterprise entity in the state form of ownership, the Government of Ukraine will determine the size of dividends that will be paid by the relevant state companies in accordance with the Ukrainian Act on the Cabinet of Ministers and the Constitution. This size of dividends is confirmed directly by the government on the basis of the company’s financial plan. So there's a proposal, and I support the proposal of a colleague of the people's parliament, where it's said that to a state budget the size of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, there's no 30 percent. Some company is going to be 10 percent, some company is going to be 80 percent depending on the financial situation of the company. Dear Ukrainian National Deputies, this is the very simple law that is now in the order of the day of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. And I wanted, after lengthy discussions, at least this law to be considered and supported by members of Parliament, as it is the direct constitutional mandate of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine to manage public property objects on the basis of approved financial plans.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-22-m1.u27	Thank you. Dear colleagues, the discussion is over. I'm asking everyone to take their seats, distinguished colleagues of the Ukrainian National Deputies. Please. Please take your seats. Dear colleagues, it's a signal. There will now be a signal vote, draft Law 3627, which was reported by the First Deputy Minister of Finance. Please, 3627 is a draft law. Please, colleagues, a signal vote on draft Law 3627, as amended by the Prime Minister of Ukraine. Ready? Take your seats.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-22-m1.u28	Can I get a sound check?
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-22-m1.u29	Edit under the transcript, Arsenija Petrovich, once again under the transcript. National deputies, come in, take your seats.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-22-m1.u30	The distinguished Oleg Valeriyovich and the distinguished national deputies! This is an amendment that was proposed by the national MP Victor Krivenko. Please read the content of the relevant act, the word "at least 30 per cent in the order defined by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine" replace "in the size defined. in the size and order defined by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine", full stop, dot.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-22-m1.u31	Colleagues, please. Please, colleagues, a signal vote with an amendment announced by the Prime Minister of Ukraine, a second reading and in general a signal vote. Ready? Please vote: in the second reading and in general. Vote, signal vote. [[17:46:05]] For-183 I didn't get the required number of votes. Please, Victor Mikhailovich Pinzenik, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-22-m1.u32	Dear Volodymyr Borisovich, distinguished colleagues, what the MPs said in the course of the discussion, certainly makes sense. In each particular case, the owner would have to determine which part of the profit to delete, which one to leave, but if we did not live in Ukraine. That's why I have an offer. Well, first of all, we have a very busy government, it doesn't get to the Tax Code on time and budget. Let's get him out of this job. And secondly, once we give someone the right to differentiate taxes, don't forget that it's Ukraine, and remember the word "corruption." So even though this option is much worse, it would be the right thing to do, I'm asking my colleagues: let's make a clear statement of the same amount for everyone -- and take away the government's work in this direction. Let's keep the law in line like this.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-22-m1.u33	What's the paper you're proposing right now? [[B in m in s a l in]] Yes, in the editorial that the Cabinet of Ministers presented: the same rate for all. As they put it in the paper, did I get it? Dear colleagues, in the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, as submitted to the Ukrainian Parliament, please re-vote. In an editorial committee. [[B in m in s a l in]] Please, Victor Mikhailovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-22-m1.u34	Dear colleagues, I apologize for taking the floor again. Where do I want to get the problem? That every time there's an individual approach to making a plan, there's absolutely no guarantee that the money's going to be left behind because it's going to have to be left behind. In order to eliminate this approach and to avoid any problems, let us take one principle: Set the same rate for everyone: 30 percent. All in the same conditions, the same conditions. And then we'll go back to the question of plans later.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-22-m1.u35	Honorable colleagues, the government and the government's position on this proposal.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-22-m1.u36	On the other hand, I would like to turn to the distinguished national deputies and to the high-ranking deputy who has just spoken. The rule of law determines that 30 percent are state-owned unitary enterprises, which are subjects of natural monopolies, and 15 percent are other state-owned unitary enterprises. Each enterprise has a separate financial plan and individual financial results, there's an enterprise that can remove 75 percent of dividends, and there's an enterprise that has to send all dividends for development. This thing, Victor Mikhailovich, is called economics. That's why we ask the honourable members of Parliament to allow the government to determine when the respective financial plan is approved the size of dividends, this is a collective and public decision of the government, in which there are factions of the coalition that are politically and economically responsible and criminally responsible for making appropriate decisions. So please support the government bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-22-m1.u37	Dear colleagues, again me. Dear colleagues, once again, the Prime Minister's proposal, if he doesn't pick up, is a signal, if he doesn't vote, we're going to discuss the whole package of laws, and we're going to continue to decide on the voting and discussion of the details. Please, Your Honor, form a joint proposal. We're voting on the Prime Minister's proposal, the rating vote, the signal vote, the signal vote. Vote. [[17:51:21]] For 172 The required number of votes did not come in. Let's move on in the daytime, discuss the issue, then we'll decide on the vote. 3628 is a draft law (registration number) amending certain laws of Ukraine (to stabilize the state's financial situation and improve individual social policies). Deputy Minister Kachure. There is a proposal for a reduced procedure to consider the draft Law. Please be supportive. Vote, summary procedure. [[17:51:56]] For 172 Please have the number of votes reached. Victor Kachur, report.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-22-m1.u38	Dear Volodymyr Borisovich, distinguished national MPs, citizens! I want to report that we have discussed in detail the draft bill set out at the Social Policy Committee meeting. Despite the fact that the discussion was rather harsh, I am grateful to the members of the committee for their constructive position and for having reached some compromise. First of all, essentially. I want to report that in 2016, compared to 2015, health, education and social expenditure is not decreasing. If we have arithmetically seen some decreases in the amount of subsidies, this is due to a reduction in the tax burden as a result of the introduction of a smaller amount of the only social contribution. We have to use government funds wisely. So this bill is aimed at a more efficient targeted and optimal use of public funds, and it's part of a package of laws introduced by the government. As an example, the adoption of the bill will allow for the verification of recipients of state support, all social benefits and pensions that citizens receive, not "dead souls". We plan to save at least 5 billion dollars from this action. In addition, we plan to adopt this bill to increase the targeting of social assistance and to be guided by the principle that only those who really need it should receive assistance. Rich families should not count on receiving help. I would also like to point out that the bill foresees the continuation of reforms in education and health care and will allow the network of schools and hospitals to be optimized. This will help to ensure the full funding of drugs for diabetics, hemodialysis treatment in 2016. Also, improving the quality of education and respecting the rights of the child to get a proper level of knowledge that will allow for further access to the university and quality.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-22-m1.u39	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-22-m1.u40	Optimization of schools. In parallel, we provided funding for the acquisition of school buses in a package of bills for at least a thousand, thousands of buses. And financing the creation of resilient schools. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-22-m1.u41	Please, Sophia Denisov.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-22-m1.u42	Good afternoon, dear fellows! Dear Mr. Prime Minister, the honourable speaker of Parliament! At our meeting today, we discussed the amended bill with a working group, working together with the Cabinet of Ministers and the Ministry of Finance. Thanks to the search for compromises and sources of safeguards, such work has been done that is reflected in this amended bill that was given to you in the morning. In the social sphere, we provide targeted care to single mothers and temporary government assistance to children whose parents avoid alimony payments. Applying such a principle — that is, declaring income — will increase the amount of help they receive. In doing so, we realize that we need to change our approach to payment arrangements for temporary government assistance to children whose parents are evading payment. And this order will be developed by the Cabinet of Ministers. We maintain the rule of granting local self - government at the expense of local grants for free travel of citizens and others. We're predicting a social pay verification, which is what the Deputy Minister of Finance is now talking about. Among the pension benefits are the existing pension guarantees for scientific workers, which have been defined by the Ukrainian Law on Amendments to certain Ukrainian legislation on pension insurance (No. 213), which are still in force today. Thanks to the committee's decision, the government's proposed standard of freezing the average wage rate at the 2012 pension rate, 13th, 14th year, was deleted. We anticipate the full pension payments to military veterans who continue to implement state policy on the basis of public service. In the field of employment, we are strengthened.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-22-m1.u43	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-22-m1.u44	Finish up. level to save the average earned by the mobilized one. In the area of culture, we set out funding for cultural institutions, libraries, museums, theatres, and the cost of paying for these facilities. We keep funding at the expense of the state and local budgets of library development programmes and single-line funding from the state budget for the cost of completing library funds. In the field of education, we provide free nutrition for orphans, children deprived of parental care, children with special educational needs who are taught in special and inclusive classes throughout the course. We keep our funding at the expense of the educational subsidy of primary schools, with fewer than 25 students. We grant the right to persons in whom diseases, which may be an obstacle to external independent evaluation, orphans and persons who are legally recognized as participants in hostilities and who have participated in anti-terrorist operations, to participate in the competition for the results of the entrance exams. We keep a guarantee of funding from the state budget for education in State higher education institutions I and II accreditations. So a huge piece of work was done to support this bill, so that Ukraine's budget in 2016 would still be balanced, was adopted in this room this year. I very much ask you, People's Deputies, to vote in favour of this bill as a basis and as a whole in the committee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-22-m1.u45	Thank you. Please sign up: two for, two against. Vladimir Mikhailovich Litwin, please, "The will of the people."
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-22-m1.u46	Dear Head, distinguished national MPs! First of all, on behalf of the group, let me thank the committee for making the most of this law. At the same time, we need to be aware that there are 38 social laws that in some way cancel or stop their action. And obviously, you would have to count all of these laws so that people would know what's in store for them. And to know the local authorities, which gift comes down to them from Kiev, and at what cost they will perform social benefits and standards. I think it's just hidden information from people. And obviously, in the mode of this brief discussion, it was not necessary to allow this issue to be considered. And it's quite clear that this is a genocidal law, without exaggeration, you can define it. And taking advantage of the opportunity that the government is present, and the fact that there are no parliamentary requests within the month, I will talk about the state of the children’s homes today. By the fall of 2015, they had 50 percent utility benefits, and since autumn they have been cleared and are now being forced to form subsidies. And since they live in buildings that are state - owned, that is, in service facilities, they cannot form these subsidies, and today they are in a very difficult situation. Therefore, it is necessary to settle this issue, if not now, when the budget is adopted. I would ask that this information be considered an official parliamentary request and that the actual answer be used, not the letters we receive. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-22-m1.u47	Thank you. Please, Oleg Lazko, Radical Party.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-22-m1.u48	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. Dear fellow MPs, let us read carefully the name of the law. Draft Law on Amendments to Certain Legislative Acts of Ukraine (to stabilize the financial situation of the State and improve individual social policies). I want our fellow citizens who listen to us in this country to decipher what this law is. It's a proposal to stabilize the state's financial situation by picking up pensioners, picking up workers, picking up orphans, picking up teachers and doctors, canceling retirement at 55 years of age. I have a question for the government. What makes you think you're capable of stabilizing the state's financial situation? Because of the fact that all Ukrainian citizens turn into beggars, turn into people who have no jobs, no wages, no future, no meals at school, no disability, no orphans, that's why you're stabilizing the state. You're not stabilizing that account. If you want to stabilize finance and the state, you shake the oligarchs, you stop corruption, you put the system in state monopolies, you stop stealing from the state budget, and then the state's financial stability will be stabilized. And at the expense of the poor and the poor themselves, they will not be able to stabilize the state, on the contrary, such documents destabilize the country, because the only way to restore Ukraine and raise the economy is to avoid borrowing like a flea bitch, as one famous classic once said, but to restore their own economy, to raise their industry, to raise agriculture, to allow small and medium-sized businesses to work. That's how you can rebuild the country, not in debt, as you suggest.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-22-m1.u49	From the "Fatherland" faction, John Krulko, passes the word "Alexandra Kugel," please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-22-m1.u50	You know, I've long diagnosed this government: it doesn't like us. And I just want to remind them that the greatest, most important stability is in the cemetery. This bill is a direct road to the cemetery. I understand on dividends that I leave 5 percent in the Tax Code, and the pensions that the Pension Fund pays 80 percent today are the largest, maximum, twice the taxes. Well, why don't you like retired workers so much? I can tell you that because of your faction I was in the hospital, and there were babysitters, they're all retired, they come to work, and they get 850 dollars in wages. They're asked what you're working for, what you're driving under Kiev, they say we need some living money, because everything else we eat, what we grew up in the city. It's 850 dollars, it works day after day with sick people, so what do you charge them with today's pension tax? As you're taxing, for some reason you think 3,000 dollars is too big a pension to be taxed. Secondly, this attitude towards the people in the part who are raising the child alone, the mother or the adoptive parent, and you want to check, God forbid, Mom gets 2 and a half thousand dollars and then you say she doesn't have to pay 30 percent of the living minimum, it's no conscience. This should be thanked for her giving birth to a child and for increasing the number of people in Ukraine who, thanks to your policies, have fallen very seriously, which is what you are boasting about saving the gas. For every paragraph of this bill, I want to say that it is anti-national. Black people.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-22-m1.u51	Please finish 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-22-m1.u52	No, from Pripeti girls came first - degree cancer, pension is 1 thousand 15 and one chapel costs 1 thousand 500. And write this down: transfer all their benefits to the local budget. I think this law should be passed to the Anti-Corruption Bureau, who wrote from such a shameful policy of genocide of his own people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-22-m1.u53	From the "Block of Peter Prashenko" Knazevitch gives the word to Mikola Tomenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-22-m1.u54	Mikola Tomenko. Dear colleagues, I support the previous speakers, and I want to add one thing, maybe you didn't have time to read it: if the previous government of Azarova-Janukovich was turning the budget into adverts and propagandists of the party, because you had to join the party to stay in office and campaign, then the government of Yatsenuk is turning all budget people into businessmen. See what is being done by all district administrations and local authorities. And I'll tell you that we have a list of paid services: libraries, museums, cultural institutions, they expand to such an extent that the library manager will gather people and think like peasants take money to survive them. Guys, let's get rid of this whole network then, if you're actually indirectly translating it into self-financing and economic activity. These are businesses, you're doing private businesses to make them think about how to survive. See the position: to set up public and municipal payment service managers: to expand funding sources at the expense of fandricing, and they're going to do fandricing, and they're going to do money-gathering in the United States. The transfer of individual types of institutions to the population, the reduction of staff in general educational institutions, apart from pedagogical institutions, by 10 percent, the integration of regional plans for the creation of educational cultural districts. But we destroyed the previous criminal government in these districts, you don't understand what that is? I'm not saying anymore, Alexandra Kugel said that, my friends, in the 30th year of honouring Chernobyl, almost all programs on disabled and disabled children would be passed on to local budgets -- that is, to eliminate these social programs. I consider this bill a contempt for the Ukrainian people and I believe that it cannot be supported by the Ukrainian Parliament.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-22-m1.u55	Natalie Royal's Opposition Block, please, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-22-m1.u56	Dear colleagues! You know, I honestly didn't believe my eyes when I read this bill. I specifically explained to the Ministry of Finance whether I understood the law correctly. Because, apart from the humiliation and contempt of the nationals of their country by the Government, this project cannot be described any more. It is totally, of course, in violation of our Constitution, and it is anti-constitutional. And we are in no way, under any circumstances, unable to vote for it. But at the same time, I want to read the most terrible norm of this bill, quote it. And I'm asking for a minute of attention, because I'm sure there wasn't a time for everyone to see it. This rule suggests that free funerals with the military honors of the dead heroes of the Soviet Union, the full cavalry of the Order of Slava, awarded four and more “For Courage” medals, by citizens awarded by the Order of Heaven Satan, be abolished from the State budget for the abolition of free of charge.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-22-m1.u57	Thirty seconds to complete.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-22-m1.u58	To detract from these people's free funerals with military honors. Respectable friends, well, it's hard to live people, we can't give them a decent life today, but we have no right, these people are the ones in our country, to ban them from being held worthy. For this bill, the Government must resign and not vote in favour of it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-22-m1.u59	Thus, the draft law is concluded. Since these are circumstantial bills, let's move on to the next one. We will vote after the discussion. Thus, 3632 is a draft of the Law on the Childishization of the Market in Gambling and Budget Income for the purpose of fulfilling social obligations. I'm asking you to support the proposal to consider it as a reduced procedure. Dear colleagues, please take your seats. Please support the consideration of the reduced procedure. Please vote. [[18:12:06]] For-123 Dear colleagues, I'll put it to the vote again. I'm asking you to take up jobs. I ask you to support the consideration of the reduced procedure. We just can't get through. So once again, I ask you to support the consideration of the reduced procedure. Please vote. Please vote, please support. Turn on the voting system. Please. [[18:13:05]] For-144 Dear colleagues, a few votes. Please take up jobs. Dear colleagues, please come into the hall and take your jobs. I ask you to support the consideration of the reduced procedure. We still have a lot of bills. We can go into a long procedure. 3632 requests to be considered by a reduced procedure. [[B in m in s a l in]] Dear colleagues, we have consulted with Apparat, we have ruled out this bill. When we voted, we did not put him to the vote, and so we voted in special consideration for the reduced procedure. I'm not going to put the issue of inclusion in the agenda of the day session, we're going immediately to 3389, this is the draft Act amending article 6 of the Ukrainian Act on the State Budget for Ukraine for 2015, on the granting of State guarantees. And I invite you to report to Deputy Finance Minister Chevalov Artem Valentinovich. Please report. Colleagues, I remind you, and for the government officials, we've already made a general decision to consider all of those bills on short notice. The bill is included in a larger bill, yes, members of the government. And so we move on to 3533 -- the draft Law on Measures to Stimulate External Economic Activity. Is he ready to report? Reported to Deputy Finance Minister Makeyev Olena Leonidivna. Are you ready to go report? 3533. Please report to Deputy Finance Minister Makeyev Olena Leonidivna.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-22-m1.u60	Dear National Deputies! Your attention is given to the draft Ukrainian Law on Measures to Stimulate External Economic Activity, prepared by the Government to complete the activities of the additional import congregation by the end of 2015, which will enable you to take into account the results of consultations within the WTO Committee on Balance of Payments Restrictions. However, meet the commitments set out in the country’s memorandum of economic and financial policy between Ukraine and the IMF and the memorandum of understanding between Ukraine as a supplier and the European Union as a creditor. The bill foresees that, as of 1 January 2016, they have been declared invalid, the Ukrainian Act on Measures to Stabilize the Payment Balance of Ukraine, in accordance with Article 12 of the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade of 94, which, since 25 February 2015, was implemented in Ukraine for 12 months. The adoption of the bill will reduce the tax burden on imports of food and agricultural products by 10 per cent, and industrial group goods by 5 per cent. The implementation of the law will not affect the budget's income, as the 2016 budget does not provide for an additional import union. Please support the draft Ukrainian Law on Measures to Stimulate External Economic Activity. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-22-m1.u61	Thank you. Please report to the head of the Committee on Tax and Customs Policy, Ms. Nina Petrovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-22-m1.u62	Dear colleagues, we have repeatedly referred to this issue of the need to cancel an additional import congregation for the vast majority of imported goods at rates of 10 and 5 percent, depending on the classification of the goods according to the OCTZED. The committee therefore clearly supports the government's position on the need to implement the international agreements of the State. At the same time, we have repeatedly analyzed the negative effect that he added, which in principle led to an additional import congregation. So on December 9, this year, when we were considering this bill at a committee meeting, we unanimously decided to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine that the bill should be adopted as a basis and generally as a law. Dear colleagues! Please support and cancel the additional congregation since January 1, 2016.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-22-m1.u63	Thank you. Dear colleagues! Please sign up for two, two for the other. Please sign up. Peter Dusty Block, Sergey Melnik, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-22-m1.u64	Dear colleagues! Please support this bill. The government budget project for the following year does not provide for funds. We had an agreement that, as of January 1, he would have to go out of business. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-22-m1.u65	Sergey Vlasenko, "The Fatherland" faction. Vlasenka, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-22-m1.u66	Sergey Vlasenko, "The Fatherland" faction. Well, first of all, I want to remind you how this imported congregation has been accepted. When the Fatherland faction shouted out, it was impossible to do that, it would ruin the economy. Then we asked the finance minister how did you calculate a billion seven hundred comings? She said a billion seven hundred would come from the importing congregation. We asked how did you calculate? So it's very simple, it says, they took all the imports, they multiplied by 10 percent and they got, so the sum that goes in. I mean, you don't even understand basic things! That under such taxes half would go into the shadows that half the branches would fall and lie down! At the same time, inflation, it's going to lead to more inflation, it's going to lead to higher prices for imported products, customs abuse and everything. A year ago, we talked about this as a criminal decision. The Minister of Finance shouted, "No, it's all good, it's all legal, it's all going to be good, it's going to be good, it's going to be good, it's going to be good, it's going to be good, it's going to be good, it's going to be good, it's going to be good in America and so on. A year ago, the "Fatherland" faction passed the Law repealing this additional import congregation. The Ministry of Finance started because it's the Fatherland that made it, you can't vote it, you can't do it. The People's Front then did not support this vote, because it was the Fatherland that made it, and it must be the government's merit to undo and correct the mistake that this government has made. Today they're bringing in the normal, correct cancelling of this impeccable imported congregation from the 1st number. But how much did we put up with this, how many mistakes we made, how many businesses have suffered with how much imports have gone into the shadows, how much have we overpaid for imported products, how many imported medicines, how much is needed for the first thing. How much such mistakes can be made!? The Fatherland faction will no doubt support this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-22-m1.u67	From the Radical Party, Victor Halasyuk, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-22-m1.u68	Thank you. Dear Mr. Andrey, dear colleagues of the national MPs, it's not really about stimulating external economic activity, it's just about working on mistakes, it's about correcting mistakes. It is necessary to adopt this law in general right now. Moreover, I wonder why neither the government nor the majority supported the adoption of the 2553a bill, which was introduced by members of our committee, which provided for the distinction between such an additional import congregation and raw materials, and for three or four months the Ukrainian industry had been functioning normally. And when you talk about what it is to stimulate external economic activity, it's to create an export credit agency that we're now doing to move Ukrainian exports abroad. Regrettably, the draft State budget does not contain any amount to stimulate Ukrainian exports. This is a waste of credit for Ukraine's small business and for Ukrainian exporters, including the small business support agency in the United States, which has a loan portfolio of over $120 billion. This is the signing of bilateral free trade agreements with other countries. But there are few such agreements because the agreements give us free market, give us market access. But in order to go out there and sell something, you have to make something first. To produce it, you need to reduce taxes rather than do what you propose in your Tax Code. We need to start an Export Credit Agency to spend and guarantee Ukrainian exports, to make loans to small business Ukrainian exporters. So let's finally draw conclusions not only from these but from other government mistakes, and let's start to stimulate Ukrainian industry, Ukrainian exports, Ukrainian producer and small entrepreneur. It's not political declarations, it's not fairy-tale bills, it's real legislative initiatives. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-22-m1.u69	Thank you. From the Opposition Block, Royal.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-22-m1.u70	Dear colleagues! Very rightly, the previous speaker said that we were now working on mistakes, only on the mistakes of the current Government. But for any mistake, there must always be responsibility. Well, you can't. And all year long the business, people overpaid money, jobs were cut, huge losses were lost. And now, in a year, we say, yes, it was a mistake. I think it's unacceptable. The opposition bloc will support the bill. But I want to turn to everyone: the bills that we are reviewing in Parliament today are once again a package of huge and huge mistakes. A mistake for which people will then be responsible, not the government. That is why, first of all, we need to address today the issue of the resignation of the Government, the formation of a professional team and the punishment for previous mistakes. There is no more power or opportunity to make mistakes.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-22-m1.u71	We're done talking about 3533. And now we have another bill that is included in the agenda, which is in the resolution that we voted on. This is a draft law amending the Ukrainian Tax Code and some Ukrainian legislative acts to ensure a balanced budget income in 2016 (3688). This is one of those bills that I stress that are in order of the day, which are in the resolution that we voted on. And I invite you to the Ukrainian Minister of Finance's report, Natalia Jaresko. 3688, 3688. Dear colleagues, let's discuss this and then we'll vote. This is actually the last of those bills. [[B in m in s a l in]] Dear colleagues, let's take a signal vote and see if we have any potential. Okay? Then I ask everyone to come into the hall. Please, Your Honor, please take your seats, come into the hall. I'm putting a signal vote on the draft Law on Measures to Stimulate External Economic Activity 3533. Yeah? 3533, I'm putting up a vote. Please vote, please take part in the signal vote. Please vote. [[18:28:29]] For 206 206 for. And I invite you to report on Bill 3,688 of the Minister of Finance of Ukraine Natalia Jaresko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-22-m1.u72	Deputies! Your view is on the proposal of a bill on changes in tax legislation, which has been made by the working group of the Supreme Council, and the aim of which is to balance the state budget for 2016. I would like to remind you that last week, the Ministry submitted seven draft laws that allowed for a significant reduction of the tax burden on the economy, while increasing the efficiency of government spending, which together allowed for the approval of the draft budget with a deficit of 3.7 percent. At the same time, the Supreme Council was accepted to refuse to approve tax reform for today, which has put an end to it. Before the need for rapid preparation for tax legislation that would meet the obligations of authority to society. I thank you very much for your cooperation. So for the moment, I'm going to present a bill that allows you to carry out such a minimum package of liabilities in the tax area. This bill is proposed: first, to set the EU's only interest rate at 22%. Today, with the part paid by the co-worker, the EU’s size is on average 41 per cent, and the congregation itself has about 90 different rates. Increases in the maximum size of the EES base from 17 to 25 minimum monthly wages and cancellations of the EES, which are kept from the wages of workers or natural persons. The other one. The transitional period for taxation of VAT in agriculture is one year. I would like to point out that the President of Ukraine has personally negotiated with the International Monetary Fund for a transitional period of one year in bringing farmers into the general tax regime. For over a year, falsifying a security guard has been a strict requirement. And so the IMF's acceptance of this transitional year is an important achievement of Ukrainian power. By January 1, 2017, the bill proposes to apply a special VAT tax regime to an agricultural enterprise with a proportion of 75 per cent of the VAT that is paid to the budget and the remaining 25 per cent to the special account for its own use. And since January 1, 2017, the security guard has to be canceled.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-22-m1.u73	Please give us a chance to finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-22-m1.u74	That's how. It is also proposed that, as of 1 January 2016, VAT should be abolished in the supply of cereals and technical crops, resulting in all payers who export grain being entitled to VAT budgetary compensation. So we're going to leave in the hands of the farmers this year 6.6 billion dollars. Third. The bill provides for budgetary compensation for VAT and proposes to improve VAT compensation from the budget, which will ensure the same requirements and rights for all taxpayers, taking into account the turnover and payment of VAT claims to taxpayers. It is also proposed that the official publication of VAT compensation information from the budget be published as a register reflecting the tax payer’s claim for tax compensation and the state of compensation. The fourth is the corporate income tax. We're proposing that we cancel payment of income tax advances and introduce a quarterly reporting period from income tax to enterprises where the annual income from any activity exceeds 20 million dollars. At the same time. Fifth is an excise tax. The main changes proposed by the bill have as much fiscal value as the social value of the country. Yes, we propose to increase the excise tax for 2016 to alcohol, alcohol and beer by 100 percent, tobacco products by 40 percent, specific rates and 3 percent points, ad valorem. We are fully aware that such an increase can lead to a decrease in production and a decrease in consumption of these taxable goods. Moreover, in the Ministry of Finance, we firmly believe that this is the result of an increase in excise duties. Because reducing the consumption of harmful products by our citizens is a socially responsible policy. In 2011, the World Health Organization and the World Economic Forum determined that the most effective strategy for reducing the harm done to society by alcohol consumption is to raise taxes and prices. Ukraine's previous experience says that as a result of the increase in alcohol excises in the 9th-10th year, the mortality rate from alcohol-induced diseases has dropped more than twice. In addition, in order to combat smuggling more effectively, the bill proposes to introduce an electronic fuel management system, to introduce an excise note as a mandatory electronic document, which will be made up of all transactions from the implementation of the fuel in the internal market. Finally, he proposes to increase the excise tax on fuel by 13 percent, and this will provide the budget with an additional resource of another 3.2 billion dollars, which will be added to the special fund for further road repair. The sixth is the last, the most profitable price to pay for the use of the mining nadrama. It is proposed that amber be taxed at a rate of 30 percent, which is an additional 1.5 billion dollars in budget resources. The implementation of the bill will contribute to increasing the income part of the 2016 budget and will ensure its balance and improve tax administration. Thank you for your attention and please support the bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-22-m1.u75	Thank you. The co - report invites the head of the Tax and Customs Committee, Eugene Nina Petrovna. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-22-m1.u76	Dear colleagues, I probably won't be going through all the sections of the proposed bill right now. We've just had a very careful look at our colleagues on the committee. I will, however, stop that the members of the committee, generally supporting the need to adopt the legislative novels proposed by the government to resolve the outstanding issues, consider it necessary to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine when adopting this bill to take into account the following points that have just been discussed on the committee. As for the value added tax, they are more of a technical nature, but I have to give them a sound right now. First, in paragraph 1 of paragraph 82.2, the words “except for the verifications carried out under the circumstances set out in paragraph 78.1.8. the duration of which is set out in Article 200 of this Code” shall be deleted. Second: Paragraph 41, paragraph 3, paragraphs 2 and 3, paragraph 39, paragraphs 13 and 14, paragraph 1, paragraph 82, should be deleted in view of the fact that the above-mentioned rules are designed to implement the bill (registration number 3355) on financial restructuring that has not been considered by the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Third. Paragraph 46, paragraph 3, after paragraph 3, should be supplemented by new paragraphs. In paragraph 15 of the statement and the figures "and/or breach of the order of completion of mandatory tax receipts provided for in article 200.1 of the Code" delete. "A tax note containing errors in the props defined in paragraph 200.1 of this article, except for the product code according to UCTZED, which does not prevent the identification of the transaction, its contents, goods, services supplied, periods, parties and amounts of tax liability, is the basis for."
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-22-m1.u77	Please give us a chance to finish. How much? Let me finish. As long as it takes, you'll report as much. That's an important question. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-22-m1.u78	"is the basis for the buyer's taking tax amounts to tax credit." Point four. Paragraph 19 should be supplemented by a new sub-paragraph 121.4: on the application of fines in case of admission and failure by the seller of errors in the determination of mandatory tax requisitions, the contents of which are set out in the comparative table to the bill on page 21. Fifth. To supplement the bill with rules to ensure the fragmentation of the VAT special regime for agricultural producers in proportion to 75 per 25, as a result of the declaration of the reporting period. Second unit. It's about excise taxes. First: increase the excise duty on beer, ethyl alcohol, and alcohol by 50 percent instead of the 100 percent proposed by the project. These are changes to sub-paragraph 215. 3.1. Paragraph 215. 3 Ukraine’s Tax Code At the same time, excise taxes on alcoholic beverages obtained through the race of grapes or grape leeks, provided for in Section XX, Subsection 5 of Section "Transitional positions" of the Ukrainian Tax Code, increase by 50 per cent from 1 April 2016 to the rate applied in 2015. The other one. Set the rate of excise duty on fuel to a motor alternative of 141 euros per 1,000 kilograms, which takes into account the constituent part of the biocomponent (30 per cent) instead of 112 euros per 1,000 kilograms, as foreseen in section 5x of the Section "Transitional Positions" of the Ukrainian Tax Code for the period from 1 January 2016 to 30 June 2016 with the corresponding adjustment of this rate, provided for in paragraph 215.3.4 of the Ukrainian Tax Code, by replacing the rate of 84 euros per 1,000 litres with a rate of 120 euros per 1,000 litres. The committee did not support the proposal for a bill to increase the specific excise duty rates on tobacco products, tobacco and industrial substitutes for tobacco, as well as a minimum excise duty on excise duty on tobacco products by 40 per cent and ad valorem rates by 3. Different options were considered, the final decision was not taken, so we have to determine the question in the hall. Four. In paragraph 9 concerning changes to subsection 5 of section "Final positions" in the text under technical circumstances, there are no two paragraphs contained in the comparative table. So these paragraphs have to be transferred to the text of the bill. These paragraphs apply to the approval of the form of the fuel inventory and the possibility of correcting the data specified in the excise note in the event of an impossibility of the actual inventory act. Next section 3 on rent payments. Paragraph 68 of the bill amends paragraph 256. 3 interest rates for special use of forest resources increase by 40 percent instead of the bill's increase by 26.5 percent. The other one. In paragraph 64 of the draft amendment to article 252, paragraph 252.20, of the Tax Code, the positions in the table on the rate of interest on natural gas production of 70 per cent on natural gas produced in the implementation of joint activities contracts to be supplemented by the words “one of the sides of which is a corporation, whose statutory capital consists of a state share of shares, particles, ponds, their subsidiaries and/or companies of cooperatives, whose statutory capital is part of state-owned enterprises, including executed enterprises, and/or share of shares, particles, pails of households whose statutory capital is the state share of stakes shares, or the pooling of such legal persons”. Third. Set the wage rate for amber to 25 percent of the cost of the product implemented instead of 30, as foreseen by the project. This is a change to paragraph 255. 20. Chapter 4 on the income tax of natural persons. With a view to eliminating discrimination in the taxation of dividends received from foreign sources, it is proposed to amend paragraph 167.5.2 and paragraph 170.11.1, paragraphs 170, 11. And to establish that such foreign dividends are taxed at a rate of 5 percent, as are dividends received in Ukraine from residents of Ukraine who are taxpayers for corporate income tax. Fifth. As far as corporate income tax is concerned. The first is to introduce editorial technical and legal regulations on corporate income tax matters. In paragraph 23 of the bill, replace the words "this sub-paragraph" with the words "this paragraph." In paragraph 13, paragraph 24 of the bill replace the word "defined by accounting rules" with the words "defined by the financial results report, the aggregate income report" with the corresponding differences. Second, in paragraph 82, paragraph 2, of the bill, paragraphs 8 to 26 on the "Transitional clauses" of the application of taxes on the profits of enterprises to be excluded as requiring further detailed discussion and being included in the comprehensive bill. To supplement this with a new paragraph: paragraph 39, the calculation of the entity's tax revenue in 2015, the tax year, takes into account the requirements of paragraph 141.4, paragraph 140.4 of Article 140 in the edition that takes effect on 1 January 2016. Taking into account the above, and taking into account the need for resource enforcement of the Ukrainian National Budget 2016 Act, the Committee decided to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine a draft of the Ukrainian Law on Amendments to the Ukrainian Tax Code and certain Ukrainian legislative acts on ensuring the balance of budgetary revenues in 2016" (registration number 3688), submitted by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine as a basis and as a whole as a law taking into account the Committee's proposals.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-22-m1.u79	Thank you. Dear colleagues, reports, and the report are complete. And I'm asking you to sign up for two for two, two for the other. Please hold the recording. Babak Alona Valerievna, Self-Help faction, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-22-m1.u80	Please pass the word to Ostrecki.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-22-m1.u81	Dear colleagues, we were forced to work, to take this responsibility upon ourselves. And in fact, to provide technical assistance to the Ministry of Finance and the Government of Ukraine in order to prepare at least some approximate text of amendments to the Tax Code in order to draw up Ukraine's budget and show that the situation in Ukraine is not balanced. And I think we did it. The only thing, of course, was agreed yesterday by one editor, and today Minfin has made a completely different edition. So we've all seen how many licenses it took to read the committee head to clear out this low-quality text that was presented by the government today. I think we've done a lot of things. Yet, the issue remains unresolved, the issue of agrarians, who are still left with 25 percent security and no support for animal welfare. So, dear agrarian colleagues, all we've done for you has been able to make this dissipation happen on the basis of a declaration, not on a daily basis. But when you vote for this bill, consider that you will be deprived of any support from the state. And given the commitments that Ukraine has made to the WTO, you have the state taking support as a special one, and you're not going to get any subsidies for that, because their amount is limited to 3 billion dollars, right in your bracelets. So think carefully about whether you should support, or perhaps there is an additional compromise to support animal production, gardening, and vegetables. And the Self-Help faction will insist on that.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-22-m1.u82	From the Fatherland faction, Nemira passes the word "Alexandri Kugel." Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-22-m1.u83	As they say, they have sailed. If we took the text that Nina Petrovna is reading right now and said in any country that Parliament votes in favour of administration, we would think that we're just crazy. For five days we worked in a working group, for five days we met with the Ministry of Finance, who for six months ignored us, where we offered to prepare a joint editorial. You didn't get it the way you wanted it, we only offered to pay taxes. Unfortunately, in this editorial, fleas are so much that I think that even with all my respect for Nina Petrovna, it's very difficult to catch. I'll tell you, Nina Petrovna, the comments we've been able to see. Well, first of all, I want to hear the Prime Minister and the Ministry of Finance thank you for insisting and incorporating the standard, and notice that all contracts on land, even without registration, should pay the land tax. That's 12 million hectares of land, that's as much as the least, Mrs. Natala, 4 billion dollars, and thank Fatherland for that. Inadequacy. Tell me, please, you have the whole pension law you've heard here, our comments, cost 1 billion. How much can a pension be taxed? And we never vote for the Tax Code, which provides for the taxation of more than three minimum wages. Raise your hand in the government, who lives for 3,000 dollars? Then I'll believe you can tax it. For today, people.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-22-m1.u84	Please, 30 seconds, finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-22-m1.u85	We will never support the standard that is adopted in the first reading, but not included in the Tax Code, that the rent on gas for a state-owned enterprise that allows tariffs to be reduced for the population is only introduced from April 1. I ask you, Nina Petrovna, for an article on page 30 that deals with the taxation of prizes and prizes. I don't know who rushed out of the casino, but instead of two PDFs, there's a bet of 0.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-22-m1.u86	Please, from the Radical Party. Ten more seconds, please, Mrs. Alexander.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-22-m1.u87	Article 170 there for the lottery. And the last. Nina Petrovna, please note. On pages 52 and 54, our standard is "in the chronological order of VAT compensation." It goes on to say, "In accordance with the order of the Cabinet of Ministers."
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-22-m1.u88	Thank you. From the Radical Party, Halasyuk, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-22-m1.u89	Dear Volodymyr Borisovich! Dear fellow national MPs! So what's going on this year? The same as last year: the government is at the very last moment introducing a low-cost budget, which is the food budget, through which they try to take the last in the poorest, which does not contain development components. And today they're trying to make those changes to the Tax Code that are going to be the basis of that budget. I mean, there's a budget that they've agreed on, I don't know whether it's with the IMF or with someone, but definitely not with Ukrainian entrepreneurs, industrialists, or with Ukrainian society. And now we're told: support this tax base. So I want to draw your attention to just two moments that the budget is a budget when it does at least two functions. This first function is social protection, this budget doesn't do it, because 12 percent raise minimum standards when prices go up by 70, that's nothing. And the second function is the function of developing your own production. So the investment component even in bracelets, to an absolute extent, is less than last year. Gross accumulation is less than 12 percent, in all countries in Europe 20-25, in China 45. Less than 20 percent of that means slow economic death, and the government is offering us a quick economic death. So that's what it is about a budget that's anti-entreprehensive, anti-social. What about tax changes? For tax changes to become tax reform, there have to be two conditions, this is getting the economy out of the shadows, and this is ensuring economic growth, this is an investment incentive. So tell me, even though someone might say, how do these changes improve the lives of entrepreneurs? Are you saying we're reducing the pressure on the only social contribution? But we made it with Andrey Georges, with Oleg Lášk last night on a budget night of 0.6, which is still in effect on January 1. So where is tax reform here, and where is the budget that can correct the country's economic development trajectory? We're just tired of hearing what's coming next year.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-22-m1.u90	Please, 30 seconds, finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-22-m1.u91	Every year we're told there's going to be economic growth. If we don't sow today, where do we get the crops tomorrow? For three years and a number of negative, negative GDP results, Ukraine’s economy is falling. How many years does it take to admit that the government's economic policy is wrong? Mr. Prime Minister, this is an economy, not a toy.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-22-m1.u92	The opposition block of Dudenkov.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-22-m1.u93	Dear colleagues, honourable citizens, Bill 3688, as you can see, has been registered today. This is a disgraceful phenomenon when changes to the Ukrainian Tax Code are registered, which is necessary in order to vote on the Ukrainian State Budget Act for the following year on Thursday? To what extent will the Supreme Council of Ukraine as a whole and the national deputies of the committee be placed in such a position? When they're actually knee-deep, they're forced to read these changes both by the committee head and by all the other committee members, and in a hurry to analyze the bill. You can't let that happen, it's not reforming, it's usually propaganda. They do not offer any comprehensive approach to tax reform, but, yes, they are certainly business-friendly things. A representative of the Radical Party said: Show me at least one thing that would make the business of life easier. Thus, as such, we can call it, for example, a reduction of a single socrates to 22 percent, as an example, the preservation of a simplified system of taxation. Yes, of course, the agrarian sector suffered in some way, but given the systemic, complex approach to changing the administration of VAT that we tried to formulate on the committee during the discussion, it says that this bill is probably necessary for adoption. Why? Because the reform that was proposed by the coalition, as the representative of Fatherland said, we are voting. And you reformed your vote last year, the tax system, this bill partially corrects the flaws that were made last year. So we're proposing to support it, and as such, it's going to make things a little bit better in business, and it's already terrible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-22-m1.u94	Please, Lechchenka, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-22-m1.u95	Levchenko "Freedom", 223 district, city of Kiev. First of all, I'm talking to the people's deputies that we're now looking at a bill that's actually not included in the agenda and we don't have the right to look at it at all, society, honorable, difficult to say -- it's about our procedure. And now that we're talking about the end of the year and we have to take things in a hurry as they read them out of the voice, because if we don't, the country will collapse. So I have a question for the Minister of Finance, to the Prime Minister: why don't you vote down the agreement with the Republic of Cyprus on avoiding double taxation, why don't you vote now? How do you not vote out a bill on the elimination of private monopolies that abuse and destroy the economy in full, Ukrainian and control? Why don't you vote in the new Tax Code for progressive taxation, for luxury taxes, for the more you earn, the more you have to pay both business and a natural person? The Ukrainian people, the normal things in their voices, are thus not approved at the last moment. It's all just a continuation of the abuse of the oligarchy on you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-22-m1.u96	Please, to Davidenko’s word, one minute is invited. Please turn on the microphone, Deputy Davidenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-22-m1.u97	Dear colleagues, the elimination of specific agricultural taxes will cancel the benefits or, for example, raise the price of agricultural produce by 20 percent. And so the agrarians will lose over 18 million dollars. Billions of negotiable funds that we don't have today's bank resources or are very expensive. There will also be a complete destruction of the animal industry and the value added products produced today in Ukraine. So I encourage all the people who support the agricultural sector of Ukraine, which, I remind you, gives you 25 percent of GDP for today, not to accept, not to vote for these changes to the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-12-22-m1.u98	Thank you. Dear colleagues, we have concluded our discussion of draft Law 3688. I want to point out that he was fine in the daytime, just when he was put in the daytime order, he didn't have his number, which was then assigned to him in the apparatus. But all the other bills that we have in our decision are not in order on the day. In fact, by discussing this bill, we have completed a block of issues on the list of bills that we have passed in the decree, and others need special inclusion in the agenda. That block is the key, the main block that we were going to consider today, we've already discussed, my fellow dignitaries. The government's honourable representatives, the honourable deputies, the voting on those bills, obviously, will be held when we have a successful vote. We continue to have the laws of order for the day’s second reading. But I think it would be right for us to conclude today's meeting by discussing this block. Is there any understanding and support in the room? Well, then, dear fellows. Please, Mrs. Natala. I would like to point out those bills that we had in order of the day. There are still those who are not in the order of the day. We have to include them separately. At this evening's meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, I declare closed. Tomorrow at 10 a.m., our work continues. I ask you all to be disciplined in the hall tomorrow so that we can start our work without hesitation. Thank you. Happy birthday. Good-bye.
