ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-03-m0.u1	Good morning, dear colleagues! We're starting our work. We're starting our work. Please take your seats for registration. Please turn on the Rada system, Your Honor. Let's register. [[10:02:35]] 224 national deputies registered. I declare the morning plenary session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine open. Dear fellow national MPs! We're starting our work with an hour of questions to the government. I want to inform you that at 11 a.m. we are awaiting the arrival of President Peter Alexiyovich Poroshenko and President Martin Schulz of the European Parliament. Dear colleagues, during the visit of the President of the European Parliament, Mr. Schulz will be the first to speak to the Ukrainian National Deputies. Dear colleagues, let's move on to "the hour of questions to the government" according to the written proposals. I invite you to the floor (regulation – 10 minutes) of Minister of Agriculture and Food Alexi Pavlenko. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-03-m0.u2	Dear national MPs, distinguished journalists, invited guests! I want to answer a number of questions today that have been asked by the national MPs and briefly provide general information on the state of both spring and field work and the harvest, as well as questions related to our European integration. The first information is very important. I mean, spring-field work is done. It was the most difficult campaign in the history of Ukraine. It's been successful in spite of the substantial increase in the core components, and that, we know, is fuel, ZD, fertilizer, seeds, despite the lack of budget support and fighting on Donbassa. Agrarians were somewhat delayed at first because of weather conditions, rainstorms, especially in the southern region, prevented early grains from being planted in the planned ranges. But the situation was resolved by the wheels, along with the regions levelled the soybeans by means of later cultures. As you can see, according to the information, more planned crops have been planted in us with very bright late cultures. But the main components are the plans. This is also true of the Greeks, this is 20,000 hectares, 96 percent of the planned areas. With 104, Soy 104 percent, corn at the planned 4.3 million hectares, 98 percent. So the planned quantity is equal and we're moving in the right direction in the right direction, done according to the overall plans. The total area this year was 26.5 million hectares, at the level of last year. It is very important that all those who, you know, thought and said that Ukraine would be without bread, the soybean would be unsuccessful, in fact, the soybean finished completely successfully and there was no empty land in Ukraine. In general, the crops are in good and satisfactory condition. The grain wedge is now 14.8 million hectares, of which 4.9 million hectares are winter, and 6.9 million hectares are heavy grains. It is expected that the new year’s harvest will reach at least 60 million tons. Gradually, the devaluation of bracelets, sharp increases in prices for oil, energy, and natural gas made it difficult. These were important interventions, which were an agrarian fund, both during the crisis with the devaluation course, which we were able to manage in time the panic situation on empty sticks, and, accordingly, even considering that the agrarian fund did not receive additional government funding, it was still able to advance 750 million dollars of the forward planning campaign and the purchase of grains. The actual cost of agriculture was 67.6 billion dollars. I want to point out that this is a very serious figure, compared to the previous year, which was 42 billion dollars, this is a corresponding increase of almost one and a half times that the banking of these parameters is only 8.2 billion dollars and bank financing has been cut down quite significantly. This means that our farmers and peasants believe in agribusiness and it's now, and it's promising, and including, let's say, it's still profitable. This year, the breadcrumbs were preserved. But what I want to point out is that animals feel quite negative trends in 2014 and the overall situation in animals is quite worrying. I want to say that in January/May last year, meat, milk and eggs have been reduced by 3.3, 4.2 and 13 percent, respectively, with the total number of tops this year being less than 8 percent, the head of pigs by 3 percent, of sheep and goats by 7 percent, of birds by 7.3 percent. I would like to point out that a very important situation is now related to the milk industry. In particular, note the industrial slide: retail milk prices have increased by 45 percent, wholesale holiday rates by 21 percent, while purchasing prices at the grocery store has increased by 19 percent and from the population by only 8 percent. This is an important question that we're going to raise and involve the Antimonopoly Committee because we see that there's a rather disturbing and disturbing trend. The strategic solution is to stimulate cooperative movement in rural areas, particularly in the legislative body, and it is through cooperative movement that we also need support from the Supreme Council with bills. Ukraine will not only be with bread and milk but also with sugar, we expect to produce one and a half million tons of sweet food. Based on the remaining 560,000 tons, the soybean will fully provide the internal needs of the state at 1.7 million tons. It took place in all regions of Ukraine, including Lugansk and Donetskina, entirely in the areas controlled by Lugansk and Donetsk by the Ukrainian authorities. Accordingly, everything except the substituted fields in the ATO area is planted in Luhansk by 96 percent, and 99 percent is sown in Donetskina. I would also like to point out that out of 30,000 hectares of arable land under the Nouveau and Artemian regions, 6,000 hectares have been replaced and sown in grassland. Instead, in the temporarily occupied areas of Donbas, more than half the fertile land has not been sown. According to our data, this happened for the first time in the history of agriculture in this country, even in the post-war period of 1944-1945, there was more seed than during the Russian occupation. The agrosector in occupied areas is almost completely lost. Unfortunately, terrorists are not capable of peaceful farming. Lugansk and Donetskina, and Crimea, apparently expect serious food shortages. Of course, this will be very painful for Ukrainian citizens in these areas. Food shortages on the occupied Donbassy will increase prices even more, especially in the near future. Although they are more than double in these regions, we already see growth as such. The occupied Crimea remains a very painful territory for us. In about a half year and a half, Russian invaders lost almost everything that was acquired by Ukrainian agrarians for decades. It's almost completely destroyed and it's ridiculous to continue to destroy the engineering infrastructure, and the North Crimson Canal. The serious irrigation system that was built, we see right now that the so-called rice farm is almost completely destroyed and the overall negative effect from the lack of irrigation, we estimate at 350-400 tons of grain loss. And especially is the loss of Crimea, and we see that the head has fallen by more than 50 percent -- it's really a disaster right now. Accordingly, Crimea cannot feed itself, and the matter nearer winter will become sufficiently and quite serious. And I also want to point out that this year, including this year, is a record from the point of view of exports. Today we can sum up that in the marketing year 2014-2015, we have a record for Ukraine of 34.8 million tonnes of grain, including processed products, this figure is higher than the average of 1.6 million tonnes, this is a record for Ukraine. At the same time, we need to continue to maintain food security, taking into account the situation, the presence of crises, and the presence of instability in the East. So the transition rate in stocks is quite high, it's 11 million tonnes, and of these, it's 4.9 million tonnes of wheat, 1.8 million tons of food, about 5 million tons of corn, and in Ukraine there's enough food, including food security. I would like to point out that we are very seriously continuing the direction from the point of view of cooperation from the Mini-Infrastructure in the trans-shipment of grain products, including, in terms of improving logistics. And the actions that were proposed during the deregulation of the revocation of certificates, including the quarantine certificate, have a fairly positive effect on the overall logistics system, both in port and rail transport. We also have information that, at this point, there are huge queues in some ports, but the work, we're moving smoothly with the Ministry of Infrastructure, and we hope that in the coming weeks, the processes will be resolved. One issue was the involvement of investment projects in agrarian activities. In February 2015, the signed Memorandum between the Government of Israel and the Government of Canada on Guarantee Assistance of 19 million Canadian dollars for equipment, training, practical and methodical assistance to farmers who own households in Zaporziska, Mikolaiivski, Odessa, Hersonian. The project is actively moving, the project has shown its success, and almost 5,000 Ukrainian farmers will receive modern education and practice in both Israel and Canada during the project. A project with the World Bank from irrigation systems is actively moving. I am very grateful to the deputies in the Herson region who are taking a very active part in this project. The project is at an active stage, and it's already in the process of technical analysis. And the first work of a group with the World Bank that went through South Ukraine, I'm asking for a little more time, showed a pretty big need for the irrigation system. Now, for your understanding, there are 82 percent of them, and investment in the irrigation system can have a very serious impact on fertility in these regions. I would also like to point out that in April 2015, HTZ, together with the Finnish company Sampo, signed the Memorandum of Cooperation and a joint production plan, and the sale of the fifth-class grain harvesters, "HTZ-3075", "Sampo 3075 Superior". Since the following year, nearly 200 combines are planned.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-03-m0.u3	Please finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-03-m0.u4	In June 2015, including the signed memorandum with the European Investment Bank for 400 million euros in support of credit, as well as the agricultural sector. I want to point out that today's banks are global, such as EBRD and EMC, including declared that the agricultural sector is a priority for lending, for investing in Ukraine. In particular, I'd like to point out the help that the FAO sent to US$800,000 for victims in conflict areas, namely Donetsk, Lugansk region. It was a separate aid that was formed both by seed and by food in the regions. One was a program for 500,000 seeds, wheat, and corn, which went to feed cattle, also in these regions. Some major projects relate to construction, and at this stage the construction of both the "Bunger Terminal" company in Mikolayev and the "Ulfitz" company in the 2nd round of the extraction complex is being completed. CCS plants in Western Ukraine are now being built by seed, including the construction of other manufacturers — American, French, and seed business. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-03-m0.u5	Thank you. Please, Your Honor, Paul Dmitrovitch Petrenko, Minister of Justice. Ten minutes. Please, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-03-m0.u6	Good afternoon, distinguished national MPs! Today, I would like to dedicate my report to the questions that apply to every Ukrainian. You know, the Ukrainian Parliament adopts tens and hundreds of laws. But literally, the units of these laws apply to every Ukrainian, the laws that apply to improving the lives of a small Ukrainian, whether in the areas of deregulation, or in the field of registration, services, or in the area of deburocracy or the fight against corruption. There are very few such laws. And that's why when Ukrainian citizens watch our battalions in the session hall with you after a bill or another and don't understand why Ukrainian parliamentarians spend time, their time, the time of taxpayers, when they don't vote on the changes that can be felt right now. I'd like to present to you a package of laws that was developed by factions of the coalition together with the government. These laws apply to the very life of millions of Ukrainians. This is about decentralization of services and registration services provided by government authorities. You know, only in the Ministry of Justice do 21 million Ukrainians turn to our organs every year. And it's only in the Ministry of Justice that 5 million registrations are done in these organs. How did our citizens feel about these services? Bureaucrats, queues, bribes, and tens of thousands of hours of government time in dark offices when the Ukrainian is a hostage of the will of a government official who refuses to do his duty. So we proposed a big change package, that change packet that applies to every Ukrainian. Yesterday, these changes were in the order of the day. Unfortunately, because of the long discussions on political issues, you have not been able to reach them and take the first step towards simplifying the lives of Ukrainians in the field of services provided by the State to these citizens. These are four laws: 2981, 2982, 2983. This is about decentralizing services in the area of business registration, real estate, transferring these functions to local authorities: cities, villages, district centres, demonopolization of these services and transferring these functions to notaries, when, in addition to local self-government authorities, 8,000 notaries who are prepared business and real estate registration offices will be able to provide Ukrainians with a high-quality, transparent service during company registration, when amending the statutes, when registering an apartment or a building or a land plot. It's the services that Ukrainians now have an association of bureaucracy, bribery and contempt for the common citizen who comes to the government. The Ministry of Justice is the first ministry to renounce its authority. My predecessors have spent many years concentrating on business registration and real estate. Sadly, the goal was to concentrate corruption and collect bribes from all territories in this direction. We have decided that the Ministry of Justice gives its full authority over the registration of business and real estate to local authorities and notaries. Moreover, we give both the money and the budget. It is almost a billion dollars that receive small budgets for cities, villages, and district centers. These are the funds that can be used to repair roads, repair kindergartens, and build new high - quality service and service centers. You know, if these laws are adopted, I still have that hope, for the last session week of the current session, then literally in August, Ukraine will be able to feel the real changes that relate to their relationship with the authorities. Let me give you some simple examples, and I'll give you some information that's been done since the beginning of the year. First. About 1.5 million dollars. There have been cases where the relevant citizens have been approached by our authorities for statements, aids and extracts, thanks to you, thanks to the position of the joint government and parliament at the beginning of the year, we have decided that these documents can be obtained online through electronic services. In just two months of the online service system of the Ministry of Justice, about a million people came to our site, 35,000 people got these services through the Ministry of Justice's online service system. In fact, the queues, which were the main business registration card of our offices, are gradually falling because 20 percent of citizens have switched to electronic services. Another example. Questions about cooperation between the State and notaries. We've already transferred the registration functions of the leases to the notaries. This was a huge problem last year, when in fact our peasants were forced to stand in line to register their legal right to land with a civil servant. They went seven rounds of hell. At first, they went to the land cadastre, where they demanded a few pieces of evidence, then went to the village council or to the state administration for some documents, then went to the State Register of the Ministry of Justice. And that went on for months. We've introduced a system when these services are available in the notary. What I'm saying is that in agrarian regions, the queue problems have been virtually eliminated, because 8,000 notaryuses have been used to provide these services to Ukrainian peasants. So, you know, there are a lot of bills and a lot of reports from this rostrum that say that you can reform and improve the lives of Ukrainians or change that state. I'm now proposing that we don't do big projects for the future, but that we concentrate and adopt the simple but understandable laws that will give him a sense of change tomorrow after the law becomes effective. I mean, these four great laws were drafted and signed by 30 people's deputies of coalition factions. I'm grateful to the leaders of the coalition, I'm grateful to Oleg Valeriyovich Lazko, I'm grateful to Yuri Vitaliyovich Lucenka, I'm grateful to the faction of the People's Front, Self-Help, who joined us in this work. There's only one small step left, we need to adopt these laws and immediately after they become effective, all the business and real estate registration powers will be demonopolized. We're translating most of these services into electronic formats. We're cleaning bureaucracy, we're cleaning up a lot of documents, forms and evidence that used to be a bad line of government work. And basically, the state and the government official who's assigned to Kiev, who's not loyal to a citizen who lives in a small town, he's getting out of this process. Only the local authorities, only the Notaryus, as an interested private entity, will provide quality services, and this service will apply to any Ukrainian who will be able to obtain without bribes the service he deserves, for which he pays taxes. So, dear colleagues, I am addressing the leaders of the factions of the coalition, I am addressing the people's deputies, the bills that were drafted under the leadership of Mr. Groysman's working group, Vladimir Borisovich, those bills that were actually developed on examples, positive examples of the work of local authorities. The City Council of Winnica, which, contrary to legislation, was able to do a good service to citizens in spite of the positions of the central authorities. Similar positive examples are found in Lucca. Now we have the same positive example, despite the lack of law, we plan to do it in Odessa, in the Kyiv region, in Kiev. These bills require Ukrainian citizens. These bills may not be as populist and loud as those adopted in this room. But these bills apply to every Ukrainian. So I very much ask Mr. President of the Supreme Council, if today is possible, to put these laws in the first reading. If not, at the beginning of the next sessional week, it is literally Tuesday that there are four laws that will allow real decentralization of powers and simplification of business in Ukraine. We have a local election ahead of us. In these local elections, in fact, new, updated local councils will perform functions of real local self - government in Ukraine. We propose that, in the light of fiscal decentralization, we hand over to these communities the authority to introduce services, to provide services to citizens. Along with the money, along with the debarcation and simplification of these services. So, honourable people's deputies, this will be a real gift to our citizens who will just stop talking about us with you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-03-m0.u7	Please give me 30 seconds to finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-03-m0.u8	And they're really going to feel that the state, that's the body that provides services and helps a person, not an enemy. So I urge you all to have us back up to the end of this session by the end of the coalition bill, joint government and coalition work. And they have really improved the Ukrainians that they will experience from the first day that these laws will be passed. Thank you. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-03-m0.u9	Heroic glory! The report invites Deputy Minister of Infrastructure, Vladimir Volodymyrovich Omelyan, head of the apparatus. Five minutes, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-03-m0.u10	Mr. Chairman, distinguished national MPs! The Ministry of Infrastructure received three questions. I'll try to comment on them as quickly as possible. The first question concerns the work of "The Stork" and, in particular, the services it provides, and the price for these services. I wanted to comment on this. That the cost of a particular type of road work is formed solely from design and cost-saving documentation by standards and standards. At the same time, depending on geography, terrain, geological conditions, the price may vary. Today, the estimated cost of repairing one kilometer of road 1 and 2 of the technical category is between 15 and 40 million dollars. The current repairs range from 3 million to 15 million dollars. One square meter [183 m] to 469 grevens, depending on the technology of doing the work. Construction, reconstruction, capital, and current average repairs are done in the vast majority of private construction companies. At the same time, money has been introduced by our ministry. There's a separate section on the Ministry's website where there's an interactive map. Any person who wants to tie the real quality of the work of those resources that have been spent on repairs to reality and report to the Ministry on-line. The second issue involved personnel policy and, in particular, aviation. I would like to remind you that the Ukrainian Act on Central Executive Authorities stipulates that the activities of the central executive authorities are directed and coordinated by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine through the relevant ministers. Article 18 of the Act stipulates that the Minister shall make a proposal to the Prime Minister of Ukraine regarding the appointment of the head of the central executive authority and at the suggestion of his supervisor regarding the candidates for his deputy office. Antonyuk Denis Yuriovich's appointment as Head of the State Service was carried out by the Cabinet of Ministers on the basis of the submission of the ex-Minister, Mr. Burbak. At the same time, yesterday, during the College of the Ministry, the Prime Minister decided to remove Antonyuk and initiate an official investigation into his activities in the State Service. The ministry sincerely hopes that, finally, this time, because we've initiated the service investigation more than once, the case will be brought to a logical end, and all the points above the "and" will be placed. At the same time, we are working hard to break the existing situation in Ukraine. This is a demonstration of what we do in Lviv is "open heaven," in Odessa. This year we hope to sign open skies with the United States of America and the European Union. It's about Wizz Air. Wizz Air actually went, first of all, for economic reasons. It was a long consultation, as well as with the Wizz Air management in Ukraine, as well as the central office. The decline in the purchasing power of the population, the Nazbank restrictions did not allow for the development of this company, which was on the IRO, and the negative profitability of their flights in Ukraine was reflected in the value of their shares in the world markets. But we think Wizz Air will return to Ukraine. We're in negotiations with them all the time. They are currently performing most of the flights they received. Italy, they're now, hopefully they'll get it soon, we're working on it. I'm ready to show you the numbers. It's extra separate for you. Thank you. There are queues in the ports, including the South Port of Car Delays. There are queues available, but they are not large. At the same time, I would like to report that only the Crucifixion has increased the volume of grain transport several times. We keep this issue under constant control with MinAPC, with our subordinate organizations. New capacity for processing grains at South in 2015 and the number of cars processed per day with grain increased almost twice. In each city where the seaports are located, we set up suitable playgrounds for the growth of grain cars and the conduct of dispersion. Since it's mostly in private hands, we're talking to private companies to make it happen as fast as possible. For one thing, delays are also related to the need for laboratory analysis of grains, but this is already a matter for MinAPC. If the emergence of car queues that do not have the authority of the Ministry of Infrastructure depends on the infrastructure of the port itself and on the ability of the terminals to ensure the timely handling of the grain in large quantities. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-03-m0.u11	Thank you. The first Deputy Minister of Culture, Igor Dmitrovitch Lichovov, is invited to attend, in up to five minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-03-m0.u12	Good afternoon, distinguished national MPs. At the Ministry of Culture, there were two clusters of questions related to the preservation of the national cultural heritage. The first is about Ukraine's entry into the International Center for the Protection and Restoration of Cultural Acquisitions. I would like to remind you that last year's Cabinet of Ministers' Regulations on the Implementation of the Association Agreement between Ukraine, on the one hand, and the European Union, with the European Atomic Energy Community and their state members, on the other hand, includes a plan of action that approves a list of priority actions aimed at reforming the cultural sector. Ukraine’s Ministry of Culture has prepared a draft Law and is in agreement with the Ministry of Economic Development, Minfin, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, and Minust, and is now being submitted to the government. The bill is being drafted in the Cabinet of Ministers’ secretariat and will be brought to the attention of the government in the near future. Following the approval of the Supreme Council of the Act, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of Ukraine will send an official application to the Director-General of UNESCO for Ukraine to join the International Centre for the Study of the Conservation and Restoration of Cultural Values of ICROM. Minculture deals with the definition of the National Reserve "Sofia Kyivska" as the national coordinator of the noted international centre in Ukraine. The experts who work today at the National Reserve of Sofia Kyivska have the appropriate qualifications, have already been trained at ICROM, and we believe that they will be worthy to represent us in this respected organization in the world. The second block of questions relates to the resolution of the situation of the return to Ukraine of the so-called "Crime-Gold Island in the Black Sea" collection of a number of Crimean museums that were exhibited in Bonn, later in Amsterdam, and in connection with the famous events of the spring of last year, are now in Amsterdam at the Allard Pierson Museum. At present, the Ministry of Culture is leading the entire direction of work aimed at returning to Ukraine the cultural values that have been entered into the State Museum Fund. Along with what you understand, there are problems in court, international court, issues. And the Museum of Allard Pierson avoids particularly active contacts with the Ministry, because the time frame for the temporary transfer of state-owned items to the Museum of Ukraine in the amount of 565 museum objects, 2111 units of preservation, according to the right to export cultural values from Ukraine, ended in June of last year. Despite this, the Ministry of Culture has repeatedly stressed that museum objects located in the territory of the Kingdom of the Netherlands in Amsterdam are state property of Ukraine, national wealth, and an integral part of our nation’s cultural heritage. However, in view of the delay on the part of the Museum of Allard Pierson, the signing of an agreement to continue their exposure to the National Museum of History of Ukraine, which is the main custodian of these museum objects, exhibits are considered illegally exported from Ukraine. Minculture has initiated the issue of the return of these values to the established law of order, as well as the creation of an interministerial working group on the settlement of the dispute over the return of cultural values to Ukraine. A legal adviser was involved and a legal adviser was consulted by the Ministry of Culture on a regular basis. The State in court is represented by the Ministry of Justice of Ukraine in accordance with the order and exercise of the protection of Ukraine’s rights and interests during the settlement of disputes over cases involving a foreign entity and Ukraine. The questions about coordination of actions, let's say that the Ministry of Culture of Ukraine together, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, the Ministry of Justice, and the Ministry of Internal Affairs and the Chamber of Commerce and Industry are making every effort to do so.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-03-m0.u13	Thank you so much! Do you want to quit? Thank you so much! Dear colleagues, we now have half an hour to question the government. I'm asking you to take your jobs, who wants to sign up and point out that we have half an hour's notice, and we have half an hour's notice, which should be asked by factions, by ministers, and factions are asking in writing a question so that we don't have the kind of conflict as we did the previous Friday. The factions ask written questions, ministers answer them. It'll be half an hour from the deputies. If a faction or group does not fall into the list, it does not mean that they will be given a single word. That is why I ask that I write carefully and responsibly on the question, and we are a responsible Parliament. I'm asking you to do the recording. Please sign up for the question. Kiral Sergey Ivanovich, Self-help.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-03-m0.u14	Thank you for being able to ask questions. I have a question for you. First question to the Minister of Finance, Mrs. Jaresko. Ms. Natalia, your position on the possibility of supporting these international cooperation programmes with international financial organizations, including 100 million euros from the Polish Government, which they are waiting for today's decision by the Ministry of Finance, as well as from the European Investment Bank on infrastructure projects that require State guarantees. And the second question. In the Ministry of Infrastructure, it's very good that, at last, the President's appointment and, in fact, Saakashvili's initiative has been removed from Mr. Antonyuk's duties. I'm going to remind you that in fact, the entire Self-Help faction has been fighting since the beginning of the year for the demonization of the aviation market, which is a monopolized MAU. It's very good that this is a question at last.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-03-m0.u15	Thank you. As for the Polish loan, 100 million euros. I was just on the border that week, and we were looking at all of these border points that have already collected from all the supervisors their needs to improve to make the Polish border a star-crossing European border. We've already given the text of the agreement to the Polish side, they're now looking at the text, our comments on the text, and everything is moving forward. So I'm hoping that during the summer we'll sign it so that we can start direct work by autumn. About the European Investment Bank. It's actually a little bit more complicated because every project has to go through some clear procedures in Minfin to get government guarantees. But our goal now is to speed up all these investment loans as quickly as possible. So we have one goal: to do it as quickly as possible, not just to talk and sign, but to get money into the real economy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-03-m0.u16	I understand that this was more a comment to the Ministry of Infrastructure than a question. However, I wanted to confirm: indeed, yesterday the Prime Minister of Ukraine decided to remove Antonyuk Denis Yuriovich and to conduct a service investigation into the activities of the State Service in this office. In fact, the Ministry of Infrastructure has repeatedly drawn attention to certain points in the work of the State Service. Nevertheless, we have made considerable progress in Lviv and Odessa long before this investigation and will continue to make systematic changes in the aviation sector of Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-03-m0.u17	Thank you. Demczak Ruslan Evgeniyovich, "Block of Petra Poroshenko".
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-03-m0.u18	I give the word of Chubar Rephat Abdurahmanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-03-m0.u19	Please, Chubarov.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-03-m0.u20	Thank you very much. Dear colleagues, first of all, I would ask officials here from the rostrum not to show such, you know, shyness, let's say, in connection with the famous events of the spring of 2014. Directly, there was an attack on Crimea, the occupation of Crimea. And there's no need for extra diplomacy. But a question to the minister of justice. Order of the Cabinet of Ministers adopted on June 4 concerning the order of entry into the temporarily occupied territory and the order of departure. I'd like to say that we've captured Crimea. Human rights are violated. You know, Mr. Secretary, I'd like to ask you right away. Let's call a meeting tomorrow. We need to find out what happened. But especially me.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-03-m0.u21	Please, let me finish. 30 seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-03-m0.u22	What the people who want to go to Crimea are our relatives, our brothers, our diaspora -- they demand, the Ukrainian side requires that they have $1,000 of $200 to lose in Crimea. We directed all the Crimean Tatars that go to their brothers, through Moscow. Ukrainian officials say, "Go to Kharkiv go around Belgrade and then Simferopol." It's a disgrace to us. I'm asking you to call a meeting tomorrow to consider this.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-03-m0.u23	Thank you, Mr. Rephat, for that question. Indeed, it is not necessary to sound shyly and refer to events that took place last year. Last year, there was a capture of Ukraine’s territory, the annexation of Crimea, a shameful violation of all possible, not only international acts, but also human, moral events. And Russia is an aggressor country, and Putin is that person. which has actually become the epiphany of a invader like World War II. And there are no other options, and every civil servant, every Ukrainian citizen, every parliamentarian, has to comment on these events. As far as this decision is concerned. Mr. Rephat, I promise we'll meet tomorrow. It was an initiative of the border guards. I think we're going to find understanding there -- and we're going to remove any obstacles to Ukrainian citizens going into their territory, even though it's temporarily occupied by Russian invaders. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-03-m0.u24	Martinjak Sergei Vasilovich, "The will of the people."
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-03-m0.u25	Please pass the word to Litvina Volodymyr Mikhailovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-03-m0.u26	Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-03-m0.u27	Dear Mr. Minister! I am addressing the Minister of Agrarian Politics. You know how acute the problem of buying milk prices is today in people who survive by keeping livestock in their support farms. The price, I'll remind you, is 2 bracelets of 50. People are indignant. There's an appropriate bill. Do you support this bill to resolve this problem? And would you support the idea of setting the purchase price for milk, for example, as a percentage of the price of milk production? I understand the complexity of this problem. Along with the approach and vision in the Ministry of the APC, in order to resolve this problem and to make people's lives easier, more specifically, to support their survival. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-03-m0.u28	Thank you very much for asking, just in the presentation of this question we were talking about, this is really a very big problem that MinAPC is now focusing on, so any support that is, let's say, subsidizing, unfortunately, not now, you see in us the situation now, the budget is empty this direction, and the very important direction is the next. Look, now we've analyzed in the working groups the last questions of retail prices. Prices for milk have increased by 45 percent, a total of 21 percent, with prices rising by only 8 percent, so the price remains as high as 2 and a half. This is the question that we're now going to be looking at in conjunction with Mineconomy, with the Antimonopoly Committee, because the question is very simple, which is in the chain of so-called extra value, we're not seeing a fair distribution. What's at the minimum price of regulation, you're absolutely right, the question is complicated, because this goes against deregulation, we've now discussed this with the Ministry of Economics, so now we're going to look for, first of all, things that: (a) can support, let's say, not directly; (b) if there is. There will be additional, say, budget finance, that's the third one -- there's now 250 million animal support programs. We're going to approve this government program today. This compensation will be: (a) small, medium-sized head business and (b) farms. We also hope that our dairy and animal producers will be able to support us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-03-m0.u29	My wife, Alexander Ivanovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-03-m0.u30	Please pass the word to Oleg Barna.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-03-m0.u31	The Cabinet of Ministers, the Cabinet’s decree of 2000 (963) has created new positions of pedagogical staff, such as an English language teacher, a psychologist in preschool institutions, but these positions have not been included in the list of positions that allow retirement for years. So there's discrimination between teaching colleagues, and that also applies to medical workers. A corresponding project of the Ministry of Social Policy Order was blocked by a commission The Cabinet of Ministers since the 14th year, which is proposed to return to this issue after the socio-economic situation in the country has stabilized. I think a lot of people don't agree. And the third moment. If there are crimes and criminals, then it is time for the condemned to appear. Enough to cover the Chebotage, the hammocks.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-03-m0.u32	Please, who's answering? To whom did you ask? Government, give me an answer. There's no one here?
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-03-m0.u33	Yes. I'll tell you. Paul Rosenko. I want to say that really in connection with the reform of the education system, there are some questions about state optimization. We're going to deal with this issue together with Minoswita, Mr. Olege, and we're going to work it out again, and we're going to find maybe some solutions. Because it's really a question that you've asked, a very important one, especially in the modern conditions and challenges that Ukraine is facing right now, including children, their families in particular. So we're going to go back to that question.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-03-m0.u34	Thank you. Osuhovsky Oleg Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-03-m0.u35	Please give the word to Andrew Illenka.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-03-m0.u36	Andrew Illenko, the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union. I'd like to ask the representatives of the government's economic bloc. There are a number of urgent issues and one of the most important issues is that today in Ukraine there is an increase in debt from wages. This is a colossal problem. Today, according to official data, this is about 220,000 people in debt, actually 220,000 Ukrainian hungry families. Debt is increasing steadily, especially by June 1st, it already amounted to 1.8 billion dollars. And it keeps growing. The question is this: What action does the government take to stop this process in order to pay off debts to people? Moreover, many of these debts are state-owned companies, and how does it plan to avoid the social explosion that might result if this problem continues? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-03-m0.u37	I want to comment on your question from the point of view of the Ministry of Energy. In fact, paying wages, first of all, paying wages to miners is a very difficult problem, and when more than 5 billion dollars were allocated to government mines last year, and this year these grants are not available, it is very difficult to pay. Moreover, the work with trade unions is active, but it is also quite complex and low. Why? Because trade unions take a fundamental, fundamental position on the obvious cases of the need to optimize staff in some enterprises. There are obvious cases where we need to optimize there, the staff, on some mines, but the unions are resisting it. That's why there's real pay-out problems. In the Department of Fuel and Energy, we're able to withstand the debt on the coal miners' salary at the level, for today, about 250 million dollars, that's a huge amount. But I want to point out that every month we pay more than we pay. About 470 million dollars a month. So from the new year, we've reduced the debt from over 600 million dollars to. For today's 280. That's why this job is very hard, it's tiny, but it's being done, and everyone understands very well that in high inflation, payout is a priority. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-03-m0.u38	Thank you. Please, Gus Igor Volodymyrovich, People's Front.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-03-m0.u39	Good afternoon! Igor Goose, Volin. I have a question for Mrs. Jaresko. So that's the point. First. Mrs. Jaresko, your subordinate is our colleague, Roman Nasirov, who heads the fiscal service. Why was our colleague on May 5th, who was elected head of the fiscal service, today June 3rd, not a man in office? I ask you very much to influence Mr. Nasirov to give him the mandate of a member of the Supreme Council. And the second. Please note Volin Customs. With the help of 47 deputies who signed in the address two weeks ago, we did not allow Roman Nikituk’s region to take this position, which had already been agreed upon. But now there's a c.o. - his protégé. And these regions, the people of Kaletnik, are waiting for the situation to sink into the Volin Customs, the second in the country, to come back to the region. Please pay attention to this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-03-m0.u40	Thank you. First question and second. I'm meeting Mr. Nasirov today and I'm going to focus on the first and second questions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-03-m0.u41	Teras Dmitrovich's Silicon, People's Front.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-03-m0.u42	Please pass the word to Andrew Teteruk. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-03-m0.u43	First of all, I'd like to welcome Interior Minister Arsen Awakov to the fact that we've adopted some of the police laws and we're ready to set up a new patrol service on the streets of Kiev and other cities. Secondly, I am disappointed that the Minister of Infrastructure, Andriy Mikolayovich, did not come to answer my questions. And they're next. Why do we have tickets for some trains that cannot be bought, and wagons with empty seats? That's the first one. And second. The service at the Crucifixion is almost destroyed. Because it's not possible to call the service, and the pay service also keeps the customer on the line for a few minutes when the money is being dug up. We need to put order in either with this service or with those who serve it and make a fundamental decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-03-m0.u44	Unfortunately, today's minister is on his way to the Mikolai district. However, I am ready to answer your questions. For the first one. Just yesterday at the Ministry of Infrastructure, we had a meeting where we discussed a situation with a passenger mobile warehouse, where maybe additional trains are starting. For example, the Odessa direction: two extra trains are running, plus cars to transit trains. It's about hot lines and contact centres. We hope that by the end of this year, the electronic governance system in the Ministry will be fully reviewed, and we will be able to create a single ERA-based centre where all data will be public. And this is going to apply to the work of the contact centres, both the Ministry and the Railroads, the seaport administrations, the Crucifixion and other directions that we take care of. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-03-m0.u45	Amelchenko Vasil Vasilovich, Radical Party.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-03-m0.u46	Basil Amelchenko, Oleg Laschka Radical Party. Please pass the word to Yuri Chizmar.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-03-m0.u47	Yuri Chizmar. Questions to the Secretary of Defense. We've been mobilized, and we're expecting a new mobilization, another one. But there's already a complaint from enterprises that in the process of total mobilization, we understand that we have to protect the state, but in the process of this mobilisation, a lot of workers have already mobilized, which have provided basic economic activity without which no further work is possible. These are people who have received special training abroad. These are people who have a rare profession. As a result, businesses stop, and people leave. That's why we'd like, Mr. Minister, to settle the questions so that people will be taken away when they are mobilized, except for those enterprises that are essential. Because without a strong economy, we can't feed the army. In addition, there is widespread corruption in employment funds where unemployed people do not mobilize because they are difficult to find, and they do not even appear in the employment centers and the money is being shared.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-03-m0.u48	Please give me 10 seconds to finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-03-m0.u49	And the second question. We passed the Law on the Prohibition of Mobile Communications in the Army. We would be asked to clarify with the Minister of Defense if the army would provide special services, terms, and how much are we prepared to do so? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-03-m0.u50	Ladies and gentlemen, thank you for your questions. I'd like to say on the first question. We need to be clear that the formation of a special warehouse that is subject to the appeal does not involve the Ministry of Defence. The Ministry of Defense agrees with the proposals prepared by the Ministry of Economics. This job is going on right now. An offer will be made for a decision by the Cabinet of Ministers and a decision will be taken accordingly. We're trying to take into account the possibilities, but it's not the Ministry of Defense's competence. With regard to the Mobile Phone Prohibition Act, I would like to say that the basis for military management is communication. We understand clearly and there is an appropriate program. Today we have prepared contracts for the purchase of the most modern means of communication, the ones that are now the best in the world. Contracts are being prepared for the purchase of the 750 million communications equipment that are generally available for the 300 million. Contracts will be concluded in the coming days, delivery will take 120 days. But of course, that money is not enough. As far as instruction is concerned, the use of communication tools is concerned. It will be further developed and will take full account of all your suggestions, including yours. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-03-m0.u51	Thank you. Please, Krivenko Viktor Mikolaiovich, Self-Help.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-03-m0.u52	The first question is short for the minister of agropolitics. What do we do with irrigation systems and projects in general? There's a great World Bank project going on. Please say two words. Second question to the Minister of Finance, because there is no Prime Minister. He said a month ago that all issues in July would be resolved after financing the construction of Ohmatdit. So far, according to our information, we can't figure out who's stopping the process or the MOH or the Ministry of Finance. I ask that this promise of the Prime Minister be fulfilled and in July we begin the physical construction of Ohmatdit. And a final wish to the Ministry of Defense. The Self-Help faction, under its insistence, included 200 million dollars for military education, 100 million dollars for the acquisition of equipment for the military department and 100 million dollars for the expansion of military education, and there is a military patriotic upbringing. The Plast Foundation of the Master Platon wants to hold a thousand men in a congregation for children from Slavyansk, Kramitarska. This is a question dealt with by Donetska and Lugansk.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-03-m0.u53	Please give me 30 seconds to finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-03-m0.u54	And the question is to find funding, 2 million dollars about. It's based on Odessa Medical State University to do the healing of these children along with the patriotic upbringing. We spent four trips that year with 120 children from Lugansk, just from occupied areas, children at the end of the two - week congregation speak Ukrainian, they sing the Hymn, and they become Ukrainian in two weeks. So the request to find a way to support this.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-03-m0.u55	Min APC. The irrigation system is located in five southern areas, now bearing 82 percent. The system in some is in a terrible state. At this point, there are three very important components: the part is in state property, the part in municipal property, the part in private property. Plus, some of the relay stations are in the DP, which are also scattered across different COVs and ministries. Created now separately with the World Bank, which was the result of our visit and negotiations in March of this year in Washington. Now a separate group, where national MPs are also involved, is very grateful to the committee and to the Hersonian deputies, who are also actively involved, are also water farmers and MinAPC representatives. The first direction is to create a technical analysis now. The other is the budget. And the third direction is to do separate legislation on changing this system right now. The irrigation system has to be in one or two COVs, or the only DP, and it's possible to get funding now. The World Bank is also willing to participate in financing. Yesterday, USAD was also confirmed to be involved in the work, and they also join the technical analysis and involvement of their best experts in how the irrigation system is supposed to work. The correct work of the irrigation system can at least increase fertility in the southern regions three times; it is strategically important for Ukraine's national food security as part of our programme to increase production in the APC. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-03-m0.u56	If I may add. Ladies and gentlemen, if you want the World Bank to work with us and give us additional credits and opportunities, we have to finish the work we started with them. Now we can't get $800 million on one program, and 500 on the other, which is 1 billion 300, which we can't get from them for months now, because two draft laws aren't adopted here, these are two draft laws that aren't passed here, these are 2029ths and 2966s. I promise you, if we continue this approach, we'll have less and less opportunities for new loans in any area -- that's the first. The other one. By "Ohmatdite," any problems that are and I haven't yet figured out what they are, and I promise you in July we'll let go, we'll speed up all the funds that will have the right documents for "Ohmatdite." All of it.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-03-m0.u57	Thank you! Rybchin Alexei Mikhailovich, "The Fatherland" faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-03-m0.u58	Rybchin Alexei, Fatherland, Doñecina. Request to give the word to a colleague of Yvchenk.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-03-m0.u59	Vadim Yvchenko, "The Fatherland" faction. I have a question for the APK minister. Tell me, please, you have 300,000 hectares of land in line when you're done with this land, that's the first. The other one. You've shown us terrible photos directly at committee hearings about those state-owned enterprises when decisions are made? And the third question. You've been showing slides today that we have increased exports almost there by one and a half million tons. So, according to the International Grains Trade Organisation, I think we need to focus on the product that gives added value, so on animal production, on the development of family farms and one-man farming, that's my advice. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-03-m0.u60	Thank you so much for asking. The first question, I am also grateful to the deputies from Fatherland, including the two Committees on Privatization and the Agrarian Committee, who are now taking part in privatization and dissuasion. Of the 570 companies that are now under Min. The APC and 200 are under liquidation and bankruptcy, only 96 are working, and only 15 of them on paper were profitable. Our position is that by the end of the year, the land will be given to the workers, the former workers, and, if you know, almost 100,000 people in Ukraine will finally get 23 years of pie and land ownership. First. The second question. That's the same thing as privatization. We work together in groups, the first 28 companies have already been transferred to the Trust Fund for Privatisation, the group works together with our Georgian colleagues and experts from the Supreme Council, and experts from the European Union within a separate work group on privatization. We're also going to propose, I think in the near future, our view of the competitive sale of some individual enterprises and we're also going to give it to the committees, and to the Supreme Council. And the third block of questions. Thank you for the questions about, let's say, the raw materials of Ukraine are no longer, you know, "Bradbasket," we're "footbasket," we're what we have to export, extra value-added products. That's why we're opening up dairy products in the European Union. By the end of the year, I hope that by the end of the year, the first five companies will finally be certified and able to export products at the added value of dairy products to the countries of the European Union, as we are now exporting appropriate chicken. And including saying that Kazakhstan, I want to say that our first eight companies were unlocked in the dairy sector, thank you for your fruitful cooperation with the Ministry of Economics. And they're starting to export dairy to Kazakhstan. So the focus is very large on value added products, just like that.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-03-m0.u61	Please, Shipko Andry Fedorovich, Rebirth Party.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-03-m0.u62	Thank you, Mr. Andrey. I have a question for Deputy Prime Minister of Vaschevska Valeri Mikolaiovich, Minister of Infrastructure of Pivovarsky. For several years now, the repair of the road, which is the dam of the 8th Kakhov watershed, has not been resolved. Today, there is a shift in the cover of the passageway and a significant passage of the ridge itself is determined. In the event of the dam’s breakout, there will be a flood of hundreds of thousands of acres of Nikopolski, the Apostolic Districts, and several cities, affected by tens of thousands. If the Kravtodore, who was supposed to be responsible for this area, took on his balance sheet and he had all the documents. First of all, it's established that this is a national path. The second is that the national highways coincide with the dam's ridge and the road maintenance fund operates separately from the dam. We demand that immediately, at the next session of the Cabinet, consider this matter and resolve it immediately, to protect our people.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-03-m0.u63	Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-03-m0.u64	Thank you for asking. It's not that complicated. I think we're going to take a look, and this road that goes down the dam might be on the balance sheet for the "Stealwood." Let's talk about the results in the next week. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-03-m0.u65	Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-03-m0.u66	If you don't mind, I'll just fill in a little bit more.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-03-m0.u67	Please answer.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-03-m0.u68	Thank you. The point is that we're currently doing a survey of all the dams and hydrotechnological buildings, we've jointly sent requests to the FRF and also to the European Investment Bank. We hope to receive a positive response from them in the near future, to study the real situation directly. Because there is a real threat. The next step is to repair the road itself. But as you can see, those things that happen to the bad road are primarily linked to the bad condition of the dam itself. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-03-m0.u69	Thank you. And one last question, Timish.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-03-m0.u70	Please pass the word to my colleague John Rybak.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-03-m0.u71	Please, Fish.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-03-m0.u72	202nd constituency, Cherniewec district, Ivan Rybak. I have a question for Mrs. Jaresko. Mrs. Natal, the point is that in Western Ukraine a number of areas that fall under the status of mountain resorts have been in such an unfair situation. In fact, today, due to the fact that there are minimum wages and everything, everything is 20 percent higher than in Ukraine, in fact, people pay more in Ukraine as a percentage of taxes. But today they are cut off from the budget. For example, in the region of Putil, the region of Cherniewets, the province of Vidinitz, has run out of funds to finance schools, kindergartens, and so forth. So I'm asking you to intervene in this matter, and you already have the MP's questions in the ministry on this matter, please decide. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-03-m0.u73	Thank you. We're looking at the first six months of decentralization right now, as it really was at every level, and we're going to be looking at areas in particular, because we see that they have these problems in the mountains. Thank you. Let's answer that.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-03-m0.u74	Until all our official guests, Babi Yuriyyyyyyovich, "The People's Front" came in.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-03-m0.u75	People's Deputy Babi, People's Front faction. I'd like to give the floor to my colleague, Maxim Burbak.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-03-m0.u76	People's Deputy Burbak, People's Front, 204 constituency. I have a question for the representative of the Ministry of Infrastructure. I am very happy with what you have to report. You've told us today about the positive disruptions and reforms in the Ministry of Infrastructure that were based on last year. But give me a specific answer to two questions. Question one. Please tell me, last year, the local councils of the hospital were transferred to a balance sheet in the area of the Department of Crossroads. To date, they are unbalanced, funded by local councils at their expense. When will this be done?
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-03-m0.u77	Ladies and gentlemen, I ask you to take your seats. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to inform you that we are now pleased to welcome you, our distinguished colleagues, the President of the European Parliament, our friend and guest, Mr. Martin Schulz and the President of Ukraine, Peter Poroshenko. [[Applause]] I invite you to the floor of the President of the European Parliament, Mr Schultz.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-03-m0.u78	Dear Mr. Head Groissman, distinguished colleagues, honourable members of the Supreme Council, ladies and gentlemen! It is my great honour and pleasure to be here with you today on this special day - the signing of the Agreement on Cooperation between the European Parliament and the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Ladies and gentlemen, this agreement will bring our two parliaments and our peoples closer together. For us as Europeans, peace and unity on our continent are ideals that we all cherish. Our common values are democracy, the rule of law, human rights and human dignity. They're moving the European project forward. During the Maidan Revolution, you rose up and demanded free elections. You went out to live in a society that is free, democratic and pluralistic. You chose the European path by signing and ratifying the Association Agreement with the European Union. And we welcomed your European choice. It was a brave choice. But when I think back for the last five and a half years, I am outraged by all the suffering that has beenfallen the Ukrainian people. I could never imagine, 70 years after World War II, 25 years after the fall of the Iron Curtain, that people in Europe would be denied the right to decide their own fate. I could never imagine that borders in Europe could once again be changed by force, that the architecture of peace that we were building together after the Cold War could be attacked and that the rule of law would once again take root over the rule of law, but it did. Ladies and gentlemen! What happened in Ukraine concerns all Europeans, not just you. This disturbs and disturbs all Europeans. We cannot simply stand by and see the fundamental principles of international society being violated. We have agreed on rules that should be followed by nations dealing with one another, and these rules apply to all. We cannot agree that larger countries force smaller countries to do what they want. We cannot agree that the rules of international law apply to one another, not to all. After the outbreak of the conflict and after the illegal annexation of Crimea, the European Union is working to find a peaceful solution. I fully support my own efforts, the mediation efforts of Chancellor Angela Merkel and President François Allend, but we need to face facts, there is no military solution to the conflict. All parties know very well that it is necessary to limit themselves, to restrain and refrain from starting a war, and to incite nationalistic rhetoric. History teaches us that overly excited moods can easily get out of control. Let me remind you of the words of the great American Martin Luther King. He said that the Old Law is an eye for an eye. It leaves everyone blind. So all sides and international societies have to do everything they can to prevent this situation from being completely out of control. And there's only one normal solution. And this is a political decision, with full respect, with full respect for Ukrainian territorial integrity and sovereignty, and a political decision can only be found with the Russian Federation. We don't have a choice. But we need to negotiate with Russia, while clearly pointing out that we will not give up our principles and there will be no going back to business, as always, unless the Minsk Accords are fully implemented. Unfortunately, after the signing of the second Minsk Treaty in February, we see provocations and daily violations of cease - fire and the continuation of violence, gunfire and human suffering. Accordingly, on June 22, the European Union continued its sanctions against Russia. We will continue sanctions until that day, we will continue sanctions until the letter and spirit of the Minsk Agreement are fully fulfilled and international commitments are met. We urge all parties to keep their word and to do what they have agreed to do. Support the ceasefire, bring out all Russian troops, arms and illegal armed groups and mercenaries supported by Russia, ensure full control of the border by the Ukrainian authorities and the exchange of arms. And to ensure decentralization reforms, as well as free and fair regional elections under the supervision of the OSCE. In June, the European Parliament condemned once again Russian aggressive policies, including information war, and the economic pressure exerted on Ukraine and neighbouring nations. We have made it clear that the return to cooperation with Moscow depends on Russia's respect for the territorial integrity and sovereignty of Ukraine, including Crimea. Ladies and gentlemen, dear colleagues, this week, triangular negotiations have failed, leading to Russia’s failure to supply gas to Ukraine. We urge Russia to return immediately to the negotiating table. We want to work towards a long-term solution that will prevent similar disruptions in the future and ensure the security of gas supply to Europe and Ukraine. Dear friends, respected colleagues, and the suffering of the Ukrainian people are astounding. Throughout Europe, we can only sympathize with the plight of those families of thousands of people killed in Maidan and in eastern Ukraine and the suffering of more than a million people who had to leave their homes. The humanitarian situation in Eastern Ukraine and Crimea is terrible. And humanity requires that humanitarian workers have access to people who need it. In the European Union, all Member States are the largest donors of humanitarian aid to conflict areas. But more needs to be done to overcome this tragedy. The Ukrainian people now face major security, economic, and social challenges simultaneously and on many fronts. Standard and standard of living are deteriorating for all ordinary Ukrainians. The economy has been suffering for 38 months, with constant industrial declines, massive inflation, and currency declines. Moreover, the conflict in the East is drawing more and more resources and energy and not allowing you to focus on economic recovery. And I repeat, what happens in Ukraine concerns all Europeans. And so during this difficult period, we encourage you to support increased support in your country by supporting a reformed process, by supporting economic development, and by rapidly providing macro-financial assistance. The European Parliament urges you, first of all, to pay attention to addressing the current financial crisis and the oligarchic structure of the economy. We encourage you to continue the ambitious path of reform that you have chosen. And we're on your side on this long journey. In the past, we have proven, our actions-supported words, the commission has allocated 13 billion euros to help stabilise Ukraine to help overcome the deepening social divides and boost economic growth. This support is based on the expectation that Ukraine will continue to implement its daily reforms. This is the strengthening of the rule of law, the reform of electoral legislation and the comprehensive constitutional reform and the enormous reform programme developed in Ukraine. I welcome you with this huge program, and I know that trust and stability will only be restored as a result of judicial constitutional and anti-corruption reform. We've all seen convincing progress from the complex reform of the natural gas sector, which has made this market more transparent and started the implementation of the third energy package, the establishment and creation of the National Anti-Corruption Bureau, the implementation of the IMF programme. But there is also much that needs to be done, both with your continued commitment and purpose, if the international community is supported, everything will be possible. Dear colleagues, I made Kiev my first visit during my second term as President of the European Parliament. I told the President that parliamentary democracy is exactly what people in Brussels value every day and so continue to build a strong parliamentary democracy. Dear colleagues, Mr. Prime Minister, distinguished ministers and especially fellow Members of the Ukrainian Parliament! I made Kyiv the first place of my official visit during my second term as President of the European Parliament because I wanted to show our solidarity with the Ukrainian people. After the simultaneous ratification of the Association Agreement, two of our parliaments on September 16, last year, I think it's the first time in history that our parliaments, I asked all my colleagues whether there was ever such a ratification at the same time. And I was told no, it must have been a historic moment when we and you ratified at the same time, at the same time, the Association Agreement. And I think today. Another powerful symbol in front of the whole world that we remain alone. Today's memorandum of understanding, which Mr. Groissman and I will sign on behalf of our parliaments, will be a common basis for our parliamentary work and the capacity-building of our parliaments. Ladies and gentlemen, I have here today with the members of the bureau of the Ukrainian Parliamentary Committee and here with me a colleague of mine, two other colleagues of mine. The committee will assist in overseeing and coordinating the implementation of the program. Together, we will strengthen the constitutional role of the legislative authority of oversight and representation in the Supreme Council. And I want you to improve the legislative process in your country by increasing the potential, the institutional potential of your committees. Our goal is to help you become a strong, effective and independent parliament, a parliament that will stimulate the necessary reforms and be able to develop a new generation's political culture. And even today, the Association Agreement with the European Union is producing some of the first fruits. I am convinced that in January 2016, when the agreement is fully concluded, the association with the European Union will open up new opportunities and bring new real benefits to your daily life. Dear colleagues, I am proud of your endurance, your willingness to remain steadfast. I'm proud of you because you're fighting, despite your political affiliation, you're fighting, despite the political boundaries, to build the best future for your country. And I encourage you, and I urge you, as legally elected representatives of my country, as members of Parliament, to carry out your task, and to use this historic opportunity to benefit your people. The day will come when this ambitious reform agenda will be implemented. And that will be the day when the hopes and dreams of the Mayan Revolution will become reality. From the bottom of my heart, on behalf of my colleagues, I wish the Ukrainian people success, I wish you strength, I wish you encouragement, I wish you patience in this difficult struggle. Because parliamentarians are called to serve. As a European parliamentarian, I know how difficult it is to do parliamentary work, which is difficult to do parliamentary work, but this means that people run the country through their representatives. And with that in mind, I wish you success, but not only to you, of course, but to you, through you and all the people of Ukraine. Thank you very much for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-03-m0.u79	Dear colleagues, according to our regulations, we now have a statement of parliamentary inquiries. And I'm handing over the word to read Oksani Siroid's enquiries. But I do have a request, a respected society, not to be separated, so that we can continue to work. Now, read the MP's questions. Please, Oksana Siroid.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-03-m0.u80	Ask the national MPs. Valentina Nichiporenka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for the preservation and provision of social guarantees to children of war and for the enforcement of court orders in their favour. Groups of National Deputies (Vanata, Romanovski, Solvara) to the Ministry of Infrastructure of Ukraine on the grounds for the cessation of the activities of the State Enterprise "Government of Industrial Enterprises of the State Administration of Railway Transport of Ukraine". Roman Semenha to the Attorney General of Ukraine regarding the provision of full, objective, prompt, and impartial criminal investigation into large - scale fraud. Oleg Osuhovski to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the rightfulness of the closure of criminal conduct according to the fact that two people were killed. Oleg Osuhovski to Prime Minister of Ukraine on the organization of compliance with the requirements of the Law on the Cleaning of Power. Alexander Suprunenka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the use of measures to restore prosperity in the land areas of Kiev in the use of the South West Railway. Alexander Suprunenka to the Head of the National Regulatory Service of Ukraine for taking appropriate measures to protect the rights of the capital goods.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-03-m0.u81	Dear colleagues, once again, I would like to emphasize to all factions, MPs! Today we're going to adopt the IMF's overwhelming laws. Therefore, it is a great request that we do not part! Staying in the workplace. Now it's the MP's request. As soon as we hold consultations, we will return to the hall and continue our work. Thank you and I'm sorry, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-03-m0.u82	We keep asking questions. Jury Derevyanka to the Head of the High Council of Justice on the provision of information on actions taken against judges, in accordance with the Ukrainian Laws on Restoration of Trust in Judicial Authority in Ukraine and on Cleanse of Power, including on judges who have passed a decision authorising violations of the Convention on the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms as found in the decisions of the European Court of Human Rights. Paul Rizanenka to the Ministry of Health of Ukraine regarding the use of measures to resuscitate hospitals with medicines for the treatment of children with primary (inborn) immunodeficiency. Paul Rizanenka to the Brovarsky City Head for the cessation of land laws. Andrija Illenka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, Vice Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Regional Development, Construction and Housing of Ukraine, Head of the Kyiv City Administration, First Deputy Prosecutor of Kiev, Interimly Acting Head of the Right District in Kiev, Head of the National Administration, Head of the Self-Governmental Authority of the Kiev City Administration, Director of the State Institute of Hygiene and Medical Ecology of the Marziev National Academy of Medical Sciences of Ukraine, to take immediate action in connection with the emergency state of the residential building and to extend toxin-producing mushrooms in the streets of Milutanka 23. Jury Wozniak to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Agriculture Policy and Food of Ukraine, on the promotion of the decommissioning and decommissioning of land in the continuous use of the National Academy of Agricultural Sciences of Ukraine. Dmitri Dobrodomov to the Attorney General of Ukraine, Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine, Head of the Kyiv District Council for the Abuse of Service, which resulted in significant damage, chief physician of the Kyiv District Board of Regional Dentistry, Romanov Georgiy Georgievicz, and the delay in the investigation of this case. People’s Deputies ( Welcome home, Dehtirczuk and others. A total of 6 deputies) to the Attorney-General of Ukraine regarding the public statement by the National Deputy of Ukraine VII calling Igor Skosar to receive Arsenia Yatsenuk a bribe of six million dollars. Groups of National Deputies (Matkowski, Cuba, and others) A total of 19 deputies) to the Ukrainian Minister of Health on the need to improve the quality and accessibility of medical services. Igor Popov to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for correcting errors in forming a competition commission from the creation of the National Anti-Corruption Agency. Sergey Kaplan to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, Head of the National Shareholder Company Naftogaz Ukraine, on the use of urgent measures to restore gas to the potency of Poltava and to provide quality services to residents from the provision of hot water. Olesia Long to the Minister of Infrastructure of Ukraine regarding the preservation of the post office that serves the villages of Biloserne and Ruchajka in the region of Novgorodkow. Olesia Long to the Minister of Education and Science of Ukraine for the preservation and functioning of the Sverdlva Public Education School and the degree of the Lightwater Region of Kirovograd. Vladimir Aresonkov to the Head of the High Council of Justice on the complaint of the National Shield Civil Society against the work of the judge of the Corstostisov District Court of the Zitomir district of Timothy Passky. Vladimir Aresonkova to the finance minister of Ukraine for the payment of debts for the equipment and car of Corostene County Central District Hospital. Jaroslava Markevich to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the insurance of the aviation risks of the state-owned company Antonov. Leonidas Hamtsa to the Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine on the need to conduct a service investigation at the State Inspectorate Department in the service of the Lviv Region Desert. Groups of National Deputies (Bondara, Iluka, and others) A total of 7 deputies) to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, the Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine, for the verification of compliance with the requirements of legislation on security zones along the main gas pipelines. Groups of National Deputies (Consumptions, Solvars, and others) A total of 5 deputies) to the Minister of Education and Science of Ukraine on the provision of information on the distribution of public procurement volumes between the higher educational institutions of Ukraine for public purposes in the 2015-2016 academic year. Vladimir Parasuka to the first deputy head of the Ukrainian Security Service, head of the Directorate-General for Combating Corruption and Organised Crime of the Central Security Service of Ukraine, for providing information on the legality of the enforcement of the Picette on the night of June 8, 2015, on the Mayan Independence and Legality of the holding of the Picette. Vladimir Parasuka to the Attorney General of Ukraine, Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine, on the theft of land for ATO participants in the village of Ivano-Frankov Yavorovsk district of Lviv region. Sergey Larina to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the protection of the constitutional rights of internally displaced persons to housing and a sufficient standard of living. Sergey Rudik to the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Committee on Law Enforcement, Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine on the update of Ukraine's management structure in the Cherkas region, its territorial units and the state of crime detection. Sergio Rudika to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on sabotage in open competitions for the election of heads of state-owned enterprises in the economy. Dmitry Lubinz to the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, the Ukrainian Presidential Administration, the Ukrainian Ministry of Defence, on responsibility for the Ukrainian diaspora of the world, namely, the Canadian volunteers who joined our troops in carrying out an anti-terror operation. Igora Aartushenko to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the elimination of the corruption scheme in the licensing of activities in the field of hazardous waste management. Igora Artushenko to the Attorney General of Ukraine, Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine, on the status of investigations into resonant criminal conduct. Mikhail Golka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, Vice Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Regional Development, Construction and Housing of Ukraine, on the increase in subsidies from the State budget of Ukraine for the Ternopil region. Mikhail Golka to the Attorney General of Ukraine, the Ukrainian Security Service, the Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine, temporarily acting as Head of the State Financial Inspectorate for conducting a verification of the facts of corruption in the field of public procurement in the field of medicine. Ivana Rybak to the Ministry of Infrastructure of Ukraine, Minister of Finance of Ukraine, for the allocation of funds for the construction of the bridge in the Zubrenetz town of Beregomet Černovetsek region. John Rybak to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the legality of the construction project of the office housing complex with built-in buildings and an underground parking lot on the 42-A science brochure in the Volossian district of Kiev. Vladimir Ariev to the Ukrainian Security Service on the need to intensify criminal investigations into the fact that money has been spent and legalized by former officials of the National Bank of Ukraine’s Corporate Non - State Pension Fund. July Lvivczany to Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Education and Science of Ukraine on the inadmissibility of introducing a moratorium on the outward independent evaluation of students living in the ATO zone. Groups of National Deputies (Macedona, Lesyuk and others) A total of 5 deputies) to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for the violation of the election procedure to the National Agency for the Quality of Higher Education. Alexander Dombrovski to Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine, Acting Commander of the National Guard of Ukraine for the granting of the status of participant in hostilities, participants in the anti-terrorist operation in the Donetsk and Lugansk areas, members of the military forces of the 3008 National Guard of the Ministry of Internal Affairs of Ukraine. Alexander Dombrovski to the Minister of Defence of Ukraine, head of the Heisin city council of the Winnick district for the transfer to the Heisin city council of residence No. 2 on Yellow Street in the city of Haisin of Winnitz. Oksana Korczynska to the first Deputy Director General of the State Railway Administration of Ukraine for the financing of the repairs of the railway in an uncontrollable Ukraine. Oksana Korczynska to the Ministry of Infrastructure of Ukraine for the financing of railway repairs in an uncontrollable Ukraine. Vladimir Husak to the Attorney General of Ukraine for the cessation of the pressure on the TV channel "112 Ukraine", the restoration of the rights of the television dictionary and the removal of obstacles to the establishment of freedom of speech in Ukraine. Viktor Razwadowski to the Ministry of Health of Ukraine, head of the Žitomir District State Administration for free hearing aid to Turkuk Anna Igorovna, born in 2014 in the village of the village of Vertokiyevka of the Žitomir region, in the area of Zitomir. Viktor Razwadowski to the Attorney General of Ukraine, Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine, Head of the Ukrainian Security Service, on the return of the debt on the payroll of the labour force of the former PAT "Miropil Paper Factory" village of the city type Miropil, Romanov district of the Žitomir region. Ruslan Sidorovich to the Attorney General of Ukraine for the review of the actions of members of the Provincial Prosecutor’s Office in connection with the refusal to submit applications to the Single Register of Probationary Investigations concerning the illegal release from the position of Mikola Stepkina. Anatolya Kuzmenka to the Ministry of Health of Ukraine for the provision of drugs to patients with transplanted organs under the state programme "Centralized Measures of Transplantation". Alexia Dustenka to the Attorney General of Ukraine, Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine, on the abuse of official authority by the village head of the village of Voronovici district, Vinnicki district. Igor Vasyunika to the Attorney General of Ukraine on violations of the rules of law. Eugene Dejaja to the Attorney General of Ukraine, the Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine, the Head of the Ukrainian Security Service, on taking urgent action to stop illegal activities in the Odessa area of organized criminal group and its leader, Timmerlan Osamov. Sergey Larina to the Ministry of Justice of Ukraine regarding the improper enforcement of Ukrainian legislation under the procedure for the registration of the Regional Organisation of the Political Party "Oppositional Block" by the Chief Territorial Administration of Justice in the Kharkiv Region. Irina Sisoyenko to the Ministry of Health of Ukraine to provide information on the needs of the population of Ukraine in donor blood and drugs made from donor cows and their components. Ruslana Knazević to the Head of Administration of the President of Ukraine, Attorney General of Ukraine, on the illegal actions of the Zaporez city head. Vladimir Litvin to the Attorney General of Ukraine, head of the Kyiv District State Administration for the Society's limited-liability "Maruna Agro". Vladislav Buharev to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on specific issues of concern in the implementation of the requirements of legislation on education in Lebedinsk, Ohtyrski, Trostyanski, Velikopisarovski and other areas of the Suma region. Vladislav Buharev to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the non-admission of the educational and advisory centre of the National Technical University of Kharkiv Political Technical Institute in the city of Tristanec Sumska District. Irina Herashchenko to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Defence of Ukraine, on failure to comply with article 6, paragraph 20, of the Ukrainian Law on the Status of War Veterans, Guarantees of Their Social Protection, as part of obtaining the status of a participant in an anti-terrorist operation by persons who, in the form of voluntary formations, defended the independence, sovereignty and territorial integrity of Ukraine. Igor Alekseyeva to the Ministry of Social Policy of Ukraine to assess the effectiveness of the State Employment Service's work by stimulating entrepreneurial activities of the population. Igora Alexeieva to the Ministry of Defence of Ukraine, acting as commander of the National Guard of Ukraine, for ensuring proper control of the distribution and registration of registration plates for the Ukrainian Armed Forces and the National Guard. Vasila Petovka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for the inclusion of individual enterprises in the Zakartat region for privatization in 2015. Vasila Petyovka to the Attorney General of Ukraine for a competition to replace the vacant posts of the head of the natural-intelligence fund. Jurija-Bogdan Suhević to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the abolition of one form of pension injustice, which is that for most ordinary Ukrainian citizens, every month their official work after July 1, 2000 has an impact on the reduction of pensions. Maria Ionova and Irina Herashchenko to Prime Minister of Ukraine, Ukrainian Minister of Health, for the purpose of sending for treatment abroad at the expense of the corresponding budget program of the newly born Solomonia Logwinenko, the daughter of the Ilowiska fighter of the 93rd Brigade of Vasil Logwinenk. Vasil Nimchenk to the Minister of Education and Science of Ukraine, Rector of the Lviv National University of John Frank for the violation of constitutional rights and freedoms to express freely the views and beliefs of the lecturer-scientist of the Lviv National University of John Frank. Taras Kozak and Vasil Nimchenk to the Attorney General of Ukraine for the delay in investigating the Dniprovov district of Kiev for murder. Ruslan Solvar to the Kyiv District State Administration, Makarov District State Administration of Kyiv Region, for the purpose of verifying the relevance of the restructuring of the Nižilovski Educational and Educational Union "General Education School I-III - Children's Garden" in the Makarov region of Kyiv Region. Mr. Andriyewski to Prime Minister of Ukraine for information on plans to reform the Kyiv administration and take into account the public's interests in the question of decentralization of power. Mikoli Kucher to the Ministry of Defence of Ukraine, Ministry of Internal Affairs of Ukraine, State Border Service of Ukraine, National Guard of Ukraine, State Service of Ukraine with extraordinary situations, Ukrainian Security Service with regard to providing information on the number of citizens sent abroad for treatment. Groups of National Deputies (Gusaka, Vasyunika, and others) A total of 5 deputies) to the Minister of Infrastructure of Ukraine on the introduction of the Regulations on the Use of Airspace of Ukraine in accordance with the Convention on International Civil Aviation. Sergey Labazuka to the Ukrainian Defence Minister for Social Support of the Families of Volunteers who died in the ATO zone. Bogdan Onfrik to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, Ukrainian Defence Minister, on the solution of the issue of the creation and financing of the centre of unmanned aircraft in the Montenegrin region. Dmitra Kolesnikov to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for the prevention of the negative environmental consequences of military events in Donbas and the front zone. Victoria Vojtsiecki to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the illegal privatisation of Pat Zakarpatíoblenergo. Dmitry Stóžuk to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the submission of the Prosecutor General's Report to Ukrainian citizens on the investigation of crimes in the Maydan killings and in the Ukrainian national security field. Jury Bublika to the Prosecutor of the Poltava District, Head of the Ministry of Interior of Ukraine in Poltavska District, on the inaction of employees of the Novosangara District Department of the Ministry of Internal Affairs of Ukraine in the field of criminal investigation of illegal hunting in the Senevo hall with a useful aim of helping the guilty to avoid criminal responsibility. Valentina Nichiporenka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for not allowing the closure of the Dashukowa Public Education School of the Lysian region of the Cherkas region. Groups of National Deputies (Herachenko, Jonah, and others) Only 4 deputies) to the Authorized President of Ukraine from the rights of the child, the Ministry of Education and Science of Ukraine, the head of the Donetsk Regional Military and Civil Administration for the restructuring of boarding school No. 1 by joining the educational complex No. 10. Andrija Illenka to the Deputy Prime Minister of Ukraine - Minister of Regional Development, Construction and Housing of Ukraine, Head of the Kyiv City State Administration, First Deputy Head of the State Mining and Industrial Security Service of Ukraine, temporarily acting as Head of the Right District in Kiev State Administration, Director-General of the Society with limited responsibility for protecting the interests of the people of the Desnjan district of Kiev in connection with the absence of elevator equipment in the residential building on Kurchatov Street, for 7 years. Vadim Krivohatka to the Minister of Agriculture and Food of Ukraine for the period of mobilization of key specialists in agriculture. Andrea Shipka to the Ministry of Defence of Ukraine for the transfer of military town No. 29 to the city of Nnipropetrovsk. Andrija Shipka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the implementation of measures to improve the regulatory framework for the functioning of the grain market with a view to prejudiceing negative processes in the production and consumption of grain and the formation of grain prices. Andrija Gordjeeva to the Ministry of Internal Affairs of Ukraine on the use of necessary measures and personal control for the purpose of full, prompt, objective and impartial investigation of the crime committed by Zemplin Partners LLP, qualified under article 190 of the Criminal Code of Ukraine, which was incorporated into the Single Register of Investigative Investigation No. 1,5100030005402. Andrija Gordjeeva to the Attorney-General of Ukraine on the supervision of the law enforcement of internal affairs bodies that conduct a pre-trial investigation for the purpose of full, prompt, objective and impartial investigation of the crime committed by Zemplin Partners LLP, qualified under the fourth article of article 190 of the Criminal Code of Ukraine, and the use of effective criminal management measures under Criminal Procedure No. 1,5100030005402. Igora Shurma to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on failure to comply with Presidential Decree No. 128/2013 on the implementation of the 2010-2014 Economic Reform Programme, part of the National Assistance Project. Igor Shurma to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the unsatisfactory work of the Ukrainian Ministry of Health in providing serum against botulism. Andrija Lopushanski to the Minister of Energy and Coal Industry of Ukraine, the Minister of Economic Development and Trade of Ukraine on the cessation of the market in oil products of the smuggled, counterfeit fuel and the development of the domestic oil industry. Alexander Marchenka to the Attorney General of Ukraine, the Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine, the Head of the State Service of Ukraine on geodesy, cartography and cadastral issues concerning the legality of the transfer of land to private owners of the National Academy of Agricultural Sciences of Ukraine. Groups of National Deputies (Vojcecko, Leszczenka, Podliseckik) to the Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine, the Head of the Ukrainian Security Service, the Head of the National Fiscal Service on the imbalance in the "Privacy" group's network of enterprises in the actual implementation of oil products over the volumes of officially imported and produced petroleum products. Sergia Kiwalova to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the adoption of the decision of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine to approve payment arrangements for the cost of travel of persons with disabilities to and from the sanatorium. Jury Bublika to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, Ministry of Health of Ukraine, on ending the vicious failure to comply with Ukrainian legislation on prevention and treatment of rare (orphan) diseases. Valeria Davidenka to the National Bank of Ukraine, the Fund for Guaranteeing the Investments of Individuals in Protecting the Rights of the Bank’s Borrower, which is in liquidation phase. People’s Deputies (Bakumenko, Kucher, and others) A total of 12 deputies) to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the need to amend the provisions on military and transport obligations approved by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine No.405 of 17 June 2015. Jaroslava Dubnević to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the urgent development of a system for granting status to the disabled volunteers who became disabled during the implementation of the ATO, while staying directly in the ATO areas during the period of its implementation. Jaroslava Dubnević to Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Social Policy of Ukraine, on increasing the amount of material assistance to bury families and parents of military personnel who died during military service. Natalia Weselova to the Attorney General of Ukraine, Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine, Head of the Security Service of Ukraine on the opening of criminal cases against officials of the Donetsk district for secession. Vadim Krivochatka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the critical ecological situation in the village of Balabin Zaporozhye district of Zaporozhye, in connection with the operation of a clean house. Alexia Lensky to the Director of the National Anti-Corruption Bureau of Ukraine, Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine, Deputy Attorney-General of Ukraine for an urgent investigation into violations of Ukrainian legislation and corruption among officials of the Ministry of Internal Affairs of Ukraine in Kiev, O. Tereshuka, A. Saves, B. Duma, on the basis of an investigation into the involvement of those involved in the offences to the responsibility established by Ukrainian law. Alexia Lensky to the Attorney General of Ukraine, head of the Kyrovograd District State Administration for the urgent investigation of the raiding scheme for the capture of the Lands of the State Enterprise, the Research "Red Farmer" of the Kyrovograd National Agricultural Research Station of the National Academy of Agricultural Sciences of Ukraine in the village of Charovna Bobrinecki district of Kirovograd, the initiation of checks by fictional persons, the falsification of the collective appeal of the members of agriculture to the President of the National Academy of Agricultural Sciences of Ukraine, the involvement of those involved in the violations to the established legislation of Ukraine of responsibility. Jacob Besbach to the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, the Office of the Attorney-General of Ukraine, the Ministry of Agriculture Policy and Food of Ukraine, the Ministry of Internal Affairs of Ukraine, the Ministry of Economic Development and Trade of Ukraine, the State Service for Geodetics, Cartography and cadastre for the protection of business interests in land issues. Oleg Kulinić, head of the Ukrainian State Service on geodesy, cartography, and cadastre to clarify the procedures for correcting errors in the State Land cadastre. Oleg Kulinić, head of the Poltava District State Administration, on the basis of the refusal to agree to grant fishing opportunities to the Poltava National Fisheries and Fisheries Organisation of the Ukrainian Association of Fishermen and Fishermen. Basil Cupry, Vitalia Cupria to the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the refusal of Peter Dustenk to sue Vladimir Putin at the Hague Tribunal for crimes at Donbas. Alexander Nechayeva to the Attorney General of Ukraine to ensure an objective investigation into the attack on the MP of the Mikolayev District Council, the head of the Political Party "Opposition Block" in the city of Mikolayev Igora Djatlova and the attack on the office of the Regional Organisation of the Political Party "Opposition Block" in the Mikolayiv region on 25 June 2015 in the city of Mikolayev. Alexander Kodola to the Minister of Education and Science of Ukraine, head of the Montenegrin District State Administration for Reforming the Red Party School of Education No. 3 and III in the Chernigiv region. Roman Semenha and Jaroslav Markevich to the Kharkiv City Council to provide information on visits by members of the Kharkiv City Council of Plenary Meetings and meetings of permanent committees between November 2010 and June 2015. Dimitar Timchuk to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the investigation of the transfer to the concession of state-owned companies Sverdlovantracit, Rwańkiantracit and the Luganskvoda Regional Municipal Company. Dmitry Timchuk, head of the State Service for Special Liaison and Protection of Ukraine’s Information on Cessation of Radio, Radio, and Television Objects, located in the occupied areas of Donbas. Mr. Vasil Janicky to the Minister of Interior of Ukraine for the restoration of the work of the Department of Internal Affairs of the Ministry of the Interior of Ukraine in the province of Ravensk. Vasil Janicka to Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Environment and Natural Resources of Ukraine on the implementation of measures for the safety of citizens and the protection of crops and crops from wild animals. Mr. Alexander Marchenka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Social Policy of Ukraine, Minister of Health of Ukraine, for the provision of funding for oncological patients who have been sick as a result of the CHAES accident. Groups of National Deputies (Lucenco, Jurinec, and others) A total of 5 deputies) joined the Ukrainian Defence Minister for Mobilization in violation of the current legislation of the chronic glomerulonephritis patient Vitalia Rybokonya and the need for him to re-examine the medical commission. Jury Pavlenko to the Prime Minister of Ukraine concerning the complaint of the inhabitants of the village of Pavlovka of the Red Army Region of the Žitomir Region concerning the decision to close the general education school of the I-II level. Groups of National Deputies (Katzer-Buchkowski, Berezy and others). A total of 19 deputies) to the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the falsification of the signature of the Ukrainian National Deputy and the need for an official investigation. Helen Sotnik to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the status of Ukraine's ministries of affairs related to the adoption of Ukrainian laws (drafting, filing or filing of legal acts). Anatolia Denisenka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the status of the implementation of the State obligation to recover the lost money savings of Ukrainian citizens placed in the USSR Savings Bank and the USSR State Insurance Facility until 1992. Anatolia Denisenka to the Deputy Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Regional Development, Construction and Housing of Ukraine, on the amendment of Cabinet Order No. 106 of 28 February 2015 to the establishment of a fair mechanism for calculating the total income of the family to calculate the allocation of the grant. Tarasa Batenka to the temporary duty of head of the State Financial Inspectorate of Ukraine to verify the use of the budget for the T.O.T. repair and construction company No.65 while performing repairs to the road section. Taras Batenka to the first Deputy Director General of the State Railway Administration of Ukraine for the unsatisfactory operation of the Cruise Station management in order to provide sufficient mobile warehouses for the transport of passengers, directly causing damage to the public enterprise, hinders the development of passenger transport and creates a range of problems for citizens. Vitalia Gudzenka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the increase in medical subsidies due to the change in standards for the maintenance of the medical sector in Bilocerkowski, Vladarski, Skirski, Stavistenski, Tarostian and Tetiyev areas of the Kyiv region. Vitalia Gudzenka to the head of the Kyiv district government regarding the gasification of the village of Marmuliyevka in the Kyiv region. Groups of National Deputies (Leshchenka, Najema, and others) A total of 4 deputies) to the Prime Minister of Ukraine concerning the provision of information on visits to the Cabinet of Ministers of the former head of the Dnipropetrov district administration, Igor Kolomoyski. Groups of National Deputies (Leshchenka, Najema, and others) A total of 4 deputies) to the Head of the President's Administration concerning the provision of information regarding visits to the Ukrainian President's Administration by the former head of the Dnipropetrov district administration, Igor Kolomoyski. Vladislava Doub to the Ukrainian Defence Minister for the provision of 54 separate mechanized brigade heat-suppliers. Vladislav Golub to head of the Cerkas region Road Service, director of the state-owned firm Čerkaskie oblautododor, on the dates of repairing the roadways of the Cherkas region. Sergey Kaplin to the Ministry of Health of Ukraine regarding the use of urgent measures to restore the work of the Kharkiv Regional Interministerial Expert Commission on the establishment of a causal link between disease, disability and death with ionizing radiation and other harmful factors resulting from the Chernobyl AES accident. Andrija Vadaturski to the Ukrainian Minister of Health regarding the provision of medicines for diabetes patients. Andrija Vadaturski to the Minister of Social Policy of Ukraine regarding the assignment of Ukraine's Honorary Name "Mother Hero" Olga Gützul. Vladimir Melnicken to the Hmelnick district council on the allocation of funds for the reconstruction work of Kamyanec-Podil City Culture House. Vitaly of Chapinoga to the Ministry of Ecology and Natural Resources of Ukraine, State Water Agency for the use of a clean-up package for the Irkliy River of the Black Sea region of the Cherkas region. Jury Derevyanka to the Ukrainian Defence Minister for the improper provision of military military personnel and information on the use of funds that have come to support the Ukrainian army. Mikoli Skorak to the Head of the Ukrainian Security Service on the illegal actions of the Ukrainian Security Service in the Odessa region regarding my assistant, deputy director of the Regional Party of the Political Party of the Opposition Block in the Odessa region of Felix Sigal. Jaroslava Markevich to the Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine for the protection of private business from cybercrime. Anatolia Kuzmenka and Constantine Jarinić to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on unjustified cancellation, as required by the International Monetary Fund, of the special VAT regime in agriculture without due economic accounting and the consequences of waiting. Andrija Shinkovič to the Minister of Health of Ukraine for the unsatisfying provision of medicines and medical equipment for rural medical facilities. Andrija Shinkovič to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the urgent need for state support for the repair of rural roads. Grigory Times to Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Infrastructure of Ukraine for the use of urgent measures to carry out a pitfall repair of road in the region of the region of Czernovets region, in the following directions: Deep-Cupka, Kupka - Karapčov, Tarasana - Stanizki. Gregory Times to the Minister of Social Policy of Ukraine regarding the failure of the court in the Montenegrin region. John Melniczuk to the Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine regarding the conduct of official investigations and the use of appropriate measures by the Ministry of Internal Affairs of Ukraine. John Melniczuk to the Minister of Social Policy of Ukraine for the provision of family, youth and sports in the Winniczuk region with forms and certificates for parents and children of many children. Ruslan Solvar and John Melniczuk to the Minister of Health of Ukraine regarding the provision of hemophiliac drugs. Mikhail Doubenk to the Minister of Education and Science of Ukraine, Minister of Finance of Ukraine, on the lack of funding for education spending in the Ivano-Frankow region. Edward Matviychuk to the Ministry of Health of Ukraine, Ministry of Social Policy of Ukraine, Odessa District State Administration, Odessa City Council on the need for an objective review of the appeal of the resident of the Kyiv district of Odessa to a child of war, veteran of Aida Nohaychuk’s work on providing comprehensive medical and social assistance. Eduard Matviychuk to the Authorized Supreme Council of Ukraine for Human Rights, the Office of the Attorney General of Ukraine, the Ministry of Internal Affairs of Ukraine, the Ministry of Justice of Ukraine, the Ministry of Social Policy of Ukraine regarding the need for an objective review of the appeal of residents of the Kyiv district of Odessa Meierov, John, Yegorov Nina, and the Doctor to Love regarding the restoration of the rights of applicants. Artema Vitek to the Attorney General of Ukraine, Head of the Security Service of Ukraine, Military Prosecutor of the Dnipropetrova garrison of the South of Ukraine on the non-use of law enforcement measures to bring criminal responsibility to the head of the Security Service of Ukraine of the Dnipropetrov region of Alexander Klimczuk. Igor Guza to the Attorney General of Ukraine, Minister of Interior of Ukraine, Minister of Justice of Ukraine, on the need to take urgent measures to extradite Oleg Vuk. Maxima Burbak to the Attorney General of Ukraine, Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine, on the legality of the construction and operation of the "Uslad" tourist complex and the dock on the Dniester River in the village of Lomachnica of the Sokirian district of Cherniewec. Maxima Burbak to the head of the Montenegrin District Administration, head of the Chernobyl District Council for illegal interference with the unification of the territorial communities by the leadership of the Sokirian district of Cherniewets. Robert Gorvato to the head of the Zacarpathian District Council to ensure the proper functioning of the Carpathian Biosphere Reserve and the protection of its natural complexes. Jury Pavlenko to the head of the Zitomir district government regarding the insufficient work of the Zitomir district government to protect the rights of child victims of armed conflict. Vitalia Kurila to the Minister of Social Policy of Ukraine on the permanent complaints of the local population about employment, both the Administration of the Pension Fund of Ukraine in the Luhansk Region and, in particular, the Administration of the Pension Fund of Ukraine in the Swatovsk and Biloukurakin areas of the Lugansk Region. Jury Lewchenka to the Attorney General of Ukraine, Deputy Minister of Environment and Natural Resources of Ukraine, Head of the Kyiv City Public Administration, Director of the Department of State Architecture and Construction Inspection in Kiev for the violation of the city's standards and the well-being of the Riel community in the Głboczycki Street, 13, which has created a threat to the lives of residents of adjacent residential apartment buildings due to the increased risk of deformation, the displacement of the mountain range and the serious damage to the environment in the Shevchenkov district of Kiev, which will cause serious environmental consequences. Jury Lewchenka to the head of the Vinnitsk district administration, the head of the Vinnitsk district council, the procurator of the Vinnitsk district, the head of the Coastal Rural Council of the Vinnitsk district, on the urgent response to the unlawful removal of villagers of land in the village of Vinnitské Region by corruption by officials of executive authorities and local self-government. Groups of National Deputies (Korczynski, Gopko, and others) Only 7 deputies) to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for the speedy financing of the construction of the new Ohmatdit hospital. Groups of people’s deputies (Labazuka, Moscalenka, and others) A total of 5 deputies) to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for information on Cabinet Order No. 237 from 29 April 2015. Dear National MPs, we also have the address of national deputy Alexia Honcharenko, in response to his address received from the Attorney General of Ukraine. Since the national MP is dissatisfied with his response, I will read the answer and give the floor to the national MP. The answer from the Attorney General's Office: "Dear Alexiyyovich! Your parliamentary request was announced at the meeting of the Supreme Council on 24 April 2015 on the establishment of guilty persons involved in the massacre on 19 February 2014 of members of the European Parliament, as well as journalists under the Odessa District Administration. I report that according to the facts, the Prosecutor's Office of the Odessa Region is investigating criminal conduct, which is the course of which all the criminal and procedural measures envisaged in Ukraine's criminal legislation are being carried out to ensure prompt and impartial investigation, the establishment and punishment of the perpetrators of the events that took place on 19 February 2014 at the Odessa District Administration Building. As a result of the investigation, a suspect was reported in a criminal offence envisaged in part one, article 367 of the Criminal Code of Ukraine to the former Deputy Chief of the Ministry of Internal Affairs of Ukraine in the Odessa region, the head of the Public Security Police of the Ministry of Internal Affairs of Ukraine in the Odessa district of Fucheja, which is in connection with the hiding from the investigation announced for investigation. The following are also checked for involvement in the crime of the former head of the Odessa district administration of Skorek and other officials of the district administration. The course of criminal investigation is under the control of the Office of the Attorney General of Ukraine. Now, a minute. Please, People's Deputy Goncharenko, I beg your pardon. He's gone.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-03-m0.u83	Dear colleagues, honourable deputies, I ask you to come into the hall. Dear fellow MPs who came out during the reading of parliamentary inquiries, I ask you to come into the hall and prepare for work. Dear colleagues, is there support in the hall for us to work without interruption? There's support, yeah. So I'm asking you to come into the hall, get ready for work. The Secretary of the Supreme Council, I ask that you inform the deputies that the work is about to begin. Dear colleagues, yesterday we were unable to reach the laws in the daytime order, which were in the list of laws under which the IMF is required, according to their adoption. In accordance with the Rules, they shall, without being included in the agenda, put to the vote. And, Your Honor, we will now consider these laws. And I'm counting on the MPs to come together and we can make decisions. So I'm asking all the deputies to come into the hall, get ready for work. Dear colleagues, please come into the hall. We will now consider extremely important bills. I'm asking the deputies to come into the hall, get ready for work. Dear colleagues, let's start the discussion, and then by signal vote, let's determine if there are votes for that. Dear colleagues, let's start with a signal vote whether we have the potential to continue our full-time work. Dear colleagues, please prepare for the signal vote. Please come into the hall, prepare for the signal vote. Dear colleagues, please don't come out of the hall but come into the hall. The Radical Party, your deputies are still good? They'll come, won't they? Let's make a signal vote. If we have the potential to make decisions, we'll start our work. Dear colleagues, we are preparing to conduct a signal vote. We're voting for it. Please be prepared. Please be prepared. Dear colleagues, please, we are taking up jobs. Mr. Abdullin, I very much ask you to take up your job. Ready? Please, Your Honor, there is a signal vote. I very much ask you to take the most active part in it, and I ask you to vote. Signal vote. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. Please hold a vote. [[12:17:20]] For-162 Once again, we're not there, I see MPs. I'm asking you to come in. Dear colleagues, while the MPs are coming in, I'd like to speak to you. I was approached yesterday by many deputies and asked questions, and when there was an election law that was extremely important for us to accept so that we could conduct the new system of local elections. They came up with many important questions. We can't accept them when there are no deputies in the hall. Each of us is responsible for how the Supreme Council of Ukraine works. Today is a working day, and I do not accept this position that it is impossible to gather deputies on Friday. I very much ask the factions to invite MPs into the hall. We will all be responsible for that situation. I very much ask the MPs who are in the towers to call me back. I'm asking you to come into the hall, to your workplace. And please don't leave the Chamber. If there are no votes, we will usually move on to the speeches of the deputies from the rostrum, but at the same time we will lower the demands of the IMF and at the same time we will not be able to adopt the Electoral Act. Dear colleagues, I ask you once again to take up your jobs, and now we're going to have another vote. Dear colleagues! I'm putting the vote on again. I'm asking you to prepare for the signal vote, take your jobs. And I ask you to vote. There's a signal vote going on. I ask you to vote. Please vote for the vote. Please vote. [[12:20:34]] For-187 187 for. I suggest you start with the question. Please, let's exchange our thoughts. Let us consider how we can deal with this situation. Now we have one option. Start a job and hope that when considering the matter, the MPs will come along. Another option is to call it a break. And then there's the MPs. Please, Igor Gus, one minute. And then Galasyuk, one minute. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-03-m0.u84	Dear friends! Deputy Gus, Volin. Today in the hall, I understand, a criminal conspiracy is taking place. Because if we do not make a decision today under the Local Elections Act, the whole country will run elections under the Janukovich law in 2010! That's disgusting! Friends, faction leaders, non-fractional, we must decide today as a minimum that next week we will be adopting the Electoral Law. The whole country is watching us! It's a disgrace! There's got to be a new election law, with changes, with any positions taken into account. So, guys, let's mobilize! It's a criminal conspiracy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-03-m0.u85	Thank you. I understand the offer. It's work, isn't it? Dear colleagues! I will, with your permission, lay down the law for discussion. I very much ask all the faction heads to call their deputies, the faction secretariat to make another message. And I hope that by the end of the debate, we will be able to vote productively. Is such an offer accepted? Let's start the discussion. So I'm asking for a draft law amending some of the laws of Ukraine in the area of municipal services (2029a). The reporter is Babak Alona Valerievna. This bill is discussed in a second reading. And I'm asking the reporter to report to the rostrum. It's a second reading. Babak Alona. [[B in m in s a l in]] Dear colleagues, these bills were in order yesterday, according to the Rules, they are the first. They don't need them, they were in the daytime yesterday, we didn't get to them, we didn't get to them. [[B in m in s a l in]] We don't have any, go to the secretary and find out with the lawyers. Let's do it again. They say there are no votes. Let's do one more vote in advance. If there are no votes, we'll take a break and speak to the MPs. Dear colleagues, once again I ask everyone to come into the hall. These are important laws, we have no right to overthrow them. If there are no votes, there is a logical idea – it is better not to consider them if there are no votes. Let's do one more minute, mobilize everyone who's in the hall, and I'm asking everyone to come into the hall, who's in the towers. We'll wait another minute or two and have another vote. Dear colleagues, I hope everyone who could come in. I'm going to put another vote in. Please prepare for the signal vote. We're not voting anything, we're voting, we're checking the presence of deputies in the room. I'm asking you to vote "yes" with the "yes" button. Please vote. [[12:27:04]] For a hundred and Thank you, Your Honor. By factions, please show. Dear colleagues, I think this is a very bad sign for society. Laws that need immediate adoption, but nevertheless, are our shared responsibility. Now I'm calling a break under the Rules and I'm calling the faction heads to call all those deputies who are in Kiev who can work during this break. And at 1:00 we'll continue our work. And I hope that at 13 o'clock in the hall there will be a need for the number of deputies to continue our work. I'm calling a 30-minute recess and asking the faction heads to maximize the mobilization of deputies to continue our work at 1300 hours. Thank you. There's a break for 30 minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-03-m0.u86	Dear colleagues! Break time is over. Now, according to our regulations, we have a daily 1848 law to review with the proposals of the President of Ukraine. This is the Ukrainian Act on Amendments to the Ukrainian National Guard Act with proposals from the President. And to report on this law is the representative of President Stepan Kube. I'd like to invite you to stepan Kubeva. Who can report where Stephen of Cuba is? It's coming, isn't it? Dear colleagues, please come into the hall to continue our work. And I invite you to speak with the representative of the President of Ukraine at the Supreme Council of Cuba, Stepan Ivanovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-03-m0.u87	Dear Sir, dear colleagues! Adopted by the Supreme Council of Ukraine On February 3, 2015, the Act amending the Ukrainian National Guard Act (Registration No. 1848) cannot be signed by the President of Ukraine for the following reasons. The bill provides for the establishment of the Ukrainian National Guard structure for tank military units, units. Tank troops are a kind of land army that, in accordance with article 3 of the Ukrainian Armed Forces Act, is a species of the Ukrainian Armed Forces. Tank units have great firepower and shock power. They are designed to overcome the enemy’s defense, to break off his attack, and to bring about an antitank fight. According to the Head of State, the establishment of such military units within the National Guard does not correspond to the designation and tasks of the National Guard Act. This is due to the fact that the relevant law defines Ukraine’s National Guards as military formation with law enforcement functions, which is part of the Ukrainian Ministry of Internal Affairs system, and carries out hostilities against armed aggression and offensive operations exclusively with the Ukrainian Armed Forces. In view of what has been said, the President of Ukraine proposes to refrain from forming into the National Tank Military Guard and in paragraph 2, paragraph 2, of the law that came upon the signature, to exclude the word "tanks". It has also been established by the Act that the appointment and discharge of the commander of the National Guard of Ukraine is carried out by the President of Ukraine for the submission of the Minister of Interior of Ukraine. These positions are considered by the head of State to be in nonconformity with the Constitution of Ukraine. Yes, according to article 106 of the Basic Law, the President of Ukraine appoints and appoints the superior commanders of the Ukrainian Armed Forces, other military formations, to exercise leadership in the areas of national security and defence. In doing so, the Constitution of Ukraine does not provide for the implementation of the stated powers of submission as provided for by the law which came upon the signature of the President of Ukraine. In view of the above, the President of Ukraine proposes the position of part two of article 7 of the Ukrainian National Guard Act, which reads as follows: "The commander of the National Guard of Ukraine shall be appointed to office and shall be dismissed from office as President of Ukraine." Please support the President's proposals. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-03-m0.u88	Thank you. The co - report invites the head of the Professional Committee on the Law Enforcement of Law Enforcement Activities, Kožemjakin Andrija Anatoliyovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-03-m0.u89	Good afternoon, dear colleagues. I understand that, Andry Volodymyrovich, it is better to read the application and the appeal for Parliament to break up and there are no more votes to break all the other laws. That's not right. And I think it's unfair. WHAT is involved in this bill? The committee at its meeting considered it in a second reading. In fact, there were two proposals from the President. The first proposal that Mr. Cuba has just made is a proposal to appoint the head of the National Guard. Today, in the context of Ukraine's war with the aggressor, I think it's a very key position and position. So the committee agreed to this, agreed to the president's proposal. And the second sentence is that it refers to the non-involvement of the National Guard of some, some weapons. Therefore, the proposals are accepted. I propose that they vote in favour of this bill with the President's proposals. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-03-m0.u90	Dear colleagues, according to the order of the day. Yeah. There's a committee proposal. Dear Society, I would like to tell you that consideration of the matter under this procedure has its own separate procedure. Yeah, it's either pro or pro. The committee's proposal, therefore, is to accept in general, taking into account the proposal made by the President of Ukraine. I ask the deputies to come into the hall and prepare for the vote. [[B in m in s a l in]] Dear colleagues. Dear colleagues, as long as the MPs get together, I'll say a few minutes. Society! [[B in m in s a l in]] I've been trying to call all the deputies all morning. There are questions that are asked in the order of the day. It's a given situation. Let's make a signal vote. If there are no votes, it will be transferred. Attention, fellow officers! I want to tell you again. First, the Presidium and I, including not the nanny to call the deputies, have to make sure that the heads of factions are in the hall. We began the discussion with the hope that the deputies would gather. Now we're going to traditionally vote, if we don't have any votes, we're going to go to the MPs' speeches, according to our rules. So I ask you very much to mobilize all those who are. We waited 15 minutes for the deputies to meet. There's a signal vote. If there are no MPs, we move on to the daytime performances. Do you have a deal? Please, we're not voting for the bill right now, we're just determining that there are deputies in the room. I ask you to prepare for the signal vote and please take part in the signal vote. A green "for" button. Please vote. [[13:04:05]] For 185 There aren't enough votes to work in the hall. Please show by factions, please show by factions. And, honourable colleagues, according to the rules, we're moving on to the speeches of the deputies, the announcement of the deputies, and I'm handing over the word of Oksani Siroid. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-03-m0.u91	Ladies and gentlemen, I ask you to focus. We'll be signing up for the various shows right now. I'd like to invite you to the floor of the People's Deputy Alexander Suprunenka, a non-factional one.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-03-m0.u92	Alexander Suprunenko, majority electoral district 216. Dear Oksana Ivanovna! Dear colleagues! Respectable squires! Once again, I would like to stress the need for an economic justification test to raise tariffs for the population. I've called on the Antimonopoly Committee, the Cabinet of Ministers and the National Commission on the provision of information on the economic justification of raising tariffs for the population, and I've never received an answer to my requests and requests. But the violation by the monopolies doesn't end there, so Kiyevvokal requires the signing of a new agreement on the provision of services to the centralized supply of cold water and water to consumers. Its position differs from that of the standard contract approved by the Cabinet of Ministers. In fact, this suggests that the Kiev Channel abuses its monopoly position in the market and puts China in its full dependence on itself. The problem is that choosing another service provider is not possible for the Chinese, so they are forced to accept conditions that are not suitable in advance. Today's contracts contain a whole range of items that may violate consumer rights, starting with the vague clarity of the tariff itself, as well as in the foaming part, the use of personal data, the possibility of proving that there is an improper provision of services. I would like to point out that the Anti-Monopoly Committee has confirmed the non-compliance of the Kiev Channel Treaty, which is made up of users of services by a standard contract approved by the Cabinet of Ministers. The same is true of another monopolist, Kievenergo. It also requires the signing of contracts in which the dominant position is occupied by a monopoly and the rights of consumers are violated. Capital monopolies must stop breaking the law. The tool to combat abuse is maximum publicity, and control over their activities will continue. Taking into account what has been said, I appeal to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, the head of the antimonopoly committee of Ukraine and the head of the national commission, which is implementing state regulations in the fields of energy and utilities, requiring urgent organisational legal action to prevent violations of legislation to protect economic competition by the Kyivvoknanel and Kyivénergo. Please consider my statement an official parliamentary request. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-03-m0.u93	Thank you. The following two deputies, Kirichenko and Kocheljeva, handed the word to Oleg Lášk. Radical Party, Oleg Lazko Rules 6 minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-03-m0.u94	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. Dear Ukrainian citizens, as usual, as the leader of the Radical Party, I would like to inform you of how the Radical Party faction worked in the walls of the Ukrainian Parliament during this plenary week and defended your interests. Thus, in the current week of the Radical Party initiative, the Parliament has adopted a total of 2,884 bills on strengthening the social protection of people with disabilities who do not have the right to receive pensions or social assistance. Bill 1329, initiated by the Radical Party, was also adopted in the first reading, which exempts members of anti-terrorist operations and members of families of Ukrainian citizens who had died. Also, Parliament, thanks to its colleagues for their support, has voted in general on the Radical Party's Bill No. 2640 on a transparent market mechanism for the conduct of land-based competitive trades, the right to rent public land and utility property, which will contribute to the filling of local budgets with additional revenues from our local budgets. During this week, the Ukrainian Parliament, under the insistence of the Radical Party faction, adopted in its first reading a bill of 2781 (the co-authorship of Yuri Shuhevich) on the exemption from the taxation of pensions assigned to participants in World War II and to persons with disabilities. This is the first step towards restoring justice in pension insurance. Today, we have returned our pension to the participants of the fighting -- 15 percent -- and we will continue to make sure that the Ukrainian Parliament will generally adopt a bill that will return 15 percent of the pensions that are currently being calculated from the salaries of working pensioners. The Radical Party faction insists that this law be passed to protect the interests of our pensioners. And I see the happy faces of fellow MPs from other factions, from the Dust Block, from others. I understand you support this initiative. Also, the Ukrainian Parliament has adopted, as a result of the active participation of members of the Radical Party faction, a bill that relieves the need to install cash registers for entrepreneurs who refer to another. to the third group with annual income of not more than a million dollars. This law, which imposed cashiers on entrepreneurs, became effective on July 1. Thanks to the members of the Radical Party faction, thanks to the other factions we've achieved -- and removed the cashiers from small and medium-sized businesses. People who earn their money, people who feed their families, people who don't ask for anything in the state, they shouldn't hang a yoke on their necks -- cashiers. Because those who say that cashiers have to be set up to fill the budget to fight smuggling will say that cashiers will lead to business in general, that millions of people - small entrepreneurs will be out of work. So no small - business cashiers! Next. We also succeeded, and yesterday Parliament passed the historic National Police Act, which finally begins with a real reform of the law enforcement agencies. For us, this is vital; we want our people not to be afraid of the militia but to see them in the new police defenders and to see the help that they see, rather than moving to the other side, as if they were being robbed, beaten, and covered in thread. So our task is a radical and real reform of law enforcement. Parliament also adopted the historic Law 1558-1 on the Restructuring of Monetary Credits yesterday. I hear a moment of indignation about this law today. Banks are indignant, they're indignant because they're losing their profits. When I'm told that the government budget for this law needs 93 billion dollars, it's a lie! Because the law applies to the relationship between commercial banks and lenders. Foreign - exchange lenders have overpaid those loans five times and are unable to pay them off today because it is a lifelong debt yoke. And that's why we passed this law to protect the interests of the borrowers. Besides, when we're told that there's no money in our financial system, I'll tell you, the National Bank of Ukraine has over the last three years issued a refund to the commercial banks for 420 billion dollars. A large part of that money was given to banks that then went to the bank, money was transferred to the currency, banks were buried abroad, and today we have hundreds of billions of dollars of unrefundable debt. So commercial banks to steal people's money are, and there's no money to protect Ukrainian people. That's the last of it. We've reached the retirement of Minister Schewchenk. And so it will be with every corrupter who takes office in the government or in the government.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-03-m0.u95	Thank you. National MP Sergei Ruddick, non-factional.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-03-m0.u96	Dear Ukrainian people, dear colleagues! First of all, I would like to express solidarity with my colleague Oleg Lazko concerning the bill adopted yesterday in Parliament 1558-1. In the relations between citizens — state and citizen — banks have always lost over the past many years. There's always been an argument about why a person has a small pension: because there's no money in the state because there's no money in the budget, because the International Monetary Fund, as well as the Russians, as well as others and others require us to pay off our loans. Our Ukrainian citizen has always had to respond by lowering his standard of living, lowering his social standards, and other problems that affect every person in our country. This is an example that we demonstrated to all the Ukrainian people yesterday, how a particular person can be protected, not banks that have actually received many times the percentages that have been able to secure their profits. Today, society is discussing what will lead to another wave of economic downturn and a likely default. And please tell me that on June 22nd, the prime minister and the Ministry of Finance of Ukraine returned 75 million dollars to the aggressor country to pay off the debt that Yanukovic took his time to end Euro-integration, is it not a matter of national interest? Isn't that a technical default propelling? Society, unfortunately, I have not heard in this room an explanation of what to do with this whole week. I think that when Parliament voted, each of us, it was incredibly great support for the hall, we gave the government the right not to pay externally. President Poroshenko has officially stated that for the state all private lenders are equal, Russian credit is valued in the same way as any other. And two weeks after the Prime Minister was granted that right, and I voted in favour of granting him that right, we pay the country that annexed part of our territory and solved the bloody massacre in the East. Seventy-five million dollars to avoid a technical default, but ready for technical default and non-payment by July 24, 100 million dollars to pay off the euro coupon. What's that? These are classic double standards. There's 15 seconds left, and I'd like you to pay attention, colleagues, to the huge problem I have in the district. Who wants to destroy the Kamyan region in the Cherkas region? I'm asking you to give me another 15 seconds. The decision of the Cherkas District Council, which took place a week ago, decided to establish six territorial communities in the Smilian region.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-03-m0.u97	10 seconds, please. Finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-03-m0.u98	For one thing, after constitutional reform, the community is followed by the region. Thus, someone is eager to destroy the Cold Land and the Land of Kamyan.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-03-m0.u99	Thank you. Paul Kishkar, "Unification Self-Help", Oleg Barresuk. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-03-m0.u100	Honorable citizens of Ukraine, distinguished national MPs! A few words explaining the position of the Self-Help Group on yesterday's vote. Yesterday, you and I stood up for something very important. We stood firm for the appointment of an anti-corruption prosecutor. It's very important to understand, very important to understand, yesterday, that there was an attempt to make an anti-corruption body that, with such hard work, we're creating in our country, making a large amount of money for it, to subordinate to a corrupt body that has an anti-corruption office in its structure that doesn't work and distributes corruption in the state. Yesterday, as a result of the absolutely principled position of several factions in Parliament, including the extraordinary step of the political struggle -- the exit of the hall, not the blocking of the rostrum, but the exit of Parliament to continue working as it pleases, we did what we did in today's document, which came out as a result of our vote, we did not read a small sentence -- the rating vote. Just a dot. After which you and I will decide the mechanisms as to how this is to be done. Thank you, distinguished gentlemen, for the faction of Self-Help, thank you to all the parliamentarians who were with us yesterday. Dear colleagues! Dear colleagues! The other one. It's a law that caused an incredible, incredible, incredible debate in society about currency loans. This law is a symbol. This law is a symbol of the irresponsibility of the public regulator in the wild market. Because it wasn't because people took loans or deposited deposits. This happened because for 24 years the state did not take responsibility for market regulation. Today, by placing the authorities within the framework of the law, we force them to take responsibility. Why should responsibility always be on the shoulders of those who pay? Why have not the previous heads of the NBA, the Ministry of Finance, banks been held accountable for the incredible amounts of refinancing? Today, the country’s financiers, along with the President’s Administration, have to sit down and think about what to do to make it clear to the next leaders that they will be responsible for irresponsible politics, not just on the people’s side. These are the two most complex laws that are symbols of our work with you. Not a struggle, but a hard system of work to defend the interests of government in the state. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-03-m0.u101	Thank you. People's MP Ivan Rybak, faction of the Party of Peter Dusty.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-03-m0.u102	Dear colleagues, I signed up today to apologize to the Ukrainian people for my vote under Law 1558. You know, yesterday, this room must have covered a wave of populism that, unfortunately, might affect the Ukrainian economy. And today we have a small, glorious God, but it's already increasing the value of the dollar in the Ukrainian market. You know, if this room probably didn't have a broadcast directly across the state, we wouldn't have passed such laws. We would vote exclusively for what really needed society, rather than making populist decisions like that yesterday. Therefore, the distinguished Ukrainian people, respected colleagues! I apologize, and I think we will no longer be guided by populism in our work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-03-m0.u103	Thank you. The national deputy Sabashuk gave the floor to the national deputy Tomenka.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-03-m0.u104	Dear colleagues, I would like to draw attention to one subject that we have discussed less in the last few days. This is the subject of a constitutional discussion. I would say that the subject that, unfortunately, turned out to be, as we have a shadow economy, there's a shadow policy, and there's a shadow constitutional discussion. We've been discussing the Constitution and changes we haven't seen in the last month. We've finally seen it. But what we've seen is what we'll talk about later, and I'll go back to the subject of parliamentary integrity and judicial integrity. You know, the Constitutional Court came to the Supreme Council with a conclusion, and something went wrong. Whoever didn't read this conclusion, let me tell you, the honest judges of the Constitutional Court, especially those who voted in favour of the usurpation of Yanukovic's power, wrote that the judges should not touch and have made numerous warnings about any impact on the integrity of the judges. As far as the MPs are concerned, they said you wanted to do what you did with the deputies. Well, yeah, if you don't mind. My requirement is to continue to act on the Constitution, on the Constitution, if there is a warning about the project, the committee should prepare the decision, prepare it, vote it, and make changes. If we bring 150 people together, the changes are made. So I am absolutely convinced that the scheme proposed by the lawyers of the President's Administration, that judges should be removed from the courts by virtue of the Higher Council of Justice. She's criminal, she's wrong and all. That strengthens the judicial integrity forever. I would like to remind you, when the Attorney General or the Supreme Court addressed Parliament, did we not take away the inviolability of a single judge? They took it out of everyone they were talking to. Now ask me where those judges, half of them work and take the money and the decision and all that. So if we pass this on to the High Council of Justice, there will be no removal of parliamentary immunity from any judge. Now it's about MPs. It is quite obvious that we cannot allow the political immunity of part of the MP's right to political position and political activity to be lifted. We need to find a way out of this situation and say that when it comes to business, there are no questions. But. When it comes to my and your right to speak up and protect citizens, I must be protected, because there is no point in being a deputy. Now it's about the position that the President has put in. I'm sorry, my friends, I read this paper yesterday because after examining the authority of the so-called prefect, I'll tell you, maybe we're here in legal language, that these are the viewers, who will be in the area, who will have all the authority, that the constitutional scribes of Yanukovich and the constitutional scribes of Kuchma are resting. The Prefect can reverse any decision of any local authority in the region. Is that local self-government? Then why should the district council choose if the prefect can stop any decision? Because I don't have time, I think we'll go back to the constitutional discussion. But once again, my friends, let's get a constitutional discussion out of the shadows, because it's going to end badly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-03-m0.u105	Thank you. National MP Andrey Illenko, non-factional.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-03-m0.u106	Andrew Illenko, the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union. Dear colleagues, dear Ukrainians! You know, speaking of yesterday's Parliamentary Day, there have been a lot of events here, and really it all seemed very unpleasant. A huge number of scandals, some mutual accusations. And, you know, it's a very important thing that, unfortunately, no one talks about today, and so in principle, it went unnoticed that there was not even a new electoral law in Parliament yesterday. And this is probably the most important, unfortunately, very negative result of yesterday that this topic was effectively lost yesterday and so quietly sent into a distant drawer. This is not the same in Parliament today. Next week won't be plenary. That is, at least for another two weeks, the question of the new electoral system in the local elections is put aside. I remind you that there is very little time left before the local elections. In fact, he was no longer left at all. And all of this looks like there's a sublime agreement to overthrow this law and run elections under the old law, and that looks like nothing but political conspiracies, unfortunately not public. And so far, the writings are breaking around other issues, and there is silence around this issue. And that's what this is about, obviously, that's what they decided to do. And you know, yeah, this law that was passed in the first reading, it's imperfect, there's a bunch of questions to it. In particular, all the amendments made by Freedom didn't count. This is a ban on blocks and a three - percent barrier, and a ban on paid political advertising, and equal access to election committees. Unfortunately, none have passed, but this law is in any case much better than what is now and we are now choosing not between some abstract, ideal law and this law adopted in the first reading. And we choose between this law and Janukovic's law, which was the most dirty elections in the history of Ukraine in 2010, where the Party of Regions almost all over Ukraine was in power. And today, we have a clear understanding of our responsibility, we must, the Supreme Council is obliged, adopt the new Electoral Law. Local elections are to take place under a new law, because this is not just a question of democracy there and so forth, and of political responsibility. This is a matter of national security, and these elections will be used by the Kremlin to make a rematch of the fifth column in Ukraine. Parliament should be talking about this right now, Parliament should be doing this right now, not postponing this issue. Freedom calls on Parliament, first of all the coalition that made commitments in the Coalition Agreement, to fulfil its commitment and to allow elections to be held under the new law. Thank you. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-03-m0.u107	Thank you. National Deputy Sergey Leschchenko, Peter Dustenka's Block.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-03-m0.u108	Good afternoon, dear friends! I would like to do the same for yesterday's law regarding the restructuring of monetary loans. What happened in Parliament was populism, which had nothing to do with the restoration of justice. People have been lied to the next day, and they are promised that their loans will then be restructured according to the course that was at the time of the deposit. Dear Ukrainians, it's a lie, it won't happen. That's not going to happen because the state has to find 95 billion dollars somewhere -- that's the sum, that's the amount that's more than the cost, for the entire defense of Ukraine. Moreover, the MPs who voted for it are. [[B in m in s a l in]] I'm asking you to give me the right to finish, not counting this time that a faction of populists is now using, trying to make my speech go away. A faction that doesn't have an elementary culture, because when a leader does it, no one tries to outcry it. So this law, apart from deceiving people, was also adopted in violation of the Rules, because yesterday we all saw, the whole country, for the first time, not effectively voted, 225 votes. Then the law must be put back and then voted again. But it was not put back, immediately put to the re-voting and then voted 229. This vote is considered not to have taken place and we are collecting signatures in Parliament to ensure that the law and the Rules are respected and that the speaker does not sign the law, but re-vote it in the Chamber as it should be in accordance with the law. In addition, when the law was passed yesterday, there were cases of buttons. In particular, one of the deputies, unfortunately, the faction that I represent, he was absent in this sessional room, he was on a plane and at this time his card was voting. And this is one of the reasons why this law should be re-voted. Because buttoning is an unacceptable phenomenon, and the factions that are now the most vocal in the session room were supposed to be the main opponents of this phenomenon, not to overwhelm the speaker. And back to that law. Unfortunately, this law is another lie for people who believe that their loans will be restructured. Even if this law leaves the walls of Parliament, it will not be signed by the President, obviously for all people, because it is the bankruptcy of the Ukrainian State. I'm asking you to give me the same time when you're yelling. And as for the Procurator's Act, yesterday Parliament really supported this law and we slightly enhanced the independence of this body in relation to the anti-corruption prosecutor. But in doing so, I wanted to draw the attention of other colleagues in the self-help partnership faction that you didn't vote for this law and left it to protest, and today you're trying to put it to good use.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-03-m0.u109	Ten seconds, complete.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-03-m0.u110	I ask you not to shout out those who scream the most, for I will take my time again. So this law was passed, including without the faction's voices, which now makes it worthwhile. Let's not take what we don't belong to.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-03-m0.u111	Thank you. People’s deputies Lenski and Kuprienko gave the floor to the national deputy of Galasjuk. Rules - 6 minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-03-m0.u112	Thank you. I'm asking the camera to put a slide on the screen. Honorable National Deputies, reverend people of Ukraine! Your attention, please, to the very important issue of the economic recovery of life in Ukraine. Dear colleagues, please take a look at this slide. It shows what the economy of Ukraine is made up of, four main components, this is the universal formula of the economy. The first ingredient, 70 percent, is household consumption costs, and that's what we come to the store with you and buy. This is the purchasing power of citizens. Dear colleagues, it determines whether our economy is falling or not. And you and I know that, unfortunately, our economy has fallen at a very fast pace for several years now. The industry is falling, people have no higher wages, but prices have increased by 60 percent, and unemployment has increased. So, dear colleagues, I'm stressing that today's wage, pension and scholarship index is not just the principle of the Radical Party faction, it's not just a task that the government received from the Coalition Council, which Oleg Lášk called a few weeks ago. It's today's non-alternative position that we have to do in the summer -- index wages and pensions to the population. We have to do this because of the excess of government revenue over expenditure -- what the Minister of Finance has told us. For today, it's the state budget surplus once. Two. The source is the restructuring of Ukraine's government debt. More than six months ago, Oleg Lášk and I initiated this question. Thank God the government heard us, and today we have every chance to successfully restructure the government debt, some of it to direct to wage and pension indexation, and some of it to restore economic growth, to the investment component. Dear colleagues, it's a very simple truth. When people have no income to buy food, clothes, medicines in pharmacies, there can be no talk of economic growth. So the first column is the potential growth of the economy, which is short-term. That's what we have to do right now without delay. Dear colleagues, the second ingredient is investment. This indicator in Ukraine, the component of investment in the economy, 14 percent, is one of the lowest in the world. This indicator in European countries, such as France, Germany, Latvia, and Norway, is about 22-25 percent. I'm not talking about China and Belarus anymore, where that's 40 percent. Dear colleagues, if this figure is less than 20 percent in the country -- like Ukraine -- the country is doomed to drift, to economic decline, to population poverty. That's why we have to direct all our forces today to ensure that the investment component increases. First of all, through private investment. How can this be done today? Today, we need to adopt a package of industrial laws that we make every week for the hall. These are laws such as government-private partnership, these are laws such as industrial parks, these are laws such as the ban on the export of roundwood, support for metallurgical industries and others. These are laws that aim at creating an investment environment for private investment in Ukraine. Only private investments today are capable of extracting Ukraine in the medium term. That's the bet we have to make today to make it play next year. Because if we don't do anything, if we do as the Ministry of Economics suggests: deregulation and privatization, then next year we're going to have GDP drop, not by 7-8 percent, but by more than 10 percent. There is no economic growth from nothing, there is a need for a patriotic economic policy aimed at creating jobs, making investments, and ensuring the well-being of citizens. This foundation needs to be laid today. Instead of stretching the belts to small entrepreneurs in new and new ways, whether by introducing RROs or by trying to abolish a special tax regime for an agro-economic complex, this cannot be done. You have to do things that allow you to do things that have created conditions in Ukraine today, even though they are consistent with what is in Slovakia, Poland, and so forth. You look at Poland, our neighbor, that there's another air, that there's another land or there's smarter people than the Ukrainians? We're the same. And we have to live like Poles, not worse. Because back in the '90s, we were ahead of them, but they were developing their industry, they went through Malaysia, Korea, other developing countries. And unfortunately, we went along Moldova and Georgia and came to where we came today. The share of the economy in Ukraine is only 13 percent, this indicator, in countries that are developing about 25-30 percent, in Europe and Belarus and China and elsewhere. That's why economic growth is at the expense of industry. And the last. The last column in the minus. This is pure exports, we import more than, we export abroad. To correct that, we passed the Export Credit Agency Act. We have to encourage Ukrainian producers in a large way, to spend loans, to create conditions for them to go to European markets, not by political declarations, but by such institutions as expert credit agencies, the State Development Bank, industrial parks and so on. So, dear colleagues, seven.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-03-m0.u113	Ten seconds, complete, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-03-m0.u114	I propose to all of you to support the real industry's investment policy, regardless of your economic views. Ukraine is one of us. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-03-m0.u115	Thank you. People's Janicki gave the word to the National MP Musia, "Peter Prashenko's Block."
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-03-m0.u116	Dear National Deputies! Dear Ukrainian people! I want to draw your attention, the next day, in my speeches from this rostrum about the total ignorance and inaction of our government, led by Prime Minister Yatsenuk. You saw that yesterday, when it was necessary to vote on some of the laws, he was sitting here and sorry for the word, "hunting his nose." Today, when it comes to questions to the government, we do not see them again. As soon as a foreign guest comes in here with the prime minister, the prime minister comes back again, just like here. A Lot of Questions for People’s Deputies To the current Prime Minister. The first most painful question I'd like to say is the coal sector situation. Minister of Energy Demchisin submitted to the government a plan for the development of Ukraine's coal and energy security two months ago. Instead, the Prime Minister instructs us not to vote in favour of this plan. This plan is fully in line with the Coalition Agreement. Until the Prime Minister ignores the Coalition Agreement he signed and which we have accepted here in our Hall? The next decision, which was also ignored by the Prime Minister, is the debt restructuring of almost 1 billion bracelets. And what do we have today? Today we have that for a month and a half, miners are not paid their wages again. I'm told by all the mining teams that they're going to cover the routes again and strike again. So as long as we endure this abuse of the coal industry, of the people who take gold from underground and provide our nation with the necessary resources, electricity. Behind these people are their families, their children, behind the miners. I believe that such a shortsighted government policy led by such a prime minister can lead to the collapse of the Ukrainian economy, the collapse of Ukrainian energy. Once again, we hear about the contracts they're going to sign with Russia. How long can this be? We have one more session week left, and I think that this sessional week we should be very hard to ask about the adequate activity of the Ukrainian government. The next painful question is the health system and what happens in the Ministry of Health. Thank God that the Health Committee finally managed to vote in favour of the resignation of the Minister of Health of Kvetashvili. That is why I urge and ask all the leadership of the Supreme Council at the next meeting of the Conciliation Council to raise the question of the resignation of Minister Kvetashvili of the Ministry of Health. And finally announce a public transparent competition to replace the minister. So that we don't get another historian.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-03-m0.u117	I'm asking you to finish the 10 dates.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-03-m0.u118	A history teacher whom we are once again trying to engulf in the Ministry of Health. I think this personnel policy is totally also unacceptable. Thank you. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-03-m0.u119	Thank you. National Deputy Yuri-Bogdan Suhević, the Radical Party of Oleg Ljashka.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-03-m0.u120	Dear Ukrainian people! Ladies and gentlemen of the MPs! Today, the Presidential veto was to be considered by law, according to which Ukrainian women who had reached 55 years of age had 30 years of work and had lost their jobs, had no opportunity, could retire. The president vetoed this law inexplicably. Because the cost is estimated to be about 200 million dollars, which is essentially 200 million dollars. Not all women will be able to go to that retirement when they reach that age. Not everyone will accept such a pension. But they blocked it. Plus, the unemployment agency has to pay those women if they don't retire, help. That's the point. Every woman who is 30 years of age has reached 55 years of age, according to the Tihypak Reform, had the right to retire by 1 January 2015. It was a temporary norm. We wanted to continue it and give these women the opportunity to move on. And what did these women win and what did they lose? It was won that people, women who lost their jobs, who did not have livelihoods, could retire. But at the same time, they spent more than 50 percent of their pension in the five years that they had retired. At the age of 60, no one would count them. They went to this sacrifice, but they didn’t count it. And now I want to say. This is the second time that the veto is scheduled for Friday. It's done specifically so that we can't beat this veto. I ask you, faction leaders, to make sure that the veto is defeated on Tuesday or Thursday morning. You talk about the interests of the Ukrainian people, tell them about the interests of Ukrainian women, workers who have earned their entire lives by hard work, and now they don't give them a pension. Be merciful after all, if you don't have a conscience, maybe a little mercy. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-03-m0.u121	Thank you. National MP Borislav Rosenblatt, faction of the Party of Peter Prashenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-03-m0.u122	Good afternoon, fellow High Council MPs! Good afternoon, distinguished Ukrainian people! Yesterday, indeed, there was a very hot battalion in the Supreme Council Hall. Yesterday, we passed a lot of laws and laws that apply to many of the areas of our country. But the most important thing we voted on yesterday was Law 1558-1 on the restructuring of monetary loans. In fact, I have about 100 people in the district who have troubled loans today. And just as one woman called me, they're asking me to meet them because I've voiced my voice. But I just want you to understand. I really want to support those people today who actually took loans for social housing, having a debt today for a small, small apartment. How they worked their whole lives to buy it. But I don't agree to give credit for 5.05 today, pay back, those who took credit for some currency fraud, land, home, cars, phones, everything else. So I really want to apologize to everyone again, and say that we, together with colleagues, all those who want to join, the national MPs, have to create a new bill where we can only support those who really took loans for social housing and for life remember that in this country currency loans can't be taken. There is a bracelet and bracelet to be loved and held. The second question. On Tuesday, when the rostrum was also blocked in order to resolve the issue of cashiers in the hall, a 2013 project was announced, which we really can't put into the hall for the third time. This is true of people who are actually digging amber today, digging other digs and all. We can adopt a law that applies to tens of thousands of people, because we have a lot of other issues that block this rostrum. Yesterday, when we, too, were here battalions, we did not adopt Law 1699 as a whole concerning animals, our livestock. We have the lowest price in the world for milk, and there's nothing we can do about it when we have to raise the price, raise the price of milk, we don't have enough time, and that's millions, millions of people holding cows today. That's why I want this room not to address the issue of populism today, we have to think about the entire Ukrainian people, and this is all the people who live not only under the walls of the Supreme Council, but all those who are in places and live for this country. Thank you. And I'm sorry again.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-07-03-m0.u123	Thank you. We've completed our consideration of the various issues. The morning session is closed. The next meeting will take place. The next meeting will take place on Tuesday, July 14, at 10 a.m.
