ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-13-m0.u1	Good morning, dear fellows! Please come into the hall, take up jobs. I ask the faction secretariat and the secretariat of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to inform the deputies of the beginning of the working session and the heads of factions to invite deputies to the workplace. We'll start work in a minute, please come into the hall.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-13-m0.u2	Good morning, fellow countrymen! Please take your seats in the Supreme Council Hall. We'll start our work. Please take your seats. Prepare for registration, please, Your Honor. Please register. [[10:06:26]] 286 deputies. I declare the morning plenary session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine open. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to inform you that you and I have made a decision, and we have approved the mandate of the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to create two working groups. One, which deals with questions on allegations of corruption, the other, is tariff policy. And I want to inform you and remind you that the 7th May Group was to report to Parliament and propose further steps for further action. Parliament would then have to decide how to proceed with this work. On May 7, for objective reasons, this was not done. So yesterday the Conciliation Council decided that on Friday, this Friday, the group would report what the group had done in one month. [[B in m in s a l in]] Parliament will continue to determine what needs to be done on this issue. So I would ask everyone to arrive on Friday, to listen to the report, and to make the appropriate decisions. I would like this action to be as public as possible in order for no one to hide any information, but instead to provide information on what has been investigated, what has been done, what has been confirmed, what has not been confirmed, so that no one can speculate on it. Now, my fellow Members, I would like to inform you that, well, the media already knows this, but I would like to inform you right now that yesterday Parliament has received an application from the Henprocurement Office for the removal of parliamentary immunity from the two national deputies of Ukraine, namely, Sergey Kljeva and Sergey Melnichuk. The proper procedure would like us to take into account all of this provided for in articles 218 and 221 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Rules. So this means that we're actually starting this process of removing the inviolability in the walls of the Ukrainian Parliament. The relevant committee of profile will address this issue, make an appropriate decision to Parliament. Once again, I would like to stress that this is happening in accordance with the Supreme Council of Ukraine Rules, which clearly defines the entire list of actions and issues that we need to address. Dear colleagues, today is the birthday celebration of our colleague of the national deputy of Ukraine, head of the Committee on Education and Science of Lilia Mikhailovna Greenevich, let's welcome her. We wish her good health, success, and well - being. Dear colleagues, according to the Supreme Council of Ukraine regulations, we have 30 minutes Wednesday for speeches by Ukrainian national deputies. So I'd like to prepare myself for the recording, distinguished national MPs. Please prepare and sign up. We've got 30 minutes today for the national MPs. Record, Your Honor, done. Please, National Deputy Dekhtyarchuk Alexander Volodymyrovich, Block of Petra Dustenka. But before our colleague goes to the rostrum, I have a huge request from my colleagues. I'm asking you for half a ton. If there is a need for a conversation in manufacturing, please, you can do so in the towers. But when 304 people talk at the same time, it's hard to speak, and it's hard to perceive information. So please, dear colleagues. Thank you, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-13-m0.u3	Deputies! I want to draw the attention of the audience and the attention of the Ukrainian public to the further share of the Ukrtorfu enterprise group. To date, the government's 271 of May 12 decree on transparent and competitive privatization is proposing that Ukrtorf invest in privatization. I note that during 2014, 437 thousand tons of peat were mined by enterprises of the state concert Ukrtorf, which produced 208 tons of peat. With the necessary costs to prepare for crop production and technical restocking, the volume of peat production in the next two years may increase to 1 million tons, and the production of torfobriquet will increase to 500,000 tons, which will allow for an additional change of about 150 million metres of cubic natural gas. Two tons of briquettes of calories replace one thousand meters of cubic natural gas, and they will save a large budget for the population. A group of deputies called on the profile committee to hold public hearings in order to determine the future fate of the public hearing committee in order to determine the future fate of the Ukrtorfu enterprises. We consider it necessary to conduct such hearings and in no way allow the privatization of state-owned enterprises, which are profitable, in particular, the Rainethorf. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-13-m0.u4	Thank you. We invite Yuri Mikolaiovich Moroko, political party of the Opposition Block. Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-13-m0.u5	Please pass the word to Villkulu Alexander Jurievich.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-13-m0.u6	Wilkul, please. Turn on the microphone from the rostrum.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-13-m0.u7	Dear people of Ukraine! Dear colleagues! For more than 10 years, Ukrainian rescue workers have taken the lead in the public service trust rating, which is our MCS. Regrettably, however, there has been a complete breakdown of service at this time due to unprofessional activities. Thus, before the anniversary of the Chernobyl tragedy, on 26 April, the largest fire in the alien zone began, beginning in 92 years. A few days later, the management of the service was simply silent and a focal point was established only on 30 April. First, it caused a very serious development of fire and near the station itself and near the nuclear graves, and caused serious panic and serious concern. Not only in Ukraine, but we have seen the reaction of the world community and the people of the European Union. Only 30 numbers have become clear. I reiterate that this fire was the most serious fire and the most serious threat since the explosion at the Chernobyl nuclear station. What happened during that time? A broken system, a removed system, and a response algorithm. As a person who has nearly headed the State Emergency Service for two years, I can say that we have enormous and human resources and the logistical capacity of this service. Eight months ago, the head of the State Agency for the Zone of Exclusion was highlighted. And who's been relieved of that? If we have an appointment, the removal takes place solely because of political feasibility, not because of leadership, then we receive such a type of fire. Dear colleagues, I registered with the Supreme Council yesterday a ruling by which the leadership of the State Emergency Service should come to the Hall to report how this situation, what the response mechanism was and, most importantly, what we will do when there is a truly dangerous period. Spring is not a dangerous period, July-August will be the biggest problems. What response mechanism? How is this organized, and how will the ministry work? I ask all factions of Parliament, all MPs, to support this issue. Yesterday, too, it became clear that the Acting State Emergency Service had resigned. And I ask the leadership of the State and Parliament to appoint, not a political appointee who understands nothing at all, but a real professional. This is not the rescue service with which to joke, it is necessary to work and protect people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-13-m0.u8	Jemec Leonidas Alexandrovich gives the floor. Please include the word in the rostrum.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-13-m0.u9	Please give the floor to colleague Kodola Alexander Mikhailovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-13-m0.u10	It's a tribune cod. Turn on the microphone, please. Kodola from the rostrum.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-13-m0.u11	Thank you. Alexander Kodola, Montenegrin, People's Front faction. My statement will address the problem of ensuring the security of our country, increasing the volume of government procurement in defence companies, particularly in the Chernigiv region. On May 11th, the President of Ukraine, Peter Poshenko, during his studies on the Right, commissioned the Ministry of Defence, Ucroborprom, to study and report on the additional steps needed to be taken in order to increase the pressure on the Montenegrin defence industry. The President stressed that factories that had not worked for decades must be returned, used, used effectively. In this context, one day from this rostrum, I draw the defense minister's attention to a situation that took place in a state-owned factory called the Ninja Repair Plant. The company specializes in repairing almost the entire range of weapons of engineering. At present, the plant has the capacity to repair car cranes, military exvatons, regiment earthmovers, power stations, and power generators with a capacity of up to 500 kilowatts. In 2012, the Nižin factory of engineering weapons was transferred from the Ministry of Defence of Ukraine to the state concert "Ukroborinprom". From 2012 to 2014, the factory received no government orders. As a result, qualified professionals began to get out of the business mentioned above. The employees of the plant and the management repeatedly asked the executive authorities to return the enterprise to the Ukrainian Ministry of Defence, as well as to provide it with the necessary government orders to which they received a negative response. I believe that today, in the face of military aggression, we should not delay in resolving this issue. After resuscitating the Ninja Repair Plant, we not only take steps to increase the state’s security and maintain a strategic repair company but also reduce the social tension in the town of Ninja, allowing the factory’s professionals to return to work. Taking this into account, I appeal to the government, to the Minister of Defence of Ukraine, Mr. Poltorek Stepan Timfiyovich, asking for a mandate from the relevant central authorities to study in detail the situation regarding the placement of state-owned orders at the Lower Engineering Company, and to make a draft decision that will ensure the full functioning and preservation of a strategically important state-owned enterprise. Please consider my statement as a question of parliament. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-13-m0.u12	Thank you. Please Vojcitsky Victoria Mikhailovna, Self Help Union. It's a bird. From the rostrum, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-13-m0.u13	Good afternoon, distinguished national MPs! Good afternoon, distinguished Ukrainian people! I would like to draw your attention to the fact that we are currently awaiting an appointment with certain government bodies, especially the high probability that tomorrow we will consider the appointment of the head of the Antimonopoly Committee of Ukraine. Why is this important to the Ukrainian people? This is a position and this person is responsible for the development of competition in our country. What Is Competition? Only competition ensures the development of the real economy of Ukraine, only competition, normal, real competition can ensure the creation of additional jobs. What does our Antimonopoly Committee do? What markets is he investigating? Infringements against what enterprises does he determine? At present, we all realize that the work of the Antimonopoly Committee is, unfortunately, not effective today. Therefore, the assignment will be very important. At the same time, we understand that no public discussion of the candidacy proposed for the post of head of the Antimonopoly Committee has been held. So, for our part, we call, firstly, for this procedure to be discussed through the Economic Policy Committee by all media, although at least for this committee to meet in public. Secondly, we would like to draw your attention to the fact that it is not enough just to appoint the head of the Antimonopoly Committee. The body is not currently a collegiate body. All the competition authorities of all the nations of the world make their decisions on a collegiate basis. There can't be one single person responsible for the development of competition throughout the country. That's why you and I need to make changes to the Constitution of Ukraine, especially the proposals we made to the Constitutional Commission. Similarly, we need to make appropriate changes to the Antimonopoly Committee Act by ensuring the real collegiality of the body. The order currently in existence, the decision-making of the body, does not guarantee its independence. We would like to draw your attention to the fact that only the appointment will cement the situation at present. And I'd like to draw your attention separately to the loud case that the Antimonopoly Committee has just opened. So in this case, it's commented on by a lot of foreign competition agencies. They do not understand, but what has happened, and will the breach be exposed to lower prices in commercial networks? I'll answer that question. It will hardly lead to lower prices; the committee does not do its job, nor does it do what it needs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-13-m0.u14	Thank you. The boggy Grigory Mikhailovich, the block of Petra Dustenka.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-13-m0.u15	Please pass the word to Barney Oleg Stepanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-13-m0.u16	Okay. Please, Barna from the rostrum.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-13-m0.u17	Honourable MPs, distinguished Ukrainian people! The stage was a symbol of the inescapability of the Ukrainian nation, of human honor and of our national dignity, a symbol of our future, when our students were among the mature citizens on the barricades in the first place -- our young. Which the unarmed and defenseless went to the Berkutu Ball, who did not want to see their future with the bandit regional regime of Yanukovic, whose disadvantages are still sitting in the Supreme Council. Our nation was raised from its knees for the future of our country. But the future will only be bright and bright for us if evil is finally punished if the hand of the murderers of our citizens who shot our young men in Midan is cut off when they are punished by the ments of the bandits who covered these murderers and persecuted the activists of Midan. And they will be punished for violating the oath of the people and Ukraine. But to this end, at the request of Maidan himself, according to the Law on the Cleansing of Power, the restoration of trust in the court was established in July by a term of one year by the Temporary Special Commission for the Verification of Judges and Judges of General Jurisdiction on a permanent basis of moral authority, lawyers, patriots. Sadly, however, from July of last year until that time, the members of the commission do not receive a salary. They have examined more than 30 cases involving the crimes of Majdan activists, 26 judges, 19 judges. The 1881 bill, registered in the Supreme Council, provides for payment to the members of the commission and an extension of its term of office for another three years, where an objective study of all the crimes committed by the judicial bank during Maidan is made. For some reasons, though, the individuals investigating such serious crimes do not receive the wages that block the work of that commission. And if the government doesn't want to pay the members of this temporary special commission, tell them we don't need to clean up the criminal justice system, so don't torture the patriots with your cynicism and eliminate the commission. Or give her the opportunity to bring the matter to an end. The glory of the young, the glory of the heroes of Midan, the glory of Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-13-m0.u18	Heroic glory! Spanov gives Kolesnik's word, please, from the rostrum, I understand. Is it from the place? Does the chariots come from the rostrum or from the scene? From the rostrum. Please turn on the microphone in the rostrum.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-13-m0.u19	Good afternoon, Madam President. Dear colleagues! Today, I would like to discuss the Ukrainian industry, industrial production and development and the restoration of industrial production in Ukraine. I would like to point out first of all that, to date, the non-professionalism of the current Government has led our industry almost to a halt. Lack of adequate attention to such an important industry is one of the greatest mistakes that could have been made at all. Unfortunately, industry has recently shown a rapid decline. Compared to January 2014, industrial production, which is respected by colleagues, has declined by 21 per cent. The Donbass industry has been virtually destroyed, with 25 per cent reduction in production in the basic steel industry. And only according to official data of the State Fiscal Service in January 2015 was exports of 3 billion, imports of 2.9, this decrease is equal to a third. Due to the lack of State support, Ukraine's exports to Europe increased by 2 per cent, but the losses in CIS countries were 29 per cent, and this was not compensated. The Government, with respect for its colleagues, is heavily more credited by the IMF. The authorities do not wonder how the entire Soviet people will repay these loans. The Opposition Unit proposes its own concept of industrial development, economic recovery, in the end, the restoration of at least a central executive body that will be responsible for industrial issues, whose priority should be the development of the concept of new industrialization, the establishment of targeted projects for the development of strategic industries and enterprises. Effective anti-trade and anti-corruption legislation to protect investor rights is needed to attract investment. The investor must be 100 per cent sure that if he comes to our territory, he is fully legally protected. Infrastructural domestic projects needed to be continuously funded. Respected colleagues, only by taking concrete steps to restore industry, industrial production, support for small and medium-sized businesses in Ukraine, have a chance to remain the industrial centre of Europe. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-13-m0.u20	Thank you. And just a brief remark. The representative of the opposition bloc said that "the whole Soviet people.".. I remind the opposition bloc that the Soviet Union ceased to exist in 1991. Maybe we need to get a history consultant to finally figure out that we're in an independent Ukrainian state. I recommend that you make a historical potion. Thank you. Paul renders the word to the King.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-13-m0.u21	Dear colleagues! Dearly-respected are those who are present. Over the past year, the Government of Ukraine has conducted many experiences and experiments on our people. Unfortunately, these experiences have not always been successful. But today, no one can leave behind a new initiative by the Government to reform Ukraine's pension system and their desire to introduce a second level of savings in the pension system today. You see, this is very important today for one of the main reasons. Because this will affect not only 12 million of our Ukrainian pensioners, but primarily every Ukrainian in our country. And I hope that there are literate, reasonable people in this room, and I very much hope so, because at a time when today's huge economic downturn, when the public administration system is not working effectively today, it is simply unacceptable to carry out such serious systemic reforms. And you and I know that not only Ukrainian experts are talking about the situation in the economy today, we are talking about it around the world, we have only before the end of 2015 a decline in GDP can make up 7.5 per cent, huge wages, and the number of only officially unemployed people has increased by half a million in the last year. And in such a situation, the reform of the pension system is either to be seriously mistaken or to have a tremendous desire to rob our pensioners. We have a government when we went to work, they said they were a government of kamikaze, but unfortunately today the kamikaze became all 12 million in our country when their pension fell from $120 to $37 per year. That is why we do not have the right to make a mistake today. We have no right to look at the pyar-actions that the Government is carrying out and the hostages of this situation are making Ukrainian pensioners. We have therefore registered our alternative proposal for reform of the pension system. We know it has to be done. But this must be done in a balanced, systematic and literate way. But above all, the shameful pension tax imposed on our pensioners must be abolished. The shameful restrictions on pension workers and pensioners must be lifted and pensions must be reindexed first and foremost today. I would also like to recall that the pensioners of Donetsk and Luhansk have won the government's trial. But the Government has for the second month ignored the decisions of the Ukrainian courts and failed to implement them. That is why such a Government should either work for Ukrainian citizens or should be re-elected. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-13-m0.u22	Papamarczuk Mikola Petrovich. Passes the word to Irina Heratchenko. Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-13-m0.u23	Dear colleagues, as you know, there will be an Eastern Partnership Summit next week in Riga, and Ukraine, together with other Eastern Partnership countries, is certainly awaiting Riga's positive signal regarding our European prospects and the introduction of a visa-free regime. We must admit that the war on Donbass is unfortunately affecting the situation not only in the country but also the decisions made by the European side regarding the visa-free regime in Ukraine. While this is not mentioned out loud, those countries of the European Union that define the EU's policy informally admit that without the de-escalation of the East conflict, it will be difficult to cope with, including with the fastest-to-get visa-free regime. But it would be totally unfair and unfair to translate all these problems exclusively into a war in the East. The European Commission's monitoring report on Ukraine's implementation of the Visa Liberalisation Action Plan has been published for days. And we have to admit that unfortunately, the government is delaying in a few key positions where we should make significant progress. The report of the European Commission refers to the fact that only two positions were taken. Eight times we've made progress, we've almost done it, but we need to speed this up. And four is only partial progress. Dear colleagues, following the initiative of the Committee on European Integration in April, there were parliamentary hearings about our implementation of the visa liberalisation plan and the prospects for visa-free treatment. And we ask Parliament to make a decision on Thursday on the outcome of these hearings, in which our committee will identify the very clear terms that we propose to the government for all of these positions to be fulfilled by the end of the year and for the Ukrainians to be given visa-free treatment. And we also ask Parliament's leadership to do so, given that we have a pro-European coalition, and we have to demand from the government everything we need to achieve in the run of a visa-free regime and for our Euro-perspectives, that we listen to the government once a month as part of the government's day of questioning on visa-free regimes, as we are implementing the Action Plan on visa liberalisation. That's very right. And I hope we get support here. And I have to respond to the statements made by the previous speakers. As a member of a Minsk group from Ukraine, I attended consultations in Minsk last week. And I want to point out that the people who were there from the occupied territories and represented them admitted that all the Ukrainian pensioners who are registered in the territory of Ukraine who are moving are receiving a pension. The government is fully committed to these matters. And they're preventing the wages and pensions of the invaders and the Russians who occupied part of the Ukrainian.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-13-m0.u24	Please finish the 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-13-m0.u25	and annexed Crimea. And the block that lives on the dream of the Soviet people is worth remembering. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-13-m0.u26	Please, Evlakhov Anatoly Sergiyyovich, "Clock of Peter Dustenka". He's handing Tomenkov over, isn't he? Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-13-m0.u27	Dear colleagues! As I study the history of our Ukrainian people, I never cease to marvel at the greatness of our Ukrainian nation. It's just us during the war and poverty that can make 13 weekends in May. We don't have a job in May that we did on weekends. I urged them to consider my decision to cancel on May 2. Unfortunately, we did not have the courage in Parliament to eliminate the weekend and move on for one day. I'm in the days where we've moved our job bravely since we were 20 years old, I've worked here, I've worked here, I've worked here with MPs and ministers. When I had a citizen’s reception on May 7th, I was told that these citizens had handed it over to me. They say that, Mikola Volodymyrovich, we've been analyzing, we've been analyzing for a month, what is meant by the Prime Minister's statement that corruption has been overcome at the highest level. And I, along with these citizens, have analyzed and concluded that the government's overcoming corruption is being done because the government itself has led corruption in Ukraine. And in the face of this corruption, he bravely fights it. During these weekends, the government vetoed two of our laws. One law forbidding the extraction of sand, muck, gravel in the reserves. And the government gives, it says, this is a criminal law, Tomenko, the Supreme Council has prepared, because we can't do business. Thank God the president signed. The second law is passed by the government. He says, well, how do you ban oak from Ukraine and sell abroad? SOT is definitely against it. I know the name of this "Sota" and how much money he took. Because this "SOT" promised that if he led a forest agency, he would make financial support for the government and for a particular political party in the elections. That's why I'm asking the President to sign this bill, and the Attorney General's Office will take care of it directly. So, my friends, in order for all of our posterior speeches about victory over Russia, over Putin, we have to concentrate and overcome corruption. And when we have the secretary of internal affairs at the faction saying that comrade Chobotar is an example of honesty and morality. That's when we were assigned. And it turns out that how long it would take to prove that he's not exactly an example of honesty and morality. When the heads of state enterprises tell me today that a capable assistant to the APC minister, who previously led the Crimea Party organization and welcomed the people who came to Crimea, today calls the heads of state enterprises and says that the revolution is a revolution, but the party must be supported. So, my friends, once again, there are MPs in Parliament and people who are in pain for fighting corruption. Talk to us. We win corruption, we win Putin.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-13-m0.u28	Barbinenko gives the floor to the deputy of Shipk. From the rostrum, please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-13-m0.u29	Andrew Shipko, Rebirth Group, Dnipropetrovština, Nikopol, Ordjonikidze, Nicopolsky district. Dear National Deputies! Dear voters! We had just returned from the districts where we were celebrating the 70th anniversary of the Great Victory. Because we are Ukrainians, the victorious nation. But now we're being defeated. We are overcome by poverty, sickness, and government incompetence. I want to speak to Mr. Kwiatschvili. Many years ago, TV sets have been used to fight health corruption and to promise a nation that will buy and supply medicine and tenders, and they will buy vaccines. There's nothing but words. I've got a lot of moves on my hands, a lot of references. In the last three months, 1,200 citizens have come to my reception center alone in the city of Nicopolis. 70 percent is about health care and medicine prices. What people write. Seven - month - old Anika has not received any vaccination. There are no vaccines in medical institutions, and 400 bracelets for just one shot are not possible. Alexievka's mother can't vaccinate her 11-month-old daughter either. And there are hundreds of thousands of such children in Ukraine. Here's the city of Ordjonikidze. To the patient who had been transplanted, the state had previously provided essential drugs worth 500,000 dollars a year. Now such patients are unable to receive treatment. At all times, the Ministry of Health recommends that purchases be made at the expense of the local budget. The budget of Ordjonikidze is subsidized, and there is no such money. What about oncological care? The drugs needed after cancer operations are not available because of the cost, since the minimum of four thousand bracelets per package is too expensive for an ordinary Ukrainian family. And this is because tariffs, utilities and food prices have grown at a time. What can people do? Die? By the way, there's another threat today. Blood transfusion centers can stop their work as soon as possible. Same reason. MOH has not yet purchased the necessary medical supplies. And that's when the donor blood is essential to our military. The time of promise is over. Diseases will not wait for irresponsibility to prevail. Please consider my request to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for urgent intervention in the health sector. Dear Volodymyr Borisovich, our MP group "Rebirth" requires hearing in the Supreme Council a report by the Minister of Health on the implementation of state programmes to provide vaccines and medicines for severe diseases and compensation for the cost of medicines for the population. The MP's "Rebirth" for a real recovery of health care. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-13-m0.u30	Thank you. Dear colleagues, our time has actually run out, but there are factions that have no performance at all. So now I'm going to give the word to Motka of the will of the people. Then to the Radical Party representative Laška. And the last, one minute, of the People's Front. Please, hammer to the rostrum.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-13-m0.u31	Igor Molotoc, 160 constituency, Sumstina. An ecologically dangerous situation has taken place in the sixth district of Suma. The spills were dangerous poisons, chemicals. Analyses have shown that these are pesticides and heptyl. Heptil is actually rocket fuel. And concentration today is a threat not only to health but also to human life. The perpetrators of the incident are the Service Oil Regeneration Centre and the Elga Company, which are involved in the disposal of various wastes. The amount of heptyl is enormous. It was disposed of by simply pouring out into the ground in the immediate vicinity of the inhabited area. This fact is proved by law enforcement. Local authorities demand recognition of chemical spills as a state - level emergency. A national interdisciplinary commission should be established to determine the causes and consequences of the accident. Six and the Shastkin region need help to completely eliminate the consequences of an emergency. Military experts in the field of chemical protection are also needed to figure out how to dispose of the heptyl found and recognize its concentration. This will allow you to map precisely the chemically polluted areas of the Six and the region. The local community requires careful investigation into the situation and punishment of the guilty. The disposal of people in Šstak, who suffer for more than a year, must be definitively prohibited. We, and this is about 30 members of the Supreme Council, we call on the President of Ukraine, the Attorney General, the Minister of Internal Affairs to take personal control of the investigation, to give a legal assessment of the actions of those involved in this, to bring the guilty to justice. The situation requires urgent decisions. We cannot delay because we are talking about the life and health of the people. Experts know that the effects of heptyl poisoning occur within a few months. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-13-m0.u32	Thank you. From the Wolf Radical Party, from the rostrum. Turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-13-m0.u33	Victor Wolf, the faction of the Radical Party of Oleg Laska. Dear national MPs, distinguished voters! The Radical Party faction notes that the president of Russia, Vladimir Putin, who conducted the only 70 postwar annexation of a foreign territory in Europe and armed aggression against a neighbouring country, has legitimately come to justify his ideal predecessors, Stalin and Hitler, who shared Europe for security purposes and captured entire countries. On May 10th, in a meeting with German Chancellor Angela Merkel, Putin publicly acquitted the Molotov-Ribentropa Pact, which was concluded between the USSR and Germany a week before World War II. This conspiracy of Communist and Nazi totalitarian regimes, which together with the disgraceful view of the democratic West, the Munich Conference of 1938 became the trigger for the bloodiest war in human history. This is Putin's next step in rehabilitating Stalinism and witnessing Russia's movement back to the Soviet and imperial past, to the politics of aggression and expansionism. Putin himself almost literally repeated Stalin’s arguments regarding the justification of cooperation with the Nazis until June 1941. So Putin’s similarity to Stalin and Hitler was given a new vivid illustration. We stress that Putin's historical experience of the Molotov-Ribentrop Pact has practical significance today. He made his statement to Chancellor Merkel, who considers the current Minsk Accords as a step towards a new pact with Germany on the de facto dismemberment of Ukraine and signals his desire for a new division of spheres of influence in Europe. The Radical Party faction requires President Prashenko, who visits Germany, to resist further pressure from European partners and to stop Ukraine's policies of action in the so-called Minsk peace process. We hope that today’s leaders in Europe will be fully aware of the lessons of a terrible past. Neither the peacefulization of Munich - style aggressors nor the non-aggression pacts, and in fact the secret division of territories and spheres of influence will stop the insidious aggressor from further blackmailing and the possible start of a great war. We stress that only the solidarity of democratic countries prepared at all costs to jointly defend their values and make a powerful armed resistance against the aggressor can prevent a major war in Europe, restore international order, put the rematchers in place and, with the rest, bring them to responsibility. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-13-m0.u34	Thank you. Blasphemy, but I'd like to ask for one minute, a replica, and then the last performance, Sergey Sobolev, Fatherland. Please, from the rostrum.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-13-m0.u35	Good afternoon, dear fellows! Good afternoon, distinguished journalists! Chief! Gennady Kryvoshea, faction of the People's Front. In the media yesterday evening, there was information that during the morning session, I felt that I had been buttoned up, and one of the journalists about it was a photo that was posted on some sites, including the Ukrainian Truth website and the buttons column. This morning, after a proper investigation by those journalists, a journalist personally apologized in his chronicle. So I'm going to the entire Supreme Council, and I'm going to the journalists who put up a false post, and I'm going to refute this information. And I would like to inform everyone, as a citizen of Ukraine, as a person who stands up for the honour and dignity, the rights and freedoms of every Ukrainian citizen, I have never, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever again, ever again, ever again, ever again, ever again, ever again, ever again, ever again, ever again, ever again, ever again, ever again, ever again, ever again, ever again, ever again, ever again, ever again, ever again, ever again, Thank you all for your attention and thank you, ladies and gentlemen of the press.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-13-m0.u36	Thank you. And please, Sergey Sobolev. The request is as concise as possible, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-13-m0.u37	Dear colleagues! Our Parliament took an unprecedented step when last month it created a special task force to study the economic justification of tariffs. In just three weeks, a working group of deputies was able to do much more than all the organs of the nations combined. As a result of the work of this task force, which I would like to remind you has completed its work on May 7. And I hope that we will hear this week's report from the working group, where there will be a clear set of corruption in terms of electricity tariffs, gas, utilities. And I'm convinced that on the basis of this data, not just the first step will be taken, when the population that has no counters have halved the pay conditions, which is a huge victory directly for all the MPs who took part in this group's work. The Fatherland faction provided all the calculations relating to the gas balance that we couldn't get from the Naftogaz NAC. And only this week did NAC Naftogaz manage to print and officially publish the gas balance. We've made all the calculations that relate to tariff formation, first of all, to the gas, the order of pricing for own gas, to the gas that is produced by private or semi-private structures in Ukraine. And this confirms, once again, that if in just three weeks of the work of the working group, the government went to halve the gas consumption standards for those households that don't have counters, it's already possible to halve the actual state's payload for utility services. But there's a second element to this. In fact, we've confirmed that a billion cubic metres of gas of their own have been hidden by the Heatcommunergo, by the NAC Naftogaz, and they've been fed as a gas that seems to burn the population or the utility needs. And this is actually a direct fact of corruption that should be a fact of research in Parliament. And the second subject. In fact, the first jobs in the new tax system showed that the government has sufficient opportunities to index wages and pensions. Our faction insists that, as part of the budget review for the second quarter, this decision be made by the Cabinet of Ministers because it is still to be expected to take the last few out of the pensioners when the country takes an unprecedented step by setting the tax on.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-13-m0.u38	Please, 10 seconds. Finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-13-m0.u39	In fact, it allows us today to really review the possibility of an indexation of pensions and salaries. I think that's going to be the way out of this situation. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-13-m0.u40	Dear fellow members of the national parliament, we begin our consideration of matters of order of the day. You have been introduced to the draft Decree (Registration No. 2811) on the permanent termination of the powers of the Ukrainian National MP, Miroshnik A.M. Reported to the First Deputy Head of the Committee on Rules and Organization of Work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, Paul Pinzenik. Please, Paul Pinzenik.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-13-m0.u41	Dear Head, the country's distinguished deputies of Ukraine! At its meeting on 12 May this year, the Committee considered the application of the Ukrainian National MP, Mr. Andriy Mikolaiovich, for the submission of parliamentary powers in accordance with the requirements of article 81, paragraph 1, of the second part of the Constitution, article 4 of the Ukrainian Law on the Status of Ukrainian People's Deputies. The committee decided to submit to the National Committee members for consideration by the Supreme Council a draft decree of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the permanent suspension of the powers of the Ukrainian national deputy, Miroshnik (register No. 2811, dated 12.05). In 2015. Please be supportive. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-13-m0.u42	Please have Oleg Berezuk from the rostrum in the talk.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-13-m0.u43	Ladies and gentlemen, I am authorized by the faction to make a statement. Ladies and gentlemen, the People's Deputy Miroshnik is a free man, a man worthy, honest and conscientious, and this is claimed by the Self-Help faction. This is the person who brought a precedent to this Parliament. Yes, he made a mistake. His mistake was that he was doing his own business in this place and not at this time. We're talking to free media. You have the right, and we ask you to monitor what these people are doing in this room. Because today, during the war and the incredible economic crisis, the electorate and the person in Ukraine demands that the national MP have the ideal behavior, as well as that it is not difficult to follow. People's MP Miroshnik is an honest man who earns his own money honestly and honestly. And I was wrong just because she wasn't in this place, not at this time. All the other insinuations of the yellow press are fiction and humiliation of his honor and dignity. We ask you, honourable deputies, to satisfy his own choice, which is actually on the watch for his own dignity, the dignity of his family, family, faction, the political power for which he went to these elections, and today he supports. Let us support his action, and we will follow his example as a politician of a new European model. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-13-m0.u44	Dear colleagues, there will be a vote. So I'm asking the MPs to come to the workplace so that we can have a successful vote. Please come in from the towers and prepare for the vote. Dear colleagues, prepare for the vote. The vote is based on a draft decree to terminate the mandate of the People’s Deputies of the Ukraine of Miroshnik (number 2811). Please support this decision. Please vote. Please. [[11:02:33]] For 169 [[B in m in s a l in]] Is Peter Dusty's Block a warning or is it reckless? Please, Irina Heratschenko, one minute for the lineup. Please. Irina Heratschenko from the scene. Please, Irina Heratchenko, you're already on.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-13-m0.u45	Dear colleagues, I'd like to address the Self-Help faction. We listened with great care to the distinguished Mr. Beresuk. And we are convinced that this characteristic of your colleague’s being honest, decent, just confirms that he has to work as a national deputy and do what he owes to the people is hard work. And you know it's very important that people who go to work don't give up so easily. If national MPs give up so easily, it'll be, you know, a very easy story. So let him work, please, and no longer does that in his workplace. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-13-m0.u46	Please exchange your thoughts on this matter. From "Radical Party" Oleg Lazko. Then from Self-Help, Oleg Barresuk. And then from the People's Front, Gus Igor. In a minute, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-13-m0.u47	Dear citizens of Ukraine! People’s deputies certainly do not give up so easily. Most of those who go into this room are clinging to the mandate, like a lice for fur, growing up like a moss, sitting in the Supreme Council, and whatever they do, they can only be taken out of Parliament by the feet of the Fairyyard. The man gained courage, admitted his error, and gave his mandate. By the way, this is not the first precedent. There was Viacheslav Vakarczuk, who also did not stand up to this smoldering persecutor, this parliamentary one. Bull Ruslana, Ruslana was. That's why. What? [[Noise Nodes]] Ruslana didn't fold? The warehouse. I say we vote, we support a person, we can't drag a person to a laundromat. Come on, if you made a mistake, go. The same is true of parliamentary integrity. They're already running around the hall so they don't cancel it. What, have you committed a crime, and now you are afraid to answer? Where, then, are the ideals of Maidan?
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-13-m0.u48	Thank you. Please, let's go first, People's Front, Igor Gus. Igor Goose. Please turn on the microphone. One minute, Igor Gus, and then Oleg Berezuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-13-m0.u49	Deputy Gus, People's Front faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-13-m0.u50	Yegor Sobolev will.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-13-m0.u51	Dear friends! I want to address all of us. We look like we're smiling for the people who are watching right now. There is a position of a national MP who, for the first time in years, has a desire to form a mandate. There's a self-help faction position that confirms this position. What are we today, as we look in people’s faces? We've got nothing to do, what's the big deal now? I ask you to support the offer of Self-Help and the Peacekeeper MP, if he has a wish, he has a wish, he has a mandate and he has a business. So let's not make people laugh, vote unanimously, because this is the position of the national MP. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-13-m0.u52	Thank you. And please, from Self-Help, Yegor Sobole from the rostrum.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-13-m0.u53	Colleagues, the Self-Help faction is asking us all to understand. It's not about Andrew anymore, it's about us all. This is not a story written by a national MP. By the way, we ask all journalists to get to the bottom of this story, to investigate, and to lay down all the dots. But again, this isn't about Andrew. It's a story about the fact that in this Parliament you and I have to give birth to a true European political culture. If politics is lost, if there is a doubt about the morality of its actions, it must go, it must go on voluntary retirement. We're at war with you now. There is no need for anyone outside this room to explain that during the war it is not necessary to travel on expensive vacations. There is no need for anyone outside this room to explain that during the war there is no moral obligation to go to work.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-13-m0.u54	Please give me the opportunity to finish, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-13-m0.u55	No doubt during the war is a mortal sin to earn in power. This is what Andrew wants to say in his actions. And we ask you to support this position.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-13-m0.u56	Thank you. The factions exchanged thoughts.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-13-m0.u57	Dear colleagues, please calm down and prepare for the vote. And let's take the application seriously. Did anyone want to yell? You can scream in the hallway. Please, colleagues, prepare for the vote. Dear colleagues, are you ready? It's 2811. I'd like all my colleagues to calm down. Dubnevich Jaroslav, put order in your sector, please calm down. Please, 2811. We're voting the whole decision according to the statement of our colleague of the national MP, and let's not create a show on this issue. Please vote 2811. Please support our colleague's statement. [[11:09:57]] For 196 Please, who doesn't vote? Please, by the factions. "Block of Petra Poroshenko" – 68, "National Front" – 48, "Occupy Block" – 0, "self-help" – 30, Radical Party – 21, "Fatherhood" – 13, "Rebirth" – 0, "will of the people" – 2, "Afterfractional – 14. Please stand by the factions, please. Lucenka, a minute from the faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-13-m0.u58	Dear Lord Chairman, distinguished national MPs! I'd like to take the smile off my face, because my colleagues and I just talked about it, there's a bad feeling that these votes are preparations for a successful vote failure for the Attorney General's motion. I don't connect these names, they're different cases. But the tendency of such a smile vote leads to what may be the inertia of filing on two of our colleagues who are suspected of criminal offences. So I'm asking you very much to stop these games and these laughs and to satisfy the National MP's statement. Period!
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-13-m0.u59	I think, Mr. Oleg, Yuri Vitaliyovich said something that every normal MP must be aware of. Please, one more minute, Oleg Berezuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-13-m0.u60	Deputies! I'll give you a professional warning: there's nothing to laugh about. Dear colleagues! Don't be afraid, be yourself, and we'll all be fine in the country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-13-m0.u61	Dear colleagues, please let's prepare. Ready to vote? Please, let's prepare for the vote, let's vote. Dear colleagues, 2811, according to the statement made by the Ukrainian national deputy. Ready to vote? Vote, Your Honor. [[11:13:11]] For 211 Okay. Dear colleagues, we'll put down the personnel questions now. We're going to have some more conversation, because I think to make a laugh what's obvious is bullying. And I think it's unacceptable. Please, Your Honor, your consideration is on the question (registration number 1347,) of the draft Act amending article 12 of the Ukrainian Law on Administrative Services, prepared by National Deputy Devyanek Yuri Bogdanović. Please have the author's suggestion to consider a reduced procedure. As far as consideration is concerned, the reduced procedure is concerned. [[11:14:37]] For 190
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-13-m0.u62	Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-13-m0.u63	Yuri Derevyanko, Will Party. Dear Chairman, dear colleagues! The bill, which is being implemented, is designed to organize, make the centres more rational, and provide administrative services. The fact is that we in Ukraine have a large number of administrative services centres that work well enough. According to current legislation, such centers should work at least six days a week and not less than seven hours a day. And not enough, two days a week these centers have to work for more than eight hours. The problem is that in small towns, towns, villages, which are district centers, these administrative centers don't work effectively because after 16-17 hours, there's virtually no person in these centers. At the same time as we are now talking about decentralization, community unification, the possibility of creating territorial units of such centres in other communities, and we know that 100 percent of the revenue from the provision of administrative services will fall into the budget of the united communities, such territorial offices of the centres cannot be created. Why? Because the strain on such a local branch is very small in the respective united communities. So my bill foresees the possibility of allowing local authorities to change time, stressing only time, the number of hours of service, not days. Six days will be served, and the amount of time may be changed depending on the need for these services to be provided in full, quality in each community, including in unity. So I ask you very much to support this as an incentive for united territorial communities to create such territorial units, so that we can provide quality services and more accessible services to people so that they are not able to travel to the district centers within 50 to 30 kilometers. Thank you for your attention, please support.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-13-m0.u64	Thank you. The focal point is the head of the State Building and Regional Policy Subcommittee and the local self-government of Dekhtyarczuk Alexander Volodymyrovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-13-m0.u65	Dear community! The Committee on State Building, Regional Policy, and Local Self - Rule at its meeting considered the bill. The bill is proposed by decision of the body that has decided to set up an administrative service centre, allowing decisions to be made when it is necessary to change the time taken by the objects. The aim of these changes is to enable the adjustment of the reception schedule in such centres from the characteristics of individual administrative territorial units. The Committee on Budget Affairs noted that the implementation of the bill does not require additional costs from government and local budgets. And if the law is enacted, it can be put into effect within the time limit specified therein. The All - Ukrainian Association of Local Self - Government, the Association of Cities of Ukraine, noted that the adoption of the bill as proposed could lead to an unjustified reduction in the time taken by the authorities. At the same time, the association recommends that the bill be adopted on the basis of the warning given. The National Academy of Legal Sciences of Ukraine's National Self-Government Institute of State Building noted that it would be appropriate to provide for a minimum number of hours per day to avoid abuse by entities. The main scientific and expert office of the Supreme Council of Ukraine notes that when it adopts proposed changes in individual centres during reception, there may be a shorter time without taking into account the objectivity, there can be no shorter time without taking into account the objective needs of citizens. The committee supported the idea of a bill, taking into account the warning that guarantees should be put in place in order to allow for an unjustified reduction in the time taken by citizens. It is suggested that the outcome of the first reading be taken as a basis. If we're talking about decentralization, we're going to allow local self-government authorities to set up their own graphs of the work of the administrative services centers. This is going to be real action, not talk. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-13-m0.u66	Thank you. Dear colleagues, there's a need to discuss it, isn't there? Do we vote? Vote, yes. If there is no need to discuss, if there are no speakers, I ask the deputies to take their seats and prepare for the vote. Please enter the hall of employment. I'm recommending to the committee a bill amending article 12 of the Administrative Services Act (registration number 1347). Please support me as a base. Please vote. [[11:20:05]] For 217 Didn't you hear? Didn't they make it to the hall? I'm going to ask the people's deputies to come into the hall and now we're going to have to go back to the vote and then vote again. I'm asking you to come into the hall, take your jobs. Ready to vote? Then by our first vote, we return to debate 1347. Dear colleagues, please prepare for the vote. Let's go back to the 1347 vote. Please vote back to vote 1347. Please. [[11:21:06]] For 214 No voices. Self-help doesn't vote. I don't know if it's a position or if it's a coincidence. Position, right? Apparently, it has to do with the previous question. Yeah? Oh, no? Okay. Society, let's figure this out. We can return the bill to the subject of the legislative initiative. Will such a position be maintained? It will, won't it? The subject of the legislative initiative. Then it's me. But we don't care. Self-help colleagues, we still have to go back to voting to vote on this proposal. So I'm going to put the vote back on the vote, and then we're going to define it by voting. Please re-vote 1347, please support and return to the vote. Please vote. [[11:22:19]] For 237 The proposal received the necessary number of votes. Now I am voting on the proposal to return the bill to the subject of the legislative initiative. Please, John Krulko, one minute out of place, a replica. Ivan Krulko, turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-13-m0.u67	Ivan Krulko, "The Fatherland" faction. The President-in-Office, I have a proposal, a bill that is important and really needs to be worked out, but I have a proposal not to return the subject to work now, to vote another option for re-reading, to keep the bill in the Supreme Council, so that the committee will take a good look at it once again in accordance with the Rules, as it is stipulated, within 30 days a profiling committee should conclude on the bill, and after the Committee has concluded, whether this bill should be voted on in the first reading and considered here, i.e. not to return the subject, but to vote on the re-reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-13-m0.u68	Thank you. I'm afraid your offer won't vote on the same basis. I see. Let me put this as a basis, if it doesn't work out, let's put this proposal now, which is in line, back to the subject of the legislative initiative. So I'm voting on the proposal to return the subject of the legislative initiative to the draft Act amending article 12 of the Ukrainian Law on Administrative Services – number 1347. Please support this proposal. We're voting for the return. [[11:24:11]] For 245 Thank you. So the bill is returned to the subject of the legislative initiative. And we're moving on to the next question. 1249 is a draft Act amending article 30 of the Act on Shareholder Associations. There is a proposal to consider the bill in a simplified manner. Please support the reduced procedure. We're voting for a reduced procedure. [[11:24:56]] For 197 Thank you. The report invites Ukrainian national deputy Voropejev Yuri Mikolayovich. From the rostrum, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-13-m0.u69	Dear colleagues, I would like to remind you that about two years ago, after the creation of a single NDU recorder, there were two recorders, the IFS and the NDU. One of the laws was followed by only one recorder, the NDU. This registrar was given special powers, special powers. Only he had the right to pay dividends, i.e. only through him had the right to pay dividends to shareholders. What did that lead to? To the fact that all shareholders are now transferring money to the NDO account. These equity companies and shareholders themselves depend on NMS accounts for a minimum of three days. The NDU then lists them to the shareholders themselves. And if there are dead people there, and unfortunately, after the voucher privatization, there are a lot of people either left the country or died, and there are no addresses, no accounts. This money depends on the NDU accounts and is used by NPAs. Such a stockholder's association. These funds are made by the shareholders themselves, made by the issuers themselves, kept in the accounts of the same entity, which is owned by the public, and private property, including private shareholders. The bill further proposes to be simple. To remove this disgraceful norm, which was imposed two years ago, and to allow the money to pay directly to the shareholders themselves. That's all. During the discussion, a proposal was made to give the shareholding society itself the right to pay directly, or through the NDU itself the right to choose. That's a good offer. This can be further developed by the second reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-13-m0.u70	Thank you. The report invites the head of the Economic Policy Committee, Ivanchuk Andry Volodymyrovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-13-m0.u71	Dear National Deputies! On February 4, the Economic Policy Committee discussed the bill. There were so many comments. The committee therefore decided to recommend to Parliament the adoption of the bill in the first reading as a basis. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-13-m0.u72	Dear colleagues, is there a need to speak? There's a need. Then let's write it down: two for, two against. Please write down: two for, two for against. Lozov, the Radical Party, is invited to the floor. Turn on the microphone. Please, Deputy Lozov.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-13-m0.u73	He gives the word to the distinguished economist of all times and peoples of Victor Halasyuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-13-m0.u74	Please, Halasyuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-13-m0.u75	Thank you. Dear colleagues, this bill should be adopted in the first reading as a basis. But I would like to highlight the most painful economic issue that has arisen for our country today. Look at yesterday's press. Problems have arisen with the restructuring of Ukraine’s sovereign debt. This is a critical question! I'll remind you that in the 350 billion dollars budget, it's only this year's service and payment of government debt. Over 90 billion dollars alone. If foreign creditors don't meet us in a partial write-off of this debt, in freezing the percentage before military aggression against Ukraine is halted, we don't have the resources to fight, to develop Ukraine's economy. I want to say that it is very important for our foreign partners today to understand that Ukraine is a forpost to Western civilization in every sense of the word. So if they really want to support Ukraine not just with political declarations, not just with calls, they have to write off part of our debt as they did for Poland in 1991, when they wrote down Poland 24 billion dollars of debt. It's like 100 billion dollars in current prices today. So the finance minister has the full support of the Supreme Council and the Radical Party faction on this issue. These negotiations are to be held. We have to prove to our foreign partners that the only way to restore Ukraine's economy, to repay the debts we took, and to stand up to us, is to restructure Ukraine's sovereign debt. This needs to be done, and there is no alternative to that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-13-m0.u76	Thank you. Papamarczuk Mikola Petrovich, Petra Poshenko's Block.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-13-m0.u77	Please give the word to Caplin, Deputy Kaplin.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-13-m0.u78	Please, Caplin.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-13-m0.u79	We're going to support this bill, because if you talk simply, it allows the shareholders to count the money directly. But at the same time, we would like to stress the need to put another extremely serious emphasis on this issue. During the past 23 years, Ukrainians have actually taken away virtually all the property that their parents, grandparents had built, built back in the Soviet Union. The oligarchic rod actually took away factories, factories, infrastructures in ordinary Ukrainian citizens because of its extraordinary privatisation affairs, leaving them with only problems, new excessive tariffs, no pensions, and no wages. Obviously today is the time to start not some conditional delligarchization, and today it is time to start talking about the nationalization of the individual enterprises that are now in the hands of the oligarchs. More than that, the oligarchs who directly sponsor terrorism in Ukraine. And so, without taking away this major pain from the entire nation, without the demands of Ukrainian citizens, we are unlikely to have order in this area. Deoligarization is the first and foremost requirement of the Ukrainian people, and that is to begin with real reforms. No other cosmetic changes will bring order to our country's economy, our Ukrainians, ordinary workers and peasants have the right to recover, with the help of the Supreme Council, all that has been achieved by hard work.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-13-m0.u80	Thank you. Please, Danchenko Alexander Ivanovich, Self-Help faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-13-m0.u81	Please hand over the Victorian Bird.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-13-m0.u82	Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-13-m0.u83	Dear colleagues! I would like to draw your attention to this bill now, because the appearance of this bill in this room shows that we are very carelessly working with you in the Supreme Council. Why am I talking about this? Because about a month ago, you and I voted in favour of Bill 2259, which has already changed this very norm, and this is the part of the rule that offered us to pay dividends, or through the depository system of Ukraine, or directly through shareholders. And she made it clear that a specific way of paying dividends would be decided by the general meeting of shareholders. It was a government initiative, and you and I supported it, and so far this bill is on the President's signature. What are we doing with you now? Without even waiting for the entry into force of this standard, we are again in the room considering changes to the same standard. Friends, how can you do this? This tells us that we work with you in a nonsystemic way, we don't read those bills that we vote for, we don't even remember what we voted about a month ago. Let us now focus on our work, work more effectively, and finally begin to read what we vote for. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-13-m0.u84	Thank you. Sergey Sobolev gives the word to John Krulk. Please turn on Krulka's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-13-m0.u85	Dear Lord Chairman! Dear fellow national MPs! Ivan Krulko, "The Fatherland" faction. The Fatherland faction won't support this bill, and I'd like to explain why. In addition to the perfectly fair arguments put forward by a colleague of the Birdsman regarding the fact that such standards are now on the President's signature, I would like to say another thing that is in addition to how we care about shareholders and their dividends, it is clear that we should immediately consider another bill on fair taxation of dividends. Because today pensioners pay 15 percent of their taxes, today every citizen pays taxes, and at the same time dividends in Ukraine are taxed at the lowest rate of 5 percent in Europe. It seems to me that in a situation of socio-economic crisis and war, it's obvious that those people, and these are mostly large shareholders that have millions and billions, would have paid the fair price of the earnings they get as profits from the stockholders' activities. So when we think about the rights and interests of shareholders in societies, let's also think about how to fill the government budget of Ukraine. After the indexation of pensions and wages, after the return of 15 percent of working pensioners, we can look at such issues as the encouragement of shareholders in businesses. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-13-m0.u86	Thank you. We've had, we've had, we've had, we've had, we've had, we've had, we've had, we've had, we've had, we've had, we've had, we've had, we've had, we've had, we've had, we've had, we've had, we've had, we've had, we've had, we've had, we've had, we've had, we've had, we've had, we've had, we've had, we've had, we've had, we've had, we've had, we've had, we've had, we've had, we've had, we've had, we've had, we've had, we've had, we've had, we've had, we've had, Please turn on the microphone, Voropeyev Yuri Mikolaiovich. In place?
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-13-m0.u87	Dear colleagues, colleague of the Birddog Part of the Law, such a rule is indeed found in Law 2259. However, this rule indicates that the payment of dividends is determined by the Securities Commission. It's not a stock company, it's a securities commission. It's a serious reservation. And I don't think it'll be a big deal if we take it as a basis, and then we'll figure it out by the second reading.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-13-m0.u88	Thank you. We had a discussion. Let's move on to the vote. And I ask the National Deputies to come into the hall and prepare for the vote. I'll be the first to put the proposal recommended by the committee as a basis. Ready to vote? Okay. So I'm voting on the draft Act amending article 30 of the Ukrainian Act on Shareholder Associations (registration 1249) as a basis. Please determine how to vote, on the basis of the vote, please. [[11:37:45]] For-179 Thank you. The proposal did not get the required number of votes, and I will put forward the next proposal proposed by the Chief Scientific and Expert Office, which is to return the subject to the legislative initiative. So I'm voting on the proposal to return the bill to the subject of the legislative initiative. Whoever supports this proposal, please vote. Please vote. [[11:38:24]] For 218. I think there are voices, I need them again. Did everyone vote? If there are no voting warnings, we will proceed to the next bill. We are moving on to the next bill of order – Bill 1037, Draft Law on Amendments to Individual Ukrainian Laws (to abolish excessive grounds for halting vehicles and exercising public control over law enforcement authorities) (number 1037). There is an offer to consider it in a simplified way. Please vote in favour of the summary procedure. [[11:39:32]] For-174 Thank you. The report invites Ukrainian national deputy Mishchenko Sergey Grigorovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-13-m0.u89	Sergei Mishchenko, 98th District, Kyivshina. Dear Ukrainian citizens, dear colleagues, I want to explain to you two examples that can change once this law is passed. Anyone who runs a transport vehicle in this country has probably faced the fact that it was stopped by internal affairs officials for no reason, not explaining why it was done, or whether the reasons cited were simply removed, as they say, from the sky. This is done in order, first of all, to make these corrupt elements, demand bribes for not having a pharmacy or having a fire extinguisher or other things, or to stop you and demand money from you. This is done in a strange way, in the early days when a person goes to work. And then, when he comes to work and he's late, no one will ask him what he's late for. His explanation may be that he may be relieved of his employment or some other disciplinary obligations. Another example. It's when it was done during the Automats that the activists who showed their public position on these cars were stopped, they were denied the rights that were forged in the protocols, which now state the prosecution that the evidence had been lost. This was done to ensure that the impunity of the police is in effect today. Therefore, after the adoption of this law, a worker who stops such a vehicle without justification will have to do so.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-13-m0.u90	Please, 10 seconds, finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-13-m0.u91	on the driver’s request to form a suitable card: why he stopped, what time he stopped, and whether it was a violation.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-13-m0.u92	Give me 10 more seconds. There's a rule, it's common to all. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-13-m0.u93	Thank you. And that disciplines the police. So we're showing whether we want to reform this system or if we're pretending to reform it.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-13-m0.u94	Thank you. The co-report is invited by the representative of the Committee on Legislative Security, the law enforcement activities of Cooper Vitaly Mikolaiovich. Kupry Vitaly Mikolaiovich, Kožemyakin asked to give you the word. Please, from the rostrum.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-13-m0.u95	Dear Chairman! Dear colleagues! The Committee on Legislative Security, the law enforcement activity of Ukraine, considered the draft recently published by the National MP Sergei Mishchenk and Victor Razwadowski (registration No. 1037). The bill proposes to amend article 11, paragraph 21-1, of the Police Act. In addition, as a form of public control, it is suggested that this card be entered. Well, the main thing is not so much a reduction in the grounds for stopping the vehicle, because there is a form of this procedure on the card that should have a driver who should represent it at the stop, they have to reconcile these issues. I'd like to say the next thing is that the bill makes sense. But today, we are with you on the eve of a major reform of the law enforcement system, where there will be a photo fixation, where there will be no need to stop, where other requirements for the State Automobile Service, by the way, it will no longer be a state car. That's it. After considering all of this, the Supreme Council Committee made such a proposal. It is suggested that it be returned for further processing, taking into account the authors ’ point of view. The authors may have expressed their opinion. So I'm asking you, given the committee's opinion, to reject it for further work, and these proposals are already included in a single bill that will be submitted to you and will be considered by everyone. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-13-m0.u96	Thank you. Dear colleagues, it is the conclusion of the committee that the subject should be returned to the right of legislative initiative for further work. This is the position of the committee. Let's think about it. Is there a need to discuss it? None. So let me make sure we don't waste really valuable time, I'm going to put a committee proposal on the vote, and we're going to be determined by voting. Thus, the proposal by the committee to return the subject to the legislative initiative for further elaboration of the draft Law amending Ukraine’s individual laws (registration No. 1037). Please vote. Please make your decision by voting, please. For the committee's decision, yes, for the committee's decision. [[11:45:34]] For a hundred and The proposal did not receive the required number of votes. I'll make the next proposal, based on the bill. So who wants the bill to be adopted in the first reading as a basis, Bill 1037, please vote. Who is in favour of adopting the bill as a basis, please determine how to vote. [[11:46:12]] For-164 And this proposal didn't get the right number of votes either, so we're going to go to the next bill because it's rejected. 2181 is a draft law amending the Criminal Procedural Code of Ukraine on the order of temporary disposal of property and the conduct of searches. And there is also a request from the authors that this bill be considered in a simplified procedure. Please support the proposal to consider the simplified procedure. Please vote. [[11:47:03]] For 158. Thank you. And a speech for the report is invited by the Ukrainian national deputy, Palamarczuk Mikola Petrovich. Please, from the rostrum.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-13-m0.u97	Dear Chairman! Honorable National Deputies of Ukraine! Your view is on the draft Ukrainian Law on Amendments to the Criminal Procedural Code on the Procedure for Temporary Removal of Property and Search (Registration No. 2181). The bill is designed to protect the interests of businesses, institutions, organizations, and citizens in the conduct of investigations into the temporary removal of property, including during the search. The current Criminal Procedure Code does not require the investigator to provide a copy of the report to the person in which the search and disposal are carried out. The situation in question complicates the prosecution of illegal actions and the disposal of property, since a person cannot prove the illegality of such removal in court without documentary confirmation of the fact of the search and disposal of property. The bill proposes to amend part three of article 168, “Temporary disposal of property” and article 236, “Implementation of residence permits or other possession of a person” of the Criminal Procedure Code of Ukraine, which requires the investigator to provide a copy of the report to the person in which the temporary removal of property is carried out or the search is carried out. Given the importance and relevance of the bill, I propose to the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the basis of the first reading of the bill to be adopted as a basis and generally as a law. Please be supportive. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-13-m0.u98	Thank you. The co-report is invited by a representative of the Committee on the Law Enforcement of the Cupery Vitaly Mikolaiovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-13-m0.u99	Dear colleagues, as a lawyer, as a man who also worked with Mr. Palamarchuk on the committee, I supported this bill. Our committee will support it, it's necessary. Understandably, many violations by law enforcement agencies, investigators who sometimes do not produce the necessary documents, which cannot then be brought before the courts, have resulted in numerous violations of human rights. But separately, I want to point out that we have other requirements of the Criminal Procedure Code that are not being implemented right now. This is not the creation of the State Bureau of Investigation. It is this body that must investigate crimes committed by law enforcement officials, including those related to the bill. So I would also like to point out that there is such a problem, and we, the deputy corps, have appropriate bills, we will need to review them immediately and implement both the requirements of the Criminal Procedure Code, both the requirements of society and the proposals of the European community. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-13-m0.u100	Dear colleagues, is there a need to discuss a bill, or can we vote? Yes. Please sign up: 2 for, 2 for. Please. Please, Lunchenko Valérie, People's Front. Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-13-m0.u101	Please pass the word to Leonid to Yemen.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-13-m0.u102	I didn't hear who. Please speak more clearly. To Germany, please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-13-m0.u103	Leonid Yemen, People's Front faction, city of Kiev. Dear colleagues, when the Janukovich regime together, under the guidance of, more specifically, Portnova, wrote the Code of Criminal Procedure, they specifically forgot to prescribe a rule that would allow those who are being searched, protected for further prosecution, including in court, and in defence of their rights. So today this bill, it's just a balance sheet for the criminal process, and it's absolutely right that we're introducing it, and it's always there, this position. And that's why the People's Front unanimously supports this bill. And he believes that the person in charge of the search should receive a document that will then be able to address the relevant structures to protect their potentially violated rights. So please support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-13-m0.u104	Thank you. The word Igor Mosiychuk is used lightly. Igor Mosiyczuk, please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-13-m0.u105	Igor Mosiyczuk, Radical Party. Our faction clearly supports this bill, which is supported by the committee, and which is aimed at stopping at least the partial saviour that happens during the investigation, during the search. But at the same time, I'd like to go to my colleagues because it sounded like there might be no need to adopt similar laws, because there's a big reform coming. So we don't know when that reform is going to be, because the bills proposed by the Cabinet of Ministers, the Ministry of Internal Affairs, are standards such as increasing the arrest rate from 3 hours to 24 hours. And so are others that are a direct violation of human rights. So I think we need to support this bill now. And I support my colleague, Cooper, that it is necessary to remove the blockade from the establishment of the State Bureau of Investigation, which is primarily necessary to investigate violations committed by so-called law enforcement officers in carrying out their duties. Therefore, the Radical Party faction urges Parliament to support the bill on the basis. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-13-m0.u106	Thank you. Dudenko's Alexander Valeriyovich, Opposition Block, please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-13-m0.u107	The Opposition Block faction, of course, will support this legislative initiative, because this legislative initiative increases the protection of the rights and legally protected interests of those who participate in criminal conduct. In particular, the bill is proposed in the course of the detention, search or disposal of property from a suspect, accused person, to provide a copy of the report to the person or her representative. So, of course, in order to limit the use of law enforcement in order to protect constitutional rights in the criminal process of natural and legal persons, we will support this legislative initiative and call on all colleagues, regardless of their political affiliation, to support this legislative initiative.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-13-m0.u108	Please, Oksana Petrovna Sold. Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-13-m0.u109	Dear colleagues, I now ask you to vote in favour of this bill, because what does it foresee? This bill gives the right to those people who have their property removed during the search, to have that property returned to them if they are entitled to it. At the moment, without this bill, there are sometimes just thefts under the discovery of a criminal case, search, removal, and closure of a criminal case. And I ask now all of us, colleagues, to vote in favour of this bill and to protect those people who have benefited from it and have the right to defend it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-13-m0.u110	Dear colleagues, the discussion is done with the draft law. Draft Act amending the Criminal Procedure Code of Ukraine on the order of temporary disposal of property and the conduct of searches (2181), author of the National Deputy of Ukraine, Mikola Palamarczuk, and co-reporter, respectively, is the head of the Professional Committee, Andri Kožemjakin. There's a proposal for a profile committee: to vote on this bill, it's complicated, on the basis and in general, by honourable colleagues. There's no objection, I think we've discussed enough. People's deputies, please prepare for the vote. Dear colleagues, please prepare for the vote. Please vote. Colleagues! 2181 – on the basis and in general. The author is Mikola Palamarczuk. On the basis and in general. Let's support it. Please be supportive. Please support me, colleagues. On the basis and in general. [[11:56:49]] For 270. Thank you, Your Honor. Dear colleagues, we didn't get a vote. Attention! 2811, decree to terminate the mandate of the People's Deputies of Miroshnik. I think we've discussed this again. I have now held a brief meeting and I am convinced that we are now voting in favour of this statement. Please concentrate, colleagues. 2811, draft Decision to terminate the mandate of the People's Deputies of Ukraine of Miroshnik. The report was by Pinzenik Pavel Vasilovich, the first deputy of the professional committee. There was information from the head of the Self-Help faction of Oleg Beresuk. So let's, colleagues, support this statement. Ready to vote? Please, colleagues, a total of 2811, the approval of Miroshnik's statement, the draft Ordinance on the Cessation of Powers of the People's Deputies of Ukraine. Colleagues, we vote. Please be supportive. I'd like your support, colleagues. [[11:58:06]] For 222 We haven't been able to vote. Colleagues! Please, colleagues. This personnel issue needs to be included. Let's mobilize. I can see it, I can see it. Are the colleagues ready to vote? Come on, invite the deputies. Please, colleagues, we're voting. Draft Decree 2811, draft Ordinance on the short-term termination of the powers of the Ukrainian People's Deputy of Peacehnik according to his application. I ask you to support this decision. In general, please vote, colleagues. Please vote. Please, I beg your pardon. [[11:59:03]] For 229 Thank you, Your Honor. 2812 decree, Stepan Barna, our colleague. According to Stepan Barna, the draft decree on the permanent termination of the authority of the Ukrainian national deputy. 2812, colleagues! Please vote. Colleagues, 2812 on deprivation. Order to terminate the term of office of Ukrainian national deputy Barna Stepanovich. Please, Your Honor. Ready to vote!? Vote. There's a colleague's statement, I'm asking for your support. Let's vote, colleagues. Please be supportive. Let's vote, colleagues. [[11:59:57]] For 263 Decision taken. A draft Decree is being introduced for your consideration. Attention! Registration number 2810, National Deputy Lucenko Yuri Vitaliyovich. Please, Yuri Vitaliyovich, please come to the rostrum. There is a proposal to consider this provision in a simplified procedure. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. Short-term procedure! The vote was put. [[12:00:30]] For-144 Report.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-13-m0.u111	Dear National Deputies! As we know, the national deputy of our faction, Roman Nasirov, was appointed after the competition for head of the fiscal service. The BP faction decided to replace him in this position. As head of the Committee on Tax Policy, Nina Ivanovna Jujanina, an expert in her work on this committee. This decision was supported by the Standing Committee yesterday. Please support this assignment as part of the WFP quota for leadership positions on committees. Nina Ivanovna is a professional, an honest and loyal national deputy, ready to lead this important committee. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-13-m0.u112	Dear colleagues, is there a need to discuss this matter? Please, Oleg Berezuk, one minute. Then Oleg Lazko, a minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-13-m0.u113	Dear colleagues, we want to make one point. We show deep respect for the professional skills of Mrs. And we think her candidature is worthy of leading this committee. Moreover, we have no desire to claim this position, nor do I want to make a statement immediately. But what we want to say is that today a representative of one of the political powers is directing an important fiscal institution of the state. And for the quality of governance, both the weights and the opposition committee should be headed by a professional from another political power. And that would be the right thing to do. And that would be the right thing to do. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-13-m0.u114	Please, Oleg Lazko.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-13-m0.u115	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. The Radical Party faction supports a colleague from the Dust Block. This is their quota, this is their candidate, and we will certainly vote in favour of this candidate. But at the same time, I have an appeal to the head of the Supreme Council. From April of the month, there was a statement in Parliament about the formation of a parliamentary representative of Ukraine, Valérie Kulích, who was appointed head of the Montenegrin District Administration. I have a question, why isn't this statement put to the vote right now, and why isn't it being considered? The Radical Party faction insists on an immediate cessation of violations of the law. The 20-day deadline for the appointment of the MP and the head of the ODA has passed. We now demand that, before voting in favour of the chairman of the committee of the important Mrs. Yuzanina, which we support, we propose to vote in favour of ending Kulić's mandate.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-13-m0.u116	Thank you. Thank you, Your Honor. Please take your seats, Your Honor. The question is that it is scheduled for Tuesday. He wanted to come personally and read his statement, so it is Tuesday. And you don't have to make it out of this tragedy. Tuesday you can vote for it. Second position. We are now considering matters related to personnel assignments. Nina Petrovna Jujanina is a high - level expert, and everyone knows that. And it doesn't matter what faction it's in today. But what's more important is that this personnel position right here is Peter Dustenk's Block. So there's a perfectly fair position, and we're taking these questions for tens when there's a corresponding rotation across all the factions, across all the parties. So, dear colleagues, I think we need to have an understanding here that this is just a staff rotation and a staff replacement. So I would ask everyone to concentrate on voting. Yes, it is in one decision: 2810 – to appeal to the party of Nasirov and to appoint Nina Petrovna Jujanina. I think it's a humane reinforcement of the composition of the Committees of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. So please prepare for the vote. 2810, in general, Jujanina and Nasirov. Please vote and please support, Your Honor. Please be supportive. Please vote. [[12:05:25]] For 254 Decision taken. Thank you. Welcome to the committee. Dear colleagues, 12:05 p.m.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-13-m0.u117	We demand a review of the application on.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-13-m0.u118	Oleg Valeriyovich, I have a regular duty to announce a 30-minute recess. I'm calling a 30-minute break. 12.05. Respectfully!
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-13-m0.u119	Dear colleagues! If you'd like to come to the workplace, please take your seats. The secretariat of the Supreme Council, please inform the deputies of the beginning of the session. And the heads of factions please mobilize a special warehouse to continue our work. Please. Dear colleagues! Once again, I urge you to enter the hall, take up jobs, we are not enough to continue our work. Please come into the hall, we're taking up jobs! Colleagues, we're starting work in one minute. Anyone who hasn't entered the hall, please come from the towers to the hall, take your jobs. People's deputies please come into the hall. The secretariat of the Supreme Council, please report on the beginning of the session.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-13-m0.u120	We continue our meetings, our distinguished fellow national MPs. There's an author's letter under Bill 1868 on the transfer of his consideration, so he'll be transferred, this bill. Draft Act amending some Ukrainian legislation on the organisation of domestic aid. National Deputy Shipko Andri Fedorovich. Let us prepare for consideration. There is an offer by the author of a reduced procedure to consider it. Please, colleagues, prepare for consideration of the bill under reduced procedure. Please. Please support the author's proposal to consider the bill in a simplified manner. Please support the consideration of the reduced procedure, colleagues. [[12:48:23]] For 135 Please report. Colleagues, please prepare for consideration of the simplified procedure of the draft law. Colleagues, please support the author's position on consideration of the reduced procedure. Please, colleagues. [[12:49:03]] For a hundred and Copy that. Please report.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-13-m0.u121	Dear Vladimir Borisovich, distinguished national deputies! A bill on the organization of domestic aid (registration 1516) was prepared and introduced to the Supreme Council by six national deputies: Bachevo, Bilovol, Shipko, Shurma, Musi, and Donez — members of the Health Committee of the Supreme Council. The bill proposes to amend the Ukrainian Law on Emergency Health Care, based on Ukrainian legislation on health care. In particular, we suggest that we extend the range of people who may be able to provide domestic aid. To include in the standards of secondary, vocational and higher education the skills of home-help students and students, to develop and enforce the rules of home-based care. Dear colleagues, the need to adopt this bill is very important in our country. In Ukraine, unlike European countries, few still know basic things — how to bind a wound, measure body temperature, arterial pressure, heart massage, artificial breathing, and other first - aid rules. However, in the event of a severe deterioration in health or injury, timely relief often plays a crucial role in preserving life and restoring health. Statistics show that in Ukraine, up to 2 million adults and 300,000 children are injured each year and more than 70,000 adults die as a result of injuries. With proper training, many people could be saved. If the bill is adopted and implemented, Ukraine can save up to 30,000 people each year. In the conclusion of the Chief Scientific and Scientific Administration, it is set out to support this bill in the first reading. The committee also considered March 4 and supported the first reading. I ask you, Your Honor, to vote in favour of this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-13-m0.u122	Thank you, colleagues. From the committee, the first deputy head of the Oxan Health Committee. Olga the Mantis, head of the committee. Please report for 2 minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-13-m0.u123	Dear colleagues! Olga Bogolitz, head of the Health Committee. To your mind, the law, the bill that applies to every one of you, the life of every human being in a peaceful territory, and the territory where military action takes place. The Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Health Care at its March 4th meeting, discussed the bill and decided to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine the results of the first reading on the basis. In line with current legislation, the list of those responsible for providing domestic aid is limited. The bill expands the number of people who can provide home - aid services. On behalf of the Health Committee, all MPs are asked to support this bill in the first reading on the basis. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-13-m0.u124	Thank you, Your Honor. Is there a need to discuss? Please, is it? I can see there isn't. There's only Sergey Sobolev. Can I talk to you for a minute? Please, Sergey Sobolev, one minute. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-13-m0.u125	Dear colleagues, we have spoken this bill on the faction. The only warning there is. When the hospitals go down, the FAPs, don't let God, we'll go down the path of creating separate structural units to take care of domestic aid. We wanted the drafters to understand clearly if this is the creation of new structural units -- we will not vote for it and we will not call the hall to vote for it. If this is happening within an existing structure, it's a completely different question. The second question is that the first home aid should be provided within a range of structural units that are not directly related to health care for the first time. For example, we know that the largest number of road deaths since the accident is due to the fact that State inspectors cannot give the first medical requirement. Therefore, the qualifications of others should be the same.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-13-m0.u126	Please let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-13-m0.u127	which allow for a clear and very rapid response to this, as is the case in the vast majority of the world. So if it's not the creation of a new structure that's going to continue to produce an administrative apparatus, a management apparatus, it's possible within the structure that it is now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-13-m0.u128	Thank you, dear colleagues, Oksana Korczynska, first deputy head of the profile committee. Oksana Korchinska.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-13-m0.u129	Dear colleagues, we ask you to support this law in the first reading. Of course, it needs to be worked out. We're going to have a lot of help coming with you to change it, because we're going to need to introduce the term "paramedic" -- this is the person on the front who's actually providing the first home aid right now. But now we ask you to vote in the first reading. My colleague Mr. Sobolev is absolutely right, if this were really about the organization of individual structures. No way. Our committee was working on this bill. It's about expanding the circle of internal structures in order for people to be able to give first home aid in organizations, in public organizations, in institutions, in schools, in schools to teach and demand education in all schools for medical care, in all schools, it's our number one task, during the war all the more. Thank you very much. Please support in the first.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-13-m0.u130	Thank you. Please comment for a minute and we will vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-13-m0.u131	Dear colleagues, there is no point in creating any new structures, as Mrs. Corchinska said. We've discussed this bill, and we, in general, the national MPs, especially the majors, have long held such competitions in our districts, and we've carried out "I Save Life" measures, involving schoolchildren, high-level vocational and technical schools. And the kids themselves are admiring this subject, this topic that can actually save lives. So I ask everyone to mobilize and vote in favour of this bill. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-13-m0.u132	Thank you. Dear colleagues, you have heard that these warnings are not objective. So now we're looking at the results of the first reading as a basis. I think it can be adopted as a basis, and then we'll work on it and see if we can finally get it approved. There's no objection.? I ask the people's deputies to take their seats for the bill registration number 1516, the draft Act amending some Ukrainian legislation on the organisation of medical assistance. Are you ready to vote, colleagues? Please, on a base, that's just the basis. Please vote on the basis. [[12:57:24]] For 241 Decision taken. Thank you, Your Honor. Please, 1228 is a draft law amending the Ukrainian Supreme Council Committee Act on Access to Committee Meetings for Media. There is a proposal for a simplified procedure to consider the draft law. Please vote on the summary procedure, the proposal of the author of the Law. [[12:57:55]] For a hundred and Thank you. Please, Paul Rizanenko. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-13-m0.u133	Congratulations, fellow MPs, representatives of the media! The bill deals with the transparency and openness of the organs of the Supreme Council. The principles of the Constitution of Ukraine and the Act on Rules of Procedure of the Supreme Council guarantee the transparency and openness of the Supreme Council itself and its bodies to which the committees refer. However, publicity and openness mean that openness is the possibility of media representatives and ordinary citizens attending meetings of these bodies, i.e. committees; and publicity means in the interpretation of the Supreme Council Rules, the possibility of broadcasts, broadcasts, video recordings, audio recordings on these committees. However, the existing provisions of the Supreme Council Committees Act limit the rights or create conditions for the improper enforcement of these rights. Yes, article 9 of the Committee Law says that representatives of the media can be invited to the committee meetings. Often when this article refers to the fact that there were no invitations, representatives of the media are refused to attend the committee meetings. Article 44 The procedure for holding meetings and committees provides for video and audio recordings to be made by media representatives by agreement of the committee’s head or committee itself. In order to remove these inconsistencies with the Supreme Council Rules and to ensure the rights of media representatives, the bill proposes that all rights be fixed unconditionally. That is, article 9 states that committee meetings have the right to be attended by representatives of the media, except in cases where the committee’s decision is to hold a closed meeting. It is also suggested in article 44, paragraph 2, that it be possible for members of the media to make video recordings, movies, videos, radio and television broadcasts at public meetings of the committee. This bill guarantees the rights of openness. the principles of the rights of openness and the transparency of committee activities.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-13-m0.u134	Please finish. Yeah.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-13-m0.u135	He does not need any expense, as publicity and openness are provided by media representatives themselves. Asking for support on the basis of the bill as a whole. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-13-m0.u136	Thank you. Please, Paul Pinzenik, the first deputy head of the profile committee. Paul, please. I think everyone's backing this bill, so we don't have to discuss it for long.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-13-m0.u137	Dear colleagues, the committee at its meeting on 4 March this year reviewed the draft Law amending the Ukrainian Law on Committees of the Supreme Council of Ukraine (on access to media to committee meetings) introduced by the National Deputy of Ukraine, Rizanenko Paul (Registration No. 12280). The initiator of the bill proposes to amend articles 9 and 44 of the Ukrainian Act "On Committees of the Supreme Council of Ukraine" by establishing the right of representatives of the media to be present and to make a sound recording, film, video shoots, radio broadcasts, television at open sessions of the Supreme Council of Ukraine committees, except in cases where the committee decides to hold closed meetings. There's a conclusion from the Chief Scientific and Scientific Administration that makes a number of warnings about the mechanism for the implementation of these 3 provisions. However, the committee considered the draft law proposed by the national deputy Rizanenko and decided to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine the outcome of the first reading of the bill to be adopted on the basis of the commission of the Main Committee to prepare it for consideration in the second reading. Please support, and thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-13-m0.u138	Colleagues, please prepare for the vote for the bill in the first reading, 1228 on access to the media to the meeting. Mikola Tomenko, one minute. Please invite MPs.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-13-m0.u139	Dear colleagues, the idea is correct and the first reading can be voted on. But this idea is based on a technological moment that's very difficult, if the committee doesn't want to do it, it won't do it all the same, even though it's an imperative norm. Because we have my analysis showing that we have about a third of the committees have a meeting room of 30 to 50 people. And I think we need to look for an option that will undoubtedly secure open meetings. My approach is that we should make mandatory standards for mandatory online broadcasting of committee meetings. So, by the way, like an online broadcast of a government meeting. We're not afraid on live to broadcast the Supreme Council and watch what sms MPs write there and so on. Why do we not even have government broadcasts? So I think we need to move on to a stricter standard. Each committee meeting is broadcast on the committee’s website, as is the government’s meeting, not just the floor floor with the Prime Minister’s speech. That's why.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-13-m0.u140	Thank you. Please, shall we vote? Dear colleagues, please prepare, let us vote on the basis of the draft Law on Access to Committee Meetings by the media. I want to assure you, as Head of the Supreme Council, that he has done everything and I will do everything I can to ensure that committee meetings, attendance, performance is as public as possible. And I think that in the near future, the data will be published according to my command, and by the session visit, and by the vote on the front page, so that the country will know its heroes: who walks, who votes, who works. It's very important that everyone knows. So please support this bill of Law 1228, please, Your Honor, on the Committee of the Supreme Council, the amendment to the Law on Access to the Media. On the basis of that, please support. On the basis of the vote, please support. [[13:04:17]] For 244 Thank you, colleagues. Decision taken. The law was adopted as a basis. Next draft of Law 1102. There's an offer by author Yuri Lewchenk to consider the full procedure and the profile committee in short. I'll bet you a profile committee to consider the reduced procedure, please. [[13:05:00]] For-162 A decision has been made. Please, Yuri Lewchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-13-m0.u141	Lewchenko, Freedom, 223 District, Kiev. An important element of the government’s regulation of the securities market is the enforcement of legislation in the securities market. The National Securities and Stock Markets Commission, within the limits of the powers conferred by the Law on the National Settlements of the Securities Market in Ukraine and the Code of Administrative Offences, may impose fines on legal persons for infringements on the market of securities and citizens or officials for administrative offences related to the operation of the securities market. But unfortunately, these fines, which are imposed, cannot really be charged. Over the past few years, even though hundreds of millions of fines have been stolen, literally millions have been collected at real costs, a small percentage of fines imposed. In this regard, attention should be paid to the failure to pay the fines imposed voluntarily and to the imperfections of existing enforcement procedures imposed by the authorized person of the national commission on securities and the stock market. It should be noted that legislation provides for enforcement measures to impose fines. The solution to the problem may be through legislative improvements in the enforcement of fines imposed for violating securities in the market, which is to bring them by analogy to the existing procedures for fines in accordance with the Ukrainian law on enforcement. Taking into account the above, the draft law of Ukraine amending article 11 of the Law on the National Settlement of the Securities Market in Ukraine on improving the procedures for the collection of fines imposed for infringements of the securities market legislation has been developed with a view to improving the legislative rules on the mechanism for fines for infringements of securities market legislation. Society, very simply, is tightening, actually fines are imposed for real stock market violations, for real securities market violations, but in fact they are not listed in the state. So the state arrangement doesn't work. You can break it.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-13-m0.u142	Please, 20 seconds, finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-13-m0.u143	You can break anything, you can actually get the corresponding fines. But because there is no procedure and the appropriate committee cannot actually bring them to justice, especially because they do not have money to bring them to court, these violations are not punishable. It goes on like this, completely irresponsible.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-13-m0.u144	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-13-m0.u145	Bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-13-m0.u146	Thank you. Colleagues, please, head of the P.I.P.R.T. Paul Rizanenko. Please, and please, invite me.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-13-m0.u147	The Committee on Financial Policy and Banking, at its meeting on 4 March 2015, reviewed the draft bill on the national regulation of the market in securities in Ukraine on improving the procedures for fines imposed on infringements of the securities market (registration number 1102), submitted by national deputies Levchenk, Sukhovski, Illenk, Boublik, Marchenk, Gołko. The project is proposed by amendments to part two and third of article 11 of the Law on the State Regulation of the Securities Market to impose sanctions on securities market offences in the form of fines issued by authorized persons of the National Securities and Stock Market Commission, to categories of implementing documents subject to enforcement by the State Enforcement Service in accordance with the Ukrainian Law on Enforcement. In short and in other simple words, fines imposed by the commission are not paid by those on whom they are imposed. These people. In order to obtain a fine, the commission is required to file a court order, and only these fines are collected in court. These fines could be 100, 200 dollars, and they could be millions. To date, some 26 million dollars have accumulated such fines. The bill proposes that the fine should not be charged to the person on whom it has been imposed during the month, it becomes an enforceable document and is already being drafted in the principle of executive conduct. This will enable the Securities Commission to provide more effectively both the performance of the charges imposed and the budget revenues. The bill is supported by a committee of profile, a Cabinet of Ministers and other stakeholders. As a result of the examination, a draft bill was proposed in the first reading on the basis of the law of Ukraine as a whole.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-13-m0.u148	Thank you. Dear colleagues, is there a need to discuss? I won't. Ladies and gentlemen, please prepare for the vote. Draft Law (Registration No. 1102) "On the State Regulation of the Securities Market in Ukraine", prepared by National Deputy Levchenko Yuri Volodymyrovich. I'll bet the vote on the basis of the bill. Please identify yourself. Based on the base. And in general. On the basis and in general. According to the committee's decision, on the basis and in general. [[13:10:48]] For-136 The decision is not taken. I have an offer, colleagues. No, I can see by the vote that there's just no vote. I can see that. The draft law was not adopted. Dear colleagues, we still have draft regulations. I invite you to report on these regulations to Mikola Trochymovich Fedoruk, head of the Committee on State Building, Regional Policy and Local Self-Government. I think there's going to be a report on these decrees right now. These decisions have long been pending, so please. Please, Mikola Trohimovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-13-m0.u149	Dear National Deputies! The Ternopil district council referred to the Supreme Council of Ukraine to refer the town of Kremenac to the Ternopil district to the category of cities of regional importance. According to the last census, there are 22,000 inhabitants in Kremenec. The question of the departure of the city of Kremenec.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-13-m0.u150	Dear colleagues! Excuse me, please. Is there a question about that? Please, Deputy Mikhailo. One minute. Mikhail Golovko. One minute, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-13-m0.u151	Dear fellow MPs! I would like to emphasize the very importance of this law. Because we went to the electorate and talked about helping local communities and providing opportunities for small towns. And especially giving the status of district importance to the Kremenec, the legendary, historical, beautiful district center, this is going to be a big positive step for Ternopolska. More than the community itself and the prospects for development, because Kremenec is the second largest district center in the Ternopil region, a historic town where many prominent people have been born, there are universities, and they work normally in the economy. I believe that we will take this step to support the community of the Cremenec and the community of the Ternopil region. I urge you not to be apathetic and to support all the pilgrims. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-13-m0.u152	Thank you. Please, Vadim Yvchenko a minute, then Egor Sobolev, then Yuri Miroshnichenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-13-m0.u153	Dear colleagues! Vadim Yvchenko, "The Fatherland" faction. The faction clearly supports the given decision and everything else. But I would very much like you and I to remember that night when we were taking on budget innovations. You remember when we said when we compared cities of district importance to villages and villages, when today we don't know who the owner of this city, whether the head of the administration, or the head of the district council, or the mayor of the city of local self - government. So it's very important, of course, to support these decisions, and the city data will be given the status of the city. But I would very much like you and I to think that from the new year, these cities, of circuit significance, will again be without taxes on the income of individuals. I don't mean the ones we take, all the others, we have 267. Colleagues, I urge that we present a bill that was prepared by the faction of Fatherland, and we must make sure that the cities of regional importance are given direct budgetary relations.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-13-m0.u154	Thank you. Please, Yegor Sobolev.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-13-m0.u155	Please pass the word to Borislav Berezi.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-13-m0.u156	Borislav Bereza, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-13-m0.u157	Colleagues, I am very grateful to the Self-Help faction, which concerns not only today's legislative day, but also the problems that concern all Ukrainian society. I am currently speaking as the head of the working group to investigate Mr. Gordienko's allegations against Prime Minister Yatsenuk and his Government. Our working group has been sabotaged by the prosecution. The documents they're planning to give us will only be handed over to us on Friday. Accordingly, speaking to you simply makes no sense. It makes sense either to extend the work of our group or to vote in this sessional room in favour of the TSC and. Yes, for TSK! Finally, Ukraine will have the answer to the questions it wants to know. No scandals can be silenced. Ukraine must know the truth. I would therefore appreciate it if I now decided to vote on the TSC tomorrow. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-13-m0.u158	Dear colleagues, I would like to remind you that we are now looking at the draft Decree, attention simply, to take the city of Kremenec of the Kremenac region of the Ternopil region to the category of cities of regional importance. I would very much ask that you and I, as Ukrainian national deputies, have great respect for the people of Kremenec. The question that you and I have dealt with has been discussed tens of times. So I want to ask, if you insist on a word, that's one thing, but if you don't insist, let's vote and confirm by voting that we support communities. Is it accepted? I thank Ruslan Knyazevich, and I thank Yuri Miroshnikka for her understanding. Colleagues, please invite all deputies to the hall. We've got a dozen of these here. I'm asking you to support them. Please, Decree 2600, draft decree to place the town of Kremenac in the Ternopil region in the category of cities of regional importance. Please support the turrets on this issue. 2600. Vote, dear friends. Please vote, please support. In total, 2,600, in total. In general. [[13:17:30.]] For 236 My colleagues, thank you. I ask the secretariat, please invite all the deputies. Now there's going to be a vote on all these regulations at the same time, I mean, one by one. People's deputies, don't leave your seat, please. 2601 is a draft decree to place the town of Berežana in the Ternopil region in the category of cities of regional importance. There is a positive committee decision. On the basis and in general, we vote, colleagues. I'd like to support you in general, my friends. Colleagues of the People's Deputies, please vote in general [[13:18:18]] For 239. Decision taken. Thank you. 2802 is a draft decree to place the town of Gaddach in the region of Poltava in the category of cities of regional importance. There's a proposal for a total vote of 2802, please support. There is a positive decision by the committee in this regard. Please take your seats in the voting room. In total, 2802, in general, please vote. [[13:18:56]] For 248 Decision taken. 2306, colleagues, is a draft decree to amend and establish the boundaries of the city of Dunaevci in the area of Hmelniecki. Also a positive decision by the profile committee. Please support 2306 – setting limits. Please change and set limits, in general, 2306, in general. Please be supportive. [[13:19:28]] For 243 Decision taken. Please, 2803 is a draft decree to modify and establish the boundaries of the town of Winnitz and the Winnitz district of Winnitz. There's a positive decision by the profile committee. Please support this draft decision, please support. [[13:20:02]] For 245 Decision taken. Thank you, Your Honor. 2301 (registration number) draft Order on the name of the village of Melnikovov Lipovodolin district of Sumsk district. The committee also considered, accepted the proposal as a whole. 2301. Please vote. I'd like you to support me as a whole. Please stop voting. Please, Mikola Fedoruk, 2301. He has information, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-13-m0.u159	Ladies and gentlemen, we just have to call it the village: Melnik's name is Melnik's village.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-05-13-m0.u160	With the amendment announced by Mikola Trochymovich, I put it to the vote as a whole. Draft Decree 2301, please support as a whole with an amendment. [[13:21:20]] For 249 Decision taken. 2302 (registration number of the draft decree) on the renaming of the village of Lipovodolín district of Sumsk district. Rename it to Polly, to the village of Polly. As defined in Decree 2302. Please vote in general. Please vote. [[13:21:58]] For 249 Decision taken. Project Order (Registration No. 2303) on the name of the village of Kimlicka in the district of Lipovodlin in Sumsk district to the village of Kimlicka. Please vote. 2303 as a whole, please. [[13:22:36]] For 244 Decision taken. Project Order (Registration No. 2304) on the renaming of the village of Galeyevec in the Lipovodolin district of Sumsk district. Name to be changed to the village of Galaivian. There is a committee decision in general. Vote please, colleagues, 2304. Please vote. [[13:23:11]] For 243 Decision taken. Thank you, Your Honor. 2305 decree, draft Order on the name of the village of Pribil of the Jewish district of Lviv. Rename to the village of Yattjag. There's a committee proposal for a total of 2,305. Please vote. Please be supportive. [[13:23:49]] For 249 Decision taken. Draft Decision to rename the village of Shevchenk Slavutsky district of Hmelnicky district (register No. 2510) to the village of Shevchenko. Please, there is a committee proposal in general to vote. Is there no objection? Please vote, 2510 as a whole. [[13:24:27]] For 249 Decision taken. Thank you. 2511 is a draft decision to rename the village of Skipce in the Hmelnitsk Region. There is an appropriate decision by the committee proposing that this draft decision be voted on as a whole. Nameing takes place in the village of Skipce. Please, 2511 as a whole. [[13:25:03]] For 236 Decision taken, my dear fellows. Regulation (registration number) on the change of name of the village of Dibrovka Isiaslav district of Hmelnitsk district to the village of Dibrovka. Also considered by the committee, it was decided by the committee to take the whole renaming of the village. 2512 decree. Please support the entire draft decision. [[13:25:48]] For 241 Decision taken. Dear fellow national deputies, let's consult. We have committee meetings now, and we've exhausted the agenda for the day. I think it's important to hold committee meetings. So I'd like to inform you that tomorrow morning's meeting will be held at 10 a.m. Let us prepare a number of serious, important questions. So I ask everyone to be ready for work. The morning session is closed. The meeting will take place tomorrow at 10 a.m. Thank you for your attention.
