ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-20-m0.u1	Good morning, fellow countrymen, we begin our morning meeting. Before I register with the National Deputies, I would like to give the floor to the First Deputy Head of the Supreme Council for announcements. Please, Andrew Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-20-m0.u2	Good morning, dear colleagues. First of all, I'd like to invite all the deputies to come into my workplace, leave the watches, and go for the start of the registration. But first I want to read the announcement. First. About the creation in the Supreme Council of Ukraine of the eighth interfractional parliamentary association "Protection of children's rights is the priority of the state." The Interfractional Union "Protection of Children's Rights – The Priorities of the State" is headed by the National Deputy of Ukraine, Juriy Alexiyovich. I also want to let you know. Pawnee, right, yeah. I also want to report that on the third floor of our room in the towers of the Supreme Council there is an exhibition of icons painted on boxes of cartridges at the hottest points of our advance in the Sands and Debalts. Today is the last day of the exhibition, and I therefore ask who has this conviction to acquire icons, the funds will go to the needs of the first volunteer mobile hospital named Mikaly Pirogova, which provides assistance to military and civilian personnel in the ATO. Once again, I'd like to invite the deputies into the hall. Heads of factions like us have agreed to change the quality of the Supreme Council's work, to work in the Hall. And so I'd like you to come into the hall and start our work.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-20-m0.u3	Ladies and gentlemen, please take your seats in the sessional Supreme Council of Ukraine for the registration and plenary meeting. Please turn on the "Council" system for registration. [[10:06:01]] 217 deputies in the hall. I declare the morning plenary session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine open. Before we move on to "the hour of questions to the government," I want, on your behalf, my fellow citizens' deputies, to personally welcome today the deputies who celebrate their birthday. That is, let's welcome Yuri Alexiyovich Paulie with her birthday. Welcome, Yuri Alexiovich. Good and healthy. Shepherd Taras Timothyovich Taras, welcome. Paul Vasilovich Pinzenik. Welcome to your birthday, Paul Vasilovich. Alexander Yuriovich Trelyakov. Let's say hello to Alexander Yuriovich. And also Mikola Trochymovich Fedoruk. Mikola Trochymovich, welcome! Dear colleagues, as we agreed with you on the subject of "the hour of questions to the government." We had questions about energy tariffs and social security issues, subsidies, and social policy issues. In line with this decision today, the government will be represented by the Deputy Minister of Energy and Coal Industry, Alexander Svetlelik. As well as the Minister of Social Policy of Ukraine, Paul Rosenko. Here's the deal. We'll give 15 minutes to the reporters, the rest of the time will be the questions of the national MPs and the answers. If the reporters finish early, then we'll have more time to ask. Do you have a deal? Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-20-m0.u4	Please invite Deputy Minister of Energy, Alexander Sveteleika. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-20-m0.u5	Dear National Deputies! A Democrat in Brussels is negotiating on gas issues, you know. I'm at the Ministry. I have a report on the questions that have come to us. The Ministry had 32 questions from MP factions. The questions are large, they relate to virtually every field of the fuel-energy complex, so I'm going to try to answer them comprehensively, given the lack of time. Questions about the activity and development of the Ukrtorf concert. In accordance with the statute of the Ukrtorf State Concert, approved by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, nine state-owned enterprises are participating in the concert. The total number of employees is 970. In 2014, 417 thousand tons of peat were extracted by state - owned companies, including peat, fuel, and peat. 171,000 tons of briquettes and semi-briquettes were produced. Today, coal mines are being developed and implemented within the shortest period of regional development programs for oil companies aimed at the widespread use of peat in municipal heating, the introduction of gas generators on peat. In the future, more efficient types of peat and peat - based fertilizers, including sodium and potassium rubbers used in agriculture and animal farming, will be rationally expanded and introduced. In the current year, the Mine Coal programme for the development of the country’s peat sector for the period up to 2020 is being developed. Today, too, there are a number of problems with regard to farming, so Minneergowiel has prepared a draft of the Ukrainian Law on Change in the Land Code. The issue of the use of Ukrainian gas. It applied. Why does it not go fully to the population? In accordance with the requirements of article 10 of the Ukrainian Law on the Principles for the Functioning of the Natural Gas Market, natural gas resources for the population are formed solely on the basis of enterprises of State ownership, as well as those in the statutory fund whose state share of ownership exceeds 50 percent. However, it should be noted that, given the decline in natural gas consumption to the population that is primarily driven by the implementation of energy conservation policies, the consumption of natural gas by this category of consumers in 2015 will be around 14 billion cubic meters, and this demand will be fully met by the cost of its own production. Natural gas, which is extracted by private enterprises, is implemented by other consumer categories, including industrial ones, without any restrictions. As a result, in a substantial reduction in the resource base of this energy source in Ukraine, the total annual volume of natural gas production is 20 billion cubic meters [20 billion cubic meters]. The question about the execution of a project on the construction of a compressed gas terminal in the Odessa region is the issue of gas diversification for the country. The operational management of the LNG Terminal project, the offshore natural gas terminal runs the National LNG Terminal Project, and the co-executors of the plan of action are Minernergogil and the National Stock Company Naftogaz. The Ukrainian Minister's Office of Administration approved the previous technical and economic justification for the project. The TEO is a technical economic justification for construction on the Black Sea coast of two stages of LNG terminal for the adoption of compressed natural gas with a project capacity of 10 billion cubic meters. The location of the terminal is considered by the area in the area of the Adjalika liman, the Odessa region. The first step involves the construction of a floating installation with LNG storage and regasification, with a capacity of 4.5 billion cubic meters per year. Second phase of construction of the ground terminal, entry into service, 2018. With the aim of implementing this task by the Interstate Investment Project and the company, the American Company has concluded a cooperation agreement on the possibility of implementing the first phase of a national project. The potential supplier of LNG to Ukraine is the countries of North and West Africa, Egypt, Algeria, Nigeria, the Persian Gulf, Qatar, the Caspian region, Azerbaijan, Turkmenistan. LNG purchases can also take place in the spot market. The cost of building a terminal is estimated to be 846 million euros. A consortium of investors will finance 30 percent of the cost of terminal construction, while the rest – 70 percent will be involved in credit lines and/or bond placement. The construction of a gas pipeline to connect the terminal to Ukraine’s gas transport system will cost 113 million euros. At the same time, there are still a number of factors that slow down the implementation of this project. The first is that the Azerbaijani side, the potential natural gas supplier in the Black Sea Aquarium, does not define the final date for construction on the Black Sea coast of a natural gas rejuvenation terminal, without which the supply of rejuvenated gas towards a domestic LNG terminal is impossible. And another unfavorable factor is caused by the final uncertainty of the Turkish side regarding the consent of the Ukrainian side to the unhindered passage of tankers with compressed gas through Bosphorus. Yesterday and today we are having talks with the Turkish side about the solution to this problem. The question of getting out of the only energy space with Russia. The question was about the stage at which the project proposed the construction of wind power plants in the mountainous region and in the territory of Lviv. That's two questions, I'm sorry. Today, Ukraine’s combined energy system is working in parallel with the energy systems of the SND and the Baltic countries, including the EU, Russia. You can get out of this energy space, and we have two choices for that. The first is to work separately in your own synchronous area, and there are a lot of problems with balancing and ensuring the reliable functioning of our energy system. The second option that we're working on right now is to adapt our energy system to European standards and move into the European synchronous area. This project is being implemented jointly with our Moldovan and Romanian colleagues through the European Energy Community. With regard to the construction of wind power stations in a mountainous area in the Lviv region on February 24, 2015, the capacity of 6.6 megawatts was put into operation in the Lviv region in the first place. A total of 12.5 megawatts are planned there. It's a question of how to get the buildings to be heated from gas to electricity. In the spring of last year, the government announced its intention to put such an idea into practice. The question is how far this work goes with us. A decree has been adopted by the Cabinet of Ministers to encourage consumers of natural gas and heat to switch to electricity for heating and heating. In accordance with the above-mentioned NCRE Regulation, the population living in residential buildings equipped with electrical combustion plants has been established from October 1 to April 30, including consumption of the border tariff. Equalization of tariff rates differentiated over time for each period is determined: night, day, semi-picture and peak. In line with the NCRE Decision, coefficients will be in place to allow electricity to be consumed at half a day at night. The question of the possibility of changing the status of Burstin TES to a time of war. It is now producing electricity for export to countries in Europe. With the aim of covering the energy-powered deficits of the 8 and 9 B.C.T.S. have already been redefined to work for the main part of the combined energy system, prepared and sent to our experts in Westeringo for the task of developing a work project for the prefixing of block 11 of the B.C.T.S. We're further considering providing a technical capability to cover the bulk loads of the OS when we need three more power grids. Well, I want to point out that aside from the need for a major part of the OS, the main task for the Bourstein TES was and remains to provide electricity to the western areas of Ukraine. This is an area called the Burstin Island. And we'll redirect the rest. The issue of legislative work in the direction of regulatory provision for the production and use of biogas. The issue of biogas production is regulated by the Ukrainian Alternative Energy Act. In addition, according to the recent Ukrainian government's review of the Natural Gas Market Bill of the Supreme Council, which you have already adopted in the first reading, fundamental issues have been addressed regarding the requirements of the standards for transporting biogas through the system of highway and distribution pipelines. The bill has already been adopted, as I said, in the first reading, and we hope that the bill will be passed by Parliament as a whole in the near future. The question of setting tariffs for the population. This was the case in the case of the adoption of the Natural Gas Market Act. In this context, it should be noted that the natural gas tariff for the population includes several ingredients. This is the cost of natural gas, such as goods, the cost of its transport by highway and distribution networks, as well as a supply tariff that covers the costs of gas - supply companies associated with the distribution of natural gas. In accordance with the draft Natural Gas Market Act, transport tariffs and distribution of natural gas will be established according to the methodology approved by the National Commission for Energy and Utilities. At the same time, the final price of natural gas for the population will be determined by suppliers who, according to the bill, will be given special duties by the government to protect vulnerable consumer categories. Such prices will be established by the supplier on the basis of the requirements of the government program, which will identify the categories of consumers that will need State support and also take into account the level of subsidies that will be provided to meet the needs of the relevant consumer categories. The question, according to Minfin, has already begun to decrease the gas extraction from the depths of more than 5,000 meters when it is planned to change the fiscal regime that was adopted in December 14 for the gas industry. Minenergo Ukraine is working on a plan to increase the production of hydrocarbons in Ukraine, which includes, inter alia, changes in wage rates for the use of fossil-use napdrama. Especially for natural gas. The question is, so technical, I'd say, a question of possible technical problems that might arise in the case of the transition from gas to electricity from gas to gas, due to the rise in tariffs on gas. According to the Cabinet of Ministers Regulation on the Promotion of Natural Gas Consumers to the Conversion of Electricity in Minenergo, a prepared call has been made for energy-efficient companies to take into account the cost of building electricity networks to the active gas boilers, which take steps to replace natural gas with electricity in the formation of investment programs. Today, the procedure for connecting to electricity networks, including the increase in the allowable capacity, is regulated. I have 20 seconds left, so I'm going to answer the last questions that I had here -- the question of Ukraine's gas balance. In line with the project of the forecast balance, we're going to be doing it on the basis of the next revenue. The gas, the production in Ukraine, is 19 billion cubic metres and the arrival of 25.9 billion cubic meters. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-20-m0.u6	Thank you. Please take your place. Andrew Anatolyovich, after that, there will be 30 minutes of questions, and you will ask questions. Please, Minister of Social Affairs Paul Rosenko. Minister, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-20-m0.u7	On February 28th, the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine approved the Ordinance on the Organization of Systemic Grants in Ukraine, a decree published and entered into force in advance before the process of raising tariffs. I want to talk about the main elements of this grant system that should be in place in Ukraine, which will be reformed. I've already spoken from this parliamentary rostrum that, despite the fact that today's current subsidy system works, but nevertheless, it doesn't cover all the people who need real social support as a result of rising housing-communal prices. And today, it is estimated that of the three million people who are now to be included in the grant system, only 1 million families today are covered by this system. So in order to provide maximum social protection for the population of the socially vulnerable population, the government has adopted on February 28th an appropriate Decree of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, which foresees a fundamental reform of the subsidy system, which will allow people to be protected by such an increase in housing and gas prices. So the basic principles of the new subsidy system. A simplified form of declaration and statement has been introduced today. Only two documents: application and declaration. The government's decision expressly prohibits people from asking for any additional help, any additional documents, only simplified statements and a simplified form of declaration. Subsidies will take place for 12 months, not 6 months, as they are now. So you don't have to apply again every six months, run to the local authorities and get your subsidies counted, everything will be done automatically. So the third principle is to automatically recalculate subsidies for the next term without further applications and without additional declarations. This will be done automatically. That is why those who today exercise the right to receive subsidies. Once again, 1 million 100,000 families, they won't have to go back to social protection offices in May and transform subsidies into a new system. This will be done automatically by the local authorities and will be re-assigned automatically for the following, already twelve months, term. Fifth. All the artificial, property and financial criteria previously applied, such as the deleted points that now, for example, if a family had a surgery, a medical operation of 10,000 dollars, it was denied the right to receive a grant. Today, if the family taught their child $10,000 a year, she was denied the grant. Also, a person who actually had a pie in a rural area, this pie was included in the total income, although it obviously did not have real income with this pie. Thus, all artificial criteria are overturned that they will now not give officials, local authorities, on formal grounds of refusing a grant. The same is true of the unemployed. Today, in order to receive subsidies, this person was obliged to register and be in charge of accounting at the center of employment. Today this rule has been removed because we understand very well that only about 20 to 25 percent of people who are really unemployed are in the center of employment. Point six. We have foreseen an opportunity and it is indeed a fairly progressive revolutionary norm, to get a real subsidy for those who rent housing. Today, there has been a formal possibility. But in order to obtain a grant today, it was necessary to be registered in this rented apartment. Clearly, the renter who rents the apartment, well, let’s put it this way, softly speaking, is not very helpful or would not like to prescribe or register a foreign person in this apartment. So we simplified this principle and found that now the subsidy would be based on a fixed legal contract, where it would be clearly established, which people rent their homes, and without any registration of these people in this apartment. On the basis of this agreement, people will have the right to receive subsidies. Seven. Only pure human income will be taken into account. This is especially true of working people in the first place. Because today there is a paradox. The person has one amount, about two thousand dollars, on the hands of the salary actually after paying the corresponding fees, he gets a lot less, a thousand 800, about a penny. But the subsidy today is based on the number that is counted, not on the actual person who gets it. So this situation has also changed. And we warn and ask people to take that into account. It's hard to get through. This will have to be recalculated, including setting this income on its own. But it seems to me that this is a real step towards social protection for people, so that there's a grant for real income, not income. The eighth point is that we're moving on to grant. This is a government decision that has already been taken, in an in-contact way, to form subsidies. And today we are opening up the opportunity not to come to the local authorities or give these personal help. Each person can fill out a declaration at home peacefully, fill out the application at home, pack it up in an envelope, and send it to the appropriate local authority. Thus, by identifying their telephones there, and by controlling the timing of the assignment of the grant, not personally, but in the phone mode. What I'm saying right now is that it's a truly revolutionary reform of the subsidy system in Ukraine, but its implementation depends very seriously on how effectively local authorities can use those mechanisms that will give and give them government. Today, the government has given local authorities all the necessary weights. First, we gave a simple, understandable system for all, both for people and for local authorities, of subsidies. And secondly, what we all gave together is the necessary funds for this subsidy system to work. I'm just going to remind you that the country's government budget this year has recorded a record amount to cover the subsidy system -- that's over 24 billion dollars, which we think today is sufficient to cover this system. So today the task of the local authorities of Ukraine is to test the local authorities: how they can effectively use this mechanism, how they can avoid wondering how they will spend this month, which is still in the local authorities, before this system of subsidies enters into operation, inform society, teach workers and move on. We, for our part, the Ministry of Social Policy, have now begun active work to train local authorities to work with the new subsidy system. A week and a half ago, on Thursday, all the representatives of the district social protection offices were gathered, and three more representatives from each area of the subsidy system were distributed all the necessary guidance materials, instruction letters to ensure that all these instructions and all the government's decisions are brought to the local authorities in the shortest possible time. So I think that when we talk about decentralization of power, when we talk about the need to empower local authorities, we should also talk about how local authorities today can actually demonstrate how they can work for society, how they can help residents of their cities, villages, use the social assistance that the state will give them today. In addition, I would like to report that, literally from yesterday on the websites of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and the Ministry of Social Policy, all documents relating to the new grant system, suspended declaration forms, suspended application forms have been posted. Those who want to read these documents today, please visit our websites, download these documents, copy, print, read them, and make real use of the new grant system on May 1. In addition, from the day before yesterday on the Cabinet of Ministers website and on the Social Policy website, calculators for the calculation of subsidies, where a simple calculator, and each family using this calculator, can roughly calculate the amount of their subsidy that will be paid for residential utilities. So we're making this system open in public today, making this system simple. All documents approved, instructions sent to the premises. And we have a month left today to rebuild the local authorities to provide a new service to our people. And on the other hand, to inform this month about the new subsidy system, about the new opportunity for people to secure themselves and protect their social rights by raising prices. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-20-m0.u8	Thank you, Minister. As appropriate, we turn to questions, fellow members of the national parliament, 30 minutes to ask questions. Please sign in. Igor Lucenko, Fatherland.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-20-m0.u9	Please pass the word to colleague Sobolev.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-20-m0.u10	Sergei Sobolev, Fatherland, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-20-m0.u11	Sobolje, Fatherland. I have a question for the Ministry of Energy. It's the next one. Can you name at least one energy-generating bankruptcy in the last 10 years, after the production of electricity, or an energy-supplying company that would be bankrupt because of underpriced electricity tariffs? Do you know of any oligarchs who now own energy-generating companies who would refuse to benefit the state because of their underpriced electricity tariffs? That's the first question. And to the Minister of Social Policy. We're on the Ministry of Social Policy's website right now. Give us the number of the regulation you are regulating for the new order of payment of subsidies. There is no such number.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-20-m0.u12	Thank you. The first question was the Ministry of Energy. I'll try to answer your question. The thing is, over the last 10 years, I've been able to give you one example of when we went bankrupt with the Dniproenergo generating company, it was in the sanitization mode, it was pulled out of bankruptcy, but that was the case. Regarding the economy of our generating companies, energy distribution companies, you know that we have a state regulating electricity tariffs for both monopolists and manufacturers. We have every company with a license issued by the National Commission on Energy and Utilities. So they do the license, and the tariffs are also set by the National Commission. They're, uh, they're kind of damaged, the commission's always, well, I'd say, the calculations run the tariffs on which: both the payability of our consumers, and the economy of energy-generating, energy-efficient companies. The problem is very difficult, you know, so the situation is what it is. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-20-m0.u13	Once again, at a government meeting on February 28, as far as I am concerned, Decree No. 106 was adopted and approved, there is a government decision. If you need to be sent to the faction of the government's decision, I'll send it to you. Once again, Decree No. 106 of February 28, I will send it to you, officially signed by the Prime Minister of Ukraine. I'll put it on the site, all the documents are, all of them.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-20-m0.u14	Please, National Deputy Oleg Lazko. Please, Radical Party.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-20-m0.u15	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. I have a question for the Minister of Social Policy, Paul Rosenck, and the representative of the Ministry of Energy. Dear Mr. Rosenco, the information you gave about the subsidy arrangements is important to millions of Ukrainian citizens. But when you advise us to go to the website and print, Grandma, Grandpa in the village can't go to the site because they don't have that option. You have tens of thousands of social workers in the Ministry. Please let the social workers go to people's homes and help form these documents so that everyone can get the subsidies in time. And the question to the Ministry of Energy. When you parasites break the bond agreements with Russia on coal and energy supply. You're closing down your own lion's mines, the Vole mines. You pay $2,500 a ton of coal to Russian miners, you don't want to buy coal in Ukrainian miners. Ukrainian.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-20-m0.u16	Dear Oleg Valeriyovich, you are quite right about the fact that society, in the first place, should be familiar with the subsidy system that it is today. That is why the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine has paragraph 4, according to which the relevant central authority of the executive branch and this commitment has been made by the relevant companies, including those that provide services. By April 15, they are obliged to send an envelope to each consumer of gas, thermal energy (this is 14 million families) containing two documents. The first is declarations and applications (new forms). And the second is brief instructions on how to meet these standards. On the other hand, the social workers in the local authorities will certainly help people at home to fill out these declarations. We're connecting -- and thank you to the minister here, particularly the infrastructure -- the branch of the branch to this process. So we have today, really, a month to explain to people, and they could use this system. So thank you for your offer, for your attention. [[B in m in s a l in]] And on the Cabinet's website -- I was informed -- there's regulation 106 posted. Since February 28, right? Yes, February 28th.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-20-m0.u17	And the question to the Ministry of Energy. Regarding electricity, I've already said a few words that we have. We'll reroute the energy system in the western direction. We're making a big program of this diversification of ours. Not diversification, but adaptation of our energy system to Europe. If we do all of this, if we meet all the conditions of the European energy system, we're going to synchronize with the European energy system. And we will have this opportunity to separate ourselves from the Russian energy system. There, by the way, there's Russian, there's Belarusian, and we have a lot of energy systems that we're working with now in parallel. As far as coal is concerned. Today, we are loading our stations exclusively with Ukrainian coals of a gas group. We have problems with blocks that work on anthracite coals. We don't have anthracite coal, he's staying in an uncontrolled zone, taking it from there, well, there are problems, you know. So now we're still using imported coal, but only anthracite. I'm gonna say it again. We have the coal of a gas group of surpluses this year in order of two million tons. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-20-m0.u18	Please, People's Front National Deputy Stashuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-20-m0.u19	212 constituency, Kiev Darnitsa. I have a question for Deputy Prime Minister Gennady Zubk and a representative of the Ministry of Finance. It is known that there is a decision on a project with the Government of Japan regarding the reconstruction of the Bortnicka Station of the Aeration. The Ukrainian side was to fulfill its obligations, its complex work. The decision was to be made on March 4th, and I know that the government was in session on March 18th, but unfortunately, I don't know what the decision was. I want to ask. How will the government continue to respond to this situation? Is there no danger that this project may not take place? And is it possible that there is still a need to get together and make all the necessary decisions separately from that point of view? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-20-m0.u20	Good afternoon, distinguished national MPs. With regard to the Aeration Station, it's really a very serious issue, because practically the Japanese government is waiting for us to make a decision. April 1st starts a new financial year in Japan, so April 1st is the last, practically, limit under which the Japanese government will not be able to make such a decision. It's practically all decisions, and it's two. It's about spending 75 million dollars, which is about. Going straight as a subsidy to local self-government, that means the city of Kiev, adopted on a government committee. And it's also on the government committee of expertise to approve the total cost. Unfortunately, we're not getting much of a promotion from the Ministry of Ecology right now. But the Ministry of Finance should be working on these draft decisions by now. And to the next Cabinet of Ministers, I think we have the opportunity to make these decisions completely and to get the Japanese government to provide such large and necessary loans to the city of Kiev.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-20-m0.u21	Good afternoon, distinguished national MPs! I can only add to what Mr. Vice Prime Minister said. We're reacting quickly. Our experts sat all day yesterday. And in the near future, we're going to complete all of these procedures.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-20-m0.u22	Thank you. The word is given to Barna's MP, "Peter Prashenko's Block."
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-20-m0.u23	Good afternoon. I would like to address more of these global issues to the Minister of Energy. Why didn't you now approve a normative legal framework that regulates the activity of natural monopolies in energy? Well, we're going to be creating an appropriate tariff control commission. And the main thing is, what has been done to eliminate the corruption schemes of Naftogazu, which is a sad reason to raise the cost of energy in the population? What has been done to reduce Ukraine’s energy dependence on Russian and traditional energy carriers, particularly whether the population is in the right order, such as tariff counters, to reduce the use of electricity? Is there a population credit scheme ready to replace heating systems for economics and more efficient? What's more, the Ministry of the APC, I want to speak to you about the elimination of centralization. Give decentralization to alcohol factories so they can finally work, not decide in Kiev what kind of broom they should buy.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-20-m0.u24	Please give an answer.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-20-m0.u25	Thank you for asking. The Ministry of Energy have a few questions. I'll try to answer that. I have already highlighted a few questions in my report, but with regard to monopolies. We have the Law on Electricity, which defines the notion of a natural monopoly that we have energy-efficient companies. They're monopolising the territory. Now we're preparing, and we already have it on the site -- this is a draft law on the division of the activities of district energy companies of our monopolies. Individually, there will be electricity supply and separate electricity transmissions. It's about our gas issues. We've prepared, and I've already told you, and you know, you passed the law in the first reading, the Law on the Development of the Gas Market, that's where it's going to be. I've already told you about the separation from Russia. Tariffs. The tariff counters. The National Commission has decided where we now have night and day tariffs that vary by 100 percent. Nights are twice the size of the day. And tariff counters are being set up, and it's already becoming user-friendly. And with regard to rural heating, the same question is being raised by the decrees of the Cabinet of Ministers and the National Commission of Regulatory, since in the past the National Commission has accepted the responsibility of regulating and public services. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-20-m0.u26	I'm going to add MinAPC to the alcohol industry, and now there's a monopoly, you know, for alcohol, for purchases, for sale, and according to the monopoly, we don't have the authority to make our separate decisions, who, by what purchases, who sells, what sells, what sells. Now MinAPC, together with a group of very well-known international experts, is doing analysis and analysis of Ukrispirt, and it's going to go through. Then there's going to be a concept of further development, including different proposals on both dissipation and investment, including concepts of work. So I hope that's what's next. Well, in the near future, we'll be able to offer different models of further development and collaboration on Easter. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-20-m0.u27	Thank you. Please, Drevijanka.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-20-m0.u28	May I have the floor to Sergio Leschchenko?
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-20-m0.u29	Sergei Leschenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-20-m0.u30	Thank you. Questions to representatives of the Ministry of Fuel and Energy. Please explain what was going on in the last days at the State Enterprise, where last night a room was blocked where the Governor of the Dnipropetrovsky district arrived with his deputy who had not missed anyone and who said they had come to protect businesses from the raid. Who is in control of this business today, please explain? And the second. On behalf of the journalists who are elected to Parliament, we express our indignation at Colomoysky's words at the address of journalist Anrusha and request his resignation, and we also ask the Committee on Freedom of Speech in the Supreme Council to evaluate Mr. Colomoysky's statement to journalist Andruska. This is unacceptable in a country that has survived such words at the address of a journalist. Thank you very much for your answer.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-20-m0.u31	Thank you for asking. I probably won't be able to answer you completely, you know what the answer is, because it takes time to figure it out. Now, well, I'd say this process hasn't stopped. So it takes some time for us to figure it out and then we can let you know. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-20-m0.u32	Please, the word Aresonkov, "Peter Dust Block" for a question.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-20-m0.u33	Good afternoon. I have a question for Mr. Svetlelik, Deputy Minister of Energy and Coal Industry. Mr. Deputy Minister, in your statement, you have pointed out from the outset that today the government needs to pay special attention to the development of the peat mining sector. I fully agree with you, this is a very important issue of alternative energy, especially for our northern areas and areas of Ukraine. But do you know the state of business in the peat industry today? I invite you to Luginsky, in the Olewi district of Žitomir district to look at these factories, these enterprises. That's why I have a specific question for you. What exactly are the steps the government is planning to take this year to improve the situation of peat extraction? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-20-m0.u34	Thank you for asking. We have a major problem, you know. It remains the main problem: land use. When we put to the development of peat fields, we have a question when the local council, the district authorities, hand over the same land to other users. That's why we've prepared a draft law, and I've already informed him about the amendment to the Ukrainian Land Code to sort out the issue of torphobic activity, which allows us to solve the existing issues by way of the essential need to change the target destination of particularly valuable land if we use it for peat mining. If we solve this question, we, well, don't have any other questions for the development of the peat industry. I'd say it's a peat field, it's so wide. It's not just energy needs, it's agriculture, it's fertilizer. Therefore, we hope that the peat field will have a prospect for development. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-20-m0.u35	Thank you. Please, National Deputy Igor Gus, People's Front.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-20-m0.u36	Good afternoon! Igor Gus, deputy head of the Foreign Affairs Committee. I have a question for the deputy minister who is here in foreign affairs. Today, I have asked the President of Ukraine to resign from his position as Ambassador of Ukraine in Belarus, Michael Ježel. This is the Ježel who was the secretary of defense at Yanukovic, who destroyed the rear of the Ukrainian army, who was doing everything possible to keep the killer's regime alive. I'm asking you to respond to today. For a year, Mr. Jegel has represented our interests in a country that is a key player in the geopolitical struggle against Putin’s regime. So I'm asking the Foreign Minister urgently to put in charge of Mr. Ježel's tenure and to find a patriot who will defend Ukraine's interests in Belarus. Please respond urgently. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-20-m0.u37	Thank you for your questions, and I would like to comment that, as you know, the discharge and appointment of ambassadors for office is carried out in accordance with the President's orders. An appropriate proposal was made by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs to recall the acting ambassador, Jehel, from his office. And I want to assure you that, of course, we also want the new ambassador to be patriotic, professional and to represent Ukraine's best interests in our relations with the Belarusian side. I want to assure you that we will speed up this matter and inform your faction accordingly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-20-m0.u38	Please, People's Deputy Musak, Peter Dusty Block.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-20-m0.u39	Alexei Muschak, Peter Dustock's Block. I have a question about yesterday's events at Cruscresnaft. Nevertheless, I would like to hear the position of the Cabinet of Ministers. First. Was there an abuse of Crustransnafty? The other one. The reason for the change of leadership? Third. How transparent was the appointment of a new leader? Because when Minister Demchishin arrives at night, he unfortunately found the time to come to the Crucifixion Night, and this morning he didn't find the time to come and answer. So how transparent was the procedure? Because it's not like the state when the breakups are assigned to the head of the state enterprise. And it's not a short question, it's a request to Mr. Umansky. There are problems with Volnovah on social pay, please help. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-20-m0.u40	Thank you for asking. As for our communities that are in the territory that are close to military action, we know this problem, and we have found a way to solve it together with the Metropolitans. At the next government meeting, an appropriate procedure will be adopted, in which way we will be able to secure funding. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-20-m0.u41	Please, Deputy Solovay, Peter Dusty Block,
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-20-m0.u42	Deputy Solovay, MP's strike group, Peter Prashenko's block. Questions to the Minister of Economics. Please tell us about the food and medicine prices in Ukraine today. I understand very well why the price of imported food and imported medicines is rising, but I'm sorry, I don't understand why the price of Ukrainian sugar, Ukrainian flour or Ukrainian oil has doubled in the last month. And where is the Ministry of Economics in this case, where is the Antimonopoly Committee and the Reserve? And what are government authorities doing to correct this situation immediately, and prices for goods from an internal manufacturer lead to a normal level? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-20-m0.u43	Unfortunately, it was the minister of the economy who left. Let MinAPC tell us what was done. You know, in the last two weeks, when the course "jumped" seriously to forty, there was an attempt by speculators to rock the market. A very serious effort. And we've collected several separate producers, and retailers, to say that boys, enough sugar in Ukraine, manufacturing -- 700,000 tons in availability, enough grain in Ukraine -- 5.2 million tons of leftovers are now, let's say, our need for a 2 million-ton transition balance, and enough, let's say, the level is now an intervention that we're doing with caution. I'm sorry. the agrarian regional fund works on a planned basis. But we also have anxiety when there is a rise. We think most of the raises were speculative, and the same oil, in answer to your question that went up to the 28th, then 24-20-18, was actually speculative, let's say, some expectations and attempts to make money. So we were talking to the population, saying that, guys, please don't treat the speculators, and that was it. Well, and it's separate, now, I know that Mineconomy initiated a meeting with the Antimonopoly to figure out how the others were, let's say, a rise in the last week. And I know that there's a working group in Minnesota that's going to deal with these issues. But I'll say it again, I'm talking to everyone, the food in the country is enough, food security is secure, so don't panic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-20-m0.u44	Dear colleagues. Yuri Timoshenko, People's Front.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-20-m0.u45	Please pass the word to Igor Lapin.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-20-m0.u46	Igor Lapin, please, National Deputy.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-20-m0.u47	Dear colleagues, good afternoon! Unfortunately, there is no Mr. Demchikin here who is hoping to resign soon. So I have a question for the deputy. Please tell us, by what time will the schemes of Stavitsky, Boyko and Bakulina work in Ukraine? When do you end up doing Crushing? And if possible, you don't know which schemes, I'll tell you. There's this Goldenderic, and he's got these. - the departments, the law firms, the companies, I wonder when you'll start fighting Mr. Stavitsky's shadow schemes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-20-m0.u48	I understand the question is right, so we do them, we keep working on it. And we ask you to do so. Now, once again, in the first reading of the natural gas market law, please accept it as a whole, and we are starting this already on the legislative level of work. And I want to say I'm sorry, I haven't been able to answer the next question about Scrooge. We're going to look, we're going to look, I'm going to say, well, for a while. I assure you, national deputies, that we will handle this and you will definitely have a report on the situation at Skrnaft, which is here, well, the events that took place yesterday. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-20-m0.u49	National Deputy High Sergei, People's Front, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-20-m0.u50	Thank you. Friends, I also had a question for Mr. Demchikin, who unfortunately did. He didn't come to us. Because it would be a question of the Crimean Federal District that he entered into a contract and was then falsified in the conclusions of a special commission to investigate his actions. In fact, we know that Demchisin here has acted as a separatist, and I would very much like to demand his resignation. But since he's not here, the question is to his deputy. There's this company called Carpathiaz, it's controlled by Missen Energy, close to Mr. Fertash, to Mr. Katsuba, to Mr. Kurchenk, and so forth. Carpatigas has been operating for a year after the Dignity Revolution, and it's actually coming out of state-run oil and gas. Profit. When do you start fighting this scheme and when do you resign to send the head of "The Crushing," which covers them?
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-20-m0.u51	Thank you for asking. Here are three questions. First, I'll start with the last one. Once again, we are adopting the Natural Gas Market Act -- and it will allow us to fight those corruption schemes that are now in existence -- we have that hope. This is going to be a direct job. As far as Demchachin is concerned. I want to say again: he's in Brussels now, he's in negotiations on gas supply to Europe. It's an important question, so we've given the MPs information that he's not going to be in this session. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-20-m0.u52	Please ask Lensky, the Radical Party.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-20-m0.u53	Please pass the word to Halasyuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-20-m0.u54	A loudspeaker, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-20-m0.u55	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I have a question for the Ministry of Economics. Please tell the Committee on Industrial Policy and Entrepreneurship to take the initiative to create an anti-crisis economic headquarters. This proposal is strongly supported by the Radical Party and other factions of the coalition. It is supported by associations of manufacturers that provide more than 70 percent of GDP in the Ukrainian State. When will such headquarters begin? What is the official position of Mineconomy? The second question. What is the current status of the creation of a credit-expert agency and a state development bank, which the Radical Party is essentially insisting on. To ensure the creation of new jobs in Ukraine, an active export expansion instead of buying foreign goods for three dollars. In order for Ukrainians to have jobs, to have social stability, to have the pension fund filled. What is the official position of the Ministry.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-20-m0.u56	Ladies and gentlemen, the Prime Minister has headed the economic anti-crisis headquarters, the first session has already been held, the experts who have been invited have been heard. And, in principle, this work began under the leadership of Economics Minister Ivaras Abromavichus. With regard to the creation of the Bank for the Development of Ukraine. It's a very important question. The only thing I think the Minister of Economics should meet with you is you have to tell me where this bank gets the money, where to fill it up, how to engage, what tools you have designed for it, and together to solve this issue. A very important issue that works in other countries with a powerful economy and has banks like that, but the question should be solved together if you have tools like that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-20-m0.u57	Please, according to the time allocated, Yuri Chizmar, the Radical Party.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-20-m0.u58	Dear colleagues, I have a question for the Ministry of Energy. First question about the Eastern Energy Company. Today, with the violation of labour legislation, there are appointed managers from the so-called group of influences of Constantine Grigorishin, a Russian businessman, who today are changing the investment program for the purchase of autotransformators of the Zaporez factory, which is equally controlled by Grigorishina. How does the Ministry react to these cases, but what happens when a crisis occurs? And the second question to the Ministry of Agroprom. Yesterday, it was assigned to a 24-year-old young man in charge of the State Enterprise, the "Kenship of Ukraine", who had nothing to do with the cavalry at all. He began calling the heads of the conservatory, demanding that the land be placed in private hands. And in doing so, we are destroying the Ukrainian horsery, where effective selection work is being done today, sports horse sports, and so is the topic of immunotherapy for children with ADHD. If we start such a policy with the destruction of the cavalry, these three directions will be destroyed in the country.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-20-m0.u59	Let's start with Minapk. There was a second round of competitions yesterday, which I don't have at all, let's say, interference, know that we have 106 companies now running public competitions and sets. I don't know the results yet, because there has to be a third round. Then, let's say, for all the companies that have been announced, we'll be asked to appoint candidates together under the supervision of Deloitte Touche and Peterson Partners. From. So far, no candidates have been assigned, we're waiting for the competition to end. If you have any questions about abuse or information, please write to me, and to the prosecutor's office, we will take urgent or other measures. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-20-m0.u60	And the first question about the appointment of the leader of the Eastern Energy Company. As far as I can tell, this is about a private energy company where the manager is changing. I will take a look at this question, and I will check again. We're involved in a corporate company where the state has some kind of property, it's through the State Property Fund. We have observers there, and they're getting directives for the vote. I'll take a look at this procedure, I'll give you the answer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-20-m0.u61	Thank you, Your Honor, we're running out of time to ask questions for the government. I'll give you three more questions. Victoria Vojcicka "Samopowich", Yuri Boyko "The Opposition Block" and Andrew Teteruk "The People's Front". Please, Victoria Vojticka.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-20-m0.u62	Dear Mr. Head, distinguished national MPs, yesterday was a disgraceful event in the State Company of Crusher NAFTA. And on this point, I want to address the government, the Minister of Internal Affairs, the Minister of Energy, that they gave a comprehensive assessment of the events that took place yesterday, to us and to the people of Ukraine about the events that took place there. And secondly, consider it a parliamentary appeal and the position of our Self-Help faction. We demand that all the money in government accounts be transferred from private banks to government banks.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-20-m0.u63	That was more than a question. Please, Yuri Boyko, the Opposition Block.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-20-m0.u64	Thank you, Vladimir Borisovich. Yuri Boyko, Opposition Block. I think the whole society has witnessed the last vachanal on oil prices in the last two months. I think government officials know that 30 percent of the country's fuel plants are about 2,000, they belong to the governor of the Dnipropetrov region. Questions for Government Leadership. Is the government's leadership ready to initiate and grant the President of Ukraine an exemption from the post of Governor of the Dnipropetrov region, which has a corresponding conflict of interest with the state, with two thousand actual assets, and in fact directs the prices of oil products in the state. It is possible for the government to take this decisive step to eliminate conflicts of interest. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-20-m0.u65	Please write down your questions and then answer 2 questions. Please, Andrew Teteruk.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-20-m0.u66	Thank you. I have a question for the Energy Minister's successor. Dear Alexander Dmitrovich, Ukraine has now taken a course in Euro-Integration. And one condition is investing in renewable energy, bringing it to 11 percent of the country's total energy balance. A national plan of action for renewable energy was signed in November 14th. And at the same time, Mr. Demchisin, Minister of Energy, stated that alternative energy in Ukraine does not have the right to exist, said the representative of the US Chamber of Commerce, Stanislav Krilukov. How is this position of the ministry for the destruction of the entire branch in Ukraine, which by world standards is one of the most advanced? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-20-m0.u67	Thank you for asking.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-20-m0.u68	Please answer.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-20-m0.u69	Energy, if you can. Yeah? In my view, the words of Demchino are simply not understood. Whether or not something was pulled out of the context. The point is that we, the Ministry of Energy, the coal industry, support the development of alternative energy. For us, it's not even an alternative, it's a recovery reserve. That's what we're going to say, well, our property is Ukrainian. That's why we're about to conclude a strategy for the development of the sector, along with our committee of the Supreme Council's profile. And we have in Ukraine's energy development strategy an alternative to 35th year should be 20 percent on balance. That's why we're fully supportive, and the alternative development is going to be. But we have a few questions. Well, I guess everybody knows the experts, the solar energy, the wind energy. In some areas, when these powers develop, we need to have regulatory power. When we suddenly run out of solar energy, in the evening, if there's no wind, we need a replacement, and that's why we're balancing. But this is all regulated by technical processes. In short, yes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-20-m0.u70	Thank you. Dear colleagues, national deputies, the time of the government is running out. Thank you for answering the questions. I'd like to speak to the government. Dear colleagues, we're about to have a committee job. I'm talking to all the ministers. We're going to be working on committees with parliamentary deputies right now, and we need you to step up your presence when we consider the bills that are being tabled by the government and worked on the committees. This will enable us to work out decisions that can be adopted in the Ukrainian Parliament Hall. So I'd like to use this time for serious, systemic work. Thank you. I wish you good luck. In accordance with the rules, we move on to the announcement of parliamentary requests.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-20-m0.u71	Before the parliamentary inquiry is announced, Mustafa Najem is also given the floor and then there will be parliamentary requests to the President and other authorities. Please turn on the microphone on on the stand.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-20-m0.u72	Dear colleagues, you know what happened yesterday under the firm Crusher. In this story there's a legal side to the question, you know that Mr. Colomoysky as governor of the Dnipropetrov region had no relation to this company, had no right to be in this company's territory. But here's another question that I'd like to touch as a former journalist. I demand that all who sit in this room, from the President, from the Speaker, from the Prime Minister to give proper response to the insults that Mr. Kolomayski has addressed to our colleague Sergey Andrushka and our colleague, former colleague Sergey Lechchenka. I think all these people who are now silent about what happened yesterday can never speak again about the Dignity Revolution. People who talk about dignity and put up with such words on the air in relation to a journalist have no relation to Maidan. You've been treating us for three years as journalists, and you've asked why we're silent when Janukovich insulted us? We said, we didn't keep our mouths shut, we were beaten, we were persecuted, but now that the representative of our government is doing it, everyone is silent. Halftime, no response, not from the President, not from the Prime Minister, not from the Speaker. I spoke to the head of the Committee on Freedom of Speech, we are ready to address everyone, and we believe that this person has no right to represent power. Because such words cannot be used by the authorities, nor by journalists, nor by society. I am very much asking that there be a proper response, and I hope that there will be an inquiry into Parliament in this regard. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-20-m0.u73	Thank you. So I want to remind you that requests to the President of Ukraine should be voted on. First, we start asking the President of Ukraine. So please come into the hall so that we can vote effectively. Hence, requests were received from Ukrainian national deputies. Paul Kiskar to the President of Ukraine for receiving the prizes awarded by the Second Battalion Special Assignment "Donbas", military section 3027, First Brigade of the Operational Assignment of the National Guard of Ukraine. People's deputies would like to support this delegation's appeal. Who is in favour of supporting this parliamentary appeal, I ask you to vote. [[11:19:54]] For 132 I'm going to ask the MPs to step into the hall again, get jobs, get as close to their ballot cards as possible. And I will now put once again to the vote the request of our colleague Paul Kishkar. Is he in the hall or not? No, very good. So once again, I am asking Paul Kishkar to speak to the President of Ukraine. Whoever supports this request, please vote. [[11:20:45.]] For-143 Society, I'm being informed that two people have failed to vote from the Self-Help faction. And let me do this one last time, third time. We need at least 150 votes. So once again, I urge you to enter the hall, take up jobs, and finally, in the third place, I am asking for the support of Paul Kishkar. So again, who supports Paul Kiskar's request to the President of Ukraine to receive the state's prizes for the Second Battalion Special Assignment, Donbas. Please support the vote. Please turn on the voting system. [[11:21:46]] For-154 Thank you. So we have received a request from Yuri-Bogdan Shuhevich to the President of Ukraine regarding the removal of the "Publication is not subject" and the lifting of all the classified legal acts of the President of Ukraine, which have established illegal pension privileges for the former National Deputies of the USSR and the Soviet Union, the former First Secretaries of the Ukrainian Company and the members of their families, who calculate pensions on the official salary of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. So please support this request from our colleague Yuri-Bogdan Suhevich. For the support of this request, please vote. [[11:22:51]] For-160. Thank you for your support. The third question. This is a group of national deputies. — Blackwall. We'll be right there. We'll be right there. I hope people come to the hall. Groups of National Deputies (Blackwall, Levus and others) A total of 8 deputies) to the President of Ukraine on the cessation of Ukrainian citizenship by Vadim Novinski as a result of the loss of Ukrainian citizenship in connection with the continued citizenship of the Russian Federation. So whoever supports this request, please vote, please support the vote. Please. [[11:23:42]] For a hundred and It's a very strange situation in our room, and I'm sure it's because some people haven't been able to vote, not because of the principled positions of one or the other MPs. And that's why I'm with your permission. I received information that not everyone had been able to vote. [[B in m in s a l in]] Now. The first is 150, then the second. Once again, we are asking for the support of this parliamentary request. So who's backing up. [[B in m in s a l in]] 150, and you! Aah! 150, very good! I thought 149, but they showed me 149. Now, dear fellows, pay attention! In order for us to send these questions to the President, we need to win 226 votes each. So we've just passed the support procedure, and now we're going to go through the procedure for sending the President all three of those requests. We have to put this to a vote. Please, let us exchange our thoughts, for there is a risk that they will not pass. Let's do that. Please, John Krulke's word, a minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-20-m0.u74	Ivan Krulko, "The Fatherland" faction. Dear Lord Chairman! They've just been supported by all the factions that are part of the coalition, very important parliamentary requests to the President of Ukraine. I believe that the President of Ukraine will give due consideration to these questions. But at the same time, we objectively see that in order to make a request, which requires 226 votes, we do not have the necessary number of deputies in the room, unfortunately. So I have a proposal, Mr. Chairman: that the question of sending these requests to the President of Ukraine should be decided in the next plenary week by the first vote, by all these requests. Because right now we're not just going to send out requests, but in fact, we're going to fail our colleagues' initiatives. Therefore, the proposal: requests are supported and the referrals are voted on next plenary week.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-20-m0.u75	Thank you. I'm perfectly supportive of your proposal, but we have to finish the procedure, and that's the problem. Let's vote for each of them separately. If they don't get the required number of votes, we can do it. re-exposure to the second week. But we must complete the procedure, and that is the requirement of the Rules. So let's focus, let's do three votes, if they don't get the required number -- we'll vote on it next time, again. We cannot interrupt the consideration of the matter during its consideration. This is a direct requirement of the Rules. And that's why I did. Please, one minute out of the procedure. Please, Igor Shurma, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-20-m0.u76	Igor Shurma, Opposition Block. It's like a person who doesn't. is in the Opposition Block, there is a proposal for a coalition that has declared 302 votes and has the ability to vote on any question. Mr. Andrey, if you want those requests to be voted on, you have one formula. Listen to me, you're going to vote all day, until midnight, until they vote. Because there is already such a subdued Law on the Rules that no one will be surprised. And if you call all of you, come into the hall, come into the hall, come into the hall, perhaps by 12 a.m., and collect 226 votes. The only request to you as chairman today is that you do not have the right to be involved in this matter. Please comply with the Rules of Procedure Act. I want a coalition that has 302 votes on the last day of the week to come to the session hall and work.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-20-m0.u77	Thank you very much. So, dear colleagues, we agreed earlier this week on a different quality of our work when the deputies will be in the hall and when the deputies will be working in their workplaces. There's no lunch for our boys at the front, there's no hours to go and talk -- they're sitting in their fighting positions. If we're in the hall doing what we're doing right now, it's going to be a huge irresponsibility to the country and to our citizens. So I urge you once again to change the quality of our work in the hall. We can't break the Rules. We cannot interrupt the consideration of the matter during its examination. So now I'm going to put all three appeals to the President, if they don't get the required number of votes, we're going to have to go back to that vote next Friday. And so now, so that we don't delay time, after each of those calls, we're going to vote separately. So first. For sending the President of the MP Paul Kiskar to receive the prizes of the Second Battalion Special Assignment, Donbas. Who is in favour of sending this address to the President, please vote. [[11:29:43]] For-166 Thank you. Jurija-Bogdan Shuhević's request to the President of Ukraine for the removal of the fine “not subject to publication” and for the lifting of all classified legal acts by the President of Ukraine, which set illegal pension privileges for the former national MPs of the U.S.R.R., former First Secretarys of the Ukrainian Company and members of their families, who calculate pensions, on the basis of the official salary of the Minister of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. So whoever supports sending this request to the President, I ask you to vote. Please be supportive. [[11:30:34]] For 172 Thank you. Request for a group of national deputies (Blackwall, Levus and others). A total of 8 deputies) to the President of Ukraine on the cessation of Ukrainian citizenship by Vadim Novinski as a result of the loss of Ukrainian citizenship in connection with the continued citizenship of the Russian Federation. Please support and determine how to vote. Please vote. [[11:31:09]] For a hundred and Thank you. Now I want to read out the petitions, the MPs' requests to other heads of the executive and law enforcement departments of our state. So Victor Razwadowski's MP's request to the Ukrainian Defence Minister for the provision of an officer's dormitory to the village of Lake Zitomir district, the Zitomir district with water heaters and stream heaters. Viktor Razwadowski to the head of the National Council of Ukraine for Television and Radio Broadcasting about the provision of individual radio frequencies to local national speakers in the Gitomir region. Igor Shurma to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the use of urgent measures to stop the illegal actions of the Ukrainian Ministry of Health, which does not execute a court decision, thereby creating a direct threat to the health and life of patients. Igor Shurma to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the determination of the legality of discharge from the internal affairs of former officials of the State Automobile Inspectorate. The Gennady of Chekita to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the need for citizens to be provided with rail services according to needs. Constantine Jarinić to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the use of measures aimed at providing housing for military personnel and their families in the city of Kirovograd. Sergey Saska to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, acting as Head of the National Commission for Energy and Utilities, Minister of Energy and Coal Industry of Ukraine for the implementation of extraordinary measures in the electricity market. Taras Kutov to the Attorney General of Ukraine about deliberately delaying criminal investigation and violating the reasonable terms of the complaint. Vladislav Buhareva to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on urgent measures for the preservation and development of the Trieste Regional Museum. Vladislav Buharev to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for the allocation of funds for the capital repair of the section of the R-45 Sumi-Krasnopil-Bogduhov-Valka road, which is located in the territory of the Grandpisar district of Suma. Stepan Barna to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for implementing Ukraine's international obligations under the Treaties to sell units (parts) of assigned amount under the Kyoto Protocol. Vladimir Aresonkovym to the Minister of Infrastructure of Ukraine for preventing the dismantling of the railway line in the area of Bilokorovič - Wozlakova in the Luginsky region of Žitomirščina. Dmitri Linka to the Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine on the analysis of the state of the detention centres and prisons in 2014. Alexander Marchenka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for initiating a review of the regulations governing the release of medicines purchased at the expense of government and local budgets. Igora Artushenka to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the theft of the main funds of the Public Shareholders Association "The Stalled Plant" A fenced steelworking plant. Stepan Ivakhiv to the Ukrainian Defence Minister for the award of the T-64 Tank Tank National Award for the 14th Vladimir-Wallin Military Department, composed of Mikoli Tisik, Roman Lachka and Constantine Mročka. Alexander Marchenka to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the investigation of the situation of the robbery of citizens of the region. Vasil Nietzschenk to the Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine on the delay in investigating crimes against the All-U.S. Public Organization of the All-U. Social Movement "Ukrainian Choice". Vitalia Gudzenka to the head of the Kyiv District State Administration for the financing of municipal property. Veacheslava Constantinovski to the Ukrainian Defence Minister on the content of military training for the mobilized citizens, the spending of budgetary resources on this preparation, as well as on the provision by the Ministry of Defence of Ukraine of a formal "response" to the MPs on these issues. Jury of Macedonia to the President of the State Enterprise National Atomic Energy Company Energoatom to provide information on the activities of the Czech company SKODA. Oleg Dmitrenk to the Ukrainian Defence Minister on the use of measures taken by the Ministry of Defence to secure the construction of the second row of the 70th apartment building on 30 apartments on the streets of Industrial, 7, in the city of Primika, Chernigiv district for participants in the anti-terrorist operation and military personnel. Olega Dmitrenk to the Deputy Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Regional Development, Construction and Housing of Ukraine, on the use of measures by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and the Ministry of Regional Development, Construction and Housing of Ukraine on the provision of construction for investment programmes and regional development projects from the State Regional Development Fund in the Chernigiv region. Ruslan Solvar to the Authorized Supreme Council of Ukraine for Human Rights, the Higher Qualification Commission of Judges of Ukraine, the Council of Judges of Ukraine, the Office of the Attorney-General of Ukraine for ensuring the continued observance of the judicial safeguards. Jurija-Bogdan Suhević to the Prime Minister of Ukraine regarding the lifting of all legal and regulatory acts by the Government of Ukraine, which have established illegal pension privileges for former national deputies of the URSR and the USSR, former Heads of the Presidency of the Supreme Council of the URSR and his deputy, former First Secretaries of the Committees of the Ukraine, etc., and the suspension of the payment of pensions to all these persons and members of their families. Sergia Vlasenka to the Ukrainian State Judicial Administration on the groundless provision of housing for judges from 2010 to 2014 at the expense of the Ukrainian State Budget. Olga Cervakova to the head of the National Expert Commission on the Protection of Social Morals on non-response to the MP regarding the restriction of access to public information by the National Commission of Experts on the Protection of Social Morality. Maxima Burbak to the Prime Minister of Ukraine about the allocation of funds for the construction of the perinatal centre in the Chernivecki region. Sergia Labazyuka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on transport links towards the settlement of Rossocha-Hmelnicki and Hmelnicki-Rossosa. Vasil Nimchenk to the Attorney General of Ukraine, Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine, on the investigation into the killings of law enforcement officers that took place in February-March 2014. Jacob Besbach to the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, the National Bank of Ukraine, the Ministry of Interior of Ukraine, the Office of the Attorney General of Ukraine on the need to protect the interests of the financial institution. Jacob Bezbach and Ruslan Solvar to the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, the Ministry of Internal Affairs of Ukraine, the Ministry of Social Policy of Ukraine, the Antimonopoly Committee of Ukraine, the General Prosecutor's Office of Ukraine on the need to verify the possible misconduct of officials of the Executive Directorate of the Dnipropetrov Regional Branch of the Social Insurance Fund with temporary loss of employment. Ruslan Solvar to the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, Ministry of Regional Development, Construction and Housing of Ukraine, Ministry of Infrastructure of Ukraine, State Architecture and Construction Inspection of Ukraine, Kyiv City State Administration, Executive Committee of the Mikolai City Council on the comprehensive consideration of citizens' requests for adequate housing and utility services. Groups of National Deputies (Mazoli, Dobrodomova, Antoništka) to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the use of urgent measures of prosecutorial response to illegal activity in the production of asphalt by companies with limited liability "COMPANIA BIM-1" and "K-INVEST" companies operating in the city of Lviv and carrying out their activities in violation of the laws, and the lack of effective response to the facts of illegal activity by the local authorities. Gregory Timosh to the Minister of Infrastructure of Ukraine, head of the Montenegrin District State Administration for the completion of the construction of the bridge on the road T-26-06 in the village of March of the Novoselicke district of Cherniewec. Vasila Petěvka to the Minister of Environment and Natural Resources of Ukraine to delay the repayment of the debt for work done to protect the population from flooding. John Baloga to the Prime Minister of Ukraine regarding the situation in the road economy of the Zakartat region. John Baloga and Paul Baloga to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the state-of-the-art state-of-the-art routes of state importance in the Zacarpathian region. Dmitri Dobrodomov to the Ukrainian Defence Minister for the crash of the elevator in a residential building on the street of Hashek, 20-A, in the city of Lviv, which belongs to the Western Housing and Exploitation Office of the Ministry of Defence of Ukraine. Dmitri Dobrodomov to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the investigation of the inadequacy of the disclosure of information in the declaration of property, income, expenditure and financial commitment of the prosecutor of the Darnicki District of Kiev, Sergio Dvoraka, financial and economic activities, and the use of measures to bring him to justice. Oleg Kulinić to the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine for the review of the Ministry of Education and Science of Ukraine and the Ministry of Health of Ukraine for monthly subsidies. Oleg Kulinić to the Attorney General of Ukraine, the National Agricultural Inspectorate of Ukraine, the head of the Commission for the Restructuring of the State Land Agency for the Transfer of Lands for Agriculture, in violation of part five of article 116 of the Ukrainian Code of Land. Alexander Suprunka’s executive responsibility as head of the National Commission for State regulation in the areas of energy and utilities to verify the legality of the conduct of residential water treatment devices in Kiev at the expense of the consumer. Alexia Lensky to the Minister of Energy and Coal Industry of Ukraine, the Minister of Environment and Natural Resources of Ukraine on the need to fulfil Ukraine’s commitments to the international community in implementing the EU Environment Directive by creating an information system for inventories of pollutants, by using appropriate response measures. Andrija Illenka to the head of Kyiv City State Administration, Director-General of the Public Shareholders Association Kiyivenergo, Head of Government, Director-General of the Public Shareholders Association, Kyivvodkonal Shareholder, Director-General of the Specialised Water Management Company of the Kyivrad Executive Body of the Kiev City State Administration, Kyivvodfond, on providing information and using response measures regarding the absence of a large number of buoyant drinking water complexes in Kiev. Andrea Illenka to the head of the State Service in Kiev of the State Administration, head of the Dniprovsky District Office in Kiev, is temporarily responsible for providing information on the protection of civil protection facilities in the territory of Dniprovsky and Desnjan district of Kiev and for conducting appropriate teaching and explanatory work among the population. Jegora Soboljeva to Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Interior of Ukraine, on the need to take action to implement the Ukrainian Law on the Cleaning of Power. Ruslan Demczak to the first Deputy Minister of Finance of Ukraine to pay off the loan for the repair of roads. Jury Bublika to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the massive violations of the rights of investors of the Delta Bank Shareholders Association, ignoring the National Bank of Ukraine's numerous complaints about the unsatisfying work of the banking institution, its failure to take measures to prevent the bank's insolvency and its public interests. Anatolia Dirova to the Head of the Security Service of Ukraine on the inaction of law enforcement authorities to verify the resonance of abuse of the direction of the South West Railway. Anatoly of Denisenka to the Minister of Social Policy of Ukraine to improve the work of social services in solving the problems of internally displaced jobs. Anatoly of Denisenka to the Minister of Social Policy of Ukraine for the creation and operation of a network of social stores for low-income groups. Mary Ionova to the Prime Minister of Ukraine to increase the financing of the health sector in the localities, taking into account the increase in the number of internally displaced persons. Mary Ionova to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for the additional funding of pre-school and general education institutions in the settlements, taking into account the increase in the number of students they have at the expense of internally displaced persons. Alexander Onishchenka to the Attorney General of Ukraine, the Prime Minister of Ukraine, the head of the National Bank of Ukraine on State control over the use of funds allocated to the refinancing of the public equity company of the commercial bank PRIVATE BANK and the prejudice of the bank's possible bankruptcy by way of offshore withdrawal. The Royal Natalia to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the improper review of the MP's appeal for the status of the implementation of the 2013-2015 Plan of Action from the preparation and observance of the 70th anniversary of Ukraine's liberation from the fascist invaders and the 70th anniversary of the Victory in the Great Homeland War. The Royal Natalia to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the need to review the food set, non-food products and services on the basis of which a minimum of living is determined. Mikoli Tomenka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the use of the names of Taras Shevchenk, Mikhail Gruszewski and other prominent Ukrainians in the interests of the Russian investment group UNIVER. Mikli Tomenka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the need to clarify the new procedure for the counting of pensions for black people. Oleg Osuhovski to Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Defence of Ukraine, on the allocation of funds for the acquisition of the ATO's apartment, the disabled of the One-B group, the military pilot Major Sergey Titarenko. Oleg Osuhovski, head of the Ukrainian State Border Service, is responsible for providing the information needed to carry out the parliamentary activity. Groups of National Deputies (Semenha, Romanova, and others) 20) to the Minister of Infrastructure of Ukraine for the implementation of the rapid movement of passenger trains in the direction of Kharkiv-Lviv. Sergey Kiwalova to the Minister for Economic Development and Trade of Ukraine, acting as chairman of the Antimonopoly Committee of Ukraine for the prevention of an unjustified increase in the price of bread and bread products in the city of Odessa. Andrija Shinkovič to the Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine for the investigation into the murder of journalist Olga Moroz. Andrija Shinkovič to the Minister of Education and Science of Ukraine on the need for a systematic approach to the preservation and development of Ukrainian technical education institutions. Irina Freez to the head of the Ukrainian Security Service for the verification of the activities of the subject under the signs of preparation or commission of a crime provided for in article 111 of the Ukrainian Criminal Code. Taras Shepherd to the Attorney General of Ukraine for violation of the rights of the members of the Sixth BTO 'Mistress' of the 128th Mountain and Infantry Brigade of the Armed Forces of Ukraine. Ruslana Knazević to the Attorney General of Ukraine, Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine, on the illegal actions of co-workers of internal affairs and prosecutors. Alexander Kodola to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the investigation into the death of Alexander Rybak, a military officer of the A-1815 military unit of the Honcharovsk region, while carrying out military service duties in the area of anti-terrorist operations. Alexander Kodola to the Minister of Infrastructure of Ukraine on the change in the timetable of the suburban train Semenovka-Tereščinska in the Chernigiv region. John Riyak to the executive responsibility of the Head of the State Property Fund of Ukraine for transferring the State-owned property of the Child Health and Recreational Institute of Youth to municipal property. John Rybak to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the need to take urgent measures to continue financing the construction of clean-up buildings, the construction of gas pipelines and the reconstruction of a coastal dam in the town of Vistnica Czerniewec. Andrija Shipka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for the Government's decision to regulate prices for treatment of hypertonic patients. Andrija Shipka to the Minister of Health of Ukraine for the provision of vaccines for planned preventive vaccinations in 2015 in Ukraine and, in particular, in the city of Nicopol, Nicosia, Ordjonikidze, Dnipropetrovsk district. Paul Rizanenka is the Managing Director of the Fund for Guaranteeing the Contributions of Individuals for the Activities of Authorized Persons of the Fund for Guaranteeing the Investments of Individuals. Paul Rizanenka to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the abuse by the employees of the Fund of Guaranteeing the Investments of Individuals during the Banking Procedure. Gregory of Times to the Deputy Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Culture of Ukraine, for the promotion of the restoration of the monument of architecture in the village of Toporovki Novoselicka District of Cherniewec Region, "The Illinian Church, Bell and Wall". Ruslana Knazević to the Attorney General of Ukraine for conducting an objective investigation into the proceeds of fraud. Vasil Janicka to Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Finance of Ukraine, Minister of Energy and Coal Industry of Ukraine, on the order and conditions of distribution of state budget subsidies to local budgets for the financing of socio-economic measures to offset the risk of the population living in the area of observation. Alexander Vilkula to the Attorney General of Ukraine, the Head of the Security Service of Ukraine on the mass protests against local residents as a result of the death of an 8-year-old girl and a traumatized woman and her child under the caterpillars of a combat assault machine in the village of Constantine and the conduct of appropriate full investigation to reduce social tension, as well as to investigate a series of similar resonance incidents involving military forces. Sergia Kiwalova to the Attorney General's Office of Ukraine, the first deputy head of the National Architectural and Construction Inspectorate of Ukraine, on the use of measures within the scope of the competence to address violations of land, architectural and environmental laws during construction work within the Arcadia Protection Zone complex in Odessa. Groups of National Deputies (Stashuk, Ledovsky and others) A total of 4 deputies) to the Antimonopoly Committee of Ukraine, the National Commission for State Regulations in the Field of Energy and Municipal Services, the Kiev City Head for the Trust of Housing Equipment for Cold, Hot Water and for its conduct in Kiev. Jury Bublika to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, the Attorney-General of Ukraine, the Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine, on the inaction of officials of the Prosecutor's Office, law enforcement authorities, ministries and departments, their lack of proper response to parliamentary appeals and requests for abuse of the leadership of the National Technical University of Poltava named Yuri Kondratuk. Edward Matviychuk to the Ministry of Regional Development, Construction and Housing of Ukraine, Odessa City Council on the need to take effective action to address the collective appeal of the people of the Taiwanese army of the Odessa district regarding the capital repair of the road and the well-being of the instigation area on the streets of Williams 58/1 and 56/3. Eduard Matviychuk to the Ministry of Health of Ukraine, Ministry of Finance of Ukraine, Ministry of Social Policy of Ukraine, on the need to provide assistance in ensuring the proper and comprehensive treatment of the resident of the Kyiv district of Odessa, a disabled person from the childhood of the third group, Alexia Lukyanov. Andrija Galchenka to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the attack on KP 'Croat Municipal Guard' employees in the city of Krivi Rig Dnipropetrovsk. Rudika's branch to the Ukrainian Minister of Health to postpone the transfer of specialised health-care units to finance from local budgets. Sergey Rudika to the Ukrainian Defence Minister for the status of members of the fighting and for the timely demobilization of the Cherkasi Battalion. Irina Souslowy to the Attorney General of Ukraine, Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine, on the investigation of corruption schemes involving Peter Melnik, former rector of the National University of the State Tax Service of Ukraine. Irina Suslowy to the Attorney General of Ukraine, the head of the Ukrainian Security Service for the conduct of a review of Sergey Kiwalov's activities, aimed at undermining Ukraine's national sovereignty and territorial integrity and at fuelling national hostility in the country. Sergey Kaplin to the Attorney General of Ukraine for conducting objective investigations into allegations published by the head of Ukraine’s State Financial Inspectorate, Mikola Gordjenek, regarding the facts of corruption and the blocking of the corruption schemes of the previous government. Sergey Kaplina to the Kyiv City Head for the promotion of the permanent residence of the family of Alexander Borzih, Ukrainian Doctor of Medicine, Professor of the Donetsk National Medical University, Maxim Gorsky. Mikhail Golka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Social Policy of Ukraine, on the provision of full funding for salary payments to employees of the District Service Centre. Mikhail Golka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Education and Science of Ukraine, Minister of Finance for the Integration of Capital Construction into the List of Objects to which a subsidy from the State Budget will be awarded in 2015 for the implementation of investment programmes and projects from the State Regional Development Fund. Jury Derevjanka to the Deputy Prime Minister of Ukraine - Minister of Regional Development, Construction and Housing, Head of the Ivano-Frankov District Administration on the need to make changes to the District Budget of the District of Ivano-Frankov Region, aimed at financing pre-school facilities and the establishment of the villages of Starunj, Manava and Old Bogodians, and to prevent the forced transfer of the buildings and property of these facilities into the operational administration or rental of the Bogodchansky District Administration. Yurya Derevjanka to the executive responsibility of the head of the Antimonopoly Committee for the settlement of the Antimonopoly Committee of sharp and unjustified price increases in Ukraine’s food markets and the elimination of the abuse of monopolistic status by operators. Taras Batenka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for information circulated by the representative of the American Chamber of Commerce concerning the statement made by the Minister of Energy and Coal Industry of Vladimir Demchikin that the alternative energy sector in Ukraine does not have the right to exist. Taras Batenka to the Attorney General, the Minister of Internal Affairs for Exceeding Service Authorisations and Applying Material Damage to the Public Shareholder Society of Ukratransnafta, a national shareholder of Naftogaz Ukraine, a citizen of Savchenk. Lilia Greenevich to the Minister of Health of Ukraine on the review of State health standards and rules for the establishment of preschool institutions with a view to expanding access to preschool education. Mikoli Kadikala to the Attorney General of Ukraine, Minister of Internal Affairs for the misconduct of civil servants of the State Enterprise CROSSPIRT and the improper investigation of criminal matters. Jaroslava Dubnević to the Minister of Interior, Head of the National Migration Service of Ukraine for the installation of equipment for the production of biometric passports for Ukrainian citizens to go abroad in the City of Lviv district and the Sambir region. Jaroslava Dubnevic to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the non-admission of artificial destruction of the Society's industrial enterprise with limited responsibility for the Universal Boer Technology. Jurija Shapovalova to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the necessary settlement of the situation in the area of forms of parental and child certificates from a multi-child family. Vadim Denisenko to the Attorney-General on the urgent action taken by the Attorney-General's Office to bring to justice the criminal responsibility of Petcher district court Roman Novak. Vladimir Parasuka to the Attorney General for the financial abuse of former headmaster of the Yavorów District Education Department, Gregory Babia, and his threat to a public activist by murder. Alons Skrum to Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Finance, on the results of consultations with international financial institutions on the implementation of interim measures to stabilise Ukraine's balance of payments. Vladimir Parasuka to the Attorney General, the Minister of Health for Corruption, Improperness, and Illegal Action, which took place in the Lviv drug dispensary. Mr Vladimir SKVARILLJA to the Minister of Finance, Minister of Agriculture Policy and Food for Procrastination in the implementation of the budget programme "Organization and regulation of institutions in the agro-industry system and ensuring the activities of the Agrarian Fund". Alexander Zholobecki to the Minister of Energy and Coal Industry of Ukraine, Head of the State Service for Special Communications and Protection of Information on the situation that resulted from the disconnection from the power supply of the Mikolai branch of the Concert Radio, Radio and Television in the village of Luch Yellow District of Mikolai. John Melniczuk to the Head of the Supreme Council, Prime Minister, for granting permission by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine to carry out a verification of violations of land and water legislation by the limited-liability "Glynnkoff". People’s Deputies (Welcome, Skrumh) A total of 11 deputies) to the Attorney-General, the first Deputy Attorney-General for the investigation and verification of the facts cited in the statement made by the Head of the State Financial Inspectorate of Ukraine and the opening of criminal cases as a result of the State authorities' checks carried out by the State Financial Inspectorate of Ukraine. Taras Kutov to the Attorney General about the deliberate delay in the investigation of a criminal case (added). Jury Lewchenk to the Minister of Ecology and Natural Resources of Ukraine, the Attorney General, the head of the Kyiv District State Administration for the non-admission of the illegal destruction of the unique landscape order of the state-wide value of Kozinski, which is of special value to Ukraine. People’s Deputies — Levchenka, Illenka A total of 6 deputies) to the Head of the Supreme Council, the Ukrainian Security Service on the investigation of the facts contained in the statement by the Head of the Gordinjenka State Department regarding the possibility of the Ukrainian Prime Minister's involvement in the government's corruption and the disbursing of the budget of over 7 billion dollars, which poses a threat to Ukraine's national security in the economic sphere. Groups of National Deputies (Katzer Buchkowski, Livika. A total of 40 deputies) to the Executive Head of the National Commission, which regulates national energy and utilities regulations for the establishment of a green electricity tariff. Paul Kiskar to the Minister of Foreign Affairs, the Head of the Inter-ministerial Commission for Military and Technical Cooperation and Export Control on the availability and implementation of bilateral working groups abroad on military and technical cooperation. Oksana Prodan and Leonid Kozachenk to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the activities of the Business Council at the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. Dear Society, I have been able to read all the parliamentary questions that have come to the Presidency. And now, according to the rules, we're taking a break. No, no, according to the regulations, I'm calling a 30-minute break until 12:30. At 12:30 a.m., we're meeting in the conference room to continue our work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-20-m0.u78	Honorable National MPs. I was approached by a group of national deputies who refuse to rest in such a difficult time for the country to continue our work without interruption. After conducting the proper consultations, I wanted to ask if there were any objections to our work without interruption. Everybody wants to work. Then I'll ask the honourable colleagues who went out to the hall, and now we're going to be recording the performance in different ways. So who had an important message for the country that wants to speak, please come into the hall to participate in the presentations. I'm going to take a short break so that they can come to their jobs and sign up for a different performance. So whoever's in the towers, we're continuing the work of our session. Now it's going to be the hour of the national MPs' performances in different ways. Who intended and who has important messages for the country, for the electorate, please come to the record. If everyone who needed to take the floor, I'm recording the performance in different ways. Please turn on the record. No, it's not. Work. Stressed, responsible work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. The first one is for the presentation in various national deputies, Drevjanek Yuri Bogdanovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-20-m0.u79	Yuri Derevyanco, political party Will, 87th Majority Electoral District. Dear colleagues! Dear Ukrainian people! The Supreme Council has announced a course for decentralization and that is quite clear. Because the authority that has been put in place is getting closer to the people, closer to the territorial communities, and better understands the problems that there are. The task is to assign authority and authority to the places. But today we have transferred the responsibility to perform certain functions, but we have not given any funds, we have not provided financial resources, we have not given what would enable these powers to be carried out. There is no money in the community, there is only responsibility, and their budgets are empty today. Regrettably, the Supreme Council of Ukraine today cannot vote on any law that would significantly improve the situation of people living in settlements in rural areas. People in small settlements, in the medium and even in the district centers are severely impoverished. We see a sharp, sharp rise in prices for all food products, we see the antimonopoly committee's inactivity, the government's inactivity -- this poverty is going very fast. Last week, I was at the Hmelinski, in Ivano-Frankish, people said to me, "Do something to stop this situation." We need to do everything we can with you to enable people, especially those not protected in rural areas, to survive in small district centres by 2015. What should we do about it? First. To transfer resources to the community, to adopt a package of laws that will ensure real financial decentralization. FOR this week, we have disgracefully broken Bill 1159, which would allow communities to manage the land and receive money from local budgets instead of going into the pockets of the bribes of the Statecommere. A very large pile of money from each hectare goes into the pocket of bribes today. It's possible. It's a disgrace! We have not accepted this bill and this has enabled us to continue this shameful situation today. Similarly, we did not support Bill 1898, 1899, 1900. These are the bills aimed at costing local communities the opportunity to repair their roads of local importance, of district importance. Dear colleagues, representatives of rural, rural communities, rural heads who were present several times simply drop their hands, they come to Kiev and beg us to stop this financial blockade. There are separate areas where just district government officials demand the transfer of gardens, or clubs don't fund rural councils, and they can't approve their budgets. This is the Bogoran district of Ivano-Frankiv district. Dear friends, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-20-m0.u80	Ten seconds to complete.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-20-m0.u81	Dear colleagues, I very much ask you to support the bill package on the financial self-sufficiency of rural and rural communities, and not allow you to continue to impoverish.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-20-m0.u82	Thank you very much. Please note, we've got the next Kocheljev Alona Volodymyrovna and then two of Mr. Yuri Suhević. They're both giving the word to the leader of the Radical Party of Oleg Laszko. And that's why for six minutes, and then we remove Suhevich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-20-m0.u83	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. Dear citizens of Ukraine, I would like to announce from this high rostrum the statement by the Radical Party of Oleg Láska on the decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the special status of the individual areas of Donetsk and Lugansk. The Radical Party considers the March 17 vote in the Supreme Council of Ukraine to be a national betrayal and surrender against the enemy. On March 17, 2015, he will enter the history of Ukrainian parliamentaryism as one of the black dates in his calendar. Just like January 16, 2014, the day of voting for dragon laws to establish the Yanukovich dictatorship. On September 16, 2014, when the Law on the Special Status of the Russian Army occupied part of the Ukrainian Donbas was passed in secret. As on April 27, 2010, the day of the ratification of the traitorous Kharkiv treaties for the continuation of the Black Sea fleet, which served as a Trojan horse and ensured the holding of the so - called referendum in Crimea and its subsequent annexation to Russia. Like October 24, 1991, when a declaration was voted on Ukraine’s nuclear - free status, setting the course for our unilateral nuclear disarmament and the loss of nuclear weapons. On March 17, 2015, the new Post-Majdiniv Council re-elected the Law on Special Self - Rule Orders in individual areas of Donetsk, Luhansk Region, and the Ordinance on the actual definition of Ukraine’s new eastern border. This law and regulation essentially legalize terrorist DNR and LNR and are part of the implementation of Putin’s shameful plan, Merkel, Holland. The Radical Party faction in Parliament took a firm stand against the surrender of our territories and voted against these bills. These decisions have opened up the introduction into Ukraine's legal field of the significant political concessions of Putin, which the President of Ukraine agreed to under pressure from Merkel and Holland in Minsk-2. All of this is actually repeated in 1938 when the leaders of England and France, Chamberlain and Daladaye, in order to appease Hitler, made it possible for the President of Czechoslovakia, Benesh, to agree to the conditions for Germany to surrender the District of Justice. But eventually this led only to the full surrender of Prague to Berlin and still saved Europe from war. The Radical Party emphasizes that it is a party of peace, not war. Like all Ukrainians, we want peace, but peace is real, not illusionary. We strongly disagree with the shameful policy of appeasement of an aggressor who seeks to satisfy his appetite with small pieces of territory and with the political concessions of our sovereignty, including the constitutional and administrative system of our state. Such a policy only demonstrates weakness, encourages the aggressor to continue and ignites war. As British Prime Minister Winston Churchill prophetically warned in 1938 about Hitler’s policy of retirement: England and France could choose between disgrace and war, they chose disgrace, but they received both war and disgrace. The Radical Party warns: By voting in the Supreme Council, unfortunately, we do not avoid war, however we expect it, or how we do not want it. Putin will go on, and this is evidenced by the USO's statements about the insufficient concessions contained in the bills voted on, and the threats of the leaders of the militants about the capture of Ukraine's new territories. Putin and Russia understand only power, and they will only stop where we will stop the aggressor ourselves. The diplomatic solution of the international crisis, caused by Russian aggression against Ukraine, which is so sought by Europe and the United States, is impossible without Ukraine's overall defence capacity and the provision of appropriate military assistance, especially modern weapons, because Ukraine is not fighting for its independence and territorial integrity today, Ukraine is fighting for peace and order in Europe now and in the future. The Radical Party states that the aggressors do not stop at peace and political concessions, but wars, whether hot or cold, are not won by declarations, but only by modern weapons and a well - trained army, skillful diplomacy, international solidarity, and sound financial and economic sanctions, loyalty to higher values, as well as human spirit and readiness to resist obvious evil. On this we stand and stand. Victory will follow us! Glory to Ukraine! Death to the invaders!
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-20-m0.u84	Thank you. Šurma Igor Mihajlovich is invited to attend.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-20-m0.u85	Igor Shurma, Opposition Block. There was an invitation by the chairman of the Supreme Council to come to the hall, and who has important messages for the state, to sound them from the rostrum. I took this opportunity, and I want to prove what I think is important to our nation. I would like to remind you who everyone who lives in Ukraine, starting in April of the month, will begin to receive new payment orders to pay for electricity, gas, and water. Soon we'll pay 50 percent more for the light very quickly. When they get gas payments, people need to know that today the price for gas is going to go up 3.3 times and they're going to pay 3,000 600 for 200 cubes. And whoever uses more is going to pay 7,100. Is that a lot or a little bit? The norm is unrealistic because objectively people will not be able to eat less. Some 300 cubic feet [120 m] of fire is used to burn the house, provided that it is mild in winter. And when it's cold winter, it's going to be 800 cubes. In addition, prices and water will rise. Reimbursement is also being made for consumers by gas heaters. On the one hand, they tell us, "It's no big deal, the state's going to take compensatory measures, and it's not going to be that hard for people." I'd like to say that the total amount of subsidies to the population in 2014, when the dollar was 11.5 dollars, was 55 billion, and it would be logical that now, in 2015, given the circumstances -- the gross devaluation of the national currency would be, well at least, no less. What do we see in the budget this year? Twenty-four billion. And the question is, how many people can use this opportunity? We're on the verge of not paying for utilities. And here's the main question, the Ministry of Regional Development and Construction and Housing and Housing announced the intention to confiscate housing for non-payments on utility bills. It looks like an open-minded abuse of people. What are you talking Today 80 percent of families live outside the poverty line. How can such a number of subsidies be formed? It's the person who's doing this. He realizes it's unrealistic. Today on the International Day of Happiness, I'd like to ask the government: will citizens' housing for municipal debt be confiscated, or will the promised subsidy be taken over? I'd also like to ask officials if they pay for utility bills and imagine. What Is It About Getting Information on the Site? At the Supreme Council, one of my grandmothers said, "If I knew what a site is, I wouldn't have posted information, but I would have hung all those who make such decisions for the benefit of the people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-20-m0.u86	Thank you very much. Scroak by Mikola Leonidovich, Opposition Block.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-20-m0.u87	Deputy Skorik, faction of the political party "The Opposition Block." Dear Lord Chairman, dear colleagues! I'd like to see my colleagues in this room, our fellow citizens, and our next request. Unfortunately, there are not many of us left at this meeting at this time, but I ask you to submit your request from our faction to the leaders of the factions, the coalition in the first place. On December 9th, my colleague Alexander Wilcule and I registered a decision regarding the organization of the commission of inquiry regarding the tragic events that took place in Odessa on May 2nd last year. Regrettably, a recent regulatory committee has reverted to the draft decision in view of the fact that none of the coalition’s factions have provided representatives to participate in this interim commission of inquiry. Last night we registered a new draft decree on a temporary commission of inquiry in Odessa regarding these events and again asked the leaders of all the factions of Parliament about giving their representatives to work on this committee. We very much ask, Mr. Chairman, Your Honor, next plenary week to consider this issue and decide on the work of this commission of inquiry. One and a half months later, one year after this terrible tragedy occurred, innocent peaceful people were killed in the peaceful city of Odessa. And I think what we're going to find the perpetrators of this tragedy and the customers of this tragedy, and we're going to look at all of those events, all the nuances of those events of last year's era, will give us the opportunity to look at our society in a new way, to prove to ourselves, our citizens, to the world society that in Ukraine it doesn't matter to our nation, whose views are maintained by one citizen or another, that in Ukraine the highest value is human life. And if this life has been lost, these events must be investigated, and the guilty must be punished. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-20-m0.u88	Thank you very much. The word is given to Oleg Romanovich Barezyuk, the Self-Help faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-20-m0.u89	Ladies and gentlemen! We want to use this time today to talk to you -- those who are here and, in most cases, they're here every Friday -- to ask themselves a meaningful, sound question: what are we doing here? Spending time, meeting the requirements of the Rules? Can we change this rule so that on Friday we may actually work in the districts or work with our friends? Because Friday there's no work. And to show people that we're sitting here and pretending to work and make statements is pointless. So the Self-Help faction comes up with a proposal to the Regulatory Committee that we immediately consider the effectiveness of working time in the Supreme Council. There are several qualitative proposals for amending the Rules to make the work more complex, more effective, and meaningful. So today was a good offer from the Radical Party, from Self-Help. And there's a proposal, a request to you now, the First Deputy Chief of the Supreme Council, to the Chief of the Supreme Council next week to convene a real working group to review the meaningless regulatory procedures that make the work of the Supreme Council ineffective. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-20-m0.u90	Thank you very much. I'm just going to say, this is how we're going to get to work one day a month because they're going to say, "How long can we work?".. In fact, I think that the secret is hidden there, so that Ukrainian national MPs come to their jobs. Maybe we just have to make a deal and publish by factions who aren't in the workplace, probably not one person going to the polls said to the voters, "You pick me, and I won't be able to sit in plenary sessions." It might be more correct if we publicly demonstrate who is working in the hall and who is unknown where they are. Of course we should consult, as Mr. Oleg has advised, we should talk about it in the working group, but I think that together we should find a way out of this truly shameful problem for the highest legislative body in our country during the war. The word is given to Illenck, Andrew Yuriovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-20-m0.u91	Andrew Illenko "The All-Ukrainian Freedom Union" of Kiev. Dear colleagues, I would like to appeal to the previous speaker. Oleg Romanovich, I wanted to have a little chat with you. Because in fact, if people at any job don't go to work, it's not likely that they're going to have another day off. Because in the Supreme Council, Friday is the day when important issues are to be addressed. In particular, today we've been discussing the question of sending to the President of parliamentary inquiries, important parliamentary inquiries, the rewards of our fighters, our Ukrainian victorious army, the deprivation of the citizenship of the Novinsky region, other important issues. And what we see is that the hall is empty, we see that the MPs have more important matters and these MPs have not gone to the President of Ukraine. So now we're going to tell our heroes on the front that they won't be rewarded, because the MPs didn't vote for it, they had bigger things to do. Well, I think this is the wrong position. What's more, if we're going to the regulatory committee to make any changes to the regulations, so let's start with we don't have the heads of the regulatory committee in Parliament for four months, there's no political will to appoint Parliament to head the regulatory committee. I would like to remind you that Freedom offers and continues to propose to this position Yuri Lewchenk, who has a clear reputation as a fighter for the Rules, but has no desire to do so, obviously, but there is a desire to leave the situation hanging. In fact, society, I think it's totally embarrassing when we have an empty Parliamentary Hall today, once again only the MPs are here. And on the other hand, you know, I'd like to go to people who can hear me. Do you know when Parliament's next meeting according to the calendar plan is due? April 7th, more than two weeks from now. So this is the intensity of the work. I just want to remind you that today we have a coalition in Parliament of more than 300 votes from those parties that declare themselves to be pro-Ukrainian, European, democratic and so on. And today is a unique opportunity to make decisions in the interests of Ukraine. But even such a decision as the referral of a parliamentary request is a problem today in the walls of the Ukrainian Parliament. And one more thing. The question of different things, what's going on right now, is a very important question. Because for a huge number of non-fractional deputies, and even those in factions that cannot speak out of factions every time, it is possible for the Parliamentary Chamber to state relevant, important issues of its district and Ukraine as a whole. That's why it's important. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-20-m0.u92	Thank you very much. The word is given to Tomenkov Mikoli Volodymyrovich, "Block of Peter Dustenka." Hello.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-20-m0.u93	Dear colleagues, I wouldn't be a normal MP if I didn't pay attention to today's historic day. As one journalist tells me, if he saw the daily reading of parliamentary requests at 11:30 p.m., we could go home. I think it is quite obvious that we should make a change to article 25 of the Rules. Life is practically very clear that we are after the Year of Government, which, by the way, should be organized. Because it's funny when the deputy minister reads asparagus. And as one of my mayors once told me, a colleague who needs to be read in a car at least once before reading in the Supreme Council or somewhere else. I mean, it's just a question of lips. Ministers come for specific questions. We verbally check whether they are able to speak here at all, if they know Ukrainian, or if they can answer adequately. After an hour of this serious discussion, we're going to go over the drafts, and after considering the Bills, the Rules say, we have a "Variance" of the 13th hour, and it's important, I agree with my colleagues, 12.30 we have parliamentary questions, or in general, we can consult even after the "Variance" can read them, nothing bad will happen. Thus we work on Friday, not the half - weekend. It's pretty obvious. Second position. Well, yesterday, when we passed the stock company bill, that no one knew what was going to happen at night? Today if we had a conscious government, the prime minister would be sitting here with a head of the Antimonopoly Committee and head of the State Property Fund, and he specifically asked: "We are friends aware that I was against, of course, this bill that you adopted," said the prime minister, "But you have accepted, and in order to resolve these conflict situations that arise, corporate conflicts with the state, business and so on, you need to be the legitimate head of the Antimonopoly Committee. And I'm in line with the Constitution."'because he only submits it,' I submit to you and ask him to vote. I give my head to the State Property Fund and I ask it to vote." We don't understand that this isn't yesterday's last and not the first and not the last conflict? Therefore, it is not up to the deputies to organize the work, but it is up to the management to organize the work. There is no way for an MP at night to know the order of the day the next day. We need to know clearly that we're working a week, we need to plan our work, and we need to know when the vote is coming. [[Applause]] And then the MPs were extremeally made to run around here, and they don't know that when, on what day, they're going to take place. That's why I mention Roman history. There the Roman senators were not stupid people, of course, and under the guise of democracy they used such a political regime, called "ohocracy." So it's how the crowd uses it for their own good. And then they came up with the idea that sights and bread should be given. We've got bread now, show and show again. Let's not play this game and do whatever it takes not to see the spectacles here, but work. To the Ukrainian Parliament!
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-20-m0.u94	Thank you. The word is given to Shevchenkov Alexander Leonidovich of "The Block of Peter Dustenka." And I'm confident that Mikola Tomenko will address the head of the Yuri Lucenko faction to organize a better coalition work.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-20-m0.u95	Good afternoon, distinguished national deputies, honourable chairman, people of Ukraine! You know, last night, I was in Crucifixion, and I'd like to put some emphasis on it. There was Demchisin, who actually admitted to the annexation of Crimea, which buys electricity in Russia, which is twice as high as the colleagues said, buys coal at higher prices. He's got nothing to do with it. There was Savchenko, a former militiaman who was now the head of the observation board, who was acting so, you know, and called the director of the Transnafty a gomp. You know, you should have seen the situation. Unfortunately, I was not present when the fight began, but I was present when the negotiating process was under way. You know, the people who were sitting there, including, like, Miroshnik, performing duties like "Transnafts," who had appointed himself, he didn't put the National Deputies in anything to make you understand. To him, national MPs are no one at all, and nothing at all, that is, an empty space. That is how our authority treats us today. I mean, Janukovic also thought he had unlimited authority. Where is he now, we know. I think this authority is looking for the same thing. Here's the thing: It's about excitement. Pasicnik, a representative of Jeremiah, was organized. Next: Who is Jeremeyev, and why is Transnaft hunting? In fact, 20,000 tons of oil was stolen, and Lazorko raised the issue. That's why Lazorko is so, let's say, uncomfortable. Next: what is 2009? Lazorko's here: minus $120 million. Now Transnafta has several billion dollars in it, and it's Demchina with his supporters, and it's probably very much in there where the points are shining, how you can steal that money, including another reason why there was this vachanal yesterday. What do I mean? You know, I think it's necessary that the facts that you had yesterday: both raiding and beating, and actually the only security guard when you broke the hands of misunderstood people -- it wasn't the police, it was the people who were screaming -- it was some private organization that actually, you know, if you analyze their activities and their faces, it would turn out to be the people who financed the aunt on the anti-Majdani. Don't forget, good people, it's not that far from Maidan. You know, if you take the 600,000 tons of oil that are in Cruscresnaft, I want to say the difference between the price when it was sold to the manager and now it's $300 million in loss. And how many times did Lazorko go to Sell, now Demchien was talking about selling as fast as possible and not taking that money from people, and actually using the government oil that's being stored for free in the Cologne warehouses, nothing comes to these people. So, you know, there's a lot to say, and I don't want anyone to tell the truth in our country. You know, I'm looking at these cool journalists, they're either. Boyka's tool after his performance, which is actually what.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-20-m0.u96	Ten seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-20-m0.u97	Who are actually working with Jeremiah, you know, and frankly, it's already ugly to think that in our country they're winning the Cologne, which was actually helping Maidan.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-20-m0.u98	Thank you. Here comes Musak Aleksei Petrovich, "Peter Prashenko's Block."
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-20-m0.u99	Honourable Ukrainian community, honourable chairman, distinguished national MPs, Alexius Musak, the Block of Peter Poroshenko. I'd like to talk to you about the next one, namely the work of the Ukrainian Parliament this week. And just before you spoke, he looked at the "Council" website that we were working on this week. We have the most, the two most productive days, Tuesday and Thursday. On Tuesday we started our voting work not at 10 o'clock, as usual, but at 17/11 7 hours after we actually had to work. Seven hours was not an effective work in Parliament. We're out of work in an hour, instead of eight hours of work, we're only working an hour. Four. We didn't start at 10:00 in the morning, it started at 11:24 in the morning. We then had a break of 16.21 again, because the leaders of our factions, the leadership of Parliament, could not decide how we should work. So what I'd like to say is, in fact, I'd like to offer help to our leadership of Parliament, to our faction leaders, and to remind them that simple mathematics is that the number of factions' leaders, the number of Parliament's leadership is just under 10 deputies. And Parliament can work absolutely without them, absolutely. [[Applause]] Yes, Oleg Valeriyovich, without you, of course you can't. But we'll take 15 minutes without you. So if there's a question of how to organize a job, let Groisman and the coalition leaders go and make a deal. We have one Vice-Speaker, Mr. Paris, we have a second Vice-Speaker, Mrs. Oksana Siroid, they absolutely can hold a session and we can make other decisions that have no conflict. And how many laws have been proposed today to allow foreign citizens to be named Heroes of Ukraine, this applies primarily to Zizniewsky, yes, who died in Midan, and which is in the Heavens hundreds, and which is not currently the Hero of Ukraine. We can no longer approach this decision in the third plenary week and there are so many such issues. So, Mr. Andrey, there's a big request for you, if you could, please bring it to both Mr. Groissman and our coalition factions, that if they can't solve the issue, it shouldn't be a problem for the whole Parliament. You can hold meetings, and we can vote on bills. Thank you very much for your attention. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-20-m0.u100	Thank you very much. You're welcome. Popov conveys the word Linko. I want to say in answer, very much so that the same sincere request on the faction raises that question. So that we can work together to make this a joint decision. Thank you very much. I share your concern, actually. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-20-m0.u101	Good afternoon, dear fellows! Unfortunately, there was not enough time to ask the Minister of Transport himself, and unfortunately there was no minister of the interior. And I have this kind of appeal to them about the situation that's been going on around the Crossroads. And specifically the South West Railway and the former head of the South West Railway Alexia Crewispisin. The point is, the Crucifixion has been looting the state for decades. There are plans, and we know that, about the privatization of the Ukrzalznice. And this is going to be the most theft in the history of the Crucifixion. What's really going on. Leaders such as the Crimson for 12 years have been sitting there, looting, and having all the facts documented their wrongdoings, their corruption schemes. It's also the construction of infrastructure objects called Crucibles, such as bridges and so on. It's also the break-up of electricity supplied by the state to the Railroad, and then they're selling it at huge expense and making billions of dollars. criminal cases have been committed. Alexia Krivopisin has already been released from office, but, similarly, we saw yesterday, when people are replaced in positions, the previous leaders are trying to keep the new ones from being raided, just as the Cologne did. Similarly, the Bible does not release a new leader, rather than a new leader working for me. It's a curve. So, I'm addressing the Attorney General, the Head of the Bureau and the Minister of Internal Affairs, if there are specific criminal cases, if all the facts are confirmed, why hasn't any of the Viceroys been in jail yet? These people were still working at Kuchma, at Yanukovich's, and they're still out there. The money they stole is not returned to the state. And this is a shameful situation, because the Crucifixion is an enterprise that billions of people can bring into the country's budget. Unfortunately, this is not due to the inaction of law enforcement agencies, because of our law enforcement system, which overlooks the facts of such mistreatment from the State when millions are looting. And such characters as the Crimson and Minister of Transportation Povovvarsky knows about it. We talked to him, we talked to the committee all the time, about what was going on in the Crucifixion that needed to be reformed. But as the Reformation of Crucibles is now going on, I can say that it's just going to be a robbery, something as inconsequential as the Hospitals of Crucibles will simply be committed to local budgets and just closed, and everything that is liquid will be transferred into private hands. So I'm addressing the Attorney General, the Minister of Internal Affairs and the Head of the Bureau as my official parliamentary request to investigate the violations of the former head of the South West Railways of the Crivopisin Alexia, and to investigate.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-20-m0.u102	Please, 10 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-20-m0.u103	And investigating all the violations on the Crucibles. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-20-m0.u104	Thank you very much. The next one is the Medunica People's Deputy, who gave the floor to the deputy of Kirsh. Let's get to the show.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-20-m0.u105	Ladies and gentlemen! Alexander Kirsch, People's Front. First of all, I was delegated by Majdan, who was now meeting before the Supreme Council. There are investors in the Delta Bank who demand that this bank be shut down and that the Delta Bank is nationalized because the Deposit Guarantee Fund is no longer sufficient. There's about 16 billion dollars missing, 8 billion dollars missing. And if we talk about people, it's about three hundred thousand Delta depositors to the bank who have entrusted money to the state, and now they can't return it. So they're not the ones who take credit in the bank and don't want to return, and those who trust the banking system, they're now suffering from what's going on in the bank, and the price of the issue is 60 billion dollars. The bank’s investors are already deciding which of the major investors, of the legal entities, should be among those who are willing to be shareholders of the bank, co-owners of the bank. They're talking about Foxtrot, MTS and others that have agreed with the state to solve these problems. An initiative group has been set up, and I'm asking for the support of this initiative group to stop the liquidation of Delta Bank and start the procedure, maybe nationalize it. The second question is about the personnel of the State Fiscal Service. No one understands why Billous is still the head of the State Fiscal Service. Is there anything better about tax administration? No, it didn't. Do letters that regulate urgent matters come out at the proper time? No, they don't come out at all, but at the same time, they come up with completely different letters that abuse those who participate in the Anti-Terrorism Operation. So there are letters from the State Fiscal Service that if a car operates in the Anti-Terrorism Operation, an enterprise has no right to reduce the corresponding amount of income tax because such a car does not include depreciation. What's more, there's a very shameful consultation going on about someone giving up their lives in the Anti-Terrorism Operation but not giving up, and we need to find him and take away his only social contribution. Is it not clear where they get their wages, whether in Kiev or Moscow — in Putin? Please note the immediate change in this leadership of the State Tax Service. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-20-m0.u106	Thank you very much. Vitko Artem Leonidovich passes the word to Silantiev, and please come to the microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-20-m0.u107	Respectable colleagues, respected citizens of Ukraine! I would like to point out immediately that the beginning of 2015 began with a real test and shock therapy for our children with you, for the next generation of Ukrainians. As a matter of fact, the Government's concessions to foreign financial donors, who will teach us as reforms, are no different than the genocide of a nation. See for yourself, the financing of child-to-child sport is completely excluded, financing for the recovery of children, including children from socially disadvantaged and child-to-child families, children who have been forced to migrate from the ATO area, that is, to date, they are on the asphalt for summer. Where will they be? In the backyards, in the driveways, in the backyards, in the basements that they're going to do -- we all know it's alcoholism, drug addiction, smoking, crime. The second double blow was the latest amendment to the Ukrainian Tax Code. First, it was completely shut down. Excluding facilities for enterprises and organizations in sports and sports. Secondly, physical culture and sports are now taxed on real estate, millions of bracelets. I have letters from the Olympic Committee, from sports societies that just don't know what to do, they have hundreds of thousands of square feet of land, and they just don't have the money to pay for it. As a result, there will be a build-up of debt to the budget, which will soon lead to the complete collapse of the entire sports infrastructure. Moreover, construction and land sites can be privatized by unscrupulous businessmen and re-profiled. And hundreds of thousands had already been, more precisely, hundreds of examples had been such a precedent. That's what I'm saying. The teachers of these schools. Those who are there are simply going to be, and the coach, thrown out on the street, are hundreds of thousands of children and tens of thousands of coaches and service staff. This is all in the light of what we have, firstly, Ukraine takes first place in child alcoholism, secondly, the three leaders of the countries on AIDS and oncological diseases, and 80 per cent of the graduates of schools have health status for 45-year-olds. Half of the crimes committed in Ukraine are committed by adolescents, with the trend deteriorating over the years. You know, colleagues, I think you'll all agree with me that all the policies taken together have not done as much for Ukraine's positive image as the athletes have. Because of the success of our athletes, the country is known, respected and considered. And.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-20-m0.u108	10 seconds to complete, please. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-20-m0.u109	Colleagues, yes, if we destroy all the children's sports today, who will tomorrow protect the country's honour, who will be played by Himmn tomorrow, and who will rise to the pedestal of honor. You know, today.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-20-m0.u110	Ten seconds. Try to concentrate.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-20-m0.u111	Today our heroes are dying in the East, and the country must show that it also cares for our heroes, their families, their children. What do they see in the end? In the end, they see that their children are just being taken.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-20-m0.u112	Thank you, thank you. The word is given to Kolesnik Dmitry Valeriyovich, "The Opposition Block." Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-20-m0.u113	Good afternoon, dear colleagues. Dmitry Kolesnikov, Opposition Block, Dniproperty. We all remember the adoption of the State Budget Act 2015. Even before the vote, even the own coalition. I mean, the members of the First Coalition didn't know the text of this law. And what did the citizens of Ukraine finally get? Lack of coverage, medical and educational subsidies from the State Budget. If it is simple, medicine and education, the government does not fund and take away all responsibility for it. What the social evil of these novels is, I'll explain. In 2015 new types of state budget subsidies for medical and general secondary education were introduced. That is, the State has undertaken to finance these very important areas for our people. The local budget, however, does not cover the real cost of subsidies. Let me give you an example in Dniproperty. My hometown is the Horn of the Curve. It's not enough education subsidies for the city of Krivý Horn in 2015; 90 million dollars in the medical field in general. 170. How the local budget should cover this deficiency. At the same time, according to the Cabinet of Ministers decrees on how to use these subsidies, the local budget should fully ensure funding and education and medicine. So in the absence of public budget funds, local budgets will have to pay their own costs. Which one? What's the development of medicine, what's the development of education, and what's the development of housing and utilities we're talking about. In fact, local communities are deprived of the ability to influence both education and medicine. The amount of funding depends on the number of students and the number of patients. And this is, at first glance, a mechanism that needs to work. But it doesn't work in any region of our country. The public treasury authorities are only counting the costs to the public on the basis of the income of the entire general budget. Not a single budget in Ukraine can achieve this. So we urge the government to immediately cancel all antisocial innovations and make the most transparent use of budget funds. And respected colleagues, today is an international day of happiness. That's all our people are.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-20-m0.u114	Ten more seconds to be happy.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-20-m0.u115	And the greatest happiness for our people will be if this antisocial, anti-national government resigns. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-20-m0.u116	Thank you very much. A representative of the Radical Party, Halasjuk Viktor Valeriyovich, is invited to attend. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-20-m0.u117	Thank you. Honorable Chairman, Honourable National Deputies, Honorable People of Ukraine! Victor Halasyuk, Radical Party. We insist in principle both as the Radical Party, and as the head of the Committee of Industrial Policy and Entrepreneurship on the immediate establishment of an anti-crisis economic headquarters based on the Ministry of Economic Development and Trade, to which representatives of the administration of the President, our committee, representatives of the factions of the coalition, representatives of the largest associations of Ukrainian producers are to enter. In order to ensure normal business and power, today, not waiting for long-term strategies for 5 or 10 years, solve the problems of industrialists, entrepreneurs, those who create jobs, those who pay taxes. Today, there are a huge number of problems that create tensions in society that, if not solved, will lead to an explosion. So we insist that this headquarters be created immediately, and I want to say that the information that came out of the government's bed today is not objective. There is no such headquarters for today. It must be designed to solve economic problems. To overcome unemployment, in order to provide preferential government purchases to Ukrainian producers, Ukrainians have a job to pay. Not as we do today that we buy foreign goods, we take foreign loans, we live in debt. We have debt from Russia by gas, we have debt from international financial institutions by debt, and as a result, the Ukrainians are impoverished. Therefore, the Radical Party insists on changing the economic course of the state. We have to make a real bet on the national manufacturer, and the government has to be actively involved. That's why I'm very concerned about the Minister of Economics' statements. I would like to hear an official explanation as to the purpose of the minister’s activities in the end. And who would do it, in general, by creating competitive conditions for investors to come here, not to Poland, not to Turkey, not to the Czech Republic? So that they would create jobs here, so that Ukraine would be an exporter of ready-made products, not just raw materials, as is happening today. And we are ready to put the government's back into this kind of pro-Ukrainian economic policy for the benefit of Ukrainian citizens, for the benefit of Ukrainian industrialists, entrepreneurs and employers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-20-m0.u118	Thank you. Please, Suslova Irina Mikolayevna, I invite you to speak.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-20-m0.u119	Irina Suslova, political party of Will. Dear colleagues! Dear Ukrainians! I want to inform you about how we are now struggling with such an odious, all-known figure in our country by Peter Melnik, former director of the University of Taxation. Thus, along with colleagues, civil activists, along with Majdan’s activists, along with the national deputies Olga Cervakova, Yuri Derevyanko, Viktor Romanyuk, Michael Gabrieluk, Valery Packan, we continued our fight against actually Lieutenant Janukovic Peter Melnikov. Which I would like to remind you of, I myself have been crucified by the actual sink of the Bilican Forest, which is in Cotsubinsky, which the local community has been fighting for for a long time. They ask, ask, and make every possible appeal to enable this park to become actually a national park. Mr. Melnik is now taking unprecedented steps to return to his post as Rector of the University. But I would like to remind you that this gentleman does not belong in a soft chair, this gentleman’s place on a hard rack, and this has long been declared by everyone. What we have done today is not to let this person return to his actual position. We've drawn up all the facts of corruption that we've had on today's one actual request to the Attorney General, and we're asking Mr. Shokin for every fact to open criminal conduct and bring criminal conduct into the Single Register and actually start pretrial investigations. This is primarily about schemes disguised as a state-owned private partnership in housing for teachers and actually university students. Renting by the university of objects at high prices and making such contracts without proper justification. To implement the various tools, Mr. Melnik created such a society as the Irpine Financial Law Academy, co-owner and co-founder of which his son Peter is his son, I apologize, Melnik Maxim Petrovich and his sister Melnik Tetjana Volodymyrna. I just want to give you a few points from the list of abuses that we're asking for. This is the illegal alienation of the property complex of the Sosnowy Bohr pioneer camp, which caused nearly 3 million dollars to the state. It's a rental of real estate secured by the university without making relevant contracts. This financing of construction works is done without actually doing it. Thus, the state - owned enterprise, the capital - building center, did not do the work for the sum of 3 million 500 thousand bracelets. I want to point out that this money was stolen in the budget. What we demand for today. We demand: first, the completion of a full and comprehensive and transparent investigation by the Attorney General's Office.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-20-m0.u120	Please give me 10 seconds to complete.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-20-m0.u121	And the Ministry of Internal Affairs is an honest and open court over Mr. Melnik. And please consider my statement a request to the Attorney General of Ukraine and Minister of Internal Affairs Arsen Avakov. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-20-m0.u122	Thank you. The word is given to Amelia Vasil Vasilovich, the Radical Party. You've changed again, haven't you? Okay.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-20-m0.u123	Honorable colleagues, the people of Ukraine, Yuri Chizmar, the Radical Party. In terms of military intervention, the crisis of the Ukrainian economy reached its bottom. And unfortunately, the common Ukrainian people suffered the most under these conditions. The government today has not offered a worthy model of social support for the population of Ukraine. I didn't propose real reforms. Even though the people of Ukraine realize that it is difficult, and they need to suffer, they are willing to endure. But it can only be tolerated if there is confidence in the government and there is an understanding that every step taken by the government is justified and makes Ukraine richer in the future. But how can you believe a government that today says that the minimum wage of a thousand 218 dollars is worth it? If the government says that the minimum subsistence minimum of a thousand 171 is sufficient, and the gas tariffs for the population up to seven thousand dollars are economically sound. How can the government be trusted if today’s official inflation rate reaches 270 percent in 2014. And citizens' savings are frozen in bank accounts, and these banks stole more than 110 billion Ukrainian funds from the budget through the refinancing system last year. How can the government be trusted if today terrorists are supplied with gas and electricity free of charge to the ATO zone, all of which are translated into the budget of Ukraine and according to the tariffs of Ukrainian consumers. I think, and the Radical Party insists that we change the government's policy of the Ukrainian people. There can be no way that funds from international donors donate to the real economy. We want them to support only the medium and small business, and the lending was not at 50 percent, as announced by the National Bank’s management, but at up to 12 percent. This is really going to enable businesses to get off their knees, create new jobs and raise wages. We're here to reduce, not the income of the citizens, but the oligarchs, and there's nothing to extend to the citizens until we've eliminated all the corruption schemes in energy, in customs, in the Fiscal Service, until the government apparatus is blown up. And we have the latest facts when in the Ministry of Finance, the minister who reported from this rostrum the need to reduce citizens' income is conducting a tender for services for a fee of over 1 million dollars. Is that social policy? This is the government that must be trusted by the people of Ukraine. A radical party against whether or not a pension reform has been carried out today is incomprehensible. People who have worked a large part of their retirement should have fixed pension conditions. And if we want to raise the retirement age of the miners, the workers of agriculture, please raise the working conditions to the right level first, ensure work protection and give proper pay conditions. Then we can speak backwards to the medal. The minimum subsistence minimum should be counted according to the actual situation, tariff prices, the LHC and the prices of the goods of the first necessity. And the Radical Party asked the question.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-20-m0.u124	Please, 10 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-20-m0.u125	But that's too little, we have to look at it more often, because unfortunately, the inflation processes in Ukraine are deeper. Finally, I would like to say that the Radical Party has its social reform plan, and we believe that the government today should be strengthened, perhaps.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-20-m0.u126	Thank you very much. Please welcome Lubinec Dmitry Valeriyovich, "Peter Prashenko's Block."
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-20-m0.u127	Good afternoon, respectable Ukrainian people, distinguished people's deputies! Lubinets Dmitry, Majority District 60, Donetsk Region, Boch Petra Prashenko faction. The previous speaker spoke well of our Cabinet of Ministers. I'll bring a small trailer, what's going on in my district right now, and what I'm calling for urgent intervention by the Cabinet of Ministers. At the moment, Volnovakh, who is notoriously known, the Volnovakh region has been completely cut off from any funding for social payments. Money for small children, for pensioners, for the disabled is blocked. What happened? On 18 February, the Cabinet of Ministers amends the list of settlements not controlled by the Ukrainian authorities, imports 10 per cent of the Volnovakh region, but thus blocks the listing of accounts throughout the Volnovakh region. Think about it: To date, some 80,000 people, who have advocated and advocated Ukrainian power, have simply been cut off from livelihoods. At the moment, I demand that the Cabinet of Ministers, which translates responsibility into one another: the Treasury sneezes at Minfin, Minfin sneezes at the Mines, and no one does anything. Two weeks ago, I personally approached the Minister of Finance with my colleagues in Donetsk. She promised to figure it out within a few days, "go on and on." This morning, the head of the Rajgosad administration had about 50 mothers with small breasts, and they demanded payment. Now there's going to be a retirement rally in the central square, and then you and I are going to hear that not the MPs are sitting under the dome, but a word from the Russian TV channels is going to be even more acceptable to us. So I'm asking your support as a deputy, and I demand that I be invited to the Cabinet of Ministers at two o'clock to see if they can get a quick look at the situation. If they allow me, I'll get you all in the loop. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-20-m0.u128	Thank you. George Cheege gives the word Igor Mosiychuku, the Radical Party. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-20-m0.u129	Dear Ukrainian people, the Ukrainian Parliament! Talking about corruption in this room has become commonplace. But only in the past week, there have been such violent facts that cannot be overlooked. I've got solid evidence, and I'm going to the Ukrainian Security Service, the U.S. Attorney's Office for Abuses at the Impulse Defense Plant in Kiev. It is this week alone that 20 million dollars from the factory are billed for the company. In Odessa. In Odessa, the situation in the Penitentiary Service is quite different. After receiving bribes, the guards brutally beat the prisoners, and the bribe was received from other prisoners — Georgian nationality — as a result of the riot in prison. So I have a question for the Penitentiary Service leadership: are you deliberately causing such conflicts in the front zone? Or what's going on? Why is it that there is no change in the leadership of the willless institutions that have supported separatists in the East and that they are being translated and assigned, for example, to the Berezan colony of translated heads from Donetské, who were drunk and beaten by a journalist literally this week? You can talk a lot about corruption in this area, but if there were no others. Mr. Kravopishin's work has already been discussed here, but no one mentions that in the context of investigating crimes against participants in the Dignity Revolution, he has not even been questioned, even though it is at his command that the Barkutu barricades were being built, the special tools for the Berkut were being introduced, all of which were used by the Crossroads. And this person continues to run such a strategic enterprise, and then we have explosions in the East, on railway tracks and so forth. Taking into account what I have said, I am addressing the Attorney General of Ukraine, the Head of the Ukrainian Security Service, the Minister of Internal Affairs. Please conduct a thorough investigation into the abuses at the Impulse Defense Plant, the Penitentiary Service, and the University. Please consider my statement as a question of parliament.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-20-m0.u130	Thank you very much. Dear colleagues, I'd like to consult you. Look, we still have about 15 minutes. I have a request for you. The first is that we give the word to Lechchenkov. And it came to me. And Roman, and Lechchenka and Romanov. And look, I got two phone calls from people who left when I announced the break, and they're stressing that they couldn't sign up. Four shows are 12 minutes. And Head, 15 minutes. Are we ready for 15 minutes? Then Levchenko, Romanova, Golovko and then Šinkovich and Krivoshea. Five performances, and we are about to arrive at half past half past the date provided by our Rules. I invite you to the words of Levchenk Yuri Volodymyrovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-20-m0.u131	Levchenko, Freedom, 223 district, Shevchenkovsky district of Kyiv. Respectable association, Ukrainian people! I'd like to go to you today as the principal of Kiev more because what's been going on in Kiev lately is just like a vacchanal of the building mafia, you can't call it anything else. Why this particular week, why was it today that I wanted to say it? Because during very important plenary sessions, when we consider very important laws for the country, we also have to run every day to different parts of the city of Kiev to stop any illegal construction. Because the mere living space of China today, our capital is being destroyed, is being destroyed because of the absolute inaction of capital power. Our sports minister, Vitaly Klitschko, not only does he not fight the forgetfulness, but he covers it. Recently, the mayor's report was that about 20 with something, he had forgotten, stopped, especially the Odystic progeny of Wojciechowski, which builds without any permission, and that's actually a basic lie. All of these buildings, which are supposedly shut down, continue to continue, the green areas continue to be destroyed, the old buildings continue to collapse, because when there's a "breath" in which few people live, who still have nothing to live for. You build 25 floors instead of a playground, this cartilage is falling apart. Aloe Mayor and the capital authorities are not interested. They don't come to the place. They don't fight these prodigals. They do not go to the Cabinet of Ministers to ensure that the State Department agrees with the appropriate checks. They don't ensure the presence of the militia. They don't go to the D.A.'s office. Because, of course, we have an absurd situation in Kiev, where the first Deputy Klicka is Mr. Nikonov, one of the country's greatest builders. What do you mean? What is it, society? Instead, the city’s authorities have to ensure that there are normal living conditions to control the building mafia so that it does not do what it wants. On the other hand, we are under the control of the city. So I'd like to go to Klitka Vitaliy, I'd like to go to KMDA (Kyiv City State) again the next day, to finally do something to ensure normal living conditions for kyans, so that they don't break down the chandeliers, so that they don't break down the 9-story panels so people can have their playgrounds, their green areas, and they don't have anywhere else to go, and they don't have to go for a walk. Because, you see, someone at KMDA took a couple of copies. Do something at last! Fight these illegal forgets! Because if you don't, people will go under KMDA and deal with you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-20-m0.u132	Thank you. Anna Anatolyevna Romanova, Self-Help faction. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-20-m0.u133	Dear fellow national MPs! Dear people of Ukraine! A month ago, we stood in this Supreme Council Hall to honor the memory of the dead heroes of Ukraine, the real heroes who were foreigners. But the point is, under the current legislation, we cannot reward those foreigners who advocate the territorial integrity of our nation over the East, fighting the Russian occupation. Moreover, we cannot yet assign the name Hero of Ukraine to Michael Zisniewski, who died and became the hero of the Celestial 100 during the Dignity Revolution. He was a citizen of Belarus and today his father is in a very difficult situation, he is sick and his only goal is to have a son who is not recognized as a native state, he is a traitor in Belarus to become a hero of Ukraine. In addition, there are two Georgians among the heroes of Heaven, Zurab Hurcía and David Kipiani. I am very much asking that we vote on Tuesday for this law, which is constantly imposed on Friday, which in fact means that it will not be voted on because the announcement of Ukraine’s national deputies on Friday does not allow it to vote. So I'm officially asking the Speaker of the Supreme Council, Groysman Vladimir Borisovich, to finally put this law to the vote on April 7. And let us be deadly rewarded by those people who are foreigners and who are not citizens of Ukraine as the highest mark, a mark of the state of Ukraine. Glory to Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-20-m0.u134	Thank you very much. I invite you to the words of Glaucus Mikhail Yosifovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-20-m0.u135	Mikhailo Golovko "The All-Ukrainian Freedom Union" 164-election district of Ternopolishte. Ladies and gentlemen, the honourable voters who are now watching us, I would like to raise a new subject that is very painful for ordinary Ukrainians, for peasants, low purchase prices for milk. You know, we've already registered in the Council's previous call, as well as in this Council, Bill 2089 and Section 1 to which I am co-author, as well as colleagues from the Peter Prashenko Block. We demand in this law that the purchase price, the price of milk that bothers peasants so much. Because you need to know that most who do not know how people live in villages, that a cow is the only breadwinner in the family, especially those young families who do not have a pension who only live on milk. Today, when prices rise, tariffs rise, utilities rise, including gas prices, electricity prices, fuel prices, all products have increased, all prices for all products and medicines have increased, and milk still has 2 bracelets left. It's practically forcing the peasants to carve and give up their livestock. In this way, we simply put our village’s destiny to extinction. Because if we don't stand up for the villagers right now, the village will just have to hand over this cow, because it's hard work. And no one will keep it so hard that it won't work badly. As servants of the people, therefore, the deputies who care about the fate of our village and our peasants are obliged to include this 2089 bill in the next plenary week, which aims to raise the purchase price for milk to 4 bracelets. And this will allow the peasants to maintain their livestock and make it possible for them to exist. Because at a time when the government raised tariffs, prices went up, the bracelet went down, there's just no way people could survive. And if we really care about our people, if we really care about the village, the volumes with you should approve this law. I appeal to representatives of all factions, to the Head of the Supreme Council, to the coalition to immediately include this bill in the agenda. And we're in the first place, and first of all before you, Oleg Lazko as the leader of the faction, so that you insist on the council of factions and coalitions to include this bill in the agenda. And only then will we be able to vote in the session room, both in the first reading and in general. And let's put it this way, we can protect our village. I say, don't be apathetic. Because if we destroy the village, Ukraine will be destroyed. I'm asking you to support all the deputies. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-20-m0.u136	Heroic glory. The word is Shinkovich Andriy Vasilovich, "Peter Prashenko's Block." Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-20-m0.u137	Thank you, Your Honor Chairman. Honorable fellow national MPs, highly esteemed, highly patient, wise Ukrainian people! First of all, from this rostrum, I want to apologize to you, my dear voters, for coming to this Reforming Supreme Council of the Eighth Council, thanks to your support, I have found myself in a condition of great populism. When there are few political debates that deal with the recovery of the economy and social spheres. However, the patient will soon enter not only your ordinary, hardworking, and decent people but also mine, and those of the national deputies who have not gathered many of us here today on Friday, at lunchtime when we would have to work full - time. But my speech, my esteemed colleagues, and the distinguished Ukrainians, is not about that much. I want to raise the problem of the vocational and technical education system by example of hops. The Hmelničina Vocational and Technical Education System is represented by 30 educational institutions of different profiles. The funding is financed by a grant from the National Budget to the local government and, accordingly, only protected articles on wages, scholarships, and payments for energy carriers, nutrition, and social benefits for children of orphans and deprived parental care are funded. That is, the government sees the trades sector as limited as it finances it. And real vocational education is the land where agronomists are raised, it's the support farms where veterinarians are raised, it's the workshops where they teach locksmiths, welders, it's the dining rooms where cookers are raised, and even ponds where fishermen are raised, and many other professions get young people in the system of vocational education. And this base is also supposed to receive funding at the same level as everyone else. The property is now owned by the Ministry of Education, but members of the Hmélník District Council are proposing to the directors of the vocational training institutions to write statements of concern in order to transfer the property to municipal property, which motivates local authorities to allocate not only to protected articles. But we know how the local authorities today finance many of the issues that they should finance. And why is it cynical to deceive teachers, students, their parents? We are well aware that the transfer to the local level of property and land of the vocational schools will destroy these facilities. The heads of the technical and professional institutions were concerned about the situation and called on me and all the national deputies to deal with the situation. So I'm going from this rostrum to the Ministry of Education and Science, which is the central authority of the executive branch of the formation and enforcement of state policy in the field of trade and education. I address Minister Sergey Mironovich, let's work together with clear mechanisms for the preservation of property and land. So from this rostrum, there's a broad public discussion of this topic, which I'm going to start with the directors of the vocational and technical institutions within the next week, and I'm going to invite everyone to do so. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-20-m0.u138	Thank you. And the final performance. I invite you to the word of Krivoshi Gennady Grigorovich, the People's Front faction. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-20-m0.u139	Thank you. Good day, respectable Ukraine, good day, distinguished national MPs, I want to draw the attention of all Ukraine today, especially the people of Kiev, to what is really happening in our capital. The People's Front faction prepared a parliamentary request concerning the trust of apartment appliances in the calculation and payment of cold and hot water consumed in Kiev. What is the essence of our question? In the last couple of months, residents of Kiev, pensioners, multi - parent families, and disabled persons have come to their homes with payments clearly marked by a fixed term to which apartment counters should be trusted. And the scariest part of all is that the Kyiv City State Administration requires that, in a forced manner, this be done at the expense of the owners of the apartments, not those who provide the appropriate services. In his time, the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine led by Arsenius Petrovich Yatzenyuk gave an appropriate commission to the antimonopoly committee and to the appropriate authorities of local self - government to do so in accordance with existing legislation. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that, today, Kyiv's municipal services are planning to get into the budget at the expense of the common people of Kiev, and perhaps even to their own pockets about half a billion dollars if the residents are forced to do so at their own expense. "The People's Front" cannot allow ordinary people to go to such a, excuse me -- arbitrary fate -- and what it requires is what the Kiev City State Administration requires of them. In turn, the national deputies of the People's Front faction require the Kyiv City authorities to make appropriate decisions, to set specific terms, to establish the value of the trust of the counters, to conduct appropriate competitions and to require, first of all, those who provide appropriate services to carry out the trust of the apartment counters. Let's leave the poor and the miserable. Stop bullying the people. The city of Kiev is no longer such a rich city. There are about 90 percent of the people who live for the last money. Let us be concerned about our future. Thank you all for your attention. Please consider our request, our request as a question of the MPs. The People's Front is in control of any action and any illegal action that's being done on the side.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-20-m0.u140	Ten seconds to complete.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-20-m0.u141	They are made by the Kyiv city authorities. Thank you. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2015-03-20-m0.u142	Thank you very much. The time for the national MPs to speak on various issues has been completed and the regulations for today’s meeting have been completed. Ladies and gentlemen, let me remind you that the following week the national deputies are working on committees, factions and groups. This plenary week, we had five or seven hours of plenary meetings to finalize those bills that were to be processed in factions on committees before. And so I would very much like to ask this week to work actively on committees and factions so that we can have completed and worked out drafts during the vote, and not make endless breaks in our work for discussion. On the week from March 3 to April 3, there will be work with the electorate. It is vital to explain to people the logic of our actions and decisions of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. And the next plenary meeting, according to our decision, will be held on Tuesday, April 7, at 10 a.m. And at that morning session, I declare the Supreme Council of Ukraine closed. Thank you. Good-bye.
