ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-15-m1.u1	Dear colleagues, please come into the hall to continue our productive work. I ask the Secretary of the Supreme Council to inform the deputies of the beginning of the work. And I ask the factions to call the deputies and invite them to their jobs. Please, come on. We're not enough in the hall to make decisions. Dear colleagues, I'm again calling the faction secretariats to inform the deputies of the beginning of work. I'd like to invite the MPs to come into the workroom at the coffee shop, who are in the cafeteria, who are in the dining room, who are in the dining room, who are in the dining room, who are in the dining room, who are in the dining room, who are in the dining room, who are in the dining room, who are Please come into the hall, people's deputies.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-15-m1.u2	Good evening, fellow countrymen! Please prepare for registration. Let's start the evening session. Please take your seats. We'll start registration in a few minutes. Please, colleagues, take your seats. Please include the "Council" system for the registration of the National Deputies. [[16:14:58]] 330 national deputies registered. I declare the evening session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine open. Dear colleagues, I give the floor to the First Deputy Head of the Supreme Council, Andri Volodymyrovich Paruba.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-15-m1.u3	Dear colleagues, I'd like to announce the report that came to the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, Groisman, Ukrainian National Deputies. Dear Head, distinguished national MPs. It's a speech from Dmitri Jaroz. I'm informing you that as a result of my severe injury on January 21, 2015, during an anti-terrorist operation, I am on long-term treatment. On September 14, 2015, another lung surgery was conducted at the Dnipropetrov Hospital in Mečnikov. People's MP, Dmitri Jaros. It is important for Dmitri to know that he is with us. But for the time being, he cannot participate in plenary meetings. Let us all wish him quick recovery and a fruitful fight to win Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-15-m1.u4	Thank you. Dear colleagues, we now have two orders in order of the day. But in view of the fact that Sergio Vlasenka is not yet in the hall, I suggest that we begin the consideration of the day - to - day issues of the bill of government of 2036a in the first reading. Draft Law on Amendments to Ukrainian Laws on Ukrainian Intelligence and Telecommunications (for clarification of certain provisions). Is there no objection? Dear colleagues, you are being examined by Law 2036a. There is an offer by the reporter to consider it as a reduced procedure. Please prepare for consideration of the reduced procedure, colleagues. Please identify yourself, colleagues: 2036a - review of the Act by summary procedure (government). Please be supportive. [[16:17:46]] For 134 I would like to remind you, Your Honor, that this is a procedural question, and we need 150 votes. Please prepare for the vote on this proposal made by the rapporteur for consideration of the issue of the reduced procedure (2036a). Please, colleagues, support the rapporteur's proposal. Please, with regard to consideration of the reduced procedure, vote, colleagues, on consideration, on a reduced procedure. [[16:18:34]] For-143 Dear colleagues, to report on the draft Act amending the laws of Ukraine on intelligence and telecommunications (2036a). Head of the State Service. [[B in m in s a l in]] Following the insistence of the MPs, I am voting on a motion to review this draft law under a reduced procedure. Please, colleagues, a procedural matter, please vote on the summary procedure. [[16:19:49]] For a hundred and Please contact the head of the State Service for Special Liaison and Protection of Information, Eudochenko Leonid Alexandrovich. Please report. General procedure.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-15-m1.u5	Mr. Head, honourable national deputies, your attention is given to the bill amending the laws of Ukraine on the Ukrainian intelligence authorities and on telecommunications, which was developed by the State Administration in accordance with its powers in connection with the implementation of the Government's decree of 1 April 2014 No. 86-1 on measures to implement article 2 of the Presidential Decree of 19 March 2014 No. 314-9T, by which the President of Ukraine extended the powers of the Ukrainian Foreign Intelligence Service to ensure access to new sources of intelligence by granting the right to acquire and process information belonging to foreign physical and legal persons outside Ukraine and transferred or stored in international information and telecommunications systems that are outside the jurisdiction of Ukraine. In describing the bill, it should be noted that Ukraine's telecommunications law defines the conditions for authorized intelligence agencies to implement special technical means on the networks of telecommunications operators. However, the existing order does not take account of cases where the removal of information from the channels of communication should be carried out in the interest of the Ukrainian intelligence authorities, which corresponds to paragraph 9, of article 9 of the Ukrainian Intelligence Act, which does not give the specified authorities the right to use technical means of exploration. The project is designed to create the right conditions for Ukrainian intelligence authorities to carry out their tasks and to ensure Ukraine's national security. This will help to increase the ability of the technical intelligence services of Ukraine from access to important information sources. The proposed changes are in line with part two of article 8 of the European Council Convention for the Protection of Human Rights, ratified by Ukraine in 1997, and with the practice of the European Court of Human Rights on measures related to interference with television networks in the interests of national and public security. The draft law is accepted without notice. Please support the bill. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-15-m1.u6	Thank you so much for the brief report. The Co-Rapporteur of the National Security and Defence Committee, Pashinsky Sergey Volodymyrovich, is invited to attend.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-15-m1.u7	Good afternoon, Your Honor! Good afternoon, dear fellows! I spoke to the Conciliation Council yesterday, and I asked all the heads of the faction, the heads of the committee, not to forget that the military aggression of the Russian Federation had not gone anywhere. That our borders are focused on a colossal military group of Russia, that we are with you, our country, all together, able to mobilize more than 300,000 people, who now, with weapons in their hands, are protecting our independence. Unfortunately, in order of the day, those urgent laws that the army needs are very and very few. You know, I feel like I've forgotten what's been going on for the last six months. Yes, our committee has unsuccessfully sought to incorporate a single sentence law, allowing the demobilized to conclude a six-month contract, 2356a. It's never included in the agenda. We're dealing with extremely important parking issues, we're dealing with very important issues. But I remind you, if you want peace, prepare for war. Now you have a very simple law. I won't go into his details. That will ensure that our external intelligence officer fulfills their legal obligations. The committee considered the law. We suggest counting technical editing rights to accept it as a basis and as a whole. What are these repairs? Add "predation, storage and protection of intelligence" and "ensure other intelligence activities" and add "using intelligence and means, including technical intelligence." Once again, this bill is no different from the legislator's. All of this is done by court order. Operational search and other law enforcement and force organs have to do. We're just a little bit expanding the function of our external intelligence, which is now performing extremely important functions -- ensuring the security of our state. I very much ask the MPs to forget about the local elections, focus and support this bill. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-15-m1.u8	Thank you, please stay in the rostrum. Sergey Volodymyrovich, now under the Rules a question to the co-rapporteur. We are considering the law in full procedure, and I ask you not to look at me so hostilely. Dear fellow MPs, please sign up for a question to a reporter or a co-rapporteur. Please sign up. Please turn on the record. Please, for a question. Please, Gusak, the opposition block faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-15-m1.u9	Please pass the word to Deputy Dudenkov.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-15-m1.u10	Thank you. Honorable Chairman, Honourable Reporters of the Bill! I have this sort of rhetorical question. The bill is very important for the safety of citizens, for ensuring the constitutional right to the secret of correspondence, for telephone conversations. Appropriately, the adoption of the bill will lead to additional financial costs for the respective co-operatives. What financial costs operators will bear, and who. Do these operators translate the corresponding costs for subscribers? Because they're going to have to buy this equipment for technical tools. And will the technical equipment be used arbitrarily? Because this is an emergency, it could be any situation. A state of emergency is not a state of war. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-15-m1.u11	Thank you to the members of the Opposition Block who understand what security is and are willing to support it. As for your question, I want to draw attention to two aspects. First of all, in our current legislation behind our law enforcement agencies that do the search and search, all these blocks that you raised, there's a secret and everything else, it's clearly spelled out. We're just expanding the list of these organs. With regard to special or extraordinary conditions or martial law, our legislation clearly stipulates that no one will abuse them. What's more, you realize that in military intelligence, there's a specificity that's not really relevant to internal life. Operator costs will be minimal.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-15-m1.u12	Thank you. Let me remind you that rhetorical questions do not provide an answer. The word is given to Krivenkov.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-15-m1.u13	The word is given to Kishkar Paul.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-15-m1.u14	Thank you. In fact, it is of interest to reconcile this document with international norms, how does our bodies' right to carry out some kind of operational search operation in other countries and what it will look like physically? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-15-m1.u15	Mr. Kishkar, thank you for asking. I'm not in a position to divulge the specifics of this bill. Once again, I would like to point out that these perceptions of what it means to Ukrainian citizens have nothing to do with them. On the committee, we were informed in a closed mode of what the substance of the bill is. These are specific topics of military intelligence that operates within the framework of national and international legislation.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-15-m1.u16	Thank you. Victoria Juryevna, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-15-m1.u17	Dear colleagues, I wanted to ask you a question about such a term as "extraordinary situations," because we all understand that the Constitution of Ukraine provides for a state of war and a state of emergency. Actually, the bill is already operating on the term "extraordinary situations." What do you mean by "extraordinary situations"? How does this relate to the concept of "extraordinary state", which is enshrined in the Constitution of Ukraine? And won't those limitations of rights and freedoms that are foreseen under extraordinary circumstances not be in line with the Constitution of Ukraine? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-15-m1.u18	Thank you for asking. Once again, we suggest that it be accepted as a basis and as a whole with editorial rights. We're going to redecorate this moment. But once again, in the very text of the law, if you've met, kind of their actions, yes, intelligence, they agree with the prosecutor, well, within the framework of the search and search. It doesn't go beyond that. But we'll take your comments and work it out.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-15-m1.u19	Hope Anna Mikolayevna, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-15-m1.u20	Give me your word.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-15-m1.u21	You're good.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-15-m1.u22	Colleagues, I give the word to John Krulk. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-15-m1.u23	Ivan Krulko, "The Fatherland" faction. Dear reporter, I have a question like this. In particular, the law amending the Telecommunications Act provides that telecommunications operators will set up technical means at their own expense to carry out the tasks of the authorized authorities of counter-intelligence or other means. Please tell us what you mean by the drafters of this law under the term "telecommunication," and what does that mean for ordinary citizens who will be set up to download information, in other words, "the bugs"?
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-15-m1.u24	Thank you for asking. You don't understand the specifics, I'll explain. For ordinary citizens, this will have nothing to do with it. I would like to emphasize once again, operational and search measures, they can still be carried out by law enforcement agencies, including the setting up of beetles, as you said, by decision of the court and, accordingly, by the prosecutor's office. This is about the technical means of downloading information. It does not apply, once again, to private citizens. Once again, I can't explain it, it's an external intelligence, it's not an HQ, it's not an MVC, it's not people who operate on Ukrainian citizens. People who do things by. Well, the services that operate, they have all this regulated, they have all the tools they need. As far as technical means are concerned, these tools already exist. It's about, let's say, codifying and unifying existing systems.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-15-m1.u25	Thank you, Sergey Volodymyrovich. Question time is up. Please take your place before the closing word, it will be completed. Now, if you'd like to sign up for the factions. In three minutes, each faction will be able to express its position. Please record. From the Samohelp faction, Zubaj Lubomir Lvivitch, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-15-m1.u26	Please pass the word to Taras Shepherd.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-15-m1.u27	Taras Shepherd, Self - Help. In fact, when we were looking at this bill on our committee, we didn't have the conclusion of the Chief Scientific and Scientific Administration. And if we take a look at this conclusion right now, it's got all the questions that the fellow MPs asked today, in part, if we have to set up these tools for monitoring or retrieval of information, or are going to be compensated for; part of the constitutionality of the individual norms of this bill. So there's a lot of categorical comments here. And the rapporteur for the bill was, in fact, misleading that there were no comments before the bill. So the self-help faction's position is that in this way it can't be accepted in general today. Maximum, vote on the basis. And all of these remarks, and the warnings that the fellow MPs raised, give us a chance to work out and then vote in general. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-15-m1.u28	Thank you. You will have the final word, Sergey Volodymyrovich. Please, for 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-15-m1.u29	Dear colleagues, I have great respect for all the national deputies in this room, with great respect. That's true. But look at the situation. Just now, for example, you remember that in this room we introduced the law on the service of the GSP, the military service of law and order. This is the law on GSP, it's a law that's practical for our army to raise discipline. You know, for example, there has just been an anti-corruption committee that has declared this law corrupt, yes. Friends, with all due respect, let's hide our ambitions, and we'll make the laws necessary to the state, to protect it. That remark, I said under the microphone, we're counting it. All right, everybody, let's take a vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-15-m1.u30	Sergey, the Fatherland faction. Please go to the rostrum.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-15-m1.u31	Dear colleagues, there are a few key questions that I understand no one can answer today. Please tell me, what are telecommunication operators that are supposed to set up these special data download tools? If that's the whole list of telecommunication operators, that's one situation. If there is a comprehensive list, then we need to understand what we are voting for. If all internet providers fall under the telecommunications operators, all the communications that the Telecommunications Act is about, I don't understand how we can vote in such an editorial as a whole for this bill. That's why I don't think the drafters agree on anything. Then at least we should have a discussion now during the discussion. Or if they feel that all means of telecommunications need to be listened to, in fact, to this day there is no means, no resources, nothing else. That's why the proposal is next. If anyone who has reported from the relevant State body can explain how this will be done, it is possible to continue to consider the bill. Without answering that question, we cannot take the cat in a bag. And on occasion. During the year and nine months of military aggression by the Russian Federation in Ukraine, there is no secure system of communication. This is a matter that is urgent and that needs an immediate solution. Because we are in the session room, trying to ban mobile communication to those on the front lines, through other means, we are merely setting limits on the actual limits in this area. But unfortunately, a year and nine months from now, there is no specialty that would really be protected, which would allow for teams that would actually communicate. This is a huge question. And unfortunately, there is no real progress in that regard for today. Although there are sufficient technical developments, not Russian, not yet the Soviet Union of the so - called protected relationship, but Ukrainians, who are not yet accepted at least to protest and begin these developments in real life. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-15-m1.u32	Thank you. From the Opposition Block of Dudenkov Alexander Valeriyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-15-m1.u33	Thank you, Your Honor Chairman. Well, according to the regulations in general, you didn't have the right to deprive me of voting rights when asking questions. This is about the correctness of your treatment and the interpretation of your rules. As far as this bill is concerned. I would like to point out that this bill is unconstitutional. Because it violates the conceptual fundamental constitutional right to secrecy of citizens of Ukraine. This right may be restricted only in cases where permission is granted by the appropriate court in case a certain way is necessary to take away or stop the person preparing or continuing the crime. In any case, we have no right to break the secret of telecommunication and corresponding correspondence between citizens. In any case, I would like to point out that under the definition of telecommunications operators, in accordance with the Ukrainian Telecommunications Act, any operator who uses telecommunication networks is subject to, I would say, any operator who uses telecommunication networks. That's what the providers are doing. These are related mobile operators, fixed - circuit operators. That is, the designated owners are obliged by their own resources, and this would be the cost of subscribers’ users, and they would set up appropriate means of technical communication. The bill also proposes an unconstitutional norm for breaking the secret of correspondence in emergency situations. This is a key change proposed by the authors of the legislative initiative. Because any restrictions on constitutional rights and freedoms that are enshrined in the Constitution are only possible when a declaration of martial law or state of emergency is made. It is declared as well known by the President's decree, which is approved by the Supreme Council of Ukraine. In this case, the author of the legislative initiative proposes to limit these constitutional rights to the secret of telegraph, telegraph, telephone conversations, in any case, to his own discretion. Because the question of whether the situation is extraordinary or not, it is up to the relevant counterintelligence authorities to decide. I would also like to note for the transcript that as a subject of the legislative initiative, I have an appropriate proposal to exclude some of the provisions of this bill. Therefore, in accordance with the Ukrainian Act on the Rules of Procedure of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, voting at this plenary session of the bill in general has no legal basis. I notice that I have a point. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-15-m1.u34	Thank you. Before giving the next word, I would like to inform the speaker that the Rules should be opened and read before making a comment on the Presidium. It's not that hard, people are educated. And it's very clear here that in the full procedure of the co-reporter, defined by the main committee or the temporary special committee, he speaks up and asks questions to the reporter and answers them. This is article 30, paragraph 1, of the Supreme Council of Ukraine’s Rules. Just get to know each other next time, if you say so, read and think. Thank you very much. Now I'm inviting you from the People's Front, Grandmaster Mikola Romanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-15-m1.u35	Please pass the word to Andrew Levus.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-15-m1.u36	Please, Andrew Levus, People's Front.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-15-m1.u37	Dear friends, I would like to point out that at least the texts of those laws should be read. So far, it's the same norm for search-and-research work, and no one's picking up any of those problems. The language goes: add the opportunity to work for Ukrainian intelligence. The number of times this is used, these rules of law are equal to units, not even dozens of cases, and not hundreds like this in the search and search. Second item. This law stipulates that in the case of a state of war, the same rights are granted to the central regulator, i.e. DSTI, to regulate, roughly speaking, telecommunication space, and to grant greater rights. This is a normal adequate norm. There is nothing else in this bill. Operational search activities are being carried out, more faithfully, the equipment for the search and search activities is also being put at the expense of network operators. And there's no problem with that, because the law's been in operation for decades. Please back up and don't think of any problems here. Moreover, the law is completely in line with the Council of Europe Convention on Human Rights. There are also details in the note explaining this law. Please don't make up stories here. The language goes so that the Ukrainian Foreign Intelligence Service can work against the aggressor against the Russian Federation. Give her an opportunity to work in the legal field. That's the whole story of this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-15-m1.u38	From the Peter Prashenko faction, Yuri Vitaliyovich Lucenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-15-m1.u39	Dear Lord Chairman, dear colleagues! Our faction is also troubled by many questions before this bill, answers to which we have never heard. First of all, by decree of the President, external intelligence has the right to conduct operational and search activities exclusively outside the territory of Ukraine. The question is, Why is it that the equipment is installed in Ukraine? No, the decree has not been changed; it is in force today. What's more, when it comes to the fact that in Ukraine it is necessary to take certain measures for rapid-search action with regard to the aggressor, who will decide on the restrictions so that this R & D will not be extended to all present and all Ukrainian citizens, as border guards, militias, B & Bs and a host of other bodies authorized to undertake operational-search activities do. And the second question that we never got answered. Yes, indeed, as the author of the Telecommunications Act, I know clearly that an operator is obliged to purchase appropriate listening equipment. But this is the first time he is obliged to buy more data - transfer equipment, to store information, and much more. It seems to me that these questions should be removed at a meeting in factions or committees and only after that in a calm environment, when everyone is confident that the new law does not extend the possibility of listening without any control of the court or prosecutor's office, all of them, only then to support external intelligence, its activities against the aggressor. I want to emphasize once again, against the aggressor, not against any Ukrainian citizen, as this comes out of today's version of the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-15-m1.u40	Thank you. I'm just going to remind you that the aggressor today is in the territory of Ukraine, including, and that is, the essence of the bill. From the Radical Opposition Party of Oleg Láška to the word, Oleg Láško is invited.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-15-m1.u41	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. Dear fellow national MPs! I understand that in the Chamber of the Ukrainian Parliament, the heat, the shells, the chests, the mines don't fly over our heads, the bullets don't shoot, and we don't sit in trenches with you. But outside this hall, there is a war going on outside the city of Kiev. The Russian Federation has committed a subversive act of military aggression against the independent Ukrainian state, is now occupying our Crimea, occupying and continuing military activities in the territory of Donbas, in part of our territory. The Foreign Intelligence Service is a component of the country's national security, an integral element in the fight against Russian aggression. So the Radical Party faction, we've moved into opposition to power before the course of power, but we're not in opposition to Ukraine. And all the bills aimed at protecting the country, enhancing the defence of our army, strengthening the national security of the country, the Ukrainian opposition faction of the Radical Party will certainly support, including with regard to this bill. I think that a lot of the questions that my fellow MPs are asking cannot be discussed in an open debate as it is now in Parliament's walls. Because not only are the patriots of Ukraine watching our broadcast, but so are the enemies of Ukraine. Moreover, these enemies of Ukraine, the fifth Moscow column, even in the walls of Parliament, are present thanks to today’s authorities and therefore, of course, much cannot be said. But I think the answer to my colleague Lucenka’s questions is obvious, the External Intelligence Service is certainly working abroad, but let us remember that part of our territory is occupied by an aggressor, and this is also the territory where the External Intelligence Service works. Besides, we have a border with Russia in the area. Should we listen to Russia, where in the Belgrade area, or in the Rostov region? Is it possible in the territory of Susten and Chernigovishte, on the border with Russia? It's so easy to answer your questions. That's why we have to fight. To do that, we need our army, our security forces, to give every opportunity to protect the country. And taking advantage of the opportunity, the component of the struggle is the liberation of Crimea. Therefore, the Radical Party faction supports the Crimean Tatars' initiative to block the total economic blockade of Crimea. Stop feeding the aggressor! We support the adoption of appropriate laws in the Supreme Council. And we support a plan of action aimed at blocking the Crimea and getting the invaders out of there.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-15-m1.u42	Thank you. And before we move on to the next item, I want to emphasise the important things that the External Intelligence Service cannot work in the occupied areas of today. Today, part of the territory is occupied, and we're just creating a legislative base so that our intelligence can work with one goal -- to get these territories back under the jurisdiction of the Ukrainian authorities, to free them from the occupation. Now we go to the next chapter, these are speeches by the national MPs, three minutes. And I'm asking the National MPs to sign up for the speech. Please log in. Illenko Yuri Andriyovich, please, on the rostrum.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-15-m1.u43	Andrew Illenko, the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union. Dear colleagues! Dear Ukrainians who are now watching and listening! Indeed, the right words were spoken. You can, and even you have to take, in fact, a very critical position today, I would even say, a opposing position in relation to today's power, which is not doing what it's supposed to do today. But you can't be in opposition to the state. If there are decisions, the laws that are necessary to increase our security in order to give us more tools to fight the aggressor must be done. But it is equally important to realize that today, unfortunately, the terrible legacy that has been left in us since Yanukovich and his authoritarian regime, which has left dozens and hundreds of patriots, the best people of our country to prison, is far from over. And unfortunately, today we see that the government machine, the repressive machine of the state that was to be directed against the enemies of our nation today, against the enemies of the Ukrainian state, is now directed against the Ukrainian patriots. And this is a completely perfect fact, unfortunately. Because today I don't know any investigative isolation in Ukraine, where there would be at least one high-ranking region, even one bandit who killed people in Maidan, even though one asshole who started the war on Donbas, even though one oligarch who robbed and continued to rob the country. There are no such insulators, no such prisons in Ukraine. But I know dozens of investigative isolation cells, temporary detention cells, where today there are dozens of Ukrainian patriots, volunteers who, at the most difficult time, went with guns to protect Ukraine, rangers who were doing the Dignity Revolution. Today we see that full - scale political repression has begun. Today, 17 people sit after the tragic events of 31 numbers under the Supreme Council. These people, they're only guilty of being in time. an untimely place and that they are patriots of their own state who are not ready to surrender to the enemy. Among them are the posters that we have posted today. Yuri Orotyuk, who was a member of the previous vocation, who volunteered for the front, which is one of the. In fact, the author of the term "The Dignity Revolution" itself, is in prison today. And these are unequivocal political repressions, and they have to stop, and those who solved them, first of all, the Minister of Habakkuk -- should resign. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-15-m1.u44	Monsieur Igor Volodymyrovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-15-m1.u45	Dear Ukrainian people, dear colleagues! Of course, in times of war, all military laws must be maintained independently of how they are tailored to power. As the leader of the Radical Party, Oleg Lazko, has already said, our faction will support a clearly given bill, like all other bills that will aim to enhance the country's security. At the same time, however, I would like to draw the attention of the State’s leadership to the problem that exists in the same area of telecommunications protection. The only state-owned defence asset is the Impulse plant in the last year did not carry out any procurement. Ukraine's security service at the factory has detected gross violations, huge problems that are now facing the factory's labour force. In fact, it is directed by the Defense Prom to the leadership of a person who, not to the point of telecommunications, but to the defence, is very far-reaching. For example, a person traded by mobile phones, now becoming the director of a defense plant that is responsible for the release of equipment for the protection of radio communications. In this regard, I stress once again and turn to the Chief Executive of the country, Peter Prashenko, to examine in detail what is happening at the state defence plant Impulse, to hold those responsible for failing to comply with the request, because without the execution of the order, there is essentially sabotage in protecting our defenders on the front, protecting our fighters. Because the enemy and enemy intelligence act on the forerunners, acts, and unfortunately wins. And the last. I would like to point out and ask the ATO’s leadership not to hide the victims of the last days of the Ukrainian army, not to hide or lie to the Ukrainian people. We're fighting a war and we're gonna win it. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-15-m1.u46	Poultry Victoria Yuriovna. Passes the word.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-15-m1.u47	Dear colleagues, good afternoon. I wanted to ask you to uphold this law and give you a simple example. When we fought with the Ministry of Finance around the defense budget in December, as a budget committee, we made it very clear that if you are military specialists, please go to war. If you're thinking about it, you know how much money you need, go out, give up your positions, your positions, get into the Mini-Defense, get into the General Headquarters, and work. It's the same here. Unfortunately, we have too many professionals at the same time in all spheres of life. I've worked 10 years in a defense industrial complex. Trust me, during the war, we just have to trust the experts. That's the direction of our intelligence. If they come out with this initiative, we have a committee of experts who, I think, unanimously made this decision. Then you have to sign up for this committee and keep working on it, and somehow you have to call people off this committee if they don't go to work there. But we cannot discuss all matters at the same time. Therefore, we ask that we do not perform at any time. If we're speaking about this law, we're talking about this law, not the detentions somewhere, about other issues. Because we talk a lot, and we don't accept much of the bill. I have a request to support the experts. If they are wrong, make the decision to call them off, express their mistrust, and all the arguments that have already been made, to accept and move on in the daytime. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-15-m1.u48	Thank you. Leuchenko Yuri, please. Out of place, right? Turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-15-m1.u49	Please pass the word to Michael Golovk, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-15-m1.u50	Mikhail Golovko, the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union. Honourable deputies, colleagues, indeed, the bill is very important, and our political power will support it. Because this will significantly improve the necessary conditions for operational and technical governance, which with the telecommunications networks of general use and the needs of our army, and it will resolve all these issues. We will certainly uphold such laws. As far as the army is concerned. There are a lot of questions, especially the provision of our soldiers. And it's a shame that Ukraine has one of the world's leaders in arms exports. Instead, we're buying metallurgy, we're being pushed across the border, but we don't fully provide our military-industrial complexes with government orders, and our factories don't work in three different ways during the war, but at best in one change, or even in half change. And at this point, it says that, really, it's about giving up national interests. As for the question, as a colleague just said, not to mention the detainees, I want to say that this is just the right moment. Because we see that there is a departure from national interests in our country today, there is a merger of Ukraine's national interests for the Putin agreement, for the Kremlin agreement, and there was a format for those Minsk agreements, the secret Minsk agreements. What was the condition? This is the destruction of volunteer battalions, as well as the elimination of national movements, especially nationalist forces, including the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union. And what's happening right now is political repression, what's happening now is the arrests of patriot nationalists, and I'm going to remind you that in a few months we're going to be celebrating the second anniversary of the beginning of the Dignity Revolution. By the way, the author of her name is Jurko Orotyuk, who has now been arrested for 60 days. And over the past two years, we have virtually kept no region, no criminal, just the families of Yanukovic who robbed, destroyed the Ukrainian state. We didn't arrest any killers or any Berkuts who shot the heroes of the Celestial 100 on Maidan. No corrupter is now seated, everyone has fled, including the oligarchs, none of whom are held accountable. Instead, the nationalist librarians and Jurek Orotyuk just, the deputy of the seventh vocation, cynically, defiantly arrested the court without even the right to make a mortgage. This speaks of political repression and the destruction of our power. I mean, the gut is thin, you won't be able to do that. Because the nationalists and Janukovic were unable to destroy it, the regime would not be in force today. And so we will demand that we immediately put to Parliament a decree on the resignation of Minister Habakkuk, who compromised himself, who is politically biased and who is practically on the side of criminals today, who, without trial and investigation, sets labels and accuses nationalists. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-15-m1.u51	Majjkovich Mikola Romanovich. Passes the word to Lapin.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-15-m1.u52	Please hand over Igor Lapin.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-15-m1.u53	Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-15-m1.u54	Lapin Igor, People's Front faction. Dear colleagues, the glory of Ukraine! Something so quietly said, it's probably not fame anymore. You know, I'm very surprised when we're here making laws that matter to the state, like parking or anything, and how we forget that we have a war in our country today. I'd like to ask and address my colleagues from the Peter Dusty Block and Self-Help factions. Note this bill from the point of view of necessity and relevance. To this day, it applies only to the Office of External Intelligence. The thing is, we all enjoyed watching TV when we were shown what negotiations were being held by separatists and their curators from Moscow. So I'm going to propose that we legitimize these actions so that we can do this. When the question of lobbyism is solved, and who will pay for the tools that help to record the information that is necessary to protect the state, I tell you again, let's think first of all about the state, and unfortunately we're getting this trade with separatists, smuggling, we're all criticizing, but we're not doing anything. And as for the military laws and the laws required for our external intelligence, we are very much, even quietly shouting, "Glory to Ukraine!".. So once again I propose: Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-15-m1.u55	Thank you, Your Honor. And I hope everyone supports this bill. It is essential for external intelligence. Law - keepers have mechanisms to listen to and perform whatever operations they need. And external intelligence needs a legal mechanism. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-15-m1.u56	Thank you. Medunica Oleg Viacheslavovich
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-15-m1.u57	Please pass the word to Yuri Timoshenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-15-m1.u58	Please, Yuri Timoshenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-15-m1.u59	Guys, I'm for honest boxing, no punches under the belt. I'm for always winning the most worthy, but in an honest match. And that's why I'm against what I've heard today, how some of our coalition friends have been making arrangements for us to be stupid about putting down all your votes until you accept our terms or our terms. Friends, whatever your pure and holy words, excuse your goal, the means you have chosen is very dishonest, cynical, and shameful. And that's just plain blackmail. Ours, we lived to that point in the state when peaceful protests end in our battle grenades. And so I'm very, very afraid that these initial blackmails will not end with the fact that in time, the defense of God, someone has begun to kidnap someone's children in order to force us to meet their conditions. And so I ask you very much, come on, fight for your methods in honest ways. I'm willing to support you in this, but only in an honest fight. Glory to Ukraine! Thank you! Please uphold this law of all, without exception. This law will strengthen the security of our nation. It's needed now more than ever. In the state of war. And if someone in the Environment says there is no war, because it's not declared there, I'll remind you, from this rostrum, the President of Ukraine has told you twice that there is a country war in Ukraine for its independence. Please mention and vote, support this law in the first reading and in general. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-15-m1.u60	Thank you. The time for the national MPs to speak is over. Now the closing word first to the reporter, then to the co-rapporteur, please prepare. So, let me just say this, Leonid Alexanderovich. We can do it from here. We can do it as comfortable as you like. Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-15-m1.u61	I thank the distinguished national deputies for their comments and questions. And if you'll excuse me, there are two moments I'd like to hear. First. Today, the legislative framework for the conduct of telecommunications operations is regulated and there is a bill that amends, just as it relates to the operation or the function of the External Intelligence Service. Secondly, I present this bill as a developer. Competence is referred to as spheres of communication, so the head of the State Department will report, and other issues go beyond the scope of competence. But I am very grateful to recall the state system of government that is currently in operation, and I would like to inform you as the head of the State Department. But without proper funding, there is no way to modernize it and bring it to a better level. So thank you so much for your support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-15-m1.u62	Thank you. And before I give the floor to Sergey Volodymyrovich, I ask the people's deputies to enter the hall, in three minutes there will be a vote on an important bill. So I ask the secretariat to report, and the heads of factions to call MPs to their jobs. Please, Sergey Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-15-m1.u63	Dear colleagues, we have learned so well to juggle words, to speak about the protection of human rights, the Constitution, and everything else. Friends, three myths I just heard. First. Maybe I'll reveal a secret to someone, but for today in our country, according to the valid law on intelligence, the law enforcement agencies have the right to listen, to read, and everything else, it's regulated. We complement this segment with the External Intelligence Service and within its competence. I will reassure everyone, if this is to be heard, we have four law enforcement agencies to which we have given such a right and they realize this right; it is the service. The other one. It's about technical issues. I'll tell you a terrible secret, technical issues are also settled. We simply grant the right to use these technical means of the External Intelligence Service within its jurisdiction. This is all intrigue, no more intrigue. Guys, let's at least take some responsibility for why we came here? We came here not to pry, we came here to defend our nation and let's remember that. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-15-m1.u64	Thank you. Dear colleagues, please come into the hall, prepare for the vote, and I'd like to say a few words. You know, at the beginning of the aggression, I was then honored to be Secretary of the National Security and Defence Council. One of the key problems was legislative failures that would allow us to take important action to protect the Ukrainian State. We had to work dynamically, regulate legislation and act within the framework of current legislation. We now have a unique opportunity, with time, to regulate legislative activities, including the External Intelligence Service, which would give them the ground, the legislative ground, for active work, I emphasize, in occupied areas. The work that is now one of the most important before our nation after the liberation of our land from the invaders. And so I would very much like to ask you to put aside the political aspects and political motives of this vote. I would urge the deputies to mobilize and support the bill. I'm offering it. It's a committee. As rightly noted, the professional committee proposes to put it both in the first and second readings. I'll, with your permission, put it first on the first reading. And if we see that there's potential, then I'll put it in the second reading. Is there no objection to the committee, Pashinsky? I'll put it in the first reading, and then in the second reading, if we see enough potential. Dear colleagues, I ask everyone to take up their jobs. Because by our vote, we demonstrate Parliament's inability to adopt decisions. We've been forming the agenda for a week, and then we just don't have the votes to adopt the laws. I ask you to take your seats and prepare for the vote. So I'm putting the committee's first proposal to a vote. Adopt a draft Act amending Ukraine's laws "On Ukrainian Intelligence Authorities" and "On Telecommunications" (number 2036a). Please support this bill as a basis. Please vote. [[17:13:19]] For 168 168 for. Please repeat one minute, Sergey Pashinsky.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-15-m1.u65	Your Honor, I'm not going to comment on the results of the vote. It says a lot about something, but please those people who really want to know about this law, tomorrow we're going to have a committee, we're going to be in a closed room, specially equipped, we're going to give all the explanations. Once again, this law has fallen because of populism, demagogism, and non-professionalism. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-15-m1.u66	Thank you. I'll make an offer with your permission, listen carefully, send it to the committee for re-reading. Is such an offer accepted, Yuri Vitaliovich? It's a re-reading committee. That's why I'm asking the MPs to mobilize. And I'm voting on the proposal of draft Law 2036a to refer to the committee for re-reading. Please vote, please support. Vote. [[17:14:54]] For 199 199 for. Yes, I'll put all the voting proposals under the Rules. Once again, Yuri Vitaliyovich, please. Dear colleagues, here I'm going to answer the question not only in unprofessionalism and populism but also in the banal absence of discipline. I emphasize the banal discipline. There is a threat and a blow to the reputation of our country's highest legislative body, Parliament. When they went to the polls, they all talked about active work. The absence of banal discipline, the presence of MPs in the Hall, leads to the impact of the most important organ in our country. And this is the responsibility of all the deputies and factions. When outside we want to suggest that Ukrainians are unable to form a state, they include our inability to engage in basic self - discipline, our sense of duty during wartime. Dear colleagues, I ask you to mobilize again. I'm going to re-vote the proposal to refer to the committee for further work. So, are you ready to vote? I can make these proposals without coming back. So I'm going to re-supply to refer to the committee for re-reading Bill 2036a. Please vote, 2036a. [[17:16:47]] For 227 Decision taken. Let's move on to the next question of order of the day. By the way, I'll tell you the second time we've considered the law in full procedure, we've already had a positive experience. Next draft of the Act amending the Ukrainian Act on Social and Legal Protection of Military Servants and Members of Their Families (as regards guarantees of social protection for the recruitment of officers). There's a proposal from the co-rapporteur that we consider this bill in a simplified way. Please support and please vote. Please, who supports the reduced procedure, please vote. [[17:17:51]] For-147 In theory, we're going through a full procedure. But at the request of the MPs, I'm going to put another motion for a vote. Whoever supports the review of the short procedure of the bill, please vote. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. Vote. [[17:18:27]] For a hundred and Decision taken. I invite you to report to Deputy Defence Minister Mehed Petar Mikolaiovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-15-m1.u67	The Honourable Chairman, the Honourable People's Deputies, the draft law drafted by the Ministry of Defence on the initiative to ensure the social and legal protection of military service personnel and members of their families. This military service is a form of military service and calls for a term of up to 18 months, not voluntary military service for those with higher education and appointment as a reserve officer. The changes to the law will deal with the following issues: counting the duration of service by the listed categories of military personnel to the length of work that gives the right to a pension at the age of the benefit; retaining the right to employment in the three-month period following the dismissal of the same enterprise, institution or organization or their successor to a position no lower than that they held before the military service; providing emergency assistance to military personnel and their family members when moving to a new place of service; granting annual basic leave; providing military personnel and their family members with accommodations for the period of service; granting the right to military personnel, families who have lost a breadwinner and have no other working members and family members of their families to carry out their service; and granting them the right to work of military personnel, families who have lost a breadwinner, and have no other working members of their family members of the family to serve as part of their own service. In the event of a decision to apply for military service for a corresponding number of persons listed by the Ministry of Defence, other central executive bodies with military formations and law enforcement agencies, the costs of securing them will be taken into account.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-15-m1.u68	Please give me 30 seconds to finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-15-m1.u69	The adoption of the bill does not require additional expenses from the budget. The National Security and Defence Committee supports the adoption of the bill. Please accept as a basis and as a whole.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-15-m1.u70	Thank you. The committee’s chairman, Sergei Volodymyrovich Pashinsky, is invited to the report. Passes the word. Please report.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-15-m1.u71	Dear colleagues, you know, the foundation of our Coalition Agreement has been a lot of questions about improving the security of our nation, and there have been objective reasons. We have today to increase the security of our nation. These objective reasons are preserved, and perhaps even challenges are strengthened. I was surprised to see how we had viewed the previous bill, although it was extremely important to the External Intelligence Service. We realize that this very service, on her side today, relies on many questions about security, about the successful informing of our armies about the enemy’s plans. This bill is essentially of a technical nature that we are currently looking at. The point is that we have the Law on the Social and Legal Protection of Soldiers and Members of Their Families, and as Deputy Minister Mehed has rightly pointed out, today we need to introduce into this law technical remedies for reserve officers. These technical adjustments relate to housing, housing, housing, housing, if not available in the military, employment, and so on. There are no contradictions. The committee therefore considered the bill and suggested that it be accepted as a basis. Instead, if there is a vision in this law, the committee does not deny and support the position of the drafters of the bill, the Ministry of Defence, accept it as a basis and as a whole. So I ask the chairman to put this bill first as a basis. If there are votes, let's take it as a basis and as a whole, and finally show society that we still care about the sovereignty of the state, not just when we sign a coalition agreement. Let's do it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-15-m1.u72	Thank you. Dear colleagues, can you please tell me if there's a need for two in favour, two in the opposite? There's a need, isn't there? There is a need, there is a requirement from the deputies. So I'm asking you to turn on the recording system and log in two for, two for against, please. Barna, please turn on Deputy Barney's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-15-m1.u73	Dear colleagues, I ask you all to think about what we are in this room right now, and people are protecting our peace, our independence, including us. I ask you to reflect on all the military personnel who now guarantee us the security and the obligations we must make before them. So any question that concerns the protection of these military personnel must be taken not only automatically, but with the dignity of doing our duty. Thank you for your support. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-15-m1.u74	Thank you very much. Please, Baby Oleg Valeriyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-15-m1.u75	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. The Radical Party faction will certainly support a bill aimed at raising the level of social security for military personnel who today are worthy, heroically, at risk to life, to health, to endure all the incredible superhuman strains, they continue to defend the country, regardless of the treasonous authority, regardless of the apathetic, greedy MPs who do not vote in favour of the laws needed by the countries that do not vote in favour of the laws necessary to protect the country. My colleague Lucenko recently spoke from the rostrum and told us that we had created a new broad. So what I'm saying is that the previous bill is from the BBC and the Opposition Block and they didn't vote, a bill aimed at supporting the work of the External Intelligence Service. Well, look who's making those widths. When it comes to protecting the country, when it comes to protecting our army, our army, when it comes to protecting the families of the military, we must all vote as one, whether it be power or opposition. There's no Ukraine, there's no power, there's no opposition. There should be only Ukrainian national deputies who are aware of their responsibility to the defenders of the country and who are aware of their great responsibility to the Ukrainian people, who have delegated us here to protect the country, to raise the army, to provide opportunities for those who have weapons in their hands to protect their homeland, their homeland, and to enable them to support them, their families, their children. To enable the mobilized to return to their home, where their mother is waiting for them, where their children are waiting for them, where their jobs, opportunities to work, to earn money, to feed their family. That's why we were invited here. That's why we were chosen here. And the one who doesn't understand it has mandates and goes away.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-15-m1.u76	Thank you. Royal Natalia Yuriovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-15-m1.u77	Dearly respected colleagues present, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that those people, citizens of our country, our soldiers, who are now in the name of their homeland, must always be confident that if the State, if the authorities promised them, it would live up to its promises. We are now considering another benefit bill with you. And let's think about how many of them have been adopted in this room in the last year. They promised subsidies, land, and payments, and whatever they had not promised. Let us take stock of what has been done. So here's the paper, it can hold everything, and it can handle anything. But when power begins to deceive its soldiers, it will be wrong. Unfortunately, this bill is not working and it will not be possible to implement it in this form. And so I urge you, let's first fulfill all the promises that have already been made. Let us return the benefits that the veterans had received from the Chernobylites, the internationalist soldiers who had stood up for their protection in various years. And today, you take them away, you tax them on their pensions, you deprive them of compensation for health, housing and utilities, and you promise new benefits today. But it's just as unfair. Therefore, we offer you, let us make an audit of the benefits that exist. We will strain and find money in the budget to make up for what we have promised and to live up to our promises. Only then will we start and really assess the opportunities in the budget for which we can issue and promise new benefits. But by no means, we will not be deceiving the military today and making decisions that will not then be implemented. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-15-m1.u78	Thank you. So, respectable colleagues. Oh, they haven't checked in since the Self-Help faction. Shepherd, please, 30 seconds. Turn on the microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-15-m1.u79	Taras Shepherd, Self - Help. Dear colleagues, we will not tell you for long how much support we need, and how we love our soldiers. This law does indeed have a technical law, it restores in fact a certain social justice that adds to "other military personnel" "persons of the officer's warehouse." This bill, after first reading, has nothing to do with further refinement and refinement. So from the faction, we propose that the bill should be voted on in general immediately. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-15-m1.u80	Thank you. Dear colleagues, we have concluded our discussion. I'm asking the national deputies to come into the hall and prepare for the vote. Dear colleagues, I'll be the first to put the proposal on the table for the committee. If there's room support later, then there's a whole room. I ask you to prepare for the vote. Please come into the hall, dear colleagues. And I'm voting on the draft Act amending article 11 of the Ukrainian Act on Social and Legal Protection of Soldiers and Members of Their Families (number 2972) as a basis. Please vote. Can I have your back, please? 2972 on the ground. Please vote, please turn the system on. [[17:31:06]] For 240 Decision taken. Now there is a proposal for a bill to be put together. If there's no objection in the hall, and I see there's no objection in the hall, so I'm putting in the whole draft of Law 2972. Please vote, please support 2972 as a whole. Please vote. [[17:31:43]] For 240 Decision taken. Welcome to the drafters. Now, dear colleagues, I'd like to consult with the auditorium and the reporter. We have an important bill 2954 after us, this is a bill amending some of Ukraine's laws to determine the date of the beginning of the temporary occupation. There is a request, the minister asks very much to have it through one. We'll put it now, and then we'll look at the next one. If there is no objection, then I ask the authors to consider a reduced procedure of 2954, and I ask that you support consideration 2954 on a simplified procedure. Please vote. [[17:32:42]] For 165 165 is "for", the decision is made. And immediately, Foreign Minister Klimkin Pavel Anatoliyevich is invited to the floor for a report.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-15-m1.u81	Dear National Deputies! I would like to address you with an important aspect, both in terms of international legal definition and in terms of the protection of Ukraine's national interests. The Crimea Act "On the Establishment of a Free Economic Zone" defined that the date of the beginning of the temporary occupation of Crimea and Sevastopol is the date of adoption of the UN General Assembly Resolution on the territorial integrity of Ukraine, i.e. 27 March 2014, and, in certain cases, the date of entry into force of the Ukrainian Law on the Protection of the Rights and Freedoms of Citizens and the legal regime of the temporarily occupied territory of Ukraine, i.e. 27 April 2014. This creates both legal uncertainty and is in principle unfaithful politically. The misdefinition of the start of temporary occupation has negative consequences for us both internationally and internationally, and in terms of the protection of state, property and property rights, as well as the rights of citizens and legal persons. The actual capture of the Supreme Council of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea took place on February 26, and the violation by the Armed Forces of the order of the crossing on February 20. This is confirmed by the relevant legal rules. Furthermore, it states that the completion of the temporary occupation is a date with which the UN Resolution in question is no longer valid, and the apioraries of the General Assembly’s resolution are acts of indefinite action. So I would like to support the need for changes that would set a real date for the temporary occupation of Crimea, namely: February 20, 2014.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-15-m1.u82	Thank you so much for the report. Dear colleagues, there is a proposal for a hall to vote because there is obviously general support for this position. Is such a proposal supported? Then, honourable colleagues, I put to the vote the decision of the committee that proposed to take the basis of the bill as a whole, and the proposal from the committee that is in writing, I put it to the vote. Wait a second. Then let's do two for, two against. Dear colleagues, you know, require performances. I can't as chairman limit the rights of deputies. That's why I'm asking you to sign two for, two for against. Please. He gives the word to the deputy Nemira. Please come in.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-15-m1.u83	Dear colleagues, the Human Rights Committee supports the proposal to adopt this bill on a first reading basis and as a whole. But in view of the need to correct it in accordance with part two of article 48 of the Supreme Council Rules. This is about the proposed changes to section III, paragraph 1, of this Act. It is proposed that these rules be drafted in accordance with the requirements of the Rules, which states that the laws, regulations, and other acts of the Supreme Council that have taken effect are not subject to the annulment of the Supreme Council; they may be recognized by the Supreme Council as having become invalid. In view of this, the committee proposes paragraph 2, paragraph 1, of section I, in the following edition, that I read for the transcript: "Standstone 1 of chapter II "To the Final and Transitional Positions" after the words "moral losses of internally displaced persons" should be completed with the words "or until the Supreme Council decides to recognize this law in a manner that has become invalid." With such an amendment, the committee recommends to the Supreme Council that the bill be adopted in the first reading on the basis and as a whole. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-15-m1.u84	Thank you. Lyszko Oleg Valeriyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-15-m1.u85	Dear colleagues, surely the Radical Party faction will support this bill, which specifies the date of the beginning of Russian aggression — February 20, 2014. But to me, Mr. Foreign Minister, when you reported a bill setting up the date of aggression, it's a very important issue, but it's not the most important one. The most important question is to draw conclusions from mistakes. The most important thing is to analyze what we didn't do to protect Crimea. Because I'm sure if we fought for Crimea, there would be no war on Donbas today. Because Putin takes what's easy. When they took no shot at Crimea and saw that they had succeeded, they went to Donbas. When someone asks me where I'm meeting or in Lviv or in Chercas or in Chernigov, why do we have to fight for Donbas, what do we need Donbas for? So the answer to that question is obvious. If we had not fought for Donbas, the enemy would have been standing in Kiev, Lviv, and perhaps still. Because Putina is not only interested in Ukraine, we are now witnessing a geopolitical crisis -- the fall of peace established after the results of World War II. And that's why European partners -- Germany, France, others -- should not impose on us a road map on Ukraine's break-up because of changes to the Constitution, and they should understand that today they should do their utmost to help Ukraine, because if Putin reaches his goal in Ukraine, both Europe and America will spend ten times more on defence, security, the army, and so on. And the time has come, Mr. Minister of Foreign Affairs, to admit that the mine format has exhausted itself. Press on to the Budapest format. Those who guaranteed our independence when we gave up nuclear weapons today have to pay for the bills they gave us. Keep pushing.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-15-m1.u86	Thank you. Papiev Mikhailo Mikolaiovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-15-m1.u87	Thank you. Honourable Ukrainian National Deputies, today you can analyze the Ukrainian legislative field, or we can change the laws that have been passed, others in accordance with the Constitution and the Ukrainian Rules. And, in fact, in agreement with the fact that we need to establish the legal fact of the temporary occupation of Crimea, let's think about the date. Now it's set for February 20th. For example, we accept this date: February 20. But let us remember the events that took place on February 21. On February 21, opposition faction leaders signed a protocol in the presence of the Foreign Minister of Germany and the Foreign Minister of Poland with the President of Ukraine at the time, Viktor Fedorovich Janukovic. So in fact, in terms of the occupation of Crimea. [[B in m in s a l in]] I'm just saying legal facts, the ones that happened. Under the occupation of Crimea on February 21, a treaty is signed. Maybe let's get some kind of legal conclusion that would clearly fix the legal, according to international legislation, what date -- whether it's the 20th, whether it's February 21st, or if it's another date. So we are ready, and we recognize that Crimea is temporarily occupied, and Crimea is the territory of Ukraine, and the people who live there are Ukrainian citizens, and Crimea will be Ukrainian. But let's legally set this date so that there are no curves as to the correctness of setting February 20th. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-15-m1.u88	Thank you. I'm just going to say one thing that's strange when collaborators and aggressor allies tell us how to set a date for this aggression. And why this date is a principle. On February 20, as we fought in Maidan, when the boys died, aggression began, an attack on Ukraine began, even though Janukovic was in Ukraine at the time. They were interested in a weakened Ukraine, for the destruction of Ukraine. But why is this date important? Because the Olympics were until February 23. It is important for them in front of the world to show that they started aggression outside the Olympics, not at a time that was considered to be a time when aggression could not begin in all times and in all nations. They did it in Georgia, they did it in Ukraine. And on that date, we're demonstrating that the Russian Federation, Putin, not only went against any principle of security in the world, but against any moral principles, principles of honor, and which have been cultivated in European society for millenniums. Thank you. I invite Fedorok of the People's Front.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-15-m1.u89	The People's Front faction supports your performance, Andrew. And he suggests that this bill should be voted on as a whole and that the debate on this issue be stopped.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-15-m1.u90	Thank you. The Petra Dustenka Block hasn't checked in yet. Irina Heratschenko, one minute, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-15-m1.u91	Dear colleagues, our faction will certainly support this bill. And this bill is the same answer for those politicians who allow themselves to talk about the fact that the Ukrainian authorities and the Ukrainian government don't give the right definition as to what's going on in Ukraine, what's going on in the war, and that's what's going on in the occupation. And obviously we can talk about any formats, but the key thing that Putin puts into today and has some success, including in this sessional room, is disunity. That is why we want to urge those who are so hardworking for the fate of Crimea and Donbas to remember, first of all, what is important, at least in foreign policy, to demonstrate unity. And thanking our army, which was formed this year and today gives rise to an aggressor on Donbassa that he did not reach Kharkiv, did not reach Odessa and so on. And to say that, of course, if we had such an army a year ago, no Crimea Putin would have attacked. Thank you, Mr. Andrey, for doing just as much to keep the situation going.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-15-m1.u92	Thank you, Mrs. Irina. Please, from Self-Help, Egor Sobolev.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-15-m1.u93	I have an address for the Foreign Minister. If you think this is an important and useful step, self-help supports this initiative. But we would like to draw your attention to the commission that Parliament has given to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, which comes directly from the tragedy that initially took place in Crimea, then repeated itself in Kharkishte, in Donbas, in Odessa, in many other cities where Putin tried to destroy Ukraine. It's a missing border with Russia, which is very easy to cross any man, including the so-called tourists, from which our cities began to be captured. The Ministry of Foreign Affairs was instructed by Parliament to start the work. As far as we're aware, you've restricted the right of Russian citizens to be in Ukraine for 90 days without registration. But today any Putina battalion can easily reach Kiev itself.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-15-m1.u94	Please, 10 seconds, Egor. Okay, thanks. Dear colleagues, I ask you all to concentrate, enter the House of People's Deputies, and prepare for the vote. And I would like to propose to the committee an important, symbolic draft of the Act amending certain laws of Ukraine to determine the date of the beginning of the temporary occupation (number 2954). At the suggestion of the committee, I'm putting it on the ground as a whole. Please vote, with Nemiri's readjustment, which has been announced under the transcript. On the basis and in all, 2,954. Please vote. [[17:47:32]] For 239. Decision taken. Hello! And I would stress that this is an important symbolic action. And I thank the Ministry of Foreign Affairs for the initiative, and thank you to the deputies for their support. Now, dear fellows, we've passed through the bill, and we're supposed to have 2972 next. I'll remind you: we voted for 2036a before, we supported it as a whole. And now, according to the Rules of Procedure, we have a very simple and short bill, 2972. And there's a request from the rapporteur that we consider the bill in short notice, because we don't have time to go completely. Dear colleagues, I ask you to support the reduced procedure of the law on the support of our military. Please vote. [[17:48:38]] For 165 Thank you, you. I'm sorry, there's a short stenographer. We voted 2093a, we have already voted, it was voted before, the next related bill 2972, for which we have just voted in favour of the shortened procedure. Both the committee and the department of the deputy Winnick are invited to the report. There's Mr. Mehed in the hall. Mr. Mehed, please, briefly, because we have a very limited time. Please prepare Peter Mikolaiovich’s report and Vinnik for the report. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-15-m1.u95	Ladies and gentlemen, the draft law has been drafted by the Ministry of Defence with a view to restoring the right of military personnel and members of their families to an indemnity sanatorium treatment without fulfilling the additional conditions imposed by the Ukrainian Law on the Prevention of a Financial Disaster. It is proposed that the second paragraph of article 11, paragraph 3, of the Ukrainian Act on the Social and Legal Protection of Military Servants and Members of Their Families be deleted as regards the restrictions imposed. What's the point? In 2013, 3,000 277 military personnel were able to undergo sanatorium treatment, and last year only 233 military personnel benefited from this right. So with a view to equalizing the social status of military personnel returning from the ATO area, I ask them to be granted the right and to be able to undergo this sanatorium treatment. The implementation of the bill does not require additional funding from the budget, because the funds are provided in the budget of the Ministry of Defence. The adoption of the bill is supported by a committee, and I ask you to support it as a basis, if possible as a whole. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-15-m1.u96	Thank you. Please, Vinnik, let's go to the report.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-15-m1.u97	Dear colleagues! First of all, I'd like to start my speech, ask our Supreme Council apparatus to invite deputies to the session room. Because we are about to vote on a bill that is extremely simple on the one hand, on the other hand, is extremely important. The current Ukrainian Act on Social and Legal Protection of Military Workers and Members of Their Families is a very good norm, as permitted by the tax rate today for military personnel, members of their families, families of the deceased, parents, to undergo sanatorium treatment in sanatoriums and the sanatorium base of the Ministry of Defence and other military formations. But unfortunately, when you and I passed the Ukrainian Law on Preventing Financial Disaster and Creating Prematures for Economic Growth in Ukraine, we limited it. It has been limited that such benefits are granted on condition that the average monthly total income of the family per person in the previous six months does not exceed the amount of income that gives the right to an appropriate tax social benefit. What tax social benefits can be applied to military personnel? That's why the Ministry of Defense is proposing to be excluded by this law, and the committee unanimously supports, and there is a need to exclude this restriction. We need to preserve the social protection conditions of the military who were previously included and provided by law, and they will provide the necessary motivation for our military personnel to serve and protect our country. Therefore, I ask that the House unanimously support this law as a basis and as a whole. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-15-m1.u98	Thank you. Dear colleagues, is there a need to discuss? Dear colleagues, there can be no one line. There are two or no discussions. Is there a need to discuss the bill? Yes. Two for, two against, please sign up. Meduna, People's Front, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-15-m1.u99	Please repeat the word of Yuri Vladimirovich Timoshenko from the rostrum.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-15-m1.u100	From the rostrum, right? Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-15-m1.u101	Dear parliamentarians! Why did it happen that I, a simple soldier with no higher education, am standing here with you? And that's because in the state of war, and because my brothers in my battalion actually posted me here, saying, "Yura, who, if not you, stands for us? Who, if not you, knows among us that we really do have pain and what we need most?" You think the boys went to war for money? During the 40 days of our first rotation under the Slovenian troops of the Kulczytsky Battalion, volunteers were paid 998 dollars and three copies. I was most interested in how they calculated these three coins, how they were going to pay them back. And now that one of you who wasn't on the front line, that backseat rat is going to think, vote or not vote, or press a yellow button, or maybe a red button, let him know that he's a traitor. And whoever doesn't support our simple soldiers on the front right now deserves to get his ass kicked right here in the Supreme Council toilet! Please support everyone! No one dares say a word against this law! Vote both this law and all others who will protect the military, especially the volunteers! We are to blame for the grave of our lives, for how long we will live, we will be to blame, we will be to blame, we will be to blame, we will be to blame! Because they're spilling blood when we're sitting here! Thank you. Glory to Ukraine! We all vote!
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-15-m1.u102	Thank you. Semenha Roman Sergiyovich, Self-help.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-15-m1.u103	Please pass the word to Taras Shepherd.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-15-m1.u104	Please, Shepherd.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-15-m1.u105	Taras Shepherd, Self - Help. Dear colleagues, I'm asking you just for a second that there's no speculation here, to pay attention to what we have today. Today, families of military personnel with a total income lower than the level established by the Cabinet of Ministers are entitled and able to use these free routes. Those families in which income is higher than this plank buy according to their own resources. Usually, these are families of generals and others who have the opportunity to buy this trip. What does the bill propose? To remove the standard for this plank, or families with sufficient income, will also receive the right to receive these travels. And this tells us that the probability that the line will reach the ranks of ordinary military personnel is low enough. That's the norm if you do. Indeed, the salaries of military personnel have risen, there are payments for ATOs, that is, there may be a part of families that need this benefit, this route, it's easy to regulate without changing the law. The Cabinet of Ministers has the power to lift this bill, and this will give them the opportunity to do so. Therefore, the offer of the Self - Help faction: To leave it as it is today, and to help those families who are unable to get out of their pockets and use sanitation.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-15-m1.u106	Thank you. Royal Natalia Yuriovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-15-m1.u107	Dear colleagues, in March 2014, when you voted on this law, we asked you to be in violation of the Constitution. Well, you don't have to make unfair and wrong decisions! Unfortunately, you didn't listen to us. And today hundreds of thousands of families in our country have been affected by this law. These are many children whose housing and utility benefits have been denied since 1 July, these are orphans who have been unable to enter the budget office this year because they have been deprived of their right to study in the concessional budget today. These are Afghan soldiers, the Chernobyls, these are our veterans of the Great Fatherland, these are children of war who have been denied minimum benefits, compensation for housing and utilities. Dear colleagues, let's stop putting together experiences and experiments, let's work things out in a comprehensive and comprehensive way to correct the mistakes that have been made. Well, let's face it, we are even more unjust in society today, because those who have protected our country before, those who, by the name of their country, have been protected by it, cannot be harmed today either. We must protect people today and help them to survive the difficult times in which our country is today. That's why we're talking to you. Let's stop dividing people, let's restore social justice in the country, abolish this law completely, and bring back to people what they deserve, deserve, by protecting the family, by giving birth to children and by believing in our country. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-15-m1.u108	Vlasenko Sergei Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-15-m1.u109	Thank you, Your Honor. You know, I was so curious to hear from a man who headed the Ministry of Social Policy under the presidency of Yanukovic, who was an ideologist raising a retirement age who robbed our pensioners, and now they're telling for all the underprivileged and not all the malnourished. Return the stolen money and everything will be fine in the country. That's the first one. It's different. The Fatherland faction has decided not to vote on the laws before our tariff laws are put in place. Yet. This law is really social, the faction of "The Fatherland" will fully support it, even though we've drawn attention to the remarks our colleagues made in Self-Help actually, the minister is sitting there nodding his head, I think he's going to give us an explanation now. But if this law does bend the situation in the interests of the generals, the colonels, it may not be acceptable in that way as a whole. But from the point of view of providing for our military, giving them the opportunity to take trips, rest, and rest on the part of their families. Of course, this is our nation’s commitment, and we will unquestionably support it. But I'd like to speak to the minister again. Sir, Minister! Sir, Minister, we would still like an explanation as to whether there will be a shift towards a higher command that will take those routes at the premium prices that could be taken by military military personnel who are directly carrying out the fighting tasks that are directly on the line of contact with the enemy that are directly protecting our country. Once again, the "Fatherland" faction will support this social bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-15-m1.u110	Thank you. Honorable Fellows, 6 p.m. And I have 15 minutes to continue with the work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. I'll give you my word and Paul Rosenkovi. And I want to say that the next two bills are Rosenka's bills. And I have a request so that we can pass this law quickly and then get there within 15 minutes to review Rosenka's drafts. So I'm asking you as concisely and quickly as possible so that we can get to the vote. Please turn on Rosenk's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-15-m1.u111	I'm just going to explain one situation very briefly. It's just that the people's self-help MP here said that Kabmin sets the size of this social benefit. In fact, it's clearly established by law, and we can't regulate it. This figure is 1,700 dollars of income established by the Ukrainian Law. It is therefore necessary to make changes to the Law of Ukraine in order to settle this issue. That's why I'm here. The second question is, who gets the travels? This, I think, is the Ministry of Defense's responsibility to make sure that, first of all, these guys get low incomes. This is the order of travel for these categories of military personnel.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-15-m1.u112	Dear colleagues, I see there is support for the hall. Come on, we're voting, we've already gone through all the necessary procedures. Wise? So I ask everyone to prepare for the vote. I remind you, we've reviewed the previous law 2093a and voted it out. I now put to the vote 2972, the draft Act amending article 11 of the Ukrainian Act on the Social and Legal Protection of Military Servants and Members of Their Families. And at the suggestion of the committee, we're voting for it as a basis, right? Based on the base. I'm asking you to support the base of 2972. Please vote. I'd like to make up my mind. Please vote. [[18:03:47]] For 239. Decision taken. At least military laws to protect the country unite us after political processes break us. The important thing is that we can still see through Ukraine's politics, and that gives a positive boost to our work in our parliament. Now, according to the agenda, I'm going to move on to the next 2975 bill. This is a bill amending some Ukrainian legislation to provide parents with additional social guarantees. And at the request of the Minister's rapporteur, I ask you to consider the bill in short notice. I'm asking you to support a reduced procedure. Please, let's vote and not break up. [[18:04:43]] For-167 Decision taken. Please report to Rosenko Pavlov Valerijovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-15-m1.u113	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to say very briefly, three bills are now under consideration, they are all socially important, three agreed by the Committees of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. So we only have 15 minutes. Thus, the first bill, 2975, deals with the issue of parental leave until it reaches the age of three for parents of foster parents. To date, only foster parents and caregivers have established such vacations. So I would ask for a basis and a general vote on this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-15-m1.u114	Thank you. Dear colleagues, a member of your faction, Victor Pinzenik, strongly denies the violation of the Rules. And so I invite you to the co-report, the head of the Committee's Subcommittee on Social Employment Policy and Pension Insurance, Drozdik Alexandr Valeriyovich. Please report from the committee, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-15-m1.u115	Thank you. Dear Chairman, distinguished national MPs! I'm very brief, I'm asking both the committee to support this bill and other bills. We fully supported them on the committee and ask for the support of the deputies now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-15-m1.u116	Thank you. Dear colleagues, are we ready to vote? Ready. That's why I'm betting. There's a procedure. Is there anything you'd like to do? No one wants to, I don't see anyone wanting to come forward, I don't see any hands up. That is why I am voting on the draft Act amending some Ukrainian legislation to provide parents with additional social guarantees (2975) on the basis of a committee proposal. Please vote, please support base 2975. Please. [[18:07:15]] For 234 Decision taken. Is there a general offer or is there a denial? There's an objection, I can't put it all together, I'm sorry. Please, for 30 seconds, Pinzenic.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-15-m1.u117	Mr. Chairman, I very much beg you to abide by the Rules, the Parliament and this is how it works in a reduced mode of discussion. Allow MPs to comment on each bill, and do not turn MPs into buttons. Follow the Rules.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-15-m1.u118	Thank you, Mr. Victor. I can tell I have a problem. I can't force the deputies to speak. If there's no one in the room who wants to speak, I don't have any mechanisms to influence the MPs to force them to speak. And that's why I keep asking the question, are you willing to speak? If not, only then, I emphasize, only then do I put the vote to the vote. Mr. Paul Valeriyovich, you have just reported two bills. Will you report this? Then please report. There's an offer, we have another 7 minutes, Bill 2042a, and there's also a request to consider it in a simplified procedure. [[B in m in s a l in]] In general, there is a denial. I'm sorry, Your Honor, you inside the faction gather and resolve these questions. When there is a objection to voting in general, I do not have the right to put it to the vote. Now we have 7 minutes, there's a request to support the 2042a procedure. Please vote, please support. Please. [[18:09:04]] For-188. Decision taken. I ask for Paul Valeriovich’s report, and I recommend very briefly.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-15-m1.u119	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, I propose to support the bill that the government has introduced on the functioning and financing of rehabilitation facilities for disabled persons and children in order to anticipate this funding to the Ministry of Social Policy and to implement it from the State budget of Ukraine. These are all agreed upon by the Cabinet of Ministers, the Ministry of Finance, and so forth. There's an offer: support.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-15-m1.u120	Thank you. Trelyaków Alexander Yuriovich is invited to the report, from the site, 30 seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-15-m1.u121	Respectable People's Deputies, the Committee proposes that the law be adopted as a basis. The Chief Research and Expert Office also proposes to adopt the bill as a basis. But I would like to point out that it will only work with Law 2041, so I need to consider it more quickly, and I am addressing the Committee on Budgets. The report was completed.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-15-m1.u122	Thank you. Can we vote, dear fellows? [[B in m in s a l in]] Then I'll put it to a vote. Are there speakers? [[B in m in s a l in]] Please, there are willing speakers. I'm asking you two to sign up for it, two to go against it, please. Two for, two against. Jury Alexander Anatolyovich. The request is brief.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-15-m1.u123	The faction supports the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-15-m1.u124	Thank you for the thorough report. Gordjeev Andry Anatoliyovich, Peter Dustenka's Block.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-15-m1.u125	Colleagues, please support this bill, our faction fully supports it. Let's support it.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-15-m1.u126	Thank you very much. Royal Natalia Yuriovna. Papiev, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-15-m1.u127	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I would still like to hear the correct offer. The point is, this bill has only to be voted on as a basis, and I'll explain. I support the ministry's position that rehabilitation centres should be financed from the state budget under the Ministry's programme. But this bill lays down the mines of slow action. The fact is that today the government is planning to destroy the Social Protection Fund in general. And in those proposals for the Tax Code, which is now proposed, there is no quota at all for the employment of persons with disabilities and fines. That's why we need to have a clear precaution on second reading so that we don't destroy the Social Protection Fund of the disabled, which concerns 2 million 700,000 citizens of Ukraine who have disabilities. That's why we're going to support this bill, but only on the basis that, if we vote in general, we guarantee to the disabled that they will have guarantees from the state. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-15-m1.u128	Thank you. So I'm going to vote, I'm going to ask you to come into the hall and take jobs. I am voting on the draft Act amending certain laws of Ukraine to ensure the functioning of rehabilitation institutions for persons with disabilities and children with disabilities 2042a as a basis. Please vote and please support base 2042a. [[18:12:57]] For 232 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, we have another bill. Guys, listen to me. We don't often have a full room, company. Let's focus and invest in the state another 10. I think it's gonna be the right thing to do. Please have a proposal of 2777 and 2770-1 is a request from the rapporteur to consider the simplified procedure. Please support the discussion of the 2777 short procedure, please. [[18:13:49]] For-154 Decision taken. Please report.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-15-m1.u129	Ladies and gentlemen, we propose this bill to give the disabled the opportunity to own a car that has been used for more than 10 years free of charge. This is a very important social issue. Here, in this case, there is a committee decision to adopt this bill as a basis and as a whole. Therefore, thanks to the committee’s profile, there is a proposal to support it as a whole.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-15-m1.u130	Please, the co-rapporteur is Trelyaków Alexander Yuriovich. Treyakov. Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-15-m1.u131	Me, too, very short. The Chief Research and Expert Office proposes to support bill 2777 government, and the Sectoral Committee proposes to adopt it as a basis and as a whole. Members are requested to support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-15-m1.u132	Dear colleagues, can we vote? There's a need to speak, isn't there? There can't be one person, one minute, there can be two -- "for", two -- "against" or not. Okay, give me 30 seconds. Tree, 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-15-m1.u133	Dear colleagues, Bill 2777-1, which the apparatus put up as an alternative is essentially not an alternative. This is my bill with Irina Suslova. Why? Because he deals with the issue of listing documents so that the disabled person can get the car. I fully support the bill pertaining to 10 years of ownership, but this bill 2771 proposes a comprehensive list of documents so that the disabled person can eventually get a car. So I propose to support both the first bill, and the second one, they're absolutely not alternative, but very important to our disabled. If we do not want to abuse them further, nine years after the Kabmina decree, nine times we have changed, and nine times the rules, the list of documents, have changed. My bill proposes a clear list and prohibits adding other requirements to the documents needed to get this car for the disabled. Please support both the first bill and the second. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-15-m1.u134	Thank you. But we can only support one, Yuri Bogdanovich. And that's why there's a proposal for a committee to take as a whole. Can such a proposal be put to the vote? So I'm proposing to the committee as a basis and as a whole a draft law amending some of the Ukrainian Automobile Insurance Act 2777. On the basis and in general, please vote. Please be supportive. [[6:16:55]] For 236 Decision taken. I have one question for the hall. Dear colleagues, when there is an alternative bill and one is accepted, the other is not treated. It's defined as an alternative, we don't vote on it anymore. Ladies and gentlemen, I request you. Look, Lila Greenevich came to me. We have two draft decrees for the award of prizes for young scientists at the end of the day. These are extremely simple incontrovertible decisions. Will we support them? We're backing it up. I'm asking you so much that we can do this. Decisions do not require a reduced procedure. Is that right? I'm asking Lilia Greenevich to give me a report. I'm asking you to report two rulings right now. Please, Lilia Greenevich from the rostrum.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-15-m1.u135	Dear colleagues, we have two orders: number 2200a on the appointment in 2015 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine's named scholarships for the most talented young scientists and 2201a on the award of the Supreme Council of Ukraine's prizes to young scientists in the field of fundamental and applied research and technological development for 2014. The money in the Supreme Council's budget is for this. We must do our duty. They went through a very tough selection. And that's not the only thing that motivates young scientists from the Supreme Council. So please support me.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-09-15-m1.u136	Dear colleagues, can we vote on these decrees? So I put to the vote the draft Order on the appointment in 2015 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine's named scholarships for the most talented young scientists (2,200a). Please support this decision on the basis and in general. Please vote. [[18:19:15.]] For 224 Society, once again, has failed to reach some deputies. I'll bet you a return to the vote for Decree 2200a, please vote for your return to the vote. Please vote in favour. Please vote. Please. [[18:19:47]] For 227 We're back. Now I'm going to put regulation 2200a again. Please support it as a whole. Please vote. We vote, we support the ruling. [[18:20:10]] For 225 [[B in m in s a l in]] Dear colleagues, me. One minute, company, attention! I'll put it again, but if we don't vote again, I'll close the session because there are no votes. I ask you to go back to 2200a, please vote, support young scientists. Please vote for the return. [[18:20:51]] For 226 226 for. We're back. Now, dear fellows, I ask you to gather. Our inconsiderateness then costs too much. I'm asking you to support the 2,200th draft of the Ordinance on the basis and in general, please vote, please support. Please vote. [[18:21:23]] For 228 228 for. Decision taken. And now the final decree, without a report, was the report. 2201a, this is actually a combined solution. The Society, the final vote, do not part. 2201a, please support the draft ruling on the basis and in general. Please vote on the draft Order on the award of the Supreme Council Award to the most talented young scientists. Please vote 2201 a. Can I have your back, please? [[18:22:05]] For 229 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, thank you for your fruitful work. The evening session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is closed. Tomorrow at 10 a.m., I'm asking everyone to stay in the hall, not to make such a disgrace as it was today, in front of all of Ukraine. I ask the heads of factions to hold meetings and explain to the deputies the responsibility so that tomorrow at 10 a.m. we can start productive work in the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Thank you. See you tomorrow.
