ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-06-m0.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, please come into the hall and take your seats. Heads of factions, please invite the people's deputies of Ukraine to begin our session. Good morning again, national deputies, please prepare for registration. Please register. [[10:04:39]] Registered -226 We're equal to 226 deputies. I'm asking you to organize a job and deputies to approach the hall. And I declare the morning plenary session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine open. I would like to report that today is the birthday of the Ukrainian national deputy Vladimir Solar. Captain Maidan, who went through all of Maidan, a centurion of 18 hundred, an internal perimeter, then the head of the intelligence group at Idara, our heroic commander. Today's his birthday, let's all welcome him together. Vladya, welcome. [[Applause]] Thank you. We have 10 to 11 hours of questions to the government. On Monday’s Conciliation Council, we determined that today’s hour of questions will apply to government. will be held on the situation in the energy market and on the issue of sanctions to protect Ukraine's national security and counter terrorism. Members of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine participate in the plenary session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. The questions of the deputy factions and groups will be answered by the Minister of Energy and Coal Industry of Ukraine, Vladimir Vasilovich Demchisin, Minister of Economic Development and Trade of Ukraine, Avaras Abromavichus and Minister of Justice of Ukraine, Paul Dmitrovitch Petrenko. The "hour of questions to the Government" is thus proposed to make 10 minutes for each reporter to answer the written and oral questions from the MP factions and groups to 30 minutes. Questions asked by members of the Cabinet of Ministers are offered up to 30 minutes and 1 minute for each oral question and 2 minutes for the answer. Is that the order, dear colleagues? If accepted then I invite you to the words of Minister of Energy and Coal Industry Vladimir Vasilovich Demšičin. Please go to the rostrum. Please turn on the microphone for the report.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-06-m0.u2	Dear National Deputies! Good morning! Hello, everyone! Thank you for this opportunity to answer your questions. Yesterday, at 9:00 p.m., I got 20 questions from all the factions. Questions that came forward yesterday can be classified into three groups. This first group refers to a service investigation into the import of electricity and also the supply of electricity to Crimea. This is the first group. The second group of issues referred to the current state of energy or the fuel-energy complex. There were questions of various kinds about problems, current situations, coal security, decommissioning, and so forth. The third group of issues related to the reform agenda that implements and plans to implement the ministry and the plan of action for the following year. I'd start with a second question, because one way or another, imports depend on the current situation, the situation of imports and the entire history of these agreements. So I'm going to start with the security of the energy system in Ukraine. In fact, the situation is quite difficult. By December 26, the energy system had not been balanced for two months. Hence, we had to keep our consumers from eating. The imbalance was more than 15 percent. Starting with 29 numbers. And the main reason for that is, in fact, fighting in the East. Because 66 of the Ministry’s controlled mines were occupied, taking into account the electricity production structure and the fact that half of the power plants that generate 30 percent of all electricity use anthracite coal groups. And at this point, four stations have a total capacity of more than 15,000 megawatts, which is almost 25 percent of all of them, not covered by anthracite coals. There was this imbalance in the system. We can place anthrax coal at the moment only from three directions, these are supplies from Australia, well, international supplies, Australia, South Africa, America. With supply data, there are 2 problems: the first is the cost, which is the currency, i.e. this $65-70 currency base in the final markets, plus the delivery of $15-16 or more depending on the direction, the transfer, the delivery. The total cost of this coal at the stations is not less than $95. Given the current rate, it's about 1400 bracelets, well, and accordingly, this price formation has a significant impact on the cost of electricity. This value must be covered by someone. At the moment, as you probably know, the industry paid the full market price, taking into account the subsidies that, well, the subsidies that were paid to domestic consumers, i.e. the population paid 23 copies without VAT, the industry -- bracelet 48 of VAT. So the industry is squeezing consumers. Any increase in the cost of coal leads to the need to raise the cost of electricity, well, and to translate it accordingly to end consumers. The industrial situation, with industry, we all understand, the decline in any growth in self-sustainability brings even more negative effects, both on tax yields, and on employment, and so on. So all the efforts that we're making to stabilize the cost of electricity. On the other hand, they're domestic consumers. Well, the situation is clear. So there are some programs that are how to change the price imbalance for electricity developed by the Ministry of Social Policy, a grant program developed. I think this program will be implemented in the near future. This, well, these imbalances lead to us having to buy coal both in Kazakhstan and in Russia and in Poland. But once again, it's just an anthracite brand of coal. We have enough gas coal. Children's enterprises earn over 14 million a year. Well, actually, more because it depends on the input of how we perceive a group. The CHILD actually accounts for about 70 percent of the coal market. This coal is burned at its generating stations, which also have a significant share in the market, about 75.80 percent of the generation. They also sell this electricity to their distribution companies, Dniproenergo, Donetskoblanergo, Kievenergo, it's more than 50 percent of the market again. So you actually have to work in very difficult conditions when there's a largely concentrated market with its pricing, with its ability to influence the market, and the constraints in terms of transportation of the same coal. Besides manufacturing, well, producing electricity using coal is the best, the cheapest method. But there are really alternatives. You can use a gas that, unfortunately, is not enough in Ukraine that we're buying on a reverse in Russia. Over 50 percent of the gas we consume, 44 billion total per year, we buy abroad, we pay the same currency. If this gas were to be burned at our heat stations, the cost of one kilowatt would be about two bracelets. Well, bracelet 80 to two bracelets a kilowatt. So in conditions like this, you can understand, there's no special alternative to buying coal in all places where you can buy coal. In addition, imports are the third instrument for balancing the energy system. 29 of us in Skrienterenergo, this is an enterprise, a state-owned enterprise controlled by the Ministry, they were able to sign an import agreement at a very reasonable price on a volume that now allows us to keep our consumers from being excluded. Today, if there's no imports, the imbalance, given that the temperature has dropped a little bit, consumption is rising, the industry is slowly starting to start, we're tracking it down. The system is about 1 gigawatt, or 1000 megawatts. If we didn't have the ability to take this 1,000 megawatts into import, we'd have to stop the industry today, and we saw it in December, when people went out on the street, basking, well, I got dozens of calls, letters, well. That's why all the charges are made. Oh, yeah. All the allegations about, well, the insubstantiation of that contract, I think they're just unfounded. Once again, the cost of electricity purchased under an import contract is significantly lower than the cost of Ukrainian electricity. Graph Well, I mean, I've had a lot of problems there with this contract, which is like there's a "take or pay" obligation, which, well, there. The schedule agrees with the parties each day, so for two days in advance, the parties have the opportunity to renew the volume altogether and exit the contract if they are not satisfied by either the schedule or the price or other conditions. So in principle, I don't have any problem with this agreement. Regarding deliveries to Crimea, well, look, these supplies were actually made all the time, it's not some new story. Up to 800 megawatts Ukraine delivered during 2014 and is now installing. Crime.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-06-m0.u3	Please, let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-06-m0.u4	I just wanted to briefly say a few words about the efforts that we are now making to stabilize the situation in the energy system and in development. We understand that we all know the state of the infrastructure, we need to update it, and we can usually do that by involving huge costs. Costs can only be included if they are understood, transparent rules, there will be no monopolists who will stifle new c players will understand the ability to earn, compensate for the investments that investors make to upgrade this infrastructure. And the new costs that come into the system, they're going to bring economics to the cost of production, transportation and consumption of all the energy, whether it's heat, whether it's electricity, or it's water, or in all directions. So all the efforts made by the Ministry are aimed at combating monopolies: creating competitive conditions, creating an updated legislative base.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-06-m0.u5	30 seconds, Minister, complete.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-06-m0.u6	During this week, we agreed on the Gabonese Gas Market Act and it will be introduced into the Council. I hope that the Council will support this law, because this is the law that provides the basis for reforming the Naftogazu on which the mass of issues is concerned. It gives you an understanding of the development of a whole, huge segment of energy -- that's one third of what I do as a minimum. And it forms clear rules, it answers.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-06-m0.u7	Thank you, Minister. I'd like you, your honor, to point out that now they're going to be speaking, and then 30 minutes to question, that's going to be more systematic. Lock it down, and we'll ask each of you questions to the minister after the report -- that's the right thing to do, as we do all the time. Please take your place, Minister. Ten minutes for the performance, 30 minutes and 30 minutes for the question, he's not going anywhere, then everything's going to be systematic and it's going to be right. Otherwise, we're going to spend time with one minister and not listen to another. Dear colleagues, I'd like to inform you. May I have your attention, please? Dear colleagues, Ilka Cannerva, President of the OSCE Parliamentary Assembly, is visiting Ukraine. He's in bed. Let's welcome Mr. President. [[Applause]] We just had a nine-hour work meeting that started. We have spoken a number of questions about the work of our delegation, which has already been formed in the OSCE Parliamentary Assembly. And a number of issues related to the settlement of Russian aggression in the east of Ukraine. Dear colleagues! We have two more speakers, and I invite you to speak to the Minister for Economic Development and Trade of Ukraine, Ayvaros Abromavis. Please, Minister, 10 minutes. And, honourable national MPs, fix the questions, all the ministers here, and you can ask that question.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-06-m0.u8	Dear head, honourable deputies! We have received a number of questions from the Self-Help faction regarding the imposition of prohibitions and restrictions on residents of the Russian Federation. I talked to you two days ago about a couple of hours on different issues you didn't raise that question, but I saw that it came in a little early, so I'm ready to answer, although most of these questions are more of a legal issue and more of a minority. Moreover, many issues relating to sanctions, in fact, closed-ended issues and public debates are not entirely appropriate. In particular, the issues you have asked relate to the prohibition of payments of passive income, dividends and royalty, the blocking of assets of persons sponsoring terrorist operations. Prohibition of the sale of property, including securities, restrictions on the privatization of Ukrainian State property, and cancellation of licences and other permits. I will start by prohibiting payments of passive income and blocking assets. According to Ukrainian legislation, there are two main mechanisms, capital limitation and asset blocking. The first is defined by the Anti-Terrorism Act and on preventing the legalization of the laundering of proceeds obtained by criminal means or the financing of terrorism. According to these laws, the right to arrest assets belongs to the designated bodies, in particular the BSI and the Gosfinituring, which apply it by decision of the court. The second mechanism is defined by the Ukrainian Sanctions Act. Under this Act, the National Security and Defence Council decides to impose sanctions on the basis of a request from the President, Parliament, Government, the National Bank and the BSS. Recently, i.e. on 25 January, a decision was taken by the FNL to accede to the sanctions of the United States, the EU, Switzerland and a large seven countries, which includes measures such as the freezing of accounts and assets of natural and legal persons. To date, the list of persons is finalized and the President's decree will be promulgated. With regard to restrictions on participation in the privatization of public property and the prohibition on the sale of property, we have several mechanisms here to restrict the participation of individuals from the Russian Federation. According to article 8 of the Ukrainian State Privatization Act. Any legal entity with State ownership exceeding 25 per cent of any country has no right to participate in the privatization of Ukraine's property, as well as persons directly or indirectly controlled by them. Secondly, in determining the conditions for privatization of specific sites, particular attention should be paid to the inability to sell them to residents of countries that are at risk to the national interests and security of Ukraine. Thirdly, our Ministry has developed a draft law on the list of property rights of the State, which does not belong to privatization, which we have discussed here, in addition to thirds, which are proposed to prohibit the privatization of the property of persons in temporary occupied territory. Fourthly, the Sanctions Act provides for such sanctions as the prohibition of participation in privatization and the rental of housing. The economic development supports the proposal to apply this type of sanctions as a sectoral norm, i.e. to temporarily prohibit all residents of the Russian Federation from participating in the privatization and rental of households. There was also a question of cancellation or suspension of licences, other permits, which stopped certain activities. I would like to say this: to date, the sanctions applied to 160 economic operators in the Russian Federation have been imposed in 2014. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-06-m0.u9	Thank you, Minister. I invite you to speak to the Minister of Justice of Ukraine, Paul Petrenko. Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-06-m0.u10	Dear Head, distinguished national MPs! The essence of the questions raised on the issue of the application of sanctions to the aggressor country, the Russian Federation, on this point, I would like to inform you of the following. In view of Ukraine’s military aggression during the last year, Ukraine’s insidious occupation of Ukraine — the Autonomous Republic of Crimea, the attack on Donbas, the Lugansk region, and the Donetsk region — was introduced in Ukraine. I would like to remind you that last year the government of Ukraine developed, together with experts and experts from the European Union and the United States, the Sanctions Act. After that, immediately, literally on the first day that this law became effective, the Ukrainian government, as the authority that has the exclusive right to initiate sanctions, submitted to the National Security and Defence Council as the only body that can impose sanctions against certain persons, its proposals. The proposals consisted of such an order for sanctions to be applied to more than 100 companies that supported Russian aggression and related terrorists in the eastern part of the country, and about 1,000 people from foreign citizens, who were in fact also involved in insidious aggression against Ukraine. I would like to remind you that only after the appointment of the new Secretary of the National Security and Defence Council of Turkey, Alexander Valentinović has made a decision in the days of the National Security and Defence Council to impose appropriate sanctions against persons who are involved in the aggression of the Russian Federation in Ukraine. This decision is now, in fact, in the form and will be published in the part defined by the National Security and Defence Council in public. Similarly, I would like to remind you that according to this law that has been passed by Parliament and has been developed by the government, the authorities that have the right to initiate sanctions are Parliament, the President, the National Bank, the Ukrainian Security Service and the Cabinet of Ministers. So we urge you, as members of the Ukrainian Parliament, to join this process, to make proposals to the National Security and Defence Council for the introduction of one or the other sanctions. The only body that decides to impose sanctions is the National Security and Defence Council. As for the sanctions that apply to certain sectors of the economy, there is the National Security and Defence Council and the Ukrainian Parliament, which implements the relevant decision. Therefore, the Ukrainian government has taken comprehensive steps to ensure that sanctions are applied to the aggressor countries and to those aggressors. And I am very grateful to the Council of National Security and Defence and personally to the Secretary and President of Ukraine for having made the appropriate decision at the end of last week. In addition, I would like to inform you that, within the limits of its competence, the Ukrainian Government has taken a number of decisions last year to prohibit any import and export-related operations, both dual-use goods and military-related goods. So today, our common goal is to use all the mechanisms that exist in Ukraine today to put pressure on the aggressor country and on those who support terrorism and the capture of part of the territory and military aggression by the Russian Federation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-06-m0.u11	Thank you, Minister. [[Applause]] Dear colleagues! Well, Mr. Secretary, the ministers have given us more time to ask. So please, I'm asking the national MPs to sign up for a question. It's a question mark. Please ask Chižmar Yuri Vasilovich, Radical Party.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-06-m0.u12	I have a question for Minister Demchikin. So in December last year, Ukrenergo signed a contract, clearly anti-Ukrainian for the supply of electricity from Russia to Ukraine at nearly twice the price, one and a half times the price that we sell electricity to Crimea. These are the anti - Ukrainian agreements that bring damages to Ukraine, and at the same time, when we sell them in Crimea, we get vortices. I have a number of questions about this. First. Have directives been given, and to whom have contracts been made available for signature? Why the Minneergogil Legal Department did not sign this contract and does not have a visa, as the director of the Legal Department reported in the press. Question three. How did it appear to the newly appointed director, literally on the day he signed his contract for admission to work and, accordingly, his contract for the supply of electricity? Very quickly, he was given instructions and instructions. In this regard, I ask you to give an answer and consider it my MP’s request to send the relevant documents to my address.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-06-m0.u13	Thank you. Please respond.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-06-m0.u14	Can I answer that?
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-06-m0.u15	Yeah. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-06-m0.u16	Thank you for asking. In fact, the process of agreeing to this agreement was too complex. Why? Because it was planned that the auction would take place, and the auction would result in a designated buyer who would supply, i.e. a buyer from Ukriinterenergo, who was determined by the Cabinet of Ministers as a supplier of electricity in the area temporarily uncontrollable, and he would sell to whoever wins the auction. Unfortunately, the results of December 29 did not take place, and the process of selling electricity to the Crimea was urgently needed. Before that, there were several mediators in this chain. So Ukriinterenergo was buying electricity from the power plant, it was selling Crimenergo, the DTEK. Then Krymenergo sold to the Russian company. And the Russian company reselled Crimeanergo again, so it's the same, but it's already registered in another jurisdiction. And Krymenergo sold to end consumers in this situation of opacity. In addition, there has been a lack of payment. The Ukrainian side, Ukrinterenergo, has not received 88 million dollars from Crimeanergo today. To this day we're fighting for that money. So in a situation like this, it was decided to simplify this chain. I knew the terms of the contract. Technically, it was impossible to agree with them at the time, because the Cabinet of Ministers had decided at the first hour of the night of 30 numbers, and 29 had already been signed.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-06-m0.u17	I'd like that. Please, Mr. Minister, look, you have an order: two minutes to respond. So please, I'll give you 30 seconds to complete, but I'm asking everyone who answers to follow the rules. Please, 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-06-m0.u18	Literally a brief comment on price. I'm under the impression that this contract is bankrupt. I want to remind you that from Russia, Ukriinterenergo's electricity is being delivered at a price much lower. The price in rubles is lower than 2.40 rubles. This is much lower than 85 copies, which produce heat from our heat stations. So talk about what we buy expensive and sell cheaply wrong. We're selling.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-06-m0.u19	Thank you. Please, "Peter Prashenko's Block" Olga Belkova.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-06-m0.u20	Good afternoon, colleagues. My question to the two ministers, to Minister Demchikin and to Minister Rosenk. Dear colleagues, please inform us and the people of Ukraine how does the government plan to switch to market prices for gas and electricity? And in what state of readiness today is the system of targeted subsidies for each of the low-income consumers? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-06-m0.u21	During the past four years, the cost of gas for consumers has changed little. This price for today is about a thousand and 300 dollars per thousand cubes. The cost of gas that is purchased by Naftogaz on the reverse stream or from Russia is about 6,000 dollars. In addition to the gas purchased in the Naftogaz external markets, it uses a gas of Ukrainian origin that no longer costs 350 dollars, which everyone is talking about. Solvency has increased significantly over the past four years. Besides. You have to take into account the cost of transport, the cost of taxes, which, and the rent paid by Crushing and VAT she pays. The average price today is at least one and a half thousand dollars, including taxes and transportation. That's why it's like this. At least. That's why they do.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-06-m0.u22	Please, Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. Oh, I'm sorry, Paul Rosenko. Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-06-m0.u23	Ladies and gentlemen, it can certainly be formally said that there are at least 2 programs today that protect people from rising housing prices, rising gas prices, etc. It's a system of targeted subsidies that work today, and a system of compensation for raising tariffs that was adopted six months ago when people with less income per family member are compensated for the cost of raising prices for residential services. But say, of course, that we and I are personally satisfied with how this subsidy system works, obviously not possible. Today, a little over 100,000 people are involved in the grant system. Although, if we take it formally, there should be at least three million people in our accounts today. Clearly, such a situation is unsatisfactory.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-06-m0.u24	Please, let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-06-m0.u25	And it's obviously a unsatisfactory situation, because people don't really trust the modern system of social protection against price increases. Therefore, at the last meeting under the chairmanship of the Prime Minister of Ukraine, specific mechanisms were proposed by me from the Ministry of Social Policy on the radical reform of Ukraine's subsidy system. And this reform of the subsidy system in Ukraine will be implemented, I hope, in the shortest possible time. We'll simplify the grant procedure. We're going to take the extra criteria off the grant system that limit people's rights to receive subsidies. We're going to make the subsidy system open, simple and understandable to everyone in Ukraine. This will be done literally in the near future. And so we will restore society's trust in the social protection system.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-06-m0.u26	Please, Oleg Lazko, Radical Party, questions.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-06-m0.u27	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. I have two questions, one for the Minister of Energy, the other for the Minister of Justice. The Energy Minister just said they're buying energy in Russia because it's cheaper than Ukrainian, so they're buying. This logic would have been ironish if it had not been for one circumstance. Russia is an aggressor country. And your logic in this case seems a little bit thick, because buying energy in the aggressor countries is working for the enemy. Instead of buying coal in lion's miners, in Volin miners, in Donetsk miners, you buy coal in the aggressor countries, and you don't buy coal from our Donetsk miners, who are the same Ukrainian citizens, and for which we fight for liberation. So I demand that these contracts be terminated and that I feed Ukrainian citizens, not Russian aggressors. And the second question to the Minister of Justice. Mr. Paul, I propose to raise the issue of the nationalization of Russia's property in Ukraine. The name Frunze Sumskie NGOs from September: 10,000 people don't get paid for the month, Russian owners.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-06-m0.u28	Please respond.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-06-m0.u29	Ladies and gentlemen, I want to assure you that all coal produced in Ukraine is fully used at Ukrainian thermal power stations. We have, I've explained that we have a problem: 50 percent of the heat-generating power works on anthracy, which unfortunately is not being produced in a controlled area. All brand "H" to the full, all the stations that work on brand "H" are fully loaded, completely dependent on consumption graphs. That's why we use Ukrainian coal as much as we can. And we can either close the shortage with the same coal that we're bringing from Russia, or gas, or electricity. So it's more cost-effective to buy electricity here, because it can be served at a time when it's needed, not to buy gas, attach it, convert it expensively into electricity, 2 bracelets per kilowatt, instead of 70 cents and so on. So that mechanism.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-06-m0.u30	Very good. Please, Fatherland, Sergey Sobolev.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-06-m0.u31	Please, Minister of Justice.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-06-m0.u32	Mr. Oleg, thank you for asking. You and I have developed a law on sanctions and specific confiscation bills for those who are involved in terrorism and military aggression. Today, there are sufficient legal mechanisms both within law enforcement and in the power structures to prosecute and confiscate those who support Russian aggression and Russian terrorists. Your idea is very correct, by the way, Parliament can initiate within the framework of the Sanctions Act, the imposition of blockades and restrictions on the assets of those involved in appropriate aggression, and we are ready to help you as much as possible. Thank you for asking!
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-06-m0.u33	Thank you, Pavel Dmitrovich! Please, Fatherland, Sergey Sobolev.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-06-m0.u34	Sergei Sobolev, Fatherland. I understand that this is a matter that should be addressed personally to the Prime Minister. So perhaps, since there is no Prime Minister, I would like to address the Prime Minister's first deputy. You know, this is the fourth question that's been going on about sanctions. Parliament carried out its mission, passed the Law, which clearly established the order for the application of economic sanctions, the political and diplomatic sanctions that have been used to the maximum extent possible. Please tell me when the issue of the imposition of economic sanctions under each paragraph of the law will be initiated by the National Security and Defence Council and a decision will be taken. Because what's happening today in the regions, including Zaporozhye, where the aluminum combination that belongs to the Russians is completely broken down and brought to the pen. What's happening everywhere is unacceptable! And I'd like to give you a specific answer.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-06-m0.u35	Thank you! The Justice Minister will answer, Deputy Prime Minister Zubko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-06-m0.u36	Thank you, Your Honor, for asking. This is really a road map that needs to be developed starting with the National Security Council and every ministry that will take action with the adoption of the Supreme Council of the Aggressor Act of the Russian Federation. Specifically, I will now give the floor to the Minister of Justice. But starting with the National Security Council, a decision that should be declared and a route map should be drawn up, the government will also act. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-06-m0.u37	Minister of Justice, please, Paul Petrenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-06-m0.u38	Dear Mr. Sergey! I want to repeat again what I said in the speech, the Ukrainian government on the first day that the Sanctions Act, which we jointly approved with you, was adopted, namely on September 11th last year, took orders for the introduction of a full package of sanctions for 100 companies and thousands of foreign nationals. Among these sanctions are economic sanctions, and these materials were transferred directly to the National Security and Defence Council. The National Security and Defence Council, after the appointment of the Secretary of the National Security and Defence Council last week, decided to impose sanctions. Now that decision is going to be published, and you're going to see that part of the sanctions apply to economic constraints. In addition, I believe that in view of the escalating situation, Parliament, as one of the bodies that may initiate sanctions, can also take the same initiative with regard to those or other subjects that inform you that they support the aggressor and terrorist activity in Ukraine. The government is not the body that imposes sanctions, the government is the body that offers proposals to the Council of National Security and Defence.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-06-m0.u39	Thank you. Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-06-m0.u40	We did these functions very quickly, on the first day that the law came into force, we adopted such a meaningful act. This document was submitted on September 11, last year to the National Security and Defence Council, and it was reviewed last week and the decision of the GNP was taken. This decision has to be published, you'll see the sanctions that the PNB has imposed. Similarly, offer additional sanctions as a body that is entitled to perform the same functions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-06-m0.u41	Thank you. Please, People's Front, National Deputy Gus Igor Volodymyrovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-06-m0.u42	Good afternoon. My question to Mr. Demchikin. I represent Volin, the miner's Novovolinsk. Mr. Minister, there should have been a signed memorandum on Monday following Arsenius Petrovich Yatzenuk's commission, and the neo-voluntary miners, and I'm going to the county tomorrow, and I know that you're going there, that you're supposed to answer what we're doing with the coal industry in Volina, whether we're destroying it or we're supporting it. Today, as a national MP, I do not know what to say to my constituents. Does the ministry you run have clear proposals? Will the question of financing the tenth mine and other related problems stand, or will it not? So I ask now for a concrete answer and a willingness to give this concrete answer tomorrow. If there's no answer from you, please write a resignation application, and no, I'll register such a project. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-06-m0.u43	Please, Minister, answer me.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-06-m0.u44	Mr. Gus, you know very well that we're having a few meetings tomorrow, including. On Volina, including the 10th Novovolinsky. Since yesterday, there have been technical specialists working in a strengthened regime to prepare this meeting, and today I have received information that this mine can be launched within six months. Projects on other mines are also processed according to commission, a memorandum between trade unions, MPs, government coal mining companies, and all interested parties are prepared and part of the participants are already signed. I think, in principle, that the work done over the last seven days is the preparation of a program for reforming the coal industry as a whole with detailed projects in all 35 mines involving Minsoc, which is responsible for its own businesses, Minfina and Mineconomy. I think this work is very productive. He's planning for a government meeting today to introduce these documents -- a memorandum and a development programme -- and approve it by the government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-06-m0.u45	Thank you. Please, Alexander Kugel, Fatherland.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-06-m0.u46	Alexander Kugel, Fatherland. The first question to the Minister of Energy, I sent it to you in writing, but you didn't answer. We spent that week, the Fatherland faction deputies, all the regions and all the entrepreneurs are screaming because the skynergo is demanding two months' advance payment. Please tell me, Minister, what law allows you to borrow an oligarch, a business that has no circulation costs today? And secondly, the second question to the Minister of Economics. Minister, there is Decree 1222, which requires regulation and control of prices for essential foods. Did you know that today 20 percent of the prices of bread (this is the least) have been raised by food, three or four times, to the poorest groups of the population? Whether the Ministry is in charge.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-06-m0.u47	Mrs. Kugel, in fact, the calculations by end consumers for electricity consumption, for gas, for water at the moment are a huge problem for manufacturers. The electricity calculations over the last four months are 80 percent compared to 94-96, as over the longer period. The main contributors are water canals, heating power, mines, and many state - owned enterprises. That's why the work is done. We collect all distributions every day to reinforce the work with end consumers. They have no right to collect for two months in advance, but these conditions are fixed in contracts. It's a commercial relationship between the two sides. If they give some discounts at a price and demand an overpayment, that's already their problem. These are commercial relationships between two subjects. Any questions about contracts should be checked by the regulator. So I'm going to raise that question.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-06-m0.u48	Please, People's Deputies of Lozova.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-06-m0.u49	Andrew Lozova, Radical Party of Lazka. I have a question for the whole government. On July 17, last year, there was a terrible catastrophe. Moscow invaders from the Buk plant knocked down an aircraft of Malaysian Airlines. Two hundred and eighty - five children were killed. And the question to you, Mr. Vice Prime Minister and Ministers, is, aren't you ashamed and disgusted to be working in a government with a promoskian creature that says it wasn't Russia that crashed this plane? Deputy Infrastructure Minister Kava Alexandr Stepanovitch, who condemned the site, which condemned the Ukrainian revolution, which is called our Donbas Novorosiya, which says it wasn't Russia that defeated Boeing. Are you ashamed to work with a separatist in one government? Thomas Carlyle wrote that the revolution is designed by romantics, fanatics, and villains. Aren't you ashamed, gentlemen of the government, that in the blood of the heroes, the villain Kava is working in the government? So our faction of the Radical Party, I call upon all patriots in Parliament to support both Freedom and other patriotic forces and Fatherland.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-06-m0.u50	Ten seconds to complete.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-06-m0.u51	We call on all patriotic forces in Parliament to demand the immediate resignation of Alexander Kava as deputy minister of infrastructure. This criminal justifies murderers.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-06-m0.u52	But you know, colleagues, I fully support any concern of the Ukrainian national deputies, but in a legitimate way.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-06-m0.u53	Yes, the voice calls checked in the morning, all right. Thank you, Your Honor. Let's move on. Oh, the answer? The answer. That's right, the answer. Please, Minister, answer.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-06-m0.u54	Dear Vladimir Borisovich, let the microphone turn on.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-06-m0.u55	Gennady Zubko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-06-m0.u56	I'm so glad you're asking questions about the Malaysian Boeing disaster MN-17. Why? Because this is really the issue of the first terrorist act that brought the attention of the entire international community to Ukraine. Yesterday there was a joint meeting of the inter-ministerial commission, which was created, updated on January 28, by the government of Ukraine, and which met with the government, representatives, ambassadors of the Netherlands, Malaysia, Australia, and all the other countries that were killed in the disaster. A joint meeting was held. Today, of the 298 people who have died, 295 have been found, an additional 4 are still in search. Since March this search will continue, and so the government of Ukraine confirms its willingness to cooperate with the treaty after the search for the people who died in this disaster. So this work is done in this way, the question and the point in criminal investigation of the terrorist act of terrorist organizations that were clearly defined in the Supreme Council of Ukraine "LNR" and "DNR" will be conducted and will be set up this year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-06-m0.u57	Thank you. Dear colleagues! I'm going to ask the Prime Minister today to consider the actions of the Deputy Minister, give them an evaluation and consider the proposal of the Radical Party faction to release this deputy from office. But what I wanted to say to you, dear colleagues. When this huge tragedy occurred, which I cannot speak of calmly, because in the first hours of the government's commission, I was dealing with the issue, and I saw those 298 bodies, and I saw those sufferings, both family and family, and close to what happened. I have no doubt who did this -- the pro-Russian fighters did it. Today with Russian weapons. Today's investigation is under way, and it has to be completed, and you know that this investigation was transferred by Ukraine to the Netherlands investigation with a joint investigation team. I met with a team of investigators yesterday, and I'm grateful to everyone who's working on this issue, because, friends, I managed to identify 295 bodies. Three bodies remain to be identified as innocently dead. It's a terrible tragedy. So no one has the moral or human or any other right to talk about this incredibly terrible crime with such ease or to deny the obvious facts. That is why Ukraine today stands in the position of having a clear investigation and involvement in the responsibility of those who ordered the landing of a passenger plane over Ukraine’s peaceful sky. Please ask me a question, Victoria Mikhailovna Vojcitsicka.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-06-m0.u58	Yes, good afternoon! I have a question for the Minister of Energy. First of all, Minister, you don't have to fool the people of Ukraine. The other one. Either way, the answer to the following questions. Can the Ukrainian side terminate the contract with the Russian side without its consent? The other one. Yes or no. Can the volume of the purchase be changed only from the consent of the Russian side? Third. Yes or no. Are there conditions in these agreements for the import of electricity only under the 100 percent provision of Crimea? Last and foremost. Is it the price of electricity that can change unilaterally from the Russian side? And another line that we would also like to hear. That's what we, unfortunately, didn't hear the answer to the question of sanctions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-06-m0.u59	Contracts were handed over to a specially organized commission that examined them in detail, and she made her own conclusions. I gave specific answers. I want to tell you that about all of these, all of these questions that you've just raised, I've answered them over and over and over again. You can't take it and pay it. Graphics agree with the parties daily. These parties can, by limiting the volume of supply to zero, de facto get out of this contract. Contracts can be broken. They're commercial structures, they're not numbered by anyone, you know. This is like a mere commercial agreement between two legal persons. So to make, well, I don't understand why you're making such conclusions. The treaties, I say, I think these issues should be dealt with by specialists, lawyers who have to give specific answers. And there's a commission, so I understand that, well, there are appropriate organizations that have to make these conclusions under these treaties. On my part, I gave you all the answers. Prices are adequate, they are adequate, they can be changed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-06-m0.u60	Accurate question, please, 10 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-06-m0.u61	Minister, I asked you specific questions about price change. Can Russia change prices unilaterally? That was the first question. There were other questions where I asked you to answer yes or no. You said you were familiar with this contract. You didn't answer. Enough with the indignation and the deception.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-06-m0.u62	Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-06-m0.u63	The price of the import contract is determined on the market. It can change. That's true. It consists of two parts: pay for the power and pay the variable for each unit of electricity. It forms on an hourly basis. As a result of January, it was lower than the one stated in the contract. So depending on consumption, consumption volume, or nighttime consumption, or peak price formation. So that's why it says it's an indicative price because it's formed on an hourly basis. And as a result of the month, I can assure you that it was lower than what you saw in the contract. So talking about some possibilities for change, I don't understand. This side changes, this market changes, we buy there on the market.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-06-m0.u64	Thank you, Minister. Please ask Michael Papiev.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-06-m0.u65	Mikhail Papiev, "The Opposition Block." Please give the floor to the MP.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-06-m0.u66	National MP Martovicki, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-06-m0.u67	Deputy Martovici, 36 constituency, Dneproperty. Vladimir Vasilevich, I listened carefully to your report, but unfortunately, I can say that he is not prepared and unprofessional, perhaps, because you are surrounded by professional assistants. Neither miners nor energy heard answers to questions when the memorandum was signed. The Prime Minister has given the order to sign to the second number, all deadlines are overdue. Now I don't understand what we can call an adequate price of Russian kilowatt electricity if it's 15 copies more expensive than Ukrainian, and our power blocks don't load and simplify. As for the anthrax stamp. One and a half thousand wagons are not leaving Red Lyman's anthrax station right now to load our power stations. What do you do in the near future to settle and adjust the situation and provide answers?
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-06-m0.u68	Thank you. Sir, Minister, a minute. I understand you've been addressing the minister, he's Vladimir Vasilovich, not Vladimir Borisovich. Please answer.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-06-m0.u69	Vladimir Borisovich, do you want me to answer? Now I'm going to try all your questions. The memorandum agrees between a large number of participants. It's already signed with the shafts. With trade unions, part of trade unions are also signed. It's signed on our side. There's NCRE, there's a KID, there's other ministries. It's a procedure. He agrees, a rather large document that includes a program of more than 40 letters. So this is a fundamental document. Now the second one is worth it. We're buying, I've already said 85, we're selling 98, that's all. There's 50 million dollars left in the market, there's extra money in the energy market from this transaction to cover the cost of generating companies. It's also a good thing that no one talks about. At the moment, the block, all the coal that can be burned, all the gas coal can be burned at Ukrainian stations, burned at the maximum. There's no anthrax. In the Red Lyman, all these wagons that stand are checked by the appropriate authorities for the origin of this coal. If they're from mining, without documents, I can't tell you what these coals should be doing. And the coal that was mined, with the corresponding documents, is leaking. From Russia, we buy the cheapest resource.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-06-m0.u70	Thank you, Minister. Please ask, Matkowski, "Peter Dust Block."
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-06-m0.u71	Please pass the word to Oleg Musia.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-06-m0.u72	Oleg Musei, please. All I'm asking is a little bit, because there's not much time left for all the factions to come out.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-06-m0.u73	Oleg Musei, 124 constituency. I am deeply outraged by the absence of the Prime Minister of Ukraine today, and this is already part of the system of ignoring Parliament by the Prime Minister. Because I have specific questions for him. He gave Mr. Demchikin the commission to organize an interdisciplinary task force, and two numbers, two, put a decision on the table. Unfortunately, there is no such decision. And Minister Demchisin gives instructions yesterday to shut down the power shafts, which is completely unacceptable when our four power grids are not loaded. And I have a second question. Why has the government been ignoring the appointment of heads of district government for three months? I think that government policy is totally unacceptable. And who will be held accountable?
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-06-m0.u74	Vladimir Borisovich, may I? Mr. Musei, you were an active member of this commission. You know that it was organized according to the Prime Minister’s mandate. She works at the Ministry every day for four or six hours. There's a lot of participants, because this is, I've already said, this is, at least, 10 units of miners, these are state-owned enterprises, 3 unions, 4 ministries. So this is an active job. And in order to develop and agree to a coal reform programme that hasn't reformed in the last 20 years, and to demand it in two days, it's simply unrealistic. But in the last 10 days, huge work has been done and the results are, they sign trades, they sign ministries, many other participants. As a result of this work, I am introducing a reform programme and a memorandum to the government meeting, and I think that's enough to do it.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-06-m0.u75	Thank you, Minister! Please, Fatherland, Lucenka.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-06-m0.u76	Dear friends! I have a question for the Minister of Economics. Friends, today and in Kiev, faced a terrible situation on the Podola with the destruction of the Guest House of Kiev’s largest, dilapidated historical object and monument. The builder deliberately refuses to allow public activists, public organizations that want to preserve it and have the funds to do so. This developer is a tenant of state property, which is reported by the Ministry of Economics in particular. On more than one occasion, the Kyiv City Administration, the City Council, appealed to the Cabinet of Ministers, particularly your department, Mr. Abramovichus, for the purpose of handing over to us, the Kyiv community, to deal with this disreputable renter ourselves. On your part today and the Maintenance Fund have no action in connection with the House Court. After all, the question is: from October lies in the Ministry of Economics turning to.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-06-m0.u77	Ten seconds, complete.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-06-m0.u78	He's been there since October. Please tell me, when will the request for the Hotel Court regarding the transfer of this property to utility property be considered? Thank you!
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-06-m0.u79	The question is understood. Come after our session here and we'll decide in the coming days. Thank you very much!
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-06-m0.u80	Thank you!
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-06-m0.u81	Thank you! Last question, "The People's Front," Paul Pinzenik.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-06-m0.u82	Dear colleagues! Today in this room there has been many times the name of a beautiful company called Ukrinterenergo, subordinated to the Ministry of Energy and Coal of Ukraine. It not only buys electricity in Russia but also supplies it in Crimea. Then the first question is: Both the minister and we all know that, according to the official investigation that took place in the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, in the signs of officials of the Ukraine of Ukri.energo, there are signs of treason in the actions of officials. The other one. When Ukrienterenergo supplies electricity to Crimea, it forms a fantastic debt to energy. Today, it accounts for more than 300 million dollars. During the February month, no amount of money was paid to Ukriinterenergo in the energy market, so we all pay and advance the supply of electricity to the Crimean Peninsula, which, among other things, in contracts with the Russian Federation with the participation of Ukriinterergo called Crimean Federal District, the materials were transferred to the Attorney General's Office. So the question is, are you going to make a human resources minister's conclusion about Ukriinterenergo? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-06-m0.u83	Thank you. One minute to answer.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-06-m0.u84	Your Honor! I've got the originals of the contracts, I've taken them specially because I've been waiting for this question, and I can show you what it says, what it says to the counterparty. There's no reference to any federal districts. So I don't know what you're talking about. In terms of personnel decisions, the director of the company was given clear tasks that he was currently working on. It's making changes to the treaty, and I realize there's progress on these negotiations right now, and I've given it to him. It happened a week ago, he was given two weeks to perform these tasks. If a staff decision is not taken during this period. But right now, the work is going on and I feel about the information that I'm getting, I feel that major improvements will be made to further improve this contract.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-06-m0.u85	Thank you. Dear colleagues! We're running out of time for the government. I thank you on behalf of the National Deputies for the answers. I would ask all the warnings, the warnings of the national MPs to deal with and address specific questions, including how to deal with and answer the national MPs. I would like the interaction between the deputies, between the committees and the government to be at the right level. So please, I asked you to take this into account, dear fellow ministers. Thank you, Government. Ladies and gentlemen, you and I are scheduled to make inquiries from 11 to 11:30. I suggest you do it this way. Now listen to the information of the Attorney General of Ukraine, so for a report give up to 20 minutes and up to 20 minutes for a question to the Attorney General. And then we'll move on to. Let us announce a recess, and after the break, there will be speeches by national deputies on various issues and also questions will be announced. There's no objection, I think, to this approach? You don't? Roger that. Thank you. I invite you to the information of the Attorney General of Ukraine, Vitali Grigorovich Jarem. Please, Reverend Vitaly Grigorovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-06-m0.u86	Mr. Head of the Supreme Council, honourable national MPs, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to inform you in due time of the most resonant crimes in Ukraine's history on the fact that there have been mass killings in Kiev by participants in the November 2013-February 2014 protest and the state of law and order in 2014, as well as the results of the work of law enforcement authorities to combat crime and corruption. The chief investigator of the Office of the Attorney-General of Ukraine and the investigating departments of the District Attorney's Office are investigating criminal conduct in connection with the activities of the creation of the former President of Ukraine, Viktor Yanukovič, a criminal organization. The following are sufficient evidence of the systematic commission of serious and particularly serious crimes by him and members of the criminal group. The criminal organization was composed of the highest officials of the state, who served in the governing positions of parliament, central and local executives, during the years 2010-2014. In fact, there was a merger of members of the group with a state-owned apparatus. The investigation establishes a clear hierarchical distribution of powers within this structure. Victor Janukovic, who was its chief organizer and ideologist, was the head of the criminal organization. He was followed by a suspicion under article 255 of the Ukrainian Criminal Code: "Creating a Criminal Organization." At the second level of the hierarchy were members of the so-called "Family" – members of the criminal circles associated with its past, members of its government, officials of the President's Administration, the Attorney General's Office and the military authorities who carried out the unlawful purposes of their leader. A large number of heads of local government, law enforcement agencies, such as the heads of government, district police officers, the Security Service, the Prosecutor’s Office, made up the third level of the criminal organization. On the fourth, bottom, level were the direct perpetrators of criminal orders: managers and employees of banking institutions, fictitious enterprises, militias, security services, courts, prosecutors, law enforcement agencies, hired fighters, so-called "cooties". The group organized by Yanukovich was persecuting a series of illegal purposes. The first is the usurpation of power (arts. 109, 110, 255 of the Ukrainian Criminal Code). To this end, the constitutional reform of 2004, the two decisions of the Constitutional Court, since April 6, 2010 and September 30, 2010 have been lifted. The presidential-parliamentary form of government has been restored. Thus, Janukovic took over the Parliament and governed the appointed government. The constitutional coup actually resulted in the usurpation of power. Second, the personal wealth of Janukovič and his environment, at the expense of the appointment of senior management positions close to the Family, and the creation of criminal schemes for the large-scale dissipation of state funds. In order to carry out this task, the high-ranking government of Azarov, under the cover of the power structures, has created conditions for looting state resources and seizing the funds of ministries and state monopolies. To legalize the stolen funds, when the so - called tax havens were created and successfully operated, they allowed billions of dollars to be spent in shadow and offshoring zones. Due to the shadowy refinancing of banks, the reserves of the National Bank of Ukraine were systematically stolen. With the help of judges and law enforcement officials, raids were carried out by state and private enterprises. By applying the pressure of control and control authorities on private business, entrepreneurs were subjected to struggles that prevented them from developing and contributed to the shadowing of the economy. Only the damage suffered by the State during Yanukovic’s time by investigators of the Attorney General’s Office amounted to about 100 billion dollars. A large part of the looted assets are exported abroad. Thirdly, the persecution of political opponents and public activists. To carry out his criminal purposes, Janukovich organized large - scale falsifications of criminal cases against leaders and activists of the opposition political forces. Extensive examples are the persecution of Julia Timoshenko, Yuri Lucenka, Arsen Avakov, Anatoly Makarenko, Bogdan Danilishin, Sergey Vlasenko, and many others. Mass protests such as "Get up, Ukraine" were severely suppressed. and "The Midan Tax Office." Individual regime fighters were unlawfully drawn to criminal responsibility, such as the Vasilkski case, the so-called "Wasilkian Terrorists". For the first time, organized groups of so-called aunts were used to combat non-political activists. Four. Refusal of Euro-Integration and Orientation to Entrance to the Customs Union. To preserve the power of Janukovic and his close environment, contrary to the interests of the Ukrainian people, they decided to change the political course towards the Customs Union and to draw closer to the Russian Federation. As a result of the actual destruction of the army to a critical limit, the country’s defence capacity has declined. The tragic climax of the Janukovic regime was the events of November 13-14, when, with his direction and the support of Russian patrons, constitutional rights and the freedom of participants in mass acts of disobedience were brutally violated. As a result, the peaceful expression turned into a national resistance movement called "Ukraine is Europe". The Ukrainian Security Service is investigating the so - called Russian trace of the shootings in Maidan. A study is being carried out on the possible involvement of members of the Russian Special Forces in opposition to the protests. Two and a half thousand people, 104 of whom were killed, 1,200 injured, including 185 from firearms, and another 1,000 injured. 134 persons were unlawfully deprived of their will for their participation in protest. The criminal liability involved 503 people and 291 persons in the administrative capacity. All of these people are found injured in criminal investigations. For the first time in history, we have faced an unprecedented number of crimes committed by officials, including the highest ranking, which has become a real challenge for the entire law enforcement system. The total number of criminal conduct related to the activity of this criminal organization on a national scale is two and a half thousand. In order to ensure that they are properly investigated, we were released within a short period of time from the district attorneys' office, the entire management warehouse was changed, both by the Attorney General and the district attorney's office. Powerful investigation teams have been set up from patriotic and sophisticated, most experienced prosecutors, internal affairs agencies and the Ukrainian Security Service. "Madanian Affairs" is a unique criminal conduct that, according to the complexity and quantity of information to be investigated, has no parallels in our country. About a thousand criminal acts are being investigated only on crimes against Maidan, including 250 on the basis of deliberate killings and assassinations, over 500 excesses of authority and official authority. There's a huge amount of work done by the follow-up teams. Over 5,000 procedural actions have been conducted, some 3,000 have been investigated, over 600 surveys of sites and events, and thousands of experts have been conducted. As a result of this hoax, in spite of the objective reasons that affect the investigation, eight indictments have already been sent to the court for the deliberate killings of members of the Dignity Revolution committed against them. Crime suspects were reported to the main organizers and members of the criminal group. These include: Janukovic, Azarov, Arbusov, Pschenka, Zakharchenko, Ratushnyak, Korak, Šuljak, Yakimenko, Klav. A total of over 100 people. We've made an announcement in the state-wide search for a whole series of fugitives, 10 of whom were in possession of the highest placards of authority. The state's search includes direct perpetrators of crimes, ex-silhouettes, so-called aunts and fighters themselves. Most wanted persons are in the territory of temporarily occupied Crimea or Russia. In connection with this, I am addressed to the Office of the Attorney General of the Russian Federation for the establishment and detention of Januković, Azarov, Zacharychenka, Pshonka, Jakimenka, Ratushnyak, and others. A great deal of work is being done by investigators to prove that members of a criminal organization are guilty of taking state authority, of violating the territorial integrity and integrity of Ukraine. — articles 109, 110, 255 of the Ukrainian Criminal Code. At the same time, dozens of meetings were held with representatives of the international advisory group Interpol, the Basel Institute of Law, the European Union Sanctions Department, diplomats and politicians of the world’s leading states. Collected and sent to the International Criminal Court, more commonly known as the Hague Tribunal, evidence of crimes against humanity. Some 100 concerns about international legal aid have been sent to the competent authorities of more than 20 foreign nations, some of which Ukraine has already received. The Office of the Attorney-General collected and sent to the countries of the European Union information on the commission of crimes by ex-high-bodies. On the basis of these restrictions, up to 22 of these individuals have been applied. In the countries of the European Union, the United States and the Swiss Confederation, more than $104 million, 122 million Swiss francs, and 22 million euros are blocked. In response to the concerns of the U.S. Attorney - General’s Office in the Ukrainian banks, deposits, securities worth more than 6 billion dollars and nearly $2 billion have been arrested. Moving and immovable property of high - quality owners, including land plots, houses, non - residential buildings, automobiles, dozens of pounds of gold, and precious metal products, has been arrested. More than 500 acres [500 ha] of land stolen by Yanukovich and his supporters have already been returned to the state for some one billion dollars, including Mezigira. According to the State's prosecutions, the land was returned from Sukholutsk Forestry, which was used by the ex-President. In general, over 97,000 hectares of land were recovered and warned of illegal removal of more than 7 billion dollars of land at the expense of the state and municipal authorities that year. The illegal use of 15,000 hectares of fishing grounds of the Ukromistobudproject, which was linked to the Pshonka family, has been halted. In the courts, prosecutors are being sued for the return of more than 2 billion dollars as soon as possible. Also in the field of Euro-Midan affairs, the Public Prosecutor's Office, together with the internal affairs authorities and the Security Service, has been called to account for the responsibility of the district council manager, two heads of government, one district attorney, seven heads of the district departments of internal affairs, 50 members of the police of different levels, Berkut internal forces, Griffon, DAI, PPS, UBZ, criminal police, and 12 so-called "tempets". The facts of illegal involvement of Automaidan activists in administrative responsibility are being investigated. Internal affairs officials have falsified 613 protocols that have unjustifiably attracted 291 motorists to administrative responsibility. According to these events, the prosecutor’s office has launched 235 criminal investigations, 26 indictments against 25 persons have been sent to the court, the vast majority of whom are State inspectors. Former seniors, apart from the organization of mass killings, are also being criminalized by a large number of economic and official crimes. Klimenko, in his position as minister of incomes and congregations, has created a system of software companies that through a chain of fictitious farm operations have avoided paying taxes and customs fees for more than 6.1 billion dollars. The former leadership of Skrutelek, the State Information and Protection Service, with the participation of Yanukovic, Azarov and the Minister of Finance of Kolobov, has spent 220 million dollars on government funds. The former head of the National Bank of Arbuzima has spent government funds of 120 million dollars. So - called businessman Kurchenko conspired with one of the former directors of the National Bank of Ukraine, who was suspected of having incurred more than 2 billion dollars in state funds. Ladies and gentlemen, last year has been or has not been the most difficult in the history of Ukraine's independence. Anexia Crimea, the aggression of the Russian Federation in the east of the country, all of this has been marked by a criminogenic situation in the country. Last year more than one million criminal offenses were reported. Most of them were committed in Kiev – 136 000, in Dnipropetrovska – 113, in Donetsk – 97,000. By nearly 90 percent, the number of particularly serious crimes committed last year has increased by about 26,000. In the face of an extremely complex socio-political situation, there was a massive spread of crimes that had previously been of a unique nature. The number of offences against the foundations of national security has increased 66 times. More than a third were made in Luhansk and 1 in 4 in the Donetsk region. Half of these crimes violate the territorial integrity of our nation. Terrorism - related crimes have increased 300 times. In addition to the sites of the ATO, dozens of such facts took place in Zaporzik, Dnipropetrovsk, Mikolaiiv, and Odessa. A two - and - a - half - time increase in human life is a testimony to the decline in human life. They were made by 4,000 920. Seven times the kidnapping is a thousand 974. An increase in the number of murders is observed in areas far from carrying out an antiterrorist operation. In the Volin region, in particular, more than half. In Chernigiv, Odessa, Kharkiv, Sumski, Ternopil regions for a third. More than 30 percent of the number of robberies committed and almost twice as many illegal seizures of means of transport, a hundred percent. The kidnapping of a large number of weapons during protests, its uncontrolled arrival from the ATO area, the prolonged presence of law enforcement authorities in a demoralized state after a change in the defect, all of which created a prerequisite for the activation of crime, which increasingly takes on organized forms. Last year, 163 organized criminal groups were destroyed by law enforcement agencies, more than half of them operated in the budgetary sphere, and had corrupt interregional and transnational ties. The events in the eastern regions have objectively led to a significant increase in war crimes of more than 6,000. The number of criminal prosecutions involving more than 16,000 military personnel has increased by five. 65 criminal acts of corruption and 19 of budget crimes committed by military personnel were sent to the court with indictments. In the course of the pretrial investigation, 19 million dollars have already been compensated. Problems of a similar scale are facing our country for the first time. Recently, the National Security and Defence Council has been given legislative powers to coordinate and monitor the activities of authorities in the areas of crime and corruption. The existence of a real threat to national security as a result of the intensification of terrorist organizations and negative trends in the structure and dynamics of crime prompted me to initiate the consideration of this issue at the GNP meeting. Equally dangerous to the State is not only external aggression but also corruption of officials who unwaveringly launch their hands into the government’s pocket. The extent of the looting at the higher levels of power is frankly impressive. The implementation of shadow schemes devastates budgets at all levels, causing millions of losses to the state in the banking system, in the oil and gas sector, in the transport sector, in the agricultural sector of the economy. Sadly, the old corruption schemes have received new owners. At a time when the country exerts itself and gives its last to fight the enemy outside, individual officials continue to steal. In 2014, more seniors were involved in corruption and economic crimes than in previous years of independence. Last year, despite the complexity of the conditions under which the State’s law enforcement authorities were in place, the level of responsibility of the high-owners was unprecedented in Ukraine’s history. informing you of the activities of the Public Prosecutor's Office during this period, the most accurate definition will be the word "first time." For the first time in the recent history of Ukraine, a deputy head of the National Bank was brought to criminal responsibility for the theft of state funds. For the first time, criminal proceedings have been opened and investigated regarding the former Secretary of Defense and a number of senior officers: Lieutenant General, 3 Major Generals, 2 Admirals, counter-admiral. For the first time, it has been reported that a person named Hero of Ukraine has been in possession of public baskets of a particularly large size. For the first time, he will be tried by a chief of large defenses such as a bronze factory. There is also a large-scale criminal investigation into the service negligence of the Ministry of Defence and the General Staff of the Ukrainian Armed Forces, which has led to a decline in the level of defence of the State during the years 2000-2014. A preliminary investigation has been completed on the suspicion that the former Director of the Department of Public Procurement has been supplying the Ministry of Defence with fuel-oil purchases at higher prices. Criminal conduct is being actively investigated, as evidenced by the systematic dissipation of the budget of so - called state monopolies. Of the most resonant criminal conduct that is currently being investigated by the Henprosecutor's Office, it is important to point out the cases: "Scrooge" is a loss of 640 million dollars. Skrinterenergo and Centrenergo – 386 million dollars, Energoatem – the theft of state property in the amount of 166 million dollars and the inefficient use of government funds in the amount of about 3 billion dollars, Ukratransgazu – to spend 650 million dollars. On 3 out of 6 railways, the Public Prosecutor's Office has uncovered crimes involving the illegal acquisition of goods at higher prices, and the amount of damage caused has cost hundreds of millions of dollars. Can any of those present mention a similar scope of investigation? After all, from one year to the next, government monopolies have produced stable damage that has actually become profits in corrupt pockets, and for decades these issues have been covered. Public prosecutors, together with other law enforcement agencies, have taken steps to combat corruption, generally in the past year, with the law enforcement authorities directing up to one and a half thousand indictments of corruption crimes against 1,700 people. The fight against corruption is being waged in law enforcement agencies themselves, and the criminal responsibility for such crimes has been brought to bear the responsibility of 157 internal affairs officials, 60 government fiscal officials. 33 criminal justice systems, 20 customs officers and 8 prosecutors. In the past few days, investigators from the Attorney General's Office have documented the fact that the Deputy Director of the Department of Justice and the Chief of Justice in the Odessa Region have obtained an unfair advantage. The chief military prosecutor has also been detained and suspected of receiving bribes from the head of the rear of the Ukrainian National Guard. The Director of the Department of Nazcomfinservices has been detained by Kyiv’s Public Prosecutor’s Office for Unwarranted Benefits. It undermines the confidence of the population in the state and the right corruption of the judicial system that has not endured the challenges of time. The Public Prosecutor's Office has sent 16 criminal prosecutions against 17 judges and another 12 are being investigated. The materials for 197 judges to take decisions by the prosecutor’s office are directed to a temporary special commission for the examination of the judges of the general jurisdiction. The efforts of law enforcement officials in the area of anti - corruption, and most corruption, are futile because of the judges ’ stand. So from the convicts, I'm asking you to pay attention to this figure, in 2014, 788 corrupts were sentenced to only 35 of them, only 4 percent, all the rest, virtually, were released. For example, the Public Prosecutor's Office has been sued for an indictment against the former head of the Zaporozhye district of Peckushenko and the head of the Interejko council, who have staged opposition to the protests. The trial has been under way for about six months. One of the main problems that hinders the tightening of criminal investigation is the imperfection of criminal and procedural legislation. As an example, during the 20 - day period, the investigating judge of the Pecher Court did not consider the issue of access to telephone traffic by senior officials involved in crimes against Maidan. Usually these problems have to be considered for one or two hours as they are done abroad. I have repeatedly stressed the need for legislative changes in my speeches and meetings, including with the national MPs. We have worked and submitted legislative initiatives to the President of Ukraine on changes to criminal and procedural codes. So I would like to ask you, honourable national MPs, to support you in making it impossible for you to release corrupters under the bail of a bill (No. 1871) from January 28, 2015. I look forward to your support. Finally, the activities of the Public Prosecutor's Office are guaranteed on the basis of political neutrality and the independence of prosecutors from foreign influence in order to protect human rights and freedoms, the interests of society and the state. I assure you that prosecutors, together with other law enforcement agencies, are able to effectively carry out constitutional functions under the new Law on Public Prosecutions and Anti-Corruption Laws. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-06-m0.u87	Thank you, Vitaly Grigorovitch, for such meaningful information. [[Applause]] I think a lot of the answers to your questions are in your information. And according to the Rules, we allocate 20 minutes as before the questions are answered. So please, in order not to violate the Rules, 22 minutes, 12 hours, according to the Rules, 22 minutes, I set aside for questions. Please record. Please sign up, distinguished national MPs and questions are the answers. Please, Mikola Petrovich Palamarczuk, Peter Dusty Block. Papamarczuk Mikola Petrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-06-m0.u88	Dear Vitaly Grigorovich, I'd like to ask you this question. Please tell me, is there any problem with implementation******* of the new Prosecutor's Office Act that will enter into force in March?
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-06-m0.u89	Thank you. On October 14, 2014, the Supreme Council of Ukraine passed a new law, a European law that deprived the prosecutor’s office of such a function as outdated or pro-Racian as a general oversight. Ten days after the introduction of the law, we have abandoned this function, and we are now practically in the process of carrying out the mandate under the new law. But on December 28, 2014, the Supreme Council passed a law supplementing the Procuratorial Act. And unfortunately, those powers that were in the form of general supervision, and more specifically, they're called "monitoring the observance of citizens' rights and freedoms," and it was stipulated by law, they're not funded today. And so a large number of citizens who go to the prosecutor’s office for protection of their rights and interests do not receive legal aid or recommendations for the drafting of appropriate legislation. It's one of those, of course.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-06-m0.u90	Ten seconds, complete, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-06-m0.u91	This is, of course, one of the main problems: the protection of citizens' rights and freedoms. As far as funding and the creation of local prosecutors are concerned, I think we are.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-06-m0.u92	Thank you. Please, Yegor Sobolev, Self-help.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-06-m0.u93	Mr. Attorney General, I have the following questions. You're looking for the members of the organized crime group Janukovich. Why is Boyko, Ljovczyn, Kluev, sitting next to you in this room? Why does Ephraim walk quietly in Kiev during his travels to Paris? You're looking for mode servants. Why is the Attorney General of the Donetsk Region, appointed by you by Frantovsky, who has been assigned to participate in the fighting, working in this position? Why is the prosecutor, Kyiv Yuldashev, assigned by you, working in this office? You're looking for top corruption? Ask your deputies, Bachuna, where he has 6 million gifts, where he has three apartments, two houses, and one and a half thousand hectares of land. And the last.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-06-m0.u94	Please, please, let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-06-m0.u95	The Attorney General should speak not of the work he has done but of the cases he has brought to trial. How many cases have been brought before the court about the organized crime group of Yanukovitch, the people who terrorized Majdan, and the top corruptionists of our time.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-06-m0.u96	Please, Vitaly Grigorovitch, answer.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-06-m0.u97	According to the Constitution of Ukraine, the Attorney General’s Office, as a law enforcement authority, acts within the limits of the rights and powers given to it. And with regard to those people whose names you named, why they are not serving punishment today, or who are not being held accountable. As soon as there are operational services, the law enforcement agencies provide the prosecution with information about their involvement in specific crimes, they will be promptly investigated and brought to justice. With regard to Frantovsky, Yuldasheva, a test is being carried out today in accordance with the Book of Illustration Act. They fall under the second moment of the illustration. And as long as they don't pass this procedure, they will be released in accordance with the Law on Purification of Power. As for Bachun, Danilenko, according to your parliamentary statements, media publications have been investigated by the police. Not one and a half thousand acres [1.5 ha] of land is involved. These are all imaginary numbers. Service investigations were conducted at the direction of the President of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-06-m0.u98	Please, please, let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-06-m0.u99	No violations were detected with the involvement of the Security Service. Cases relating to the trial of Janukovič, his supporters, would be my pleasure and no less than yours in order to bring them to trial. But today's criminal-procedural legislation has not allowed this to happen for the last time. Now that you've adopted the Law on Obstetric Conduct and Conviction, we've already started a proper job. And I hope, literally a few days ago, only 255 years ago, we announced Yanukovic (this is the creation of a criminal organization). As part of this exercise, we will refer cases to the court and bring them to justice. Unfortunately, neither the D.A. nor the O.R. are able to get them out of the Russian Federation today. As soon as I can. I told my report that I had asked the Attorney General, the Teaka, the Russian Federation to be extradited to Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-06-m0.u100	Thank you. Please, Svetlana Vojciekhovsky, National Front.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-06-m0.u101	Please pass the word to Igor Guzu.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-06-m0.u102	Igor Gus, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-06-m0.u103	Thank you. Mr. Prosecutor! Igor Gus, People's Front, Volin. You know, I signed up for your release. Like the man who was at Maidan, and you were there. And you know why? I'll tell you. A year ago, I was exposed to three criminal cases, a total of eight years of light. A year ago, the D.A. and the courts put me under house arrest with an electronic bracelet, like a dog, and on many of my colleagues. By the way, look at Volina, there were the most criminal cases for the Midan participants. What do I see? The district attorney is walking today, Mr. Paraka, free. Today, the person who wrote the indictments against me is Mr. Primachk, the prosecutor, today works for the district attorney's office and so on. The two prosecutors, who are and who were before today, did nothing. I'm asking you to arrange a meeting with Majdan's activists from Volina, a year later, I'll be among them.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-06-m0.u104	Let me finish, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-06-m0.u105	..the questions why the Attorney General did not break any of the cases about those people who wanted to oppress all of us who had been summoned by hundreds of people for questioning, nothing has been done in a year. This is my claim as a participant in Maidan, a national MP to you. I'm asking for action, not all this talk that we're going to be, we're going to be, we're going to be. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-06-m0.u106	Thank you. Please respond.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-06-m0.u107	I spoke in my report about the great work done by law enforcement agencies. It's not just talk. This is due to the Titanic work of investigators and operatives. And these questions that you've just raised will be the subject of my personal consideration. A few days ago, I met a group of national deputies, from Donetsk region, who also presented similar claims regarding the activities of prosecutors, especially the district level, which are not legally in line with the illustration. So please, let's meet, I'll ask all of your questions in an orderly fashion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-06-m0.u108	Thank you. Please, Oleg Barna.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-06-m0.u109	Good afternoon, Mr. Vitaly. Regrettably, the work at the local, provincial, law - enforcement level is reduced to the face level of the local police, the local prosecutor’s office, the court, and other structures. Sadly, they did not change. Moreover, not only did their faces change, but also their methods of working in the paws left by Yanukovich. I understand that he's not able to know all the footage, especially the district level, so we just want to help you and change it in places together. Are you ready with local public organizations or moral authorities the same way we have chosen all of us for the Commission of the Corruption Bureau of Creation, to change the face of the Public Prosecutor's Office, to set up new independent people? Because the people demand change, the people demand punishment for crime, and the people want to see change.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-06-m0.u110	Please respond to Vitali.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-06-m0.u111	You know, in 2014, there were two waves of district attorneys' changes. Today, there is virtually no prosecutor in the district and in the direction of the Attorney General’s Office, both heads and deputies. If you have specific comments about the activities of a particular prosecutor, I am willing to take action, send a check and release this person according to my authority. But consider one more thing: Prosecutors do more than just investigative work and supervision; they do great representation work. And these are professional people, and they also need to be kept and treated with extreme caution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-06-m0.u112	Thank you. People's deputy Bublik.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-06-m0.u113	Please pass the word to Yuri Lewchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-06-m0.u114	Yuri Lewchenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-06-m0.u115	Lechenko in Freedom. Mr. Vitalia, a very important component of those reforms, if they are the real ones that we are going to have right now, it's the fight for fair elections. Because without an honest election, nothing really will change in the country. If we do not have fair elections, we will continue to sit in Parliament and in the executive power of those bandits who sat with Yanukovich. So I have a question: why is there absolutely nothing to do with the country's investigation of known forgerys in 223 districts when Janukovitch's manual was abused for two years from the central district of Kiev? And this was documented on live air on all channels and not just. And it's just a single case, and these are mass cases. I understand that you might say that it's not your case, that it's an IMF. But you have every authority to take this away from the IMF and to deal with it in the prosecution's office. So why is none of this happening? I'd like to hear it from you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-06-m0.u116	Please respond to Vitaly Grigorovitch.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-06-m0.u117	Well, I'm not ready to say now. I think that, I know that there's criminal conduct there why they're not being investigated. Let me further study and let you know in a specific order. But there's criminal conduct, your references, they're registered, in which state we're going to need these materials from the Ministry of Internal Affairs right now, and we're going to conduct a proper study. I'll let you know separately.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-06-m0.u118	Thank you, Vitaly Grigorovitch. Please, National Deputy Nasalik Igor Stepanovich, Block of Petra Prashenka.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-06-m0.u119	Hello. Dear Vitaly Grigorovich, there are two questions. First question. We went to the Supreme Council Hall today, and we were handing out these papers with information on one where Vitaly Jarem was a corrupter, and the other said, "Aleg Bachun was flying to the enemy Moscow." Of course I'm sure you'll answer all these questions. But I was impressed by the quality of the paper and the color pictures that were taken on these occasions. It's obviously well funded. And the second. You were at the Peter Dustenk bloc meeting, and I asked questions, and you weren't prepared at the time, about a billion, 400 million dollars worth of hexachlorobenzene and Dombrovsky's career. We asked Tetjana Mikolayevna Cnerwell, together Tomenko and me. In addition, a permanent commission of inquiry from the Supreme Council is being established. We'd like you to shed some light on this situation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-06-m0.u120	I'm just, I'm just going to let you know from the third question that we've registered this information and violated criminal conduct, and the investigators are now conducting the necessary investigations. As part of the investigation, I'm going to inform you or the investigators if that allows you to do this criminal-procedural legislation. Bachun didn't fly to Moscow, we checked it, it's false information.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-06-m0.u121	I don't know who wrote it, but he didn't fly. I'm responsible for what I said.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-06-m0.u122	Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-06-m0.u123	And when it comes to "Jarami the Corruptionr," I always ask you a question: give an example of what "Jarema the Corruptionr" is, no one can give any examples. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-06-m0.u124	Thank you, Vitaly Grigorovitch. Please, Alexi Muschak, Peter Dust Block.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-06-m0.u125	Dear Vitaly Grigorovich, thank you for coming to the Supreme Council and answering your questions. I have a very simple and short question. Please comment on the information that the son of former Henprosecutor Artem Pshonka and Yuri Ivanyyyushenko have been informed by the Henprosecutors that there are no open criminal cases against them and that these certificates have been used accordingly to lift sanctions in the countries of the European Union. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-06-m0.u126	Sanctions, please. I understand that this question will be, and many deputies are concerned, so if you can, more opportunities to answer that question. As the sanctions list was formed, you, honourable deputies, have an understanding of what is going on. On March 5, 2014, the then Attorney General directed the European Union’s sanctions list to the European Union Sanctions Department, a list of 22 people. This letter was given names, but no criminal conduct, no criminal conduct based on the fact that the state funds had been stolen, exactly what the Europeans demanded, was violated at that time. And that's why all the cases that have been criminalized today and put in the sanctions department are violated after my appointment. So all the necessary evidence we've been provided by operatives is placed in criminal conduct and directed to the sanctions department. All that's necessary is that all we can do in this in our powers and capabilities, we're doing everything we can to make sure that these corrupts can't use the money they've put out abroad. What I'm saying is that no amount of money, including arrests, well, there's about $100 million in Ivanyushchenka in different currencies, today's arrests and these costs, we're going to do everything we can to get them back to Ukraine, to the Ukrainian budget. When it comes to providing appropriate information, there were such cases when, for example, Yuri Ivanyushenko was a national deputy and we could not fail to provide information to the national deputy, and so such information may be as the investigators reported. But this is not forbidden by law, and in this case, it does not play any role, does not affect the course of the investigation.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-06-m0.u127	Thank you. Please, National Deputy Kodola Alexander Mikhailovich, People's Front.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-06-m0.u128	Alexander Kodola, Montenegrin, People's Front faction. Dear Vitaly Grigorovich! Regrettably, no one has been punished today for the shooting of the Celestial 100. This situation also took place in areas such as November 23, 2013, the first strong wave of Montenegro's Euromaidan took place in Ukraine. A week later, you know, it was the same thing with the beating and the beating of the students at Maidan in Kiev. Prosecutors in the area are changing, investigators are changing, but the third time this case is closed in connection with the launch of Montenegro's Euromaiden and public insistence, it's been repeated for the third time. So the question to you is, when will this question come to a logical conclusion, when the perpetrators will be investigated, and when they will be punished? And another question from my faction colleagues: the first deputy prosecutor of the Pechersky district of Kyiv Kuzmenko is now working as prosecutor for the Primorski district of Odessa.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-06-m0.u129	Let me finish, please, 10 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-06-m0.u130	This man similarly condemned the active participants of Eromaydan in Kiev. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-06-m0.u131	Please, Vitaly Grigorovitch.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-06-m0.u132	As for Chernigov, you know that two days ago a new district attorney was just removed from office for not investigating the criminal conduct associated with the rangers. I'm going to give an example of sums where as soon as the procurator was replaced, the prosecutor was immediately suspected, then the district prosecutor, for the exact signatures that he was putting under indictments against the rangers. After Kuzmenek, we talked to you, I've assigned a check as soon as all this is confirmed information he'll be released in due course, I'll give you an answer.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-06-m0.u133	Thank you. Please, Yuri Voropeyev, Opposition Block.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-06-m0.u134	Please pass the word to Deputy Dudenkov.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-06-m0.u135	People's Deputies.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-06-m0.u136	Dear Vitalia Grigorovich! I have two questions for you. The first question is, did you talk in your report about old corruption schemes getting new owners? Question number one, in view of what is indicated, what work is being done to bring these old owners to criminal responsibility? And question two. There was an increase of 2.5 murders by 30 percent as a result of the February events. There's been a double increase in theft, or is it effective to work, you can tell how effective the law enforcement is in this direction to eliminate these socio-negative phenomena? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-06-m0.u137	In my report, I briefly stopped at those enterprises, some of the larger, so-called state monopolies that we've discovered, along with the officials of the Ministry of Crime, and are being investigated today. He named the names and officials who are already from the Ministry of Defence and other ministries, departments and Odessa, the Head of Justice, are already the results of the work of the law enforcement authorities this year and last year. As for the increase or deterioration of the criminogenic situation, I also briefly stated that, for some time after the events in the field, the law enforcement authorities were unfortunately demoralized and we were forced to make serious personnel changes. So this is all reflected in a criminogenic situation, and I know that the IMF is undergoing serious reform today. The Prosecutor's Office Act is coming into effect, and we are looking forward to correcting this situation this year.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-06-m0.u138	Thank you. Please, People's Deputies of Dobrodom, Peter Dustenka's Block.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-06-m0.u139	Please pass the word to Maxim Chicken.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-06-m0.u140	Maxim Chicken, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-06-m0.u141	Honourable Attorney General of Ukraine Vitaly Grigoryevich Jarem, Maksim Kurjachi, Dnepropetrovsk, “Block of Petra Poroshenko”. I believe that if the Office of the Procurator-General of Ukraine had taken a larger initiative and worked more closely with the parliamentary committees, and directly with all the MPs, such emotions in the room as they were today and how they were two weeks ago, it would probably not have been. The MPs would collect signatures, not under the application for the resignation of the Attorney-General, but under the necessary and necessary and proper draft laws, and they are indeed needed. What am I saying? Today, at the legislative level, we are under an obligation to jointly develop mechanisms for the effective work of the Ukrainian Public Prosecutor's Office. That's why it's necessary. I am also asking a personal question for Boris Filatov, including as a national deputy, and for the Attorney-General to work together.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-06-m0.u142	Ten seconds, finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-06-m0.u143	[[Applause]] At the legislative level, it is now necessary to abolish the possibility of withdrawing property and arresting money that cannot be appealed by the Attorney General's Office and the Public Prosecutor's Office. Today, at the legislative level, we must abolish the need and opportunity for three.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-06-m0.u144	Please answer, Vitaly Grigorovitch.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-06-m0.u145	In fact, in criminal law today, there are a lot of problematic issues that prevent investigators from effectively investigating crimes. I stopped briefly in the report, just when we chose the precautionary measure, we believe that, by some authority of the investigating judge, they could be handed over to the prosecutor, thus simplifying the crime investigation work, and that would have the right effect. In doing so, our suggestions are not related to the deterioration of citizens’ rights and freedoms. I hope that our cooperation will work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-06-m0.u146	Honorable national MPs are certainly in need of support today in the fight against crime. [[B in m in s a l in]] There will be two more questions, two more questions: Radical Party and Fatherland. Please, radical party, Cooper.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-06-m0.u147	Cooper Oleg, Oleg Lachka Radical Party. First request-demand: to take personal control of criminal conduct in relation to the violation of electoral legislation in the elections, including 94 districts (Vasilks, Footwear, 2013). So far, no great sower has been called to account. Questions. You mentioned the "wassilk terrorists," the question is, when will the conduct regarding Judge Burbella be violated, who did the case and condemned our brothers? Second question. The cheerful pictures you showed us are very interesting and funny: behind each square and parallelogram is a specific name. Question is, how many, how many of these fun pictures are already in prison? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-06-m0.u148	Criminal investigation, I've told you, about a hundred people who were in the leadership of the state in 2010-2014 are now suspected. Sadly, their relationship with the Russian Federation and the occupied territory of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea gave them the opportunity to flee. Criminal-procedural legislation allows us to declare suspicion in absentia, they're all in search: either in state or international. So as soon as they are detained, they will be held accountable. Today, the Berkutu employees, who were shooting at Maidan, as well as the participants -- the so-called aunts -- who committed the murders of citizens from February 18th to February 19th on the corner of Volodymyrska and Great Zitomirska Street. There are two killed, eight wounded. So far, it's about limiting the will of the people we've just talked about.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-06-m0.u149	Thank you. Dear colleagues, there will be a few more questions. And in the end, there'll be Fatherland. Vladimir Parasuk. [[B in m in s a l in]] Wait, fellows, wait! It'll be a closing statement. Please, Vladimir Parasuk. Then Anton Gerashchenko. And the word is Julia Timoshenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-06-m0.u150	Should I ask?
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-06-m0.u151	Sure.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-06-m0.u152	Okay. Mr. Jarem. (They'll give you an answer right away. Let me ask you a question.) First. No, I have a conscience. I want to ask what the prosecutor of Volosin is doing right now at the Kyiv Court of Appeal, where the question of Gongadze 15 years ago, which was supposed to be illustrated, which was the case against the rangers? First question. And the second question is: Mr. Jarem, they want you to be released not because of personal circumstances but because you are an inactive prosecutor. And you're the only one here who can tell us the good things. And those who have not signed the resignation are on your conscience. And you don't have to cover yourself with embroidery and the phrase "Glory to Ukraine." Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-06-m0.u153	Please, Vitaly Grigorovitch.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-06-m0.u154	Prosecutor Volosin, like many others, and some 70 prosecutors in Kyiv, who are involved in events related to field persecution, are now in the second stage of the illustration. It ends in April. The Law was adopted by the Supreme Council. We're just following the law. As soon as his participation is confirmed, he will be released in accordance with the Law on the Purification of Power.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-06-m0.u155	Anton Gerashchenko, People's Front, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-06-m0.u156	On 26 January last year, two Kharkiv activists, Euromaydan Sergey and Alexander, were abducted by people who were subsequently identified as security guards of Harkovsky's urban head, Kernes Gennady Adolfovich. The victims testified to the prosecution that Kernes Gennadia Adolfovich himself had directed them to kidnap, interrogate, hit and hurt them personally. It'll be a year later on this case. I read yesterday in an interview with the Minister of the Interior that the case would be brought to trial. Vitaly Grigoryevich, I ask that this be done. And I ask that the prosecution transfer this case to Kiev, because in the city of Harkov, the courts will judge Kernes Gennady Adolfovich. Because the judges didn't realize we had a new country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-06-m0.u157	Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-06-m0.u158	Thank you. The authority for the transfer of criminal conduct belongs to a higher specialized judge. So I'm going to respond accordingly to your proposal. Please give me an official address. As far as bringing the indictment to trial is concerned, it will really be in the near future. And we're only waiting for one document that you know we talked about. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-06-m0.u159	Thank you, Vitaly Grigorovitch. Please, Julia Timoshenko, Fatherland.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-06-m0.u160	I think that today the outrage in the hall that we hear is caused by the fact that society, including Parliament, as part of society, feels that the system is in power after the Maidan revolution, is fueling that it does not perform its main functions. It does not attract those responsible for all the horrors that have been in the country and at the same time does not bring about a system of things today. And so now to put all the questions on one Attorney General -- it seems to me to narrow it down. We had to listen to all the law - enforcement officers, ask them questions, and ask them why they did not have decisions. But it is a matter of honor today for the Attorney General's Office to clear all those who have come from the past who have dealt with the courts. And the first question is: Are you ready to do this? And the second question. I'm asking you to prolong for 10 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-06-m0.u161	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-06-m0.u162	Second question. Parliament recognized the jurisdiction of the International Criminal Court. Today, Russia’s specific leadership, Vladimir Putin, is tearing the country apart and shooting at the spotlight. Are you prepared to gather all the necessary evidence to bring them to The Hague and to bring them to the responsibility of the aggressor leaders? And when can this be done?
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-06-m0.u163	Thank you. Dear Julia Volodymyrna! I'm willing to completely clean up, as you say, the prosecutor's office from those villains who have committed crimes and are corrupt, along with you. Let's help me, come on, let's turn around, point to those people, I'll fire them, no doubt. As for cooperation with the International Criminal Court, I met. You know, the materials at the International Criminal Court are being handed over by the prosecutor of the International Criminal Court and they are. We've recently met with his representative, all the necessary materials we've sent over, they're now studying, and they're going to make decisions according to their authority. But we've already given them all the evidence. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-06-m0.u164	Thank you. Please, Oleg Lazko of the Radical Party. One last question. Since the factions, everyone has asked questions. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-06-m0.u165	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. Dear Vitaly Grigorovich, I want you to understand why you're here today in the Supreme Council, and why a number of national deputies, including the Radical Party faction, have signed in full for the decision to consider your resignation. The Ukrainian society and we national deputies resent the inaction of law enforcement agencies. I can't see and can't sleep peacefully when I see those who killed our brothers sitting in jail, and not all of them are hiding in the Russians. Ephraim is walking in Kiev, Mohilov is walking in Kiev, all the other Apothecaries of Yanukovich. What is more, he does not walk on Kiev, but many of them sit in the Supreme Council Hall. So on behalf of the Radical Party faction, I demand decisive action from you! Act, file, work, investigate, arrest, arrest! Give people a result. Show people the job, show them that the Attorney General under your supervision is capable of something! Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-06-m0.u166	Thank you. I think it's more of a speech than a question. Dear colleagues, I'd like to say a few words. That it's really a challenge for the whole system -- both the law enforcement system, including you and me -- to create a foundation of national legislation that would allow us not to let murderers and corrupters go to jail, but to put them in jail right away. For everyone to understand if you have committed a crime, you will be responsible. And I think that the atmosphere today is not just in the audience, but, above all, in Ukrainian society. For he who has committed a crime must be punished. And this position is completely shared. So our task, and I would like to say, Vitalia Grigorovich, is to point out that all that concerns the Ukrainian Parliament, and consent to criminal responsibility, and changes to legislation that clearly confirm that every criminal must be punished, is supported by most of the Ukrainian Parliament. We are ready to become reliable partners in the fight against corruption, banditry. And we would like the following information, which will be the Attorney General's Office, to indicate that we have a decrease in accessibility, including crime, in the streets of Ukrainian cities, and in Ukraine as a whole. So I want to thank you for your information and wish us all that we were uncompromising about protecting human rights and combating crime. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-06-m0.u167	Thank you, distinguished national deputies.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-06-m0.u168	I'm calling it a 12-hour break for 30 minutes. Thank you, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-06-m0.u169	We continue our difficult but necessary work. Now we have a day-to-day request announcement. Then there will be an hour of presentations on various issues. And we would like to prepare to sign up after reading our questions. I want to tell you right away to the MPs who asked the President, now they're obviously not going to read, because they need a vote in the room. All other queries will now be read. And to read the questions, I invite you to speak to the Deputy Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, Oksana Siroid.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-06-m0.u170	Ladies and gentlemen of the national parliament, your attention to the questions of the national MPs. National Deputy Victor Razwadowski to the head of the Žitomir District Administration, head of the Žitomir District Council for the inclusion in the 2015 budget of the cost of reconstruction and repair of the kindergarten in the village of Pechanovka of the Romanov region, Žitomir district. Victor Razwadowski to Prime Minister of Ukraine, head of the Žitomir District Administration, head of the Žitomir District Council for the inclusion in the budget of costs for the construction of a sewage collector in the city of Zitomir. Anatolia Kuzmenka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for the restoration of the function of the Alexanderian bourgeois complex, Kirovograd. National Deputy Alexia Honcharenk to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the inaction of the Ukrainian Public Prosecutor's Office and the Ministry of Internal Affairs in the Volin Region, in the event of the raiding of the Private Enterprise Flora, which envisioned the commission of a series of crimes related to the common intention and unlawful seizure of foreign property, combined with the use of unjust decisions. National Deputy Vadim Rabinović to the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, on the appropriateness and rational use of service facilities by the Ukrainian National Deputies. National Deputy Mikoli Tomenka to the Minister of Ecology and Natural Resources of Ukraine to justify the implementation of a project to fill the Kuyalna Lima with seawater. National Deputy Paul Ungurian to the Minister of Health of Ukraine on the issue of official statistics on the number of abortions in Ukrainian medical establishments for 2009-2014. National Deputy Natalija Weselova to the head of the Kiev City State Administration on the legality of the removal and sale of individual land in the Dniprov district of Kiev. National Deputy Paul Kiskar to the Ministry of Defence of Ukraine regarding the use of military-industrial power in the manufacture of military weapons and the possibility of establishing private military companies in Ukraine. National Deputy Paul Kiskar to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the further fate of the Private Shareholder Society Suhimprom as a strategic producer of phosphorous mineral fertilizers in Ukraine. National Deputy Andrija Artemenko to the Minister for Economic Development and Trade of Ukraine on the activities of the State Enterprise Antonov in connection with the production and modernization of aircraft and participation in international projects. National Deputy Andrija Artemenko to the Attorney General of Ukraine, Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine, Head of the Security Service of Ukraine, on the situation surrounding the State Enterprise Antonov and its freed leader, Dmitri Kiwa, whose actions are being destroyed by the state enterprise. National Deputy Alexander Marchenk to the Attorney General of Ukraine for possible violations of current law by officials of the Biloczerk City Council during the transfer of the property complex to the concession. National Deputy Yuri Chizmar to the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine for spending more than 50 million dollars of budget to support judges who applied for release and stopped working. National Deputy Igor Brichenko to the Minister of Energy and Coal Industry of Ukraine to address the problem of power failure in the Mikolai region. National Deputy Alexander Dombrovski to Minister of Energy and Coal Industry of Ukraine, Director-General of the Public Shareholders Association of Vinciaoblanergo, on the use of urgent measures for the uninterrupted supply of electricity to consumers. National Deputy Vitalia Gudzenka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for the restoration of the function of the subsidiary "Tarastian Regional Road Administration" of the State Company "Kivobledor" of the Open Shareholder Society "State Share Company" "Ukrainian Roads" as a separate structural unit. National Deputy Jury Chizmar to the Attorney General of Ukraine, Minister of Justice of Ukraine, on the situation that has arisen as a result of the inactivity of the High Council of Justice and has caused damage to the state. National Deputy Valentina Nichiporenka to the Attorney General of Ukraine, head of the State Financial Inspectorate of Ukraine on the situation at the Ivankow sugar plant (Czerka oblast). National Deputy Stephen Barna to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for the transfer of the object of unfinished construction to the Ternopil Regional Public Library in Ternopil from state property to the common property of the territorial communities of villages, villages, and cities of the Ternopil region. National Deputy Vadim Krivohatka to the Minister of Agriculture Policy and Food of Ukraine on the forceful capture of the building and illegal change in the leadership of the Institute of Oil Cultures of the National Academy of Agricultural Sciences of Ukraine. National Deputy Michael Gabrieluk to the head of the village council of Kiev-Svetoshin district of Kiev for information and documentary confirmation. National Deputy Michael Gavriluk to the head of the Kiev-Svetoshin village council of Kiev for information, which is of considerable social interest, namely the preparation for the approval of the new General Plan of the village of Petrovsk Kyiv-Svetoshinsk district of the Kyiv region. National Deputy Andrija Šinkovic to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for the establishment of a fixed allowance for education and science workers. Andrija Šinkovič to the Minister of Education and Science of Ukraine, the first deputy head of the Hmelnick district government to pay allowances to education and science workers. The National Deputy Vladislav Buharev to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for the creation of possible premeditations of extraordinary situations on infrastructure sites and the deterioration of living conditions of the inhabitants of Ohtyr, Trostian, Lebedin, Grandpisar and other areas of the Suma region as a result of the prolonged and unordered disconnection of electricity. National Deputy Alexander Marchenka to the Attorney General of Ukraine for the violation of the rights of lecturers at the Biloczerk Music School No. 3. National Deputy Sergey Melnik to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for the amendment to the appendix "List of Budget Classification Codes in Organs Controlling the Management of Budget Inventory" Order of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine of 16 February 2011 No. 106. National Deputy Sergei Melnik to the Minister of Energy and Coal Industry of Ukraine, acting as Head of the National Property Fund of Ukraine for the return of the transformer substation from Hmelnickoblenergo to the municipal property of the city of Hmelnitsky. National Deputy Yuri Garbuza to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the criminal activity of officials of the Public Shareholders Association of the Heat Renovation Plant and related enterprises, the inaction in the situation of law enforcement authorities and public authorities, which has led to the task of the State of damage in a particularly large way. Groups of National Deputies (Spenova, Pavlova, Kolesnikova) to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the power outage of power in Krivoriža. National Deputy Lilia Greenevich to the Minister of Finance of Ukraine for the operation of the Ukrainian Antarctic Expedition in 2015. National Deputy Oleg Kulinić to the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine on the threat of the elimination of the Hometic Veterinary and Zootechnical Technology of the Polish State Agrarian Academy. National Deputy Oleg Kulinić to the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine for the provision of buses to the Zynkovian Special School of Sports and Children's at the Olympic Reserve for Handball of the Zinko District Council of Poltava District. National Deputy Alexander Sugonjako to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Energy and Coal Industry of Ukraine, Head of the Security Service of Ukraine for immediate action in connection with the drawing-up of emergency power cut-off schedules for consumers in the Sums region (Sum and other population locations in the Sums region, the city of Bilopil and the village of the city type of Krasnopil), as well as verification of the failure of electricity during the application of the indicated graphs. National Deputy Vasil Janicki to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Energy and Coal Industry of Ukraine on the localization of possible negative consequences caused by the cessation of gas supply of the Public Shareholder Association "Rineazot" and the provision of adequate conditions for the conduct of legitimate business activities. Igora Lucenka to the Head of the Security Service of Ukraine regarding the non-admission by the leadership of the Public Shareholders Association of the Equator Plant to actions aimed at supporting the Russian Federation military forces, which commits military aggression against Ukraine, as well as actions that contain signs of particularly serious crimes against the State, crimes in the field of customs regulation and violations of state secret legislation. National Deputy Alexia Lensky to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the use of immediate response measures to the situation of massive multi-hour light outages in all regions of Ukraine, resulting in inconveniences and emergency situations. National Deputy Alexia Lensky to the Minister of Health of Ukraine regarding the use of urgent measures aimed at halting violations of the rights of citizens of the Constitution to a safe environment and health, the elimination of environmental hazards from unauthorized sources of drinking water, which has a negative impact on the environment, resulting in pollution of wells and drinking water systems in Poltava, where out of 220,000 wells, 80,000 are contaminated with nitrates and petroleum products, resulting in unusual cases of poisoning with well water, some with a deadly result, providing quality water for citizens and carrying out checks on their bodies. National Deputy Dmitry Dobrodomov to the Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine on the reasons for the commercial use of the premises of the former Brukhowitz Police Department and the establishment of the Brukhowitz Police Department of the Shevchenkov District Department of the Lviv City Department of the Ministry of Internal Affairs of Ukraine in the Lviv region. National Deputy Igor Mosiyczuk to the head of the Kiev City State Administration for Land Information at the address of the city of Kiev, Nagorna Street, 22. National Deputy Igor Mosiyczuk to the head of the Kiev City State Administration for Land Information at the address of the city of Kiev, Ivan Kudri Street, 26. National Deputy Borislav Bereza to the Attorney-General of Ukraine, Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine, on the illegal actions of the investigating Petty Officer of the Directorate-General of the Ministry of Internal Affairs of Ukraine in Kiev, as well as the prevention and opposition of corruption. National Deputy Borislav Bereza and Irina Heraszczenko are headed by the National Bank of Ukraine, the Attorney General of Ukraine, the Authorized Person of the Fund for Guaranteeing the Investments of Individuals for the Temporary Administration of the Public Shareholders of the U.E.B. Bank concerning the illegal blocking of funds in the Society's accounts with limited liability "TechnoServ Ukraine", made by officials of the Public Shareholder Society "WAIB Bank", and the inactivity of the Authorized Person Fund to guarantee the contribution of natural persons to the temporary administration of Maria Slavkina. National Deputy Arthur Gerasimov to the Ukrainian Defence Minister, Ukrainian Health Minister, to improve the efficiency of the rehabilitation of ATO participants who were injured during hostilities. The National Deputy Vladislav Douba to the head of the Cerkas District State Administration, acting as Head of the Government of the Czercasioblanergo Public Shareholders' Association for Power Disengagement and Timetable for Power Disengagement in Canivsk, Zolotaniski, Cherkas region of the Cherkas region and the city of Cherkasach. National Deputy Vadim Rabinović to the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, Prime Minister of Ukraine, Secretary of the National Security and Defence Council of Ukraine on information on the creation and financing mechanisms of the State Border Agency (the "Wall" project). National Deputy Ivanna Klimpush-Cincadze and Mustafa-Masi Nyem to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Defence of Ukraine, for the creation of the right conditions for the location and functioning of the Ukrainian Military Medical Academy. National Deputy Maxim Burbak to the Attorney General of Ukraine, Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine, for the prompt and impartial investigation of criminal conduct into the public reception of the Ukrainian national deputy Maxim Burbak. National Deputy Maxim Burbak to the Attorney General of Ukraine, Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine, for the objective investigation of criminal conduct in connection with the abuse of office by officials of the Society with limited responsibility of Draczynecke in the Chernjevic region. National Deputy Paul Rizanenka to the head of the National Financial Inspectorate of Ukraine on the verification of the illegal actions of officials of the National Specialist Enterprise "Cornobil Special Unit". National Deputy Alexander Dombrovski to the head of the National Shareholder Company Naftogaz Ukraine to provide information on the natural gas balance of Ukraine. National Deputy Vasil Janicki to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the situation surrounding the Society with limited responsibility for Carbon LTD and Olympus-96. National Deputy Victor Krivenk to the Attorney General of Ukraine for illegal obstruction. National Deputy Igor Vasyunika to the Attorney General of Ukraine, Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine, on the abuse in the liquor sector of Ukraine, particularly at the State Enterprise Ukrispirt. National Deputy Taras Batenka to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the non-performance of investment agreements by the Public Shareholder Society of Mikolayevcement, which aims to develop infrastructure and improve sociocultural and engineering facilities in the region of Lviv. National Deputy Andria Shipka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine foresaw the 2015 expenditure in the field of Health Protection to compensate for the environmental features of the Dnipropetrov region. National Deputy Andrija Shipka to the Deputy Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Regional Development, Construction and Housing of Ukraine, on the settlement of the issue of periodic inspections of water resources for the referral of citizens of the city of Nikopol Dnipropetrovsk. National Deputy Anatolia Denisenka to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the reform of the pension system of Ukraine and the indexation of pension payments. Groups of National Deputies (Leuria Berezi, Victoria Sumar and others, only 40 deputies) to the Minister of Foreign Affairs of Ukraine on the removal of diplomatic passports from the National Deputies VII, which voted in favour of the "Dictator's Laws" on 16 January, as well as the removal of diplomatic passports to the members of the Government of Mikola Azarov. National Deputy Bogdan Dubnevich to the private Kiyevstar Shareholders Association, the private stockholders' association "MTS Ukraine", the Society with limited responsibility "ASTELIT" for improving mobile communications in the Lviv Region. National Deputy Jaroslav Dubnević to the head of the Lviv District State Administration for the provision of social benefits to participants in an anti-terrorist operation in eastern Ukraine and members of their families living in the Lviv region. Victor Pinzenic's national deputy to the head of the National Shareholder Company Naftogaz Ukraine for the provision of calculations on economically sound natural gas costs. Groups of National Deputies (Lyska, Lozov and others, only 5 deputies, to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for the appointment of the Director of the State Enterprise Science and Technology Complex Impulse, Kiev. National Deputy Fedor Negoy to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for the definition of the status of land occupied by the Ar Crimea border. National Deputy Vladimir Aresonkov to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the cessation of illegal mining in the territory of the Žitomir region. National Deputy Irina Souslowy to the Attorney General of Ukraine, Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine, on the investigation of the criminal acts of the temporary administrator of the ALBbank Share Bank, Yuri Shkindela. National Deputy Alexia Goncharenko to the head of the Ukrainian Security Service for the proper response to the activities of former Ukrainian National Deputy Igor Markov, who has signs of actions aimed at violent change or the overthrow of the constitutional system or the capture of state authority, changes in borders, territories, or the state border of Ukraine, as well as the impossibility of financing such actions by Igor Markov, the Association with limited responsibility of the Union (the City of Odessa) and other economic entities associated with Igor Markov. National Deputy Igor Artyushenko to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the review of resonant criminal cases concerning the leadership of the city of Zaporozhye and Zaporozhye. People's deputies. Groups of National Deputies (Pisarenka, Denisenka and others, only six deputies) to the Attorney-General of Ukraine, the Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine for the introduction into the Single Register of Judicial Investigations of the facts of the beating of citizens, members of the Kharkiv City Council, law enforcement officials and the obstruction of local self-government, which took place on 24 December 2014 in Kharkiv. National Deputy Andrija Illenka to the prosecutor of Kiev, Director General of the Public Shareholder Society Kiyivenergo, Director of the Department of State Architecture and Construction Inspection in Kiev, on the use of measures to protect citizens' rights to adequate and safe living conditions which are violated by the Society with limited responsibility of FSC through illegal construction at the intersection of the streets of Youth and Space in the Dniprovi district of Kiev. National Deputy Andrija Illenka to the prosecutor of Kiev, Director of the Department of State Architecture and Construction in Kiev, on the use of measures to protect citizens' rights in connection with construction on the streets of Maliska and Miropilska in the Dniprov district of Kiev. National Deputy Yuri Bublik to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the purposeless use of land by the State Enterprise "Runo Research Farm" of the National Academy of Agricultural Sciences of Ukraine and the violation of the rights of employees of the enterprise in connection with the refusal to allocate land particles (pai) to them. The National Deputy Yuri Bublik to the Attorney-General of Ukraine, the Minister of Education and Science of Ukraine on the issue of “Savill” and systematic abuse of the service position to meet his own needs, the constant Ukrainianophobic position, the collection of personal accounts by way of the release of national conscious, patriotically configured lecturers, and the damage to the state by the head of the National Technical University of Poltava, Yuri Kondratuk, Byštnik Volodymyr Alexandrovich, who is indignant to the students and the educational group of the Uzu and has led to rallies and protests. National Deputy Yuri Lewchenk to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the provision of information on the list of goods, works and services that have been purchased at the expense of the budget by the Secretary of the Cabinet of Ministers from 1 July 2014 to 31 December 2014 with the application of the open trade procedure and without the application of the procedure to justify their purchase at this stage. National Deputy Yuri Lewchenk to the head of the Kyiv City State Administration for the establishment of the Yuri Gagarin Film Theatre, which is located in Kiev, Stusev Street, 5, a cultural and social complex for cinemas and guests of the capital. National Deputy Edward Matviychuk to the Odessa City Council, Odessa City Administration of the Ministry of Internal Affairs of Ukraine in the Odessa Region, on the need to take effective measures to address the repeated appeal of the parental committee of the Odessa National Food Technology Academy to students of gas and oil in the immediate vicinity of the city of education, to create appropriate conditions for ensuring the educational and educational process in accordance with the current legislation of Ukraine in the educational establishments of Odessa, with the warning of smoking among children and young people, and to reduce the use of tobacco and alcohol products and to sell them in addition to the educational establishments of Odessa. National Deputy Igor Artushenko to the Attorney General of Ukraine, Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine, for the verification of the legality of the actions of officials of the Institute of Oil Cultures of the National Academy of Agricultural Sciences of Ukraine. National Deputy Michael Golovk to the Minister of Agriculture and Food of Ukraine, Minister of Ecology and Natural Resources of Ukraine, Head of the State Forest Resources Agency of Ukraine for the review of the application of the Director of the National Natural Park "Cremenac Mountains". National Deputy Michael Golovka to the Minister of Ecology and Natural Resources of Ukraine to increase funding for the Silicon Botanical Garden of the Ternopil region. National Deputy Valentina Nichiporenka to the Attorney General of Ukraine, head of the State Financial Inspectorate of Ukraine, for the verification of the conditions of the Ukrainian horse sport championship in violation of the Rules of the Tribute. National Deputy Sergey Kaplin to the Minister of Education and Science of Ukraine for the conduct of checks on the distribution of private advertising for the sale of medals to the administration of education of the Poltavian City Council. National Deputy Oleg Osuhovski to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for the monitoring of the use of budgetary resources by the National Shareholder of Naftogaz Ukraine. National Deputy Ruslan Solvara and Jacob Besbach to the Human Rights Commissioner of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, the Ministry of Social Policy of Ukraine, the Ministry of Internal Affairs of Ukraine, the Attorney General of Ukraine, the Pension Fund of Ukraine on the need for effective and urgent measures to protect the social guarantees of citizens. National Deputy Jacob Besbach and Ruslan Solvar to the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, the Ministry of Energy and Coal Industry of Ukraine, the Ministry of Regional Development, Construction and Housing of Ukraine, the National Commission for State regulation in the fields of energy and utilities regarding the non-delivery of power plants in Ukraine. National Deputy Ruslan Solvar to the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the Prevention and Opposition of Corruption, the Office of the Attorney-General of Ukraine, the Ministry of Internal Affairs of Ukraine, the Supreme Qualification of Judges of Ukraine, the State Judicial Administration of Ukraine on the necessary use of urgent means to carry out a proper examination of the facts of interference in the process of justice, the decision of the courts of injustice, the removal of decisions, the removal of court cases with the conduct of the courts. National Deputy Oleg Musia to the Minister of Energy and Coal Industry of Ukraine to address the question of the continuation of the Lviv coal mine. National Deputy Oleg Musia to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on addressing the issues of the coal industry in the Lviv region. National Deputy Stepan Kubova to the head of the National Bank of Ukraine for providing information on the projected income of the National Bank of Ukraine, which will be credited to the National Budget of Ukraine for 2015. National Deputy Stephen Kubeva to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the objective and impartial investigation of the legality of the unsold asset management process, the liquidation of the Open Stock Exchange of the European Development and Savings Bank and the invocation of the responsibility of the guilty. National Deputy Oleg Kuprienka to the head of the National Bank of Ukraine regarding the licensing of investments abroad. The National Deputy of Ukraine, Jacob Besbach, to head the Kyiv City State Administration, head of the National Architectural Inspectorate of Ukraine for providing information on the legal basis for the construction of the trade complex on the street of Strategic Road and the Prospect for Science in the Bologna district of Kiev and for the use of measures to prevent violations of existing legislation. National Deputy Tetjana Crnowol to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the illegal, unlawful actions of Eduardo Stavitsky as head of the National Shareholder Company Nadra Ukraine, Minister of Environment and Natural Resources of Ukraine, Minister of Energy and Coal Industry of Ukraine. National Deputy Tetjana Crnovol to the Attorney General of Ukraine, Minister of Interior of Ukraine, Secretary of the National Security and Defence Council of Ukraine, regarding the illegal, unlawful activities of the Director of the Ukrainian State Enterprise, Ukrishimtransamak, Victor Bondik. National MP Mikhail Kobcev to the Attorney General of Ukraine for the protection of the constitutional rights of citizen Viacheslav Yutinski and for the cessation of violations of the law by law enforcement officials of the Ministry of Internal Affairs of Ukraine in the Kharkiv region. National Deputy John Miroshnick to the Attorney General of Ukraine for ensuring proper investigation of the acquisition and disposal of state property by officials and officials of the Public Shareholders Association "State Food and Grain Corporation", the company "Neslot Limited" and the Private Shareholder Society "SK "GARANT PRESTIZJ". National Deputy John Miroshnick to the head of the National Fiscal Service of Ukraine for ensuring that taxes are properly investigated for tax evasion and embezzled and for the destruction of state property by officials and officials of the Public Shareholders Association "State Food and Grain Corporation" and the company "SONDERS TRADING K/S CO., LIMITED". National Deputy Anatoly Yevlakhov to the Deputy Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Regional Development, Construction and Housing of Ukraine, Prosecutor General of Ukraine, on the signs of crime in charge of the territory of the Vishenko Rural Council of the Coropian Region of Montenegro, for the benefit of citizen Alexander Nereta. The National Deputy of Oksana Sold to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the illegal requirements of the State Fiscal Service of Ukraine to charge the only social contribution and income tax of individuals for compensation payments within the average wage of employees appointed to military service for recruitment. National Deputy Sergey Labazuk to the Minister of Education and Science of Ukraine on ensuring the constitutional right of every Ukrainian citizen to education. National Deputy Sergei Labazuk to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on corruption schemes for renting land and property. National Deputy Constantine Jarinić to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the use of urgent measures aimed at restoring the function of the bourgeoisle complex of the Kirovograd region. National Deputy Sergei Soboljeva to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the use of comprehensive measures to return to the state property of all without excluding the land of the Rosemow forest, in particular illegally transferred at the end of 2012, for the promotion of a criminal group of the prison criminal "watching" "Anisim", private property of the citizens of Volodymyr Kirsanov and Oleg Olinkevich. Groups of National Deputies (Divide, Jelenski, and others) A total of 5 deputies) to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for the destruction in the State Historical and Cultural Reserve of the 16th century. National Deputy Mikoli Tomenka to the Minister of Education and Science of Ukraine on the need for the election of the Rector of the Cerka National University of Bogdan Hmelnick. National Deputy Eugene Action to the Minister of Defence of Ukraine, Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine, on providing information on the name list of persons actually taking part in the Anti-Terrorism Operation. National Deputy Sergey Kaplin to the Attorney General of Ukraine for the objective investigation of the road accident on the section of the Kiev-Dužansky road near Artemovsk, which resulted in the deaths of the military. National Deputy Mikoli Palamarczuk to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the abuse by officials of the State Fisheries Agency of Ukraine and the Ministry of Agriculture Policy and Food of Ukraine. National Deputy of Oksana Korczynska to the Minister of Interior of Ukraine, Head of the State Border Service of Ukraine, First Deputy Commander of the National Guard of Ukraine for the provision of information on the size of budgetary funding for the purchase of medical supplies, medical supplies, the renewal of sanitary and evacuation transport, the financing of medical services for voluntary battalions. National deputy Victor Krivenk to the prosecutor of the Dnipropetrov district for the beating of residents of the village of Shulgivka, Petrikowsk district, Dnipropetrov region, and the illegal construction of a farm for the divorce of the norse. National Deputy Yuri Derevyanka to the Office of the Attorney General of Ukraine to investigate the commission of criminal offences by officials of the criminal regime of Viktor Yanuković during the privatization of state and municipal enterprises. National Deputy Oksana Korczynska to the Minister of Defense of Ukraine for the provision of information on the budgetary financing of expenditure from the purchase of medical supplies, medical supplies, sanitary and evacuation transport. Groups of National Deputies (During, Jurinec and others) A total of 7 deputies) to the Attorney-General of Ukraine, the Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine, for criminal offences involving the property of an activist named Yulia Lazik. Groups of National Deputies (Nasalika, Tomenka, Černovol) to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the abuse of work and the provision of services for the disposal of hexachlorobenzene waste in Kalus Ivano-Frankiv district. National Deputy Ostap One to the Attorney General of Ukraine, Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine, Head of the Ukrainian Security Service, on taking immediate action to remove the corruption scheme launched by the State Forest Resources Agency of Ukraine and the Ukrlisconsalting State Enterprise. National Deputy Sergei Rudik to the Office of the Attorney-General of Ukraine, Ministry of Internal Affairs of Ukraine, Ministry of Defence of Ukraine, Security Service of Ukraine for the issuance of lists of civil servants of category I-II who have written applications for ATO status. National Deputy Irina Suslowy to Minister of Environment and Natural Resources of Ukraine, Minister of Interior of Ukraine, on the investigation of illegal logging in the Old Sambir region of Lviv. National Deputy Vladimir Lithuania to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for the allocation of funds from the State Budget Reserve Fund of Ukraine for the immediate repair of an emergency residence. National Deputy Jaroslav Dubnević to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for the payment of arrears in payment of salaries to employees of the State airline "Livivian Airlines" and for the mandate of the Office of the Attorney General of Ukraine to carry out checks on compliance with the law in the course of the liquidation of the airline. National Deputy Michael Kobcev to the Attorney-General of Ukraine, Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine, Head of the Security Service of Ukraine for the protection of members of the Society's labour team with limited responsibility for the "Rail Automatics" of the city of Kharkiv against the illegal activities of representatives of the law enforcement agencies, which are responsible for the acquisition of property of the enterprise and the unjustified criminal prosecution and dismissal of work. National Deputy Anna Romanova to the Head of the Security Service of Ukraine for the immediate fight against separatist activity and anti-Ukraine information propaganda in the Chernigiv region.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-06-m0.u171	At 13-1 different, which means we haven't been able to announce the dot for the next time. From 13.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-06-m0.u172	We're on it. National Deputy Anna Romanova to the Head of the Security Service of Ukraine for the immediate fight against separatist activity and anti-Ukraine information propaganda in the Chernigiv region. National Deputy Stanislav Berezkin to the Minister of Infrastructure of Ukraine for the provision of passenger rail traffic through the node station Pomocní Kirovograd Region. National Deputy Andrija Pomazanova to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the criminalization of judges of Ukraine. National Deputy Igor Shurma to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for permission to pay employees of higher education institutions at the expense of a special fund. National Deputy Igor Shurma to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on urgent steps to restore the work of the Lviv Regional Clinical Perinatal Centre. The National Deputy Paul Dziblik to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the use of urgent measures to create safe conditions for participants in the educational process in the premises of the City School of Education, I-III, was the village of the city-type City of Radomisl district of Žitomir district. National Deputy Alexander Dekhtyarczuk to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the implementation of urgent measures to address the complex socio-economic situation at the "Revenna Automobile Repair Plant" Public Enterprise. National Deputy Alexander Suprunenka to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the examination of the case of unfair decisions by the judge of the Pecher District Court of Kiev and the inaction of the prosecutor of Kyiv's office in the examination of allegations of crimes. National Deputy Alexander Suprunka to the Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine on the inaction of the Ministry of Internal Affairs of Ukraine. National Deputy Boris Filatov to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the non-payment of salaries to employees of the State-owned company Zirkoniy city of Dniprodj yinsk Dnipropetrovsk district. National Deputy Bogdan Dubnević to the Minister of Education and Science of Ukraine for the clarification of the decision of the Accreditation Commission of the Ministry of Education and Science of Ukraine on July 8, 2014. National Deputy Mikoli Palamarczuk to the Ukrainian Defence Minister for the death of a military officer during the Anti-Terrorism Operation. National Deputy Irina Sisoyenko to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the results of the pilot project on the introduction of state price regulation for treatment of hypertensive patients. National Deputy Irina Sisoyenko to the Minister of Defence of Ukraine on the effective interaction of the structural units of the Ministry of Defence of Ukraine with the hospitals of district and district importance for the timely rerouting of the wounded and military forces of Ukraine from the sites of military operations of the conduct of the ATO to civilian medical institutions. National Deputy Mr. Gregory Times to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Social Policy of Ukraine, Prosecutor General of Ukraine, on bringing to justice the legal responsibility of guilty persons for violating the rights and interests of a citizen, Ilya Dugan, according to the Ukrainian Law on Civil Appeal. National Deputy Gregory Times to the Minister of Education and Science of Ukraine to avoid the development of a conflict situation around the dormitory No. 1 of the Deep Professional List. National Deputy Sergey Kiwalova to Minister of Infrastructure of Ukraine, Attorney General of Ukraine, on the need to verify and take steps to halt illegal construction in the coastal area of Odessa. National Deputy Oleg Petrenko to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the illegal use of land areas of the Public Shareholder Association Cherkasiribgosp. National Deputy Dmitr Timchuk to the Minister of Defence of Ukraine, Chief of General Staff, Commander-in-Chief of the Armed Forces of Ukraine, on plans for the reorganization and reduction of the Ukrainian Navy. National Deputy Mikoli Fedoruka to the Attorney General of Ukraine, Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine, on the verification of the violation of the rights of a foreign investor. National Deputy Andrija Levus to the Minister for Foreign Affairs of Ukraine, Head of the Ukrainian Presidential Administration on the run and outcome of the meetings of the Tripartite Contact Group aimed at implementing the Peace Plan of President Peter Alexiyovich Prashenko. National Deputy Andriy Levus to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, Secretary of the National Security and Defence Council of Ukraine on the application of sanctions against the citizen of the Russian Federation, Alexander Babakov, as well as those who directly or indirectly control him or act in his interests. The National MP, Artem Iluk, to the Mycolayian City Head, on the violation by officials of the executive committee of the Mikolai City Council of the requirements of the Ukrainian Law on Principles for Preventing and Resisting Corruption, the Ukrainian Law on Access to Public Information, the URSR Housing Code and the regulations on the calculation of citizens who need to improve housing conditions. National Deputy Oksana Sold to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on reducing fiscal pressure on the income of individuals and legalizing the labour market in Ukraine. National Deputy Edward Matviychuk to the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, the Ministry of Agriculture Policy and Food of Ukraine on the need to resolve the issue of the maintenance of the proper level of funding in 2015 of Odessa district education institutions, which are subordinated to the Ministry of Agriculture Policy and Food of Ukraine. National Deputy Constantine Ischeikin to the Attorney General of Ukraine for the production by the employees of the Public Prosecutor's Office of the Poltava Region of criminal materials for the fact that a traffic accident was committed by the judge of the Land Court of Zaporez by Viktor Serkiz and a criminal obstacle to the retrial of this crime, which caused considerable social resonance. National Deputy Dmitry Dobrodomov to the head of the Temporary Special Commission for the Examination of Judges of the General Courts of Justice for the Review of Judges of General Jurisdiction under the Ukrainian Law on Restoration of Trust in Judicial Authority in Ukraine. National Deputy Anton Kisse to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for the financing in 2015 of the National Target Regional Development Programme of the Ukrainian Danube 2014-2017. Anton Kisse to the Minister of Agriculture and Food of Ukraine on the issues that arise in the process of liquidation of the State Agricultural Inspectorate and its district departments. National MPs Yuri Voropejev and Dmitr Sphenov to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the criminal seizure of the premises of the Crimson City Council and the anti-constitutional obstruction of the work of the local self-government body. National Deputy Volodymyr Shkvariluk to the Minister of Justice of Ukraine on the use of measures to address the Galician District Council of the Ivano-Frankov Region on the illustration of the head of the Galician District Court Yuri Maximchin. National Deputy Jaroslav Markevich to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the use of premises that may be released as a result of the reduction in the number of employees of executive authorities and other state bodies. National Deputy Jaroslav Markevich to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for the introduction of the draft Ukrainian Act on Change to the State Budget for Ukraine for 2015. National Deputy Anatolia Denisenka to Minister of Youth and Sports of Ukraine, Minister of Finance of Ukraine for the implementation of the State Youth Housing Programme 2013-2017. National Deputy Oleg Petrenk to the Head of the National Financial Inspectorate of Ukraine for the verification of the activities of the Ukrainian Pension Fund. National Deputy Peter Jurchishin to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the extension of pretrial investigation in criminal proceedings, following the fact that the use of firearms by Alexander Klimczuk was a hooligan. National Deputy Sergei Evtushka to the Minister of Agriculture and Food of Ukraine, Minister of Ecology and Natural Resources of Ukraine, Prosecutor General of Ukraine on the poor health and technical condition of individual enterprises in the Kostopil region of the Plain region and the negative impact of their industrial emissions on the health of Kostopilian people. National Deputy Arthur Gerasimov to the Prime Minister of Ukraine for information. National Deputy Dmitr Timchuk to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the results of the investigation of the Iloway tragedy. Groups of National Deputies (Laurits, Overlords, and others) A total of 8 deputies) to the Secretary of the National Security and Defence Council of Ukraine regarding the provision of information on the sanctions already applied to the Russian Federation aggressor State pursuant to the Ukrainian Sanctions Act. National deputies Peter Vanat and Ruslan Solvar to the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and the Ministry of Defence of Ukraine, the Kyiv District State Administration, for violations of the right to housing for families of dead military personnel who were directly involved in anti-terrorist operations. National Deputy Oleg Osuhovski to Minister of Social Policy of Ukraine, Attorney General of Ukraine, on violations of the rights of widows of military personnel. National Deputy Sergey Vlasenka to the Ukrainian Attorney General's Office on the provision of information on the number of contributions received from the Supreme Council of Ukraine and the Supreme Court of Ukraine regarding the invocation of the responsibility of judges for the violation of an oath. National Deputy Yuri Derevyanka to the Ministry of Energy and Coal Industry of Ukraine for the verification of the inefficient use of coal mines in the East. National Deputy Vadim Nesterenko to the Minister of Health of Ukraine for the violation of the laws of law. National Deputy Vladimir Aresonkov to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the allocation of a targeted state subsidy to the Zitomir Region to provide free nutrition for children in the area of enhanced radio-ecological control. National Deputy Yuri Wozniak to the Ministry of Finance of Ukraine for the financing of children's sports schools. National Deputy Yuri Wozniak to the Minister of Finance of Ukraine on specific issues concerning the formation of the budget figures for the city of Koznetskiek Plains region in 2015. National Deputy Sergey Rudik to the Head of the Ukrainian Security Service, Secretary of the National Security and Defence Council of Ukraine, on the irregularity of the actions of the owner of the Public Shareholders Association "Science and Production Company" Alexander Cleevlin's "Science Electrical Engineering Plant" and the non-closure of the enterprise. National Deputy Yuri Shapovalova to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the need to improve public policy on the regulation of natural gas prices with a view to enhancing social protection of the population at the time of payment of housing services. National Deputy Yuri Shapowalov to the Defence Minister on the need for the restoration of the Kremenchuck Air Force College of the National Aviation University. National Deputy Yuri Pavlenko to the Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine for information on the status of child abuse prevention and family violence. Groups of National Deputies (Semenha, Vojcitsky and others, only 25 deputies) to the Attorney-General on the provision of information on the status of implementation of paragraph 4 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Order of 24 February 2014 and on the examination of the adoption by judges of the Constitutional Court of Ukraine of decision No. 13-pp/2008 of 26 June 2008. National Deputy Andrija Lozov to the Minister of Justice of Ukraine regarding the withdrawal from the Lutsky City Head of Mikli Romanyuk for the benefit of Lidija Krewski, who lives at Ravenska Street, 83rd House, 8th House, Lutsk City, the average wage during the forced walk. National Deputy Andriy Lozov to the head of the Wallin District State Administration for the withdrawal of Mikli Romanyuk from the Lutsky City Head for the benefit of Lidija Krewski, who lives at Ravenska Street, 83rd House, 8th House, Lutsk City, the average wage during forced vacations and illegal layoffs. National Deputy Yuri Chizmar to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the enforcement of legislation in public procurement, employment and services. Ladies and gentlemen, all except for the President's requests, which makes sense to speak when there are enough national MPs to vote. Besides, I'm going to allow myself to pay attention because I'm reading this so that the honourable people's deputies will still check the legislation, especially the updated Law on Public Prosecutions, because there are a lot of questions that are now addressed to the Attorney General that actually go beyond the current powers of the Public Prosecutor's Office. I'm asking the people's deputies to be careful when you're preparing requests for the Attorney General's Office. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-06-m0.u173	Ladies and gentlemen, we had to read all the questions because last Friday we did not have them read, so a lot of them piled up, and for 15 minutes we spent time together. Thus, the morning meeting of our plenary continues to be held up to 15 a.m. Now it's the hour of performances at the Vulnerable. I want to make one more point. Ask the President, we'll make arrangements so that we can put and vote some day, maybe on Tuesday, when there's enough people in the room. Now, if you'll excuse me, I'd like to ask the MPs to prepare for the recording of the various performances. Everyone, please take your seats responsibly. Please be prepared. Ready? I'd like you to make a recording of the performances at the Miscellaneous. I wish you luck. I am. Yeah, there's an opening. There was a recording. Now, according to the record, I'm going to give you three minutes. And the first Marchenko Alexander Alexandrovich is invited to the performance, non-factional.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-06-m0.u174	Good afternoon, the venerable Ukrainian community. Well, I'd like to mention last night's company. Yesterday was snow and all our utilities. The road service of all Ukraine showed its ability to work in such difficult weather conditions. What I want to say. The work being done by the government after the privatization of the objects and the Kravutodore has entered privatization. This will have such catastrophic consequences. In addition, in Ukraine and in the Bilocerkian constituency, I have a big road problem and today I want to make another call to the Minister of Infrastructure, to the Prime Minister for an urgent solution to these issues. December 28-29, a respected society, were accepted in a hurry to change the Budget and Tax Code. Today, our budgetary institutions, educational institutions, are suffering. Health. And I am addressing everyone, the committees that are linked to both education and medicine institutions, to make all the decisions urgently in order to ensure that the nutrition promised by the Prime Minister in schools and preschools is made and enforced. In addition, the new Code of Budgets, more faithful in amending them, did not include four important medical institutions such as the territorial administration of the drug-psychological, infectious, pathological and anatomical institutions and statutes. This must be corrected urgently. Dear society, and to conclude, I want to say that the success of any mobilization, success and victory of Ukraine in the East war and the active action of our fighters depends on how the state as a whole fulfills its social promises, social guarantees. Today, the participants in the East, the ATO members are calling on us to regulate and resolve the issue of land allocations for ATO fighters. There's so much to talk about, there's a lot of promises. And what I need to do is I'm addressing both the State and the government as a whole, the promise to conduct the land of whoever needs it.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-06-m0.u175	Ten seconds to complete, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-06-m0.u176	Dear Society, I ask you to support that promise of land acts. The fighters need to issue a state act, get it out of the registration card, and all the questions will be.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-06-m0.u177	Thank you. People's deputy Stephen Barna. He's followed by a national MP, Julia Timoshenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-06-m0.u178	Dear colleagues, honourable deputies and the Ukrainian community, in this case I am in a position to deal with those who are deliberately destroying Ukraine from the inside. That's why I turned to the Head of the Ukrainian Security Service as Deputy of the Supreme Council to the Minister of Justice of Peter Paul on the prohibition of the Party of the Regions. The Russian Federation’s aggression, which threatens Ukraine’s territorial integrity, necessitated the consolidation of Ukraine as a whole. That is why we need to do everything we can to ensure that those who have stood by and today support separatism in Ukraine, do not have legal status, but respond appropriately to the authorities, the State's law enforcement agencies. The political position taken by the representatives of the Party of Regions, as well as local centres, especially in Donetsk, Lugansk, is unconstitutional. The particularly destructive rhetoric of members of the Party of Regions on the destruction of State unity is observed during an anti-terrorist operation in the Donetsk and Lugansk regions, as well as during the so-called referendums in the Donetské and Lugansk region. At the same time, according to media reports, individual leaders and activists of the Party of Regions in the eastern regions of Ukraine are giving special services support to the Russian Federation. For us, the principle is that we have to react like patriots, like people who are in pain for the unity of Ukraine. That is why, in accordance with article 37 of the Constitution of Ukraine, the formation and operation of political parties and public organizations, the programme objectives and tasks aimed at eliminating Ukrainian statehood, as well as in accordance with the law, article 5 of the Ukrainian Law on Political Parties in Ukraine, the formation and activities of political parties are prohibited if their programme objectives or actions are aimed at eliminating Ukraine's independence. and in accordance with article 15 of the Ukrainian Law on Political Parties, it is stated that financing of political parties is prohibited, including enterprises, institutions and organizations, with shares of shares belonging to non-residents, foreign states and citizens, businesses, institutions, organizations. According to article 4, article 37 of the Constitution of Ukraine and the Law of Ukraine "On political parties" in the event of violations by the political parties of the Constitution of Ukraine, the laws of Ukraine may be prohibited by political parties and the prohibition must be carried out in accordance with applicable legislation. Accordingly, I ask you to accept this request as a parliamentary request and direct all actions to that effect.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-06-m0.u179	Thank you. National MP Yuri Timoshenko. The next is National Deputy Jaroslav Dubnevich.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-06-m0.u180	Dear friends! I want to deal with the problems of the 1768 bill -- this is a bill amending the Ukrainian Television and Radio Act on the involvement of foreign people in radio organizations. Under the terms of the Russian Federation's armed aggression against Ukraine, providing information security and the priority tasks of the state. Russian television organizations are one of the mechanisms of hybrid war, a means of manipulating mass consciousness, a hub of disinformation for both their own citizens and the population of occupied territories. Under these circumstances, the presence of investment by residents of the aggressor State in the statutory capital of domestic broadcasters poses a threat to the information sovereignty of Ukraine, a potential danger of information aggression and expansion due to the influence of editorial policies on such radio organizations. Due to Ukraine’s national security interests, the adoption of the draft TV and radio bill will help to overcome the threats to Ukraine’s information sovereignty related to the above - mentioned circumstances. The draft Law 1768 is aimed at protecting against threats to Ukraine's information sovereignty by amending the Ukrainian Television and Radio Act. The project envisions a ban on the creation of radio organizations by legal persons established by foreign legal and natural persons, stateless persons, and not residents registered in one of the offshore zones whose list is designated by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. The imposition of a ban on the participation of foreign natural and legal persons in the statutory capital of television organizations, if such persons are residents of a state recognised under Ukrainian legislation by the occupying State, or recognized by international law, by the aggressor State. And giving the National Television Council the right to appeal to the court for annulment of television licenses in the event of a violation of its established prohibitions. Law 1768 is a logical extension of Law 1317, adopted by all of us at yesterday’s meeting. We all know that the vast majority of TV channels and media in our country actually belong to oligarchs.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-06-m0.u181	Mr. Yuri, I can't because that means I can give everyone else a minute. So 10 seconds, please finish. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-06-m0.u182	Okay. I call on all honest deputies in this room to unite our friendly efforts to combat these anti - Ukrainian channels and to get a quick review of the bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-06-m0.u183	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-06-m0.u184	It is kind enough to vote and continue to focus our efforts on fighting the pro-Russian forces in our country. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-06-m0.u185	Thank you. National Deputy Jaroslav Dubnevich. He's being followed by the People's Deputy Kaplan.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-06-m0.u186	Madam Chairman, distinguished national MPs! Jaroslav Dubnevich, 120 constituency, Lvivščina, strike group, block of Petra Poroshenko. Now I'm going to sound a problem that's close to all majors, which I hope the government will listen to when changes are made to the state budget, which is called utility roads. We have recently adopted amendments to the Ukrainian Budget Code, according to which the target source for financing these roads, which was a subsidy on utility roads, has been cut short. I'm not going to say how good it is or how bad it is. The budget system has changed dramatically, but along with the cancellation of this source, there has been an unpleasant situation, we have actually cut off the local budgets of their own resources for this subsidy at the time of 31 January 2014, and this is, believe me, a lot of money that we have allowed to be expropriated in favour of the government budget by changes to the budget code. In the Lviv region, for example, judge for yourself the amount left over in the utility road subsidy, which was already transitory, amounts to 122 million dollars. The previous edition of the Budget Code predicted that these amounts would be transferred to the following financial year. However, after cancelling the subsidies on utility roads as a phenomenon, we took them to the revenue of the state budget. In this amount, and this is a billion in Ukraine, there is also treasury debt in the past year. It makes up 33 million dollars, for example, for Lviv. In the absence of a source of tape in the national budget, the local councils automatically became debtors to the organizations that did the work on the roads last year. I'm talking to the government, especially Minfin, if the code were to be adopted on January 1st, this money, which, like the rest of the subsidies, was to be transitional and stayed in the local budgets. In adopting the Ukrainian State Budget Act 2015, it did not take into account the income of the free balance of this article, which was requisitioned in local budgets. Dear Mrs. Jaresko, let's be honest before local self-governance and a separate tape in the state budget, let's give them back the remainder of the unused utility road subsidy, which was set up on January 31, 2014. I look forward to understanding this issue and the corresponding line in accepting changes to the budget. And I would also like to take this opportunity to thank all the members of the People's Party who are now present in the session hall and who are working to build our home country, the famous Lvivščina. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-06-m0.u187	Thank you. National MP Sergei Kaplin. Behind him is the national deputy Volodymyr Aresonkov.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-06-m0.u188	Dear colleagues, noble Ukrainians! Before I begin my speech, I would like to present to you some terrible and, in my opinion, simply catastrophic data on the activities of our joint new authority. The average wage debt grew to nearly 15 billion dollars. People are experiencing incredible difficulties in paying for community services. In recent times, the wage growth of teachers and doctors has increased by 41 and 56 times. We're on the verge of a serious social default. And we have no choice but to take decisive, serious, radical steps related to the transformation of the order of government and citizens, and the second, to the actual re-establishment of the country. We have no choice but to change the Constitution, not only in terms of cancelling the inviolability, but also in terms of reducing the number of national MPs, reducing the number of judges, prosecutors. This will seriously save Ukraine’s state budget, which today is disproportionately large in comparison with other European countries. 66 percent of gross domestic product is driven by an inefficient government machine, a state-run machine, where there is no public prosecutorial office, where there is virtually no judicial branch of authority, where there is no effective, normal management and administration of state-owned, including reforming, processes. I am deeply convinced that no matter how much we collect signatures, at least every month, for the resignation of the Attorney General, the Head of the Board of Directors, of any judge, even by recalling the deputies of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, until the Attorney-General of Ukraine is elected by the Ukrainian people and is not to blame for his office to the President, to any faction of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, to any political leader or owner of this party. There will be no effective work on issues related to the fight against corruption. We're not going to need any anti-corruption offices, no secretaries, no committees, and any other unnecessary organs that consume your money that earn your hard-earned hands. We're just going to need one vertical that's going to come with a heavy boot of justice at the throat of the oligarchy and the organized gang corruption system of Ukraine. And the last. The only chance of escape in our country is the rebirth of Ukrainian trade unions. Millions, tens of millions of Ukrainian citizens, must unite in the high - quality movement of those who work and work each day.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-06-m0.u189	Ten seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-06-m0.u190	And to achieve incredible results in a dialogue with the Prime Minister and the government. We have to be at the big round table all the time. We do.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-06-m0.u191	Thank you. People's Deputies of Aresonkov. Following him is the national deputy of Lozov.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-06-m0.u192	Volodymyr Aresonkov, 64th constituency, Žitomirščina. Dear colleagues, I ask your support on this issue concerning the social protection of citizens affected by the Chernobyl nuclear accident. At the beginning of March the Supreme Council will hold parliamentary hearings regarding the future situation of the construction of a new shelter at the Chernobyl nuclear station. But in addition to this subject, and in connection with the immediate alienation zone itself, there are no other issues to consider. So I'm asking, where is the total attack on the social rights of citizens? And where is the enforcement of legislation that no one has changed yet? Today, the situation of social organizations, the parents of children living in polluted areas, is of particular concern. Why, at the adoption of the 2015 budget, the government once, in a mild sense, forgot about the nutrition and recovery of children living in the third and fourth zones. The Prime Minister personally promised that these issues would necessarily be taken into account, but in the project. The budget that was adopted does not exist. Today, we have prepared an appeal to the government to review the matter and to address it positively. Please have your support. And another issue that is also relevant enough for the inhabitants of our fields is improving the production of beneficial natural fossils, namely amber. You know, in the northern regions of our territory and in the fields of the field today, we're going straight to vachanalia, including, and in the area of law enforcement. A huge number of people are involved in amber mining, but all the income from the extraction of these natural fossils is obtained, including by criminal structures, by those who break down, protect, and illegally dispose of this useful fossil. Hence, the Supreme Council will consider several bills that relate to the improvement of the mechanism and the production of this natural fossil. I'm asking for your support on this issue as well. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-06-m0.u193	Thank you. National MP Andriy Lozova. He's been followed by a national MP, Bogdan Dubnevich.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-06-m0.u194	I'd like to talk to people who hear the request, and then I'll have this video on Facebook, and please show it to those MPs who are very tired, who have worked hard, who have voted for it. Which, today, look, the working hours are almost no one. There's hardly anyone at work. If only. Except for the Radical Party faction, except for the Freedom MPs, except for the individual MPs from the Dusty Block, but most of them don't. Except for the self-help MPs, except for the UCROP MPs, those MPs who don't give a shit what people have chosen, they're working today. Now imagine, if a doctor were to walk through work, would there be some degree? Of course they would be. What if the teacher had gone to work? What if the fireman had lost his job? And the MPs can't walk, they've reworked. We have a caste of Gentiles. You know, as in India, most people still live in poverty, because they're divided into castes: shudders, waishas, kshatris -- so in Ukraine, unfortunately, society today is divided into castes. And we have a higher caste of deputies who can afford to get money from a budget that consists of taxes that are collected from budgeters, from pensioners, can afford such a race. I'm not going to work. It's a disgrace to you and shame! Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-06-m0.u195	Thank you. National MP.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-06-m0.u196	And now it's important. Make sure that you pass it on to those deputies. Take the pay today from those who are walking. And whoever's not disabled, send them to the front.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-06-m0.u197	Thank you, National Deputy Bogdan Dubnevich. Next up is the national MP, Oksana Jurinec.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-06-m0.u198	Dear Mrs. Head, distinguished national MPs! Bogdan Dubnevic, 118 constituency, Petra Prashenka Block, Impact Group. My presentation concerns one very important issue that concerns ATO security. It's about car technology. It is constantly lacking in the ATO zone. At the same time, hundreds of units of cars that could serve well on the front are in the warehouses of government structures. UAZI, ZELI, GAZ, which were used at the time, have been transferred to storage for numerical communication structures, sanitation, epidemiological services, public enterprises, the oil industry, and would now be very useful in the ATO area. Despite the great contribution of volunteers and the power of the state, the need for automobile technology remains high. This is what I say as a person who has repeatedly visited the ATO zone and keeps in touch with our military personnel on the front. Yesterday, we sent 20 MPs to Arsenija Yatsenyuka's address with a request to the government authorities to hand over the rapid transmission of car technology that is stored in one of the parts of Lvivščina for our military units or to hand it over to the volunteers who would repair it and then pass it on to those parts. If the transfer experience is successful and the main speed of the decision - making process is to be applied throughout the country. I think it's time for us to think today, to give orders to all the ministries, to the heads of the district administrations to analyze the joint actions and where such techniques are still stored at the warehouses, to organize repairs, and everything we need to transfer to our army, everything for the front, everything to win. I hope that our appeal will be considered within a short period of time, and his requirements are satisfied. Thank you for your attention. Glory to Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-06-m0.u199	Thank you. National Deputy Oksana Jurinec, National Deputy Vladimir Parasuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-06-m0.u200	Oksana Jurinec, 117 constituency, city of Lviv, faction of Peter Poroshenka, group of hit-and-runs. Dear fellow MPs, I would like to make a statement from this rostrum that is not less important to my deep conviction than the war in the east. Because it's about our future as a nation, it's about education. We are approached by local authorities, educational groups, trade unions, and representatives of the Lviv region. They were all shocked by the government budget's proven benchmarks for the maintenance of general education institutions at the expense of education subsidies from local budgets. I would like to remind you, according to the 2015 budget adopted in this room, that the current expenditure of the Lviv educational establishments in the region is granted a subsidy of slightly over 2.5 million. This amount is not enough to function in Lviv, even with a simple comparison to the previous year. Given price increases, inflation, it can be understood that underfunding is critical to education in the area. If we do not change anything, it is clear what the consequences will be. Shortening the payouts to teachers for class leadership, group work, over the years, we're going to get what we're going to be, with a lot of teachers just being reduced. The Lviv Regional Administration addressed a letter to the Ministry of Finance, the Ministry of Education and the Head of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine requesting additional funding for the education sector in Lithuania worth 178 million, coma, 4. On behalf of the Lviv Interfractional Union, the Lviv Educationals of the Lviv Region, I ask and ask when developing a project, the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, for the use of a reserve of funds that does not exceed one percent of the total amount of educational subsidies to account for the deficit of the funds that I have just mentioned, is one million, 178 million (coma), 4. Today, there is a war in the eastern part of Ukraine. Our friends, neighbors, relatives, wonderful boys fight and give their lives for our future. And we cannot forget in our places today the future that is now in the education classes. And don't forget, in particular, the Lvivite. Thank you. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-06-m0.u201	Thank you. National MP Volodymyr Parasuk will be the next national deputy, Yuri Derevyanko.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-06-m0.u202	What I'm saying is, really, it's kind of weird, right, the central organ is something that's in Ukraine, there's no journalist who doesn't care what's going on. Oh, yeah? Excuse me, excuse me, there is. Well, not as it should be. And the worst part is that there's not really so many deputies in this room when we're looking at the budget, when we're assigning someone, when we're talking about privatization. I'm left with a handful of deputies, and I'm honored and thank you. What I'm saying is, you know, today at the Kyiv Court of Appeal, we've reopened the case 15 years ago in Gongada. And I want to tell you that it's probably one of those, one of the only things that should be a principle for all of us. We all know who's to blame, who's to blame for these crimes, for the murders. And you know, I just got off the phone with the Pucker who killed Gongadze today. He said, "If I start talking, and I start talking, I'm going to have to get at least 20 MPs out of the game from now on." I want to call you, this case has to be open, the charter of secrecy has to be broken. And I want you all to join this cause, because this is our sacred duty to this earth. Thank you all very much. Jaroslav Dubnevich, thank you for this, with the cars, we know what the problem is. I'd like us to join, too, because it's a shame to see that throughout the Lviv region, and not only, there are huge car parks on the customs of confiscated property, and we're collecting 3,000 euros with volunteers and buying some games from abroad, and then we're not allowed to go abroad with them. So, believe me, we have tools to push the executive power to give this technology to our boys to the east of Ukraine. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-06-m0.u203	Thank you. National Deputy Yuri Derevyanko The next is the national MP, Alexander Kodol.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-06-m0.u204	Dear Mrs. Oksana, distinguished, distinguished national MPs who have remained in the hall, the noble Ukrainians! Yuri Derevyanco, Will Party, 87th Majority Electoral District. We're always talking about that we don't have enough money in the government budget. At the adoption of the State Budget, we talked about how we shape it by such principles as to make it anti-oligarchy, so that the oligarchs would pay more in the state budget. We talked about that as a political party of "Will" and people of will, which are many in Parliament in all factions to make that injustice, that benefit that was for the oligarchs, not to pay taxes in transfer pricing when metal is exported, chemistry, when other useful mines are exported for export and sold on world markets at real prices, and there is no taxation in Ukraine. We've asked everyone to account for this in the budget, it's in the package of laws to the budget. And we were very pleased to hear that Prime Minister Arseny Petrovich Yatzenuk, reporting on the changes to the Tax Code, talked about not having anyone wave with the stock markets -- they must be international exchanges that will be determined by the Government. Dear colleagues! I want to tell you that the exchange and price wave is going to go on, because regardless of what it sounded like under the transcript, the law that we got doesn't contain the key word "international markets." This means that if corruption had previously been in the government’s organs, where large oligarchs had found out where there were market prices, where there were no markets, this level had now risen to government level. And that means that the government will now determine for itself the markets at which prices will be charged to determine the tax base for such transactions, for import and export operations. It's when at our Ukrainian factories, when you export important products to your offshore companies, these benefits make a zero-profit award, and all the other costs are left abroad. Dear colleagues! I'm sure most of you in the room will require a correction. To this end, we have registered Bill 1808, which introduces one word into the Tax Code: "International World Exchanges." That's what will make it possible for the budget to get from 10 billion to 12 billion dollars just from these export and import operations. I ask you very much to support this bill, and we demand that the Head of the Supreme Council include this bill in the agenda, and so do the Government to support this bill when it is submitted and considered in the Supreme Council. Thank you for your attention!
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-06-m0.u205	National MP Alexander Kodol. He will be followed by a national MP, Taras Batenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-06-m0.u206	Alexander Kodola, Montenegro, 209th constituency, People's Front faction. My speech will be about the problem in the town of Nižina at the state-owned factory of the Nižin factory of engineering and which was addressed to me as a national deputy by the community of the city of Nižina and the collectives of the enterprise. In 2012, the Nižin factory of engineering weapons was transferred from the Ministry of Defence to the Ucrobornprom State Concert. From 2012 to July 2014, the factory received no government purchases for the repair of weapons of engineering. And this is because the company specializes in repairing almost the entire range of weapons. That is why highly qualified professionals were forced to quit because of their lack of employment and wages. When the firm received 21 units of equipment from the Ministry of Defense in August 2014, there were major problems in providing spare parts and materials, not the timeliness of their supply. The necessary materials had to be purchased at the expense of the budget, even though spare parts and material were available in the arsenals of the Armed Forces. The applicants also point out that as a repair fund it is possible to use written - out technology. Such a situation creates social tension in the city of Nizhina, which is why applicants propose to transfer this enterprise to the Ukrainian Ministry of Defence. At the same time, I believe that only a change of authority in the sphere of governance will be attributed to a state-owned enterprise that will not solve all the problems of this enterprise. A detailed study needs to be carried out, the problems of its operation, and comprehensive measures and the preservation of a strategically important repair company in Ukraine. Taking into account the above-mentioned and under the Ukrainian Law on the Status of the People's Deputy, I request Prime Minister Yatsenuk Arsenuk Arseny Petrovich, Minister of Defence Poltork Stepan Timfiyovich, from the request of the relevant central authorities, to carry out an examination of the information provided and an assessment of the proposals made. I also ask you to study in detail the situation in the state-owned factory of the Nižin factory of engineering and to urgently introduce a draft decision that will ensure the full functioning of this company. Please consider my statement as a question of parliament. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-06-m0.u207	Thank you. National Deputy Taras Batenko, followed by National Deputy Ostap Ednak.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-06-m0.u208	Dear Mrs. Oksana, distinguished fellow MPs, 123rd constituency, Taras Batenko, Peter Prashenko's Block. I thank the Presidium, which understands what the situation is now in the hall at the beginning. At the end of our working week, I did not put to the vote the parliamentary requests addressed to President Peter Alexiyovich Poroshenko of Ukraine. We hope that this question will be asked by the MPs to see the President of Ukraine on Tuesday. My parliamentary request to the President of Ukraine relates to the legendary personality that I now wish to sound. Because, unfortunately, we have seen the devaluation of this concept in recent years, we have observed in the days of Yanukovich, the status and title of the Hero of Ukraine. For Yanukovic, as you know, the name Hero of Ukraine was on the right and on the left. And a number of missing, unfortunately, but the members of the Supreme Council have the same title. But the real heroes of Ukraine, who, by their example, would lead us to victory today, are unfortunately not respected to this day. So I directed a parliamentary request to the President of Ukraine, Peter Alexiyovich Prashenko, for the assignment of the title Hero of Ukraine to the legendary hundred-dollar UPA, the last living centurion of UPA Miroslav Simcucci, the assignment of such a title for the heroic armed struggle against the invaders, the long-standing support and protection of political brothers in the Stalin-Breath camps, the active work with national-patriotic communities. The Ukrainian World Coordinating Council, starting in 1996, which is 20 years in a row, raises questions before various Ukrainian presidents, ahead of the leadership of the state regarding the assignment of the name Hero of Ukraine to the unbreakable hundredth UPA of Miroslav Simcucci. To this day, however, none of the presidents of Ukraine have supported this initiative. I find further delay unacceptable because Miroslav Simcucci on January 5, 2015, was 93 years old. I reiterate, I emphasize, that it is a man who symbolizes the bond of generations: that generation that is now fighting for independence and dying, and that generation that gave its life in the 40s and 50s. This man went through a heroic battle path, fighting for six years against German-Fashite and Moscow invaders, and fought 42 successful battles. The most famous was the destruction of the NKVD regiment commanded by General Dergachev. He spent 32 and a half years in camps and camps. As a communist regime "personally dangerous recidivist", he became today's honorary citizen of the city of Lviv and the city of Colomia in an independent Ukraine. So I would like to ask you, my fellow Members, on Tuesday at our plenary meeting to vote on this parliamentary appeal and correct this historic injustice. Thank you. And the glory of Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-06-m0.u209	Thank you. People's deputy, Ednak.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-06-m0.u210	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to read a letter from our faction to the President of Ukraine, Peter Alexiyovich Prashenko. To appeal to the public, the deputy faction of the political party "The Self-Help Union" refers to you, Mr. President, with a proposal until February 20, 2015 -- the day of the first anniversary of the shooting and execution of the Heroes of the Heavenly 100 during the Maidan Declaration of Dignity in Kiev -- in order to honor these fallen heroes at the state level and to strengthen the patriotic spirit in society to establish in Ukraine the Day of the memory of the Heroes of Heaven, which commemorates every February 20. I would also like to draw the attention of society and law enforcement authorities to my request that Mrs. Oksana Siroid has just read about forest-exporting corruption. For the past three years, total exports from state forestry enterprises abroad have been subject to a corrupt, unofficial bribe. These schemes were managed by officials from the Ukrisconsalting DP and also by senior civil servants of the State Department. About a billion coins were stolen from the area. No one is punished or detained. This makes it possible for the following officials to feel impunity and use these schemes. We managed to stop the mechanism a few weeks ago, but the tools remain. And because of the imperfections of the forest management system. I also urge the government not to delay the appointment of the Head of State. And I urge the government not to delay reforming the forest economy. Under the Coalition Agreement, to eradicate the possibility of activating corruption mechanisms forever. I would also like to thank the deputies for their support for Bill 1362 yesterday on the export ban. You and I are doing the right thing for the country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-06-m0.u211	Thank you. I've still got my speech by the national MPs. [[B in m in s a l in]] We didn't go on. Oh, right. I'm sorry, it's just that Andrew announced an extension, but I have a meeting at 2:00, so I have to finish the meeting. No, I'm sorry. I can announce the last announcement I have right now. I'm reporting on the creation of the Eighth Interfractional MPs Association for Fair Taxes in the Supreme Council. The head of the Interfractional Association for Fair Taxes has been elected the National Deputy of Ukraine, Mr. Anatoly Sergiyovich. [[B in m in s a l in]] Since there's been no performance from the People's Front, I'll give you one more word. Ah, this is the Radical Party. No, it's already been done. Then that's it, then I have to go all over the list.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-06-m0.u212	I'm sorry, we have a meeting time.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-06-m0.u213	Dear National Deputies! [[Noise Nodes]] Report well. Register. What kind of behavior?
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-06-m0.u214	We started 15 minutes later. I'll wait for her. Shall we continue for how long? In 1415 minutes, 14 hours 15 minutes. Please be there in 14 hours for 15 minutes. I give my word for the performances. People's MP, Linko.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-06-m0.u215	Thank you for being able to speak, because this is. I'm going to talk about a very topical issue, and it's unfortunate that few people are interested in the problems that concern our soldiers in the first place today. On Wednesday, with colleagues from our Radical Party faction and colleagues, with Igor Lucenk, from Fatherland, with Boris Filatov, non-fractional, we went to the State Service for veterans and participants in the ATO, to the head of Arthur Derevyanka and raised a very serious question. It turns out that we get ATOs. Soldiers who have been fighting for six months, they can't get this status, but today two ministers, a freezer. ‘ The Ministry of Regional Construction has been granted the status of a member of the ATO. Three officials of the President’s Administration were granted ATO status, and the State Fiscal Service received two men. I want to give you an example of how state fiscal officials were given the status of ATOs, which is in principle not a militarized structure. A man went on a two-day mission in November, to Kramatorsk, where no fighting is actually taking place, but it is now November 14th that he is submitted to the ATO and the State Service to register and grant him this status. I have a question. Why do these officials need people from the President’s Office who I am sure are not the poorest in this country and who do not sit in the trenches, and families do not starve, why do they run after the status of the ATO? And the people who came from the front, they can't put together a document folder like this to get this status. They don't have that status. We, the Radical Party, are in control. We told the head of the State Service about veterans and ATO participants that we're taking control of. We will publish the names of those officials, prosecutors, ministers and ministers who are running to get some benefits. Why do you need these benefits? Don't embarrass yourself! And we're going to publish these names, who are running and who is taking this status off the line, and who are being denied. Because doctors. We have two doctors today who have become a member of the ATO. We wanted Arthur Derivyanko, the manager, to give us these names. He says he can't. He needs time. And we agreed that Tuesday he would give it to us. We did, Boris Filatov and Artem Witko, our deputy, make a formal request, and these names will be published. Because we have soldiers who have died, they're not officially formed, they're dead, and we can't kill their families right now, because that's how they buy paper, and these corridors can't be breached. There are people who have lost a leg, and this is already the reason why they are automatically granted the status of an ATO participant. Because man couldn't, there are wounds that don't even need to be confirmed. That's why we're taking control of this issue. And we're going to all the officials: don't run or ask for this ATO status.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-06-m0.u216	Thank you very much. And I invite Alexeiev Igor Sergiyovich, the political party of the People's Front. Is he present in the hall? If he's not in the hall, I'd like to. I gave you my word, didn't I? Why didn't you tell me? Okay. Please turn on the microphone. Three minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-06-m0.u217	Honorable Chairman, Honorable Colleagues, Honourable Voters! Boris Kozir, 127th constituency, Santa Claus. In my speech, I would like to draw your attention to the situation surrounding the Mikolai District Hospital and the Mikolai District Emergency Medical Center. According to the Ukrainian State Budget for 2012 Act, the Mikolayiv Region provided a 24-million-dollar grant for the purchase of medical equipment for domestic production and medical transport. On January 1, 2013, the area was purchased with medical equipment worth 24 million dollars. The use of subsidies amounted to 16 million, 419,000 dollars, and the debt accounted for 8 million, 363,000 dollars. In the absence of contractual obligations, fines totalling 821 thousand were imposed, which is confirmed by judicial decisions that gave rise to court orders for compulsory execution and arrests of hospitals. Later, the Mikolaiwi District’s Master’s Court approved the postponement of a court decision by April 1, 2015, on the basis of a letter from the Ministry of Health of Ukraine stating that it would take into account the need for repayment of creditors’ debts by way of the granting of a grant from the 2015 State Budget. On January 19th of this year, I asked the Ministry of Finance of Ukraine to resolve the affected question, to which I received an answer that the debt should be repaid at the expense of the local budget. However, in accordance with article 51 of the Ukrainian Budget Code, credit default, which was established at the end of the budget period in local budgets under budgetary commitments made under capital transfers from the State budget, should primarily be paid off at the expense of the public budget provided for in the coming budget periods for the implementation of the relevant programmes. I emphasize that ignoring the problem will result in total paralysis of activities in the Mikolai district’s health care facilities as of April 1, this year, with a major percentage preventing the purchase of lifesaving drugs for the sick. I am convinced that this situation will lead to negative sentiments among the population of the Mikolai region. In this regard, I ask the Ministry of Finance of Ukraine, in preparing the changes to the 2015 budget, to provide for the award of grants to the Mikolai region of 9 million dollars to pay off the creditors' debt to health institutions in the Mikolai region. Please consider my statement to be an official parliamentary request to the Minister of Finance of Ukraine, Mrs. Natalia Jaresko. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-06-m0.u218	Ladies and gentlemen, I will not be able to continue our work indefinitely. Two more performances, and I think we're just not going to make it. Three, right? Okay. So be it, three performances. I now give the word Musia Oleg Stepanovich, this is "Peter Prashenko's Block." It'll be wise if we finish the performance a little bit faster, it'll give us a better time. Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-06-m0.u219	Honorable National Deputies, 124th District, Sokalščina, Red Town, just a mining region that would appear after Moscow occupied our Donbas and Lugansk territories, would become a region of prosperity. But we all witnessed, two weeks ago, the rebellion of the first in the new government of our Ukrainian miners. Which government budget, which was adopted in our Hall, unfortunately too, from the supply of government, has led to poverty. And there's a big question about what to do in the coal sector and what to do to coal miners with this budget. In fact, the government and the Prime Minister have grossly violated the Coalition Agreement, under which the signature is signed, which states quite clearly that the coal sector needs to be restructured within five years. Instead, we see restructuring over zero years. I find this situation totally shameful and unacceptable. And I call on the Prime Minister to immediately consider the changes to the state budget that have been announced, and, by the way, recorded in the Transitional Positions, it's February 15th, to submit the necessary changes to the state budget, especially with regard to the coal sector, and the preservation of the state grant, and the preservation of jobs, primarily in the east, so that we can give an answer and act in accordance with the Coalition Agreement. What we see is what's really going on. With non-professionalism, which unfortunately thrives again in our Ukrainian government. Minister of Energy, today you have witnessed a completely inconvenient speech by the minister. And if the Prime Minister doesn't respond and let himself be dismissed by such a minister, I think there's going to be enough MPs for the resignation of such people who are ashamed of the Ukrainian government and the Ukrainian Parliament who chooses them here. Look at this contract, so-called, with Russia. Ukraine was converted into a conversion center by this contract. The horror is that Ukraine pays Russia in rubles for electricity in Crimea, and we pay dollars. You know the situation with the Russian rouble. How can we get to what the Ukrainian government has made Ukraine a turning point, and who is profiting from this? So I think it's a disgraceful practice to buy electricity, four energy clouds standing because they bought Russian energy. There's no coal coming out of our mines on those four energy clouds. How can you imagine that? I think this tactic is conscious and such ministers should resign. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-06-m0.u220	The Parasuce conveys his word to the Head of Michael Josephovich. I invite him to the rostrum and ask him to give the floor.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-06-m0.u221	Mikhailo Golovko, the All-Ukrainian Freedom Union, 164 constituency, Ternopolishte. Dear voters! I'm talking to the electorate, because there's nowhere to go in principle to go, the MPs have run out, but I want to emphasize, here we go. I'd like to draw attention to a very important question that has hit Ukraine once again today, because today our national bracelet has fallen to its record minimum, officially on the interbank, 26 bracelets per dollar and hand, and in the black market, it's even higher, it's more than 28 bracelets. Realizing that from February 6, by the way, today, Natzbank officially raised the bill to 19.5 percent, so it's easy to put it that way, he buried the economy of Ukraine, realizing that the loans would now be completely unavailable. And these acts of Nazbank, which, by the way, in less than a year's time, by raising the interest rate in the same way artificially lifted this economic and financial crisis in our country, in the end we see how the national bracelet fell and devalued. What is the threat to Ukraine? Of course, we realize that the Ukrainians have literally impoverished three times, not twice, but three times, we've become poorer, we've spent all our medicine, medicine, food, and the nation will be poor. And these minimum pensions, and people's wages, they just put people at risk: how can we keep living like this? It is clear that only with the drop in the course will exporters like Ahmtow, the other oligarchs who make money in the first place, and they will be rich, but at the expense of ordinary, ordinary Ukrainians. So society, I understand what the consequences can be, and most of you understand what the consequences of this irresponsible policy of Nazbank's course on the Ukrainian state can lead to the collapse of the Ukrainian economy and eventually to the default. And we can't go any further with you, we have to take radical steps and action. I think that in any other state of the civilized world, it would have been long ago that the head of the national bank would have been retired for incompetence, for criminal negligence, for damage to the economy and the Ukrainian state. We understand and see where billions of dollars are being spent to refinance the banks of oligarchs that raise funds abroad. It's officially estimated that 41 billion dollars were sold to the interbank, 7 billion dollars were re-exported to offshore. Unfortunately, we haven't considered our Freedom Initiative in Parliament, the Offshore Expropriation and Denunciation Bill, all of this is silenced and stalled, and in the end, we see how the economy of Ukraine is being destroyed. So, society, I urge that, in the next plenary week, we immediately consider the economic situation in our country and call for responsibility, and perhaps in Parliament to listen to Natzbank's head, and ask questions about the purpose of its removal from retirement. After all, let us continue to endure such abuse.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-06-m0.u222	I'm asking you to finish the date. They switched on, didn't they? Instead of Melnick Vladimir Volodymyrovich, right? All right, turn on the microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-06-m0.u223	Ribak Ivan Petrovich, Cherniewec region. To end this parliamentary week is a sad one, perhaps in line today. Because there is a serious problem in the Chernobyl area. Since 2013, the maternity home number 1 was to be built on the basis of a perinatal center. The Chernobyl area, by the way, is the only area where there is no perinatal center. Regrettably, today the Chernovićs are left without a maternity home, the births are in corridors, and they are born in unadapted rooms. What to do with it, the local authorities don't know in principle. Last year 46 million dollars were allocated, but due to the fact that the Treasury did not have the amount of donations, no work was done at all. So I ask that this statement be counted as a request to the Minister of Finance and that this problem be resolved as soon as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-02-06-m0.u224	Thank you. Dear National Deputies! The time for performances in "different" is over, and so I'm closing the morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, declaring it closed. The next plenary meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine will be held on Tuesday, February 10th, at 10 a.m., waiting for all of you in the session room to resume our work. Thank you.
