ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-30-m0.u1	Good morning, dear fellows! Please come into the hall. I'd like the Supreme Council's apparatus to inform the National Deputies of the start of work. The heads of the factions invite the deputies into the hall to begin our work. Please. Dear colleagues, please come into the hall and prepare for registration.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-30-m0.u2	Good morning, dear colleagues! People's deputies please come into the hall and take your seats. We have a fairly tight schedule this week, we have a number of laws that are important and we need to adopt them. So please adjust to work, fellow believers. Please include the "Council" system for the registration of the National Deputies in the Hall. [[10:06:48]] 267 national deputies registered in the hall. Dear colleagues, I declare the morning plenary session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine open. Let us welcome, fellow countrymen who celebrate this birthday. Name is Mikola Ivanovich Lavrik. Welcome, mate. [[Applause]] Mikola Ivanovich, welcome, good and health. And Livika Alexander Petrovich. Let's say hello to our birthday, too. Success and well-being, respected colleagues. Dear colleagues, there's information that I'd like to bring to your attention right now in accordance with the law on parliamentary inviolability. I want to get your information on the MP's integrity. Are you ready to accept the information? I'm asking for silence in the hall, my dear fellows. Thank you. Honourable National Deputies, on June 19th, the Constitutional Court of Ukraine officially issued a finding in the case of an appeal by the Supreme Council of Ukraine to reach a conclusion on the appropriateness of the bill amending the Constitution of Ukraine on the inviolability of national deputies and judges to the requirements of articles 157 and 158 of the Constitution of Ukraine. The Constitutional Court of Ukraine has recognized that it meets the requirements of articles 157 and 158 of the Constitution of Ukraine. The conclusion of the Constitutional Court of Ukraine is addressed to the Ukrainian National Deputies, the President of Ukraine. I ask the Committee on Legal Policy and Justice, in accordance with the rules of the Rules, to prepare for consideration a bill amending the Constitution of Ukraine on the inviolability of Ukrainian national deputies and judges with a view to its prior approval. I ask the committee, in accordance with the legislation, to prepare this matter for consideration. Ladies and gentlemen, this week we have a number of important issues that relate to enhancing Ukraine's security, cooperation with the International Monetary Fund and international financial institutions, as well as the question of continuing the reform of the law enforcement system. We expect that this package of laws related to the reform of the law enforcement system will be prepared by professional committees and introduced into the Parliamentary Hall. I would like to inform you separately that there will be a visit to Ukraine on Friday by the President of the European Parliament, Mr. Schulz, to Ukraine, and we will be able to meet the President of the European Parliament on the walls of our Parliament in plenary. On this same day, Friday, we look forward to the signing of the Strategic Agreement on Cooperation between the European Parliament and the Ukrainian Parliament. This will be the first to be signed, it is the result of our bilateral meetings, the work of two support groups between the European Parliament and Ukraine. And I think on Friday we're going to have a signed agreement on our strategic interaction. And now, dear colleagues, we have 30 minutes for the factions and groups. I'm asking everyone to get ready to sign up for the show, 30 minutes in, and let's move on to the day-to-day issues. Please, colleagues, report to the factions and groups for 30 minutes. And I would ask you to be considerate, distinguished colleagues. Dear colleagues, please, the Rebirth Party Group, National Deputy Oleg Kulinic. Please come in.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-30-m0.u3	Oleg Kulinic, rebirth party, 147th constituency, Poltavščina. Dear Mr. Head, distinguished colleagues, distinguished voters! On another occasion, I would like to draw attention to the question of decentralization of power in Ukraine, including the reform of community unification. First. The main problem of this reform, in my view, is the lack of incentives for unification, and one of the main incentives is the earth. Last Friday, during the "Year of Questions to the Government," Vice Prime Minister Zubko told of the drafting of a bill that should give the right to the United Communities to manage the land. But there's something to design and invent when Bill 1159 has long been registered in the Supreme Council, which was signed by 22 deputies from all the MPs and groups that were supported by the profile committee since January of this year. The bill is not being considered in the session hall for six months. It is not a secret that it is actively blocked by the State and leadership of the Supreme Council. Every time at the Conciliation Council, representatives of the MP's "Party of Rebirth" group insist on considering this very important bill. To change the situation and provide incentives for communities to unite, Volodymyr Borisovich needs to be resolved with the land. This requires the political will of the government and the Ukrainian Parliament. But so far there is no such political will. The other one. In our country, people in places do not believe that something can be finished. Here's a specific example. After budgetary decentralization, children’s kindergartens, outpatient clinics, and the FAPs are transferred to district budgets, and 60 percent of the PFCs remain in district budgets. But the local heads of the raiders are constantly asking the village councils to conduct subsidies for the proper maintenance of these facilities, for the cost is sufficient only for wages and energy. This indicates that reform requires substantial work. A preliminary calculation of the Zynkov city of Poltava region shows that even with 60 percent of the VAT and all state - budget subsidies, a hole — 11 million dollars — will appear after the union in the budget of the community. It's to maintain social infrastructure, without any development. And the third and the main. For whom is this reform being done — for officials or for people? For people, the result is that people need to experience improvements in the quality of administrative services, increased local budgets, and social costs. At present, people do not see their intentions and do not believe in them. The MP's Renewal Party believes that in order for the reform to work, it is necessary to introduce it in the pilot area or pilot areas in each area and to show on real examples all the advantages of decentralization: the repaired roads, accessibility and quality of administrative services, increased budgets. Not break the entire system of local self-government through the knee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-30-m0.u4	Julia Volodymyrna Timoshenko, Fatherland.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-30-m0.u5	Good afternoon! Now there's a rally of people on the surface of the Supreme Council representing small and medium-sized businesses. These are the people who have left their jobs now, who give them those pitiful coins after all the "reforms" that have been carried out. And they came to the square today to reach the hearts of the national deputies and the government. I want to tell you that when the elections go on, the deputies of all levels come to them, stand on their knees and promise the manna of the heavens, and when they sit in Parliament and in government, they forget what they call them. Today they demand the adoption of a law that cancels the application of cashiers, which is Law 1718. And we're not just going to be honest and not just fair, but we're going to be cruel and cynical if we don't have a full meeting with them at 12 o'clock today, with their representatives, and we're not going to invite them to the Supreme Council (this is their house, not their MP), and we're not going to adopt the law that allows them to work. But this is just the first part of the problem, this is the systematic destruction of small and medium-sized businesses. But there's a second part of the problem. In the same area near the Supreme Council today, trade unions, professional associations are represented, and they say that during the reign of this government 78 billion 100 million dollars were further removed from the people. It's taxes, it's beatings, it's pensions that are taxed in Ukraine today, and they don't want to accept it, and they're absolutely right. They're in the area today because during the reign of this government, there's a ninefold increase in housing and utilities, two or three times in medicine, food, everything, and at the same time, zero copies of indexation. And that's why we demand that, along with the unions, with the citizens of the whole country, we execute those two letters that were signed by all the leaders of the coalition factions along with the trade unions, where there are five bills: on the indexation of pensions and salaries; on the cancellation of the pension tax, which is a disgrace; and two bills on tariff cuts. If this is not put into the agenda today, it will be a lie. Serve the people, not the lobbying interests of this room! Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-30-m0.u6	Thank you. Please, Oleg Romanovich Berezuk, Self-help.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-30-m0.u7	Ladies and gentlemen of the MPs! Dear people of Ukraine! When one person dies, it's grief for the family, when thousands die for the country, it's statistics. Two weeks ago, a boy in Lviv died, 23 years old, and no one in this room stood up for a minute of silence because he was not a hero. But this boy is a symbol of our inability and the crime of the state in front of the people. As a result of such a death, the prime minister, the minister of health, the ministers and we are with you should resign in a normal country. This boy died of poverty. People are poor and begin to preserve meat and fish again. That was not the case for 10 years. An epidemic of botulism, this boy died of botulism, but not because he ate that can. Because there is no botulism serum in the 21st century. Dear colleagues, you wouldn't be talking right now, because tomorrow it could be you. The warring country does not have the opposite serum. You may be injured tomorrow, and you will not be injected with this serum because it is not in the country. Dear colleagues, this is a humanitarian disaster. And if only doctors understand that, you and your relatives and others will soon understand. That's impossible. That's why we're talking to the Prime Minister of the country. To begin directing the Ministry of Health, which today is run by the Ukrainian pharmaceutical mafia, is not a minister. And the last. Everything my predecessors said today will not happen if we have a quality political system. And it won't be because the Ukrainian Parliament was afraid to adopt a quality electoral law. And now we are struggling to prove the Law on Elections, which is of some dignity. So this week is the week of the political Ukrainian ruby. This is the Elections Act and, no doubt, the beginning of public work on constitutional change, where there are all the signs where there are all the signs of a shift from democratic development to the development of a usurpacial one that is not present in this country. All the usurpers who tried to control it for 24 years failed with a bang. We should not repeat the mistakes of those who have already made them. Learning from mistakes is a sign of wisdom. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-30-m0.u8	National MP Molotoc Igor Fedorovich, "Will of the People". Please. Litvin Volodymyr Mihajlovich, please, "will of the people."
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-30-m0.u9	Dear Head, distinguished national MPs! Last week was a week's work in the districts. And what people say, their moods, their expectations don't match the paper they gave us, absolutely. It seems that Kyiv, the authorities, all its institutions live a parallel life to society. I'm going to show you the results in just one population. These statements and appeals are the screams of the soul of man! The last scream of a man's soul! Of these, 95 percent say that people die, they can't perform surgery, they can't do chemotherapy. And we have reforms, reforms, reforms. And there are constant reforms and nothing is done! Medical experts say what the minister of health remembered when he held a meeting with them: a watch, the latest mobile phone model with which he worked all the time, and a requirement to speak Russian. Why these reforms, who needs them when there is no minimum level of health, social protection? The Constitution, I remind you, says, "State and municipal institutions provide medical care free of charge. The shortening of the network of medical facilities is forbidden." And we're making constitutional changes to ourselves and to ourselves. And by the way, when necessary, we're reading the Constitutional Court's conclusion, and no one's saying anything about the decision-making of the Venice Commission. The second problem is the arbitrary reduction of the school network. If we've already been told that we're going to have a reform of the territorial administration, let's, together with the communities, define how we're going to do it, and then we're going to talk about reducing the network, or else they say, optimizing the network of educational institutions, medical institutions and so on. With people in mind, no one counts. Even if they offered their approaches, Kiev comes up with a completely different cicada that determines how many communities there should be, how many districts there should be. And no one included, among other things, factors such as the religious factor, the factor of national settlements, which could lead to conflict. So, your honorary colleagues, no, I don't see the point of working on these legislations if we don't decide on the difference of 15 percent of the pension tax, if we don't index wages and pensions, we won't allow people to survive. Because there will be no country, there will be no people. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-30-m0.u10	Yuri Anatoliovich Boyko, Opposition Block, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-30-m0.u11	Dear Mr. Head! Dear National Deputies! Last week, the meeting of the Normandy Four was held in Paris, at which foreign ministers called for the full implementation of the Minsk Accords. Against the background of the worsening situation in Donbas, the European Union strongly recommends implementing the Minsk Accords and halting the escalation of the conflict. This is entirely in line with the position of our political power, which has registered 10 bills aimed at implementing the Minsk Peace Agreements. The Opposition Block calls for immediate consideration and adoption of these laws for the sake of the peace and preservation of the lives of our citizens. In a crisis-prevention economy, we consider it necessary to go back to the laws and programs proposed by the Opposition Block. This will save jobs and stop the collapse. Instead of selling businesses for free, start restoring the real economy and putting our Ukrainian professionals in charge of state property, not legions from all over the world, which will soon be picked up on the islands of the Pacific. The issue of preserving the ban on the sale of land is fundamental to us. We insist on the adoption of the Moratorium Continuation Act in December and against allowing the sale of strategic resources under conditions of economic crisis and the low cost of our currency. I have to point out with concern that in the face of rising economic crises and upcoming elections, authorities are starting to exert pressure on all dispossessors and political opponents, both economically and politically. This is how they try to eliminate competitors. In recent times, the flow of such information has grown. The opposition bloc will not ignore these facts and will help protect the rights of these people before the European Court of Human Rights, the OSCE, and other organizations. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-30-m0.u12	Thank you. Dear colleagues, before inviting Andrija Anatoliyovich Teteruka, "The People's Front", the faction leader, to inform you that you have distributed materials on the elimination of disagreements in the text of the adopted Act amending certain Ukrainian laws on the provision of competitive conditions for the production of electricity from alternative sources of energy. The relevant profiling committee has prepared these clarifications. I brought them to Parliament, they don't need to be included in the agenda, and they can be voted on. So I'd like you to just look at them, there's a lot of inaccuracies. And after the speech is over, I'll put it to the vote. And I will ask your support. Yes, they're handed over to the deputies. Please, 2010. Please, Andrew Anatolyovich Teteruk.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-30-m0.u13	Thank you, Your Honor Chairman! People's deputies, on behalf of the People's Front faction, I want to express two of those that are extremely important this very week for discussion. First. This refers to the question of the resignation of the Minister of Environment and Natural Resources, Igor Shevchenk. As we know, the most resonant event in recent weeks has been a massive fire in one of the oil fields in the Kyiv region. The disaster claimed five lives and cost the state nearly 50 million dollars. The emergency was a test for government officials. Are you ready for government top managers to carry out their tasks effectively? Sadly, an extraordinary situation revealed the shameful conduct of the minister of ecology, Shevchenk. At the time when the smoke from burning shelters covered half Kiev, the minister of ecology was abroad, flying in Nice on a private jet of oligarchus, one of Janukovic's close associates. In countries of democracy, after such a scandal, ministers usually resign on their own. But we will insist that the minister's activities should be studied by law enforcement authorities, and law enforcement should pay attention to the evidentiary basis for the minister's failure to return to the state of ownership of gas deposits. Consider, too, the manipulative attempts to mislead society by concealing this inaction by adhering to the work of the State Environmental Service and the navel of Ukraine. The People's Front faction insists on Igor Shevchenk's resignation as Minister of Ecology and Natural Resources. Next. On July 4th, one of the most anticipated reforms begins. A few days was left before a new patrol police appeared on Kiev Street, which would work under civilized rules. Kiev will be the first city to launch new standards of patrol work throughout the country. The People's Front faction expresses the belief that police reform should be a powerful and convincing testimony to Ukraine's sure movement through change. Corruption and fighting on the roads in Kiev will finally be over. And so it will be in every area, in every city of our country. Thank you for your attention. Glory to Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-30-m0.u14	Thank you. Please, Oleg Lishko, Radical Party.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-30-m0.u15	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. Honorable citizens of Ukraine, distinguished colleagues of national MPs! Obviously, next month will be marked by changes to the Constitution, which is a very important process for stabilizing the political and socio-economic situation in our country. Today, as we know, a draft amendment to the Constitution has been proposed, prepared, signed to the President in part of decentralization. We also know that the Head of the Supreme Council, Vladimir Groissman, traveled to the Venice Commission, where he represented this draft change to the Constitution. But I have a question. Have any of our fellow MPs, faction leaders seen these changes that we travel abroad with? No, we haven't. It's nonsense. We live in a parliamentary-presidential republic, we drive abroad, we present changes to the Constitution, and no one in Parliament has seen these changes before the Constitution. While they must be adopted in the walls of the Ukrainian Parliament. And we live in the parliamentary-presidential republic. So I think that the process of change that's going on right now has to be more transparent. And the Ukrainian Parliament, the factions of the Ukrainian Parliament have the right to get to know these changes, and only after the agreed positions are shared do they take them and present them abroad. Because according to the Constitution, Ukrainians live, not on members of the Venice Commission, but on the Ukrainian Constitution, living on Ukrainian citizens. And when we celebrated Day of the Ukrainian Constitution, unfortunately for me, it's not a holiday. For when no constitutional standards are fulfilled: the right to work, the right to a dignified old age, the right to a decent pension, the right to health care, the right to education, the right to use the nagrass that belong to the people and belong to the oligarchs, it is not a holiday. And once again, the government starts telling us that we're going to accept the changes to the Constitution in part of decentralization, and then finally we're going to experience, like in Europe, that's a lie. Because we change the Constitution almost every time power changes. It's not the Constitution that needs to be changed, it needs to change power more often, it doesn't implement and it ignores this Constitution. Now essentially changes. Unfortunately, I have not seen these changes. But from what I've heard, from what's been posted on the Web site of Vice-Speaker, the reverend Oksana Siroid, we're being tried to have a special status for Donbas. I want to say on behalf of the Radical Party of our faction. Our faction under no circumstances will ever vote for the special status of Donbas under the Constitution. Because this is the way to the split of Ukraine, this is the implementation of the toll plan on the federalization of our country. And in fact, the main changes that we have to make to the Constitution are not decentralization, although it's important to remove dualism in power, so that we know who's running the country, not the constant opposition between the President, the government and parliament. That's what we have to do.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-30-m0.u16	Thank you. Dear fellow national MPs! If you'll excuse me, a few words of comment, because my last name has been given for changes to the Constitution. Would you excuse me, my friends? The Constitutional Commission, composed of the best professionals in the civil sector, experts, observers are international professional organisations, including representatives of the Council of Europe, the most authoritative organization of the Venice Commission. This includes members of the factions of the Ukrainian Parliament, from factions of coalitions and corresponding factions, other factions, and groups. In fact, we've been working since May 4th, since creation, and we've been very tense, and we've prepared a series of changes to the Constitution that will be presented to the President as a consultation. Appropriately, this bill takes into account several positions, respected friends of the national MPs. First. Regional government administrations will be replaced by executive committees at the district and district levels. The basic level is defined by respectable colleagues, the community. What will have full authority in Ukraine, which will be based on the principles of widespread local self-government, is what they said about the land, not the laws, but the Constitution by guaranteeing these rights. It is proposed: financial self-sufficiency, the right of territorial communities in the country to part of national taxes; subsidisation in the transfer of powers down, not in the centre of concentration, to usurp power; another function is provided – it is proper control of the European type. So after meeting the working group within the Constitutional Commission, including with the participation of the national deputies of all factions, I took the technical document, came to the meeting of the Venice Plenary Commission (it just happens, and the next one will only be in the fall) and asked them: There is a technical document, which is the basic principles of how they correspond to the European Charter on Local Self-Government. And that we kept from the most authoritative international organization, the international organization. Dozens of countries, the best experts, are part of this organization. For the first time in the history of Ukraine, we received a positive conclusion from the Venice Commission. Look, dear friends, the call of the Council of Europe, look at the appeal of the Venice Commission that Ukraine is on the right track. Of course, it's a question of the Ukrainian Parliament to find political will to usurp power and create a system of local self-government or not. And that's the only question. Finally, I would like to point out once again that the President has the right to make proposals for changes to the Constitution. And this will happen according to the law of Ukraine. Today, the President has demonstrated his affection for the decentralization of power and the transfer of authority to places. This will be taken into account in the proposals that were voted on Friday by the Constitutional Commission with broad representation, including by the national deputies. And so, after the President's amendment to the Constitution, the draft amendments to the Constitution, you and I have two weeks to look at them and determine their support. Second position. We're going to have at least three votes. It is this month until the end of the session, to include it in the agenda and to refer it to the Constitutional Court. In the next month, we will have to vote when he returns to the Constitutional Court, if that conclusion is positive. And the third, finally, 300 votes once and for all, to hand power over to the places. This includes changes to the Constitution. So I understand caution in these matters. And I want to point out once again, if you and I are going to decentralize the country and hand over power to the communities, consider that most of the reform tasks in the country have been initiated by you and me. Because we will continue to be able to carry out with you the quality health reform that is discussed in this rostrum, the education we are talking about in this rostrum, we will pass the funds to the villagers into the communities and into the cities, and they will not go to the National Deputies to do the chemistry or perform the surgery. You know, when we transfer authority to places, then we start to develop a normal civil society and Ukrainian citizen, regardless of whether a national MP, an official of any level, gives him taxes in the form of material aid. Their best protection will be in their pocket their wages and self-sufficiency of their community, with quality roads, with quality education, with quality health care, with quality club and with quality jobs to which this reform itself is called. So I urge everyone to unite around this reform, take on political responsibility, vote and secure a gap between Ukraine’s post - Soviet centralised past, and build a way to a better European future and present. Thank you for your attention and count on your support, colleagues. Let's move on. Yuri Vitaliovich Lucenko, Peter Dustenka's Block.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-30-m0.u17	Dear Mr. Head, dear colleagues, this week we suggest that we focus on the order of the day that was formed earlier. The introduction of new questions is considered useless and not effective. The task of the coalition agreement, the execution of the government's agenda, is clearly defined by the reform plan, and we must enforce laws that move the country forward. But more and more we feel awakening at the level of executive power. And so we need to evaluate those ministers who are unable to organize reforms to their ministries. Today, the need for a minister of the natural environment to resign because of unethical conduct has been discussed, and our faction agrees with this, although it insists that a new minister be appointed immediately or that serious revenge is not lost to the chief. Our faction has too many questions about the catastrophic situation in the Ministry of Health. We still can't stand what's going on inaction in this important thing for tens of millions of Ukrainians in revenge. We also have questions about providing the form of our military service to the Secretary of Defense. On this issue, how did dozens of former judges get into the volunteer IMF battalions. These issues will be resolved in the working order and we urge the government to conduct a review of the ability of its senior officials and their deputies to implement the Government's Action Plan and the coalition agreement. We also believe that during this week we should resolve the issues of those who have led us to power. The middle class of Ukraine revolutionized twice in 2004 and 2015. They are the ones who have brought you, your honors, who are now not listening and fooling around in this room, to power! They brought this government into power, they brought the President and each of us! And that's why the question of cashiers is not about the economy. This is a question of the political basis of the Ukrainian revolution and of Ukrainian-European integration. So is the question of tax changes for agricultural producers. It is not possible in the Transitional Situations to quietly destroy the Ukrainian village that feeds all of us while we are moving these reforms slowly. We should also eventually put a dot on this week in the formation of a system of law enforcement agencies. Further in this frail, balanced vendetta, we cannot fight corruption, and this is evidenced by the situation on the spot. The election law should also be passed this week. After all, Ukraine has earned a change in the Kushma-Yakukovic elites that have been sitting on for decades.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-30-m0.u18	Please, 30 seconds, finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-30-m0.u19	Last one. I think on behalf of the faction of Peter Prashenko, I'm stressing the support of the Constitutional Commission, which has drafted the draft Constitution and placed authority in place. Enough fighting for power in this business center. People need to be given authority over the city, the area, the area, the village. Stop sharing authority and tell people how to live. We should finally allow them to live freely, as we advocated on Maidan. Voting for the Constitution will give us an opportunity to do so for the Ukrainians.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-30-m0.u20	Thank you, Yuri Vitaliovich. In fact, once again, I stress that European change is completely normal. And you'll see it, and you'll feel it. And we can discuss this at any professional level, at any level. Dear colleagues, 2010 on the elimination of disagreements, you got this text in the distribution materials. I'll read it now, if there's no objection, we'll vote it. Is there no objection? And so, colleagues, on June 4, 2015, the Supreme Council was the first to adopt the Act amending certain Ukrainian laws on the provision of competitive conditions for the production of electricity from alternative sources of energy. According to article 131 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine’s Rules, we need to eliminate some contradictions and disagreements in certain provisions of the law. Suggestions for the settlement of disagreements are given to you as I reported. I would like to put to the vote the proposals I have put forward to remove the disagreements in the text of the adopted Act amending certain Ukrainian laws on the provision of competitive conditions for the production of electricity from alternative sources of energy. I'm about to read, my dear colleagues, what these disagreements are all about. In article 17, where, in part eight, the word "defined with the application of the tariff coefficient applicable to the peak time period for the trizonal tariff classification" should be deleted. And we had to rule out eight and nine. And here's what we're going to do. In parts eight and nine, the word "defined with the application of the tariff coefficient used for the peak time period for the trizonal tariff classification" should be deleted. So that's what these changes are all about. So from one point it's off, and from the other it's counterversive, it's not off. Dear colleagues, this is the proposal I want to put to the vote. She's working on the committee, and the committee's in, and I'm in the room. Is there no objection? Please, Dudenkov, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-30-m0.u21	Thank you. Dear Volodymyr Borisovich, distinguished colleagues! I don't know who the proposals are, the opposition block faction didn't get any copies at all, and we don't have the right to vote from the vote. I'd like to make these proposals first, we'll analyze them, and then put them to the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-30-m0.u22	Please, dear colleagues, take a look at your material carefully. At the time of registration, these materials are distributed by the secretariat, you have, just look. They're all handed out at the time of the registration. Dear colleagues, I put to the vote in order of 131 articles of the Rules on the Elimination of Disagreements in the text of the adopted Law on Amendments to Certain Ukrainian Laws on the Provision of Competitive Conditions of Electricity Production from Alternative Sources of Energy. The question is that it needs to be settled and signed today. The eighth and ninth parts are to rule out derivatives. In fact, nothing changes in the law. Ready to vote, colleagues, on clarifying and eliminating disagreements? Please, colleagues, please vote 2010d: on the elimination of disagreements and inaccuracies of the law. Please support, these are technical changes. Please support, the law has already been passed by Parliament. For him to work, we need to clean up the inaccuracies. I'd like your support, colleagues. [[10:47:53]] For 218. We'll take into account that not everyone has their seats yet, colleagues. I see everyone is voting, but not everyone is. Please, colleagues, I'm bringing it in again. It doesn't need to be included in the agenda, this proposal. This is the elimination of inaccuracies. I have to sign this law today. If we don't remove the inaccuracies, it just won't work, two controversial articles will be the same. I'm asking you to back me up, everyone. Please again: on the elimination of disagreements in order of 131 articles in the text of the adopted Ukrainian Law on Amendments to Certain Ukrainian Laws on the Provision of Competitive Conditions of Electricity Production from Alternative Sources of Energy. (Registration No. 2010) These are the technical refinements of the 8th and 9th differences. Please support, colleagues, we vote. Please be supportive. Please vote. [[10:49:02]] For 243 Thank you, Your Honor, 243, decision taken. In fact, the two standards were just counterversive. So let's move on to the day-to-day issues. Dear colleagues, you have before you the draft Act (Registration No. 2087a) amending certain laws of Ukraine in the area of public procurement to bring them into line with international standards and to take measures to overcome corruption. Reported by Deputy Minister of Economic Development and Trade of Nepheods Maksim Evgenovich. There is an offer by the rapporteur to review this draft Law by a reduced procedure. I would like to refer to the national MPs for consideration of this bill by a reduced procedure. I remind you, we need 150 votes. Please vote. Regarding the consideration of the shortened procedure in the first reading. [[10:49:54]] For 175 Decision adopted, 175. We can look into it. Please report.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-30-m0.u23	Good afternoon, distinguished national MPs! The bill presented to you is part of an important reform of public procurement initiated by the government. Its adoption requires a plan of action for the implementation of an association agreement between Ukraine and the European Union, a coalition agreement, a permanent development strategy 2020, a plan of action for the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and a plan of first-hand action to overcome corruption. Both national MPs and Transparency International experts, the Anti-Corruption Centre, the Reanimation Package of Reforms, Transparency of Procurement, New Country and other respected non-state organizations were involved in drafting the bill. The bill's goal is to reform public procurement in four directions. The first is reducing corruption risks. This is: verification of the end-beneficiary information, which will allow for quick and simple conspiracies; secondly, changes aimed at increasing transparency in the disclosure process, the bidding committees will be obliged to demonstrate the proposals made by the participants when they are disclosed, including the proposed prices; thirdly, changes that will not allow the bidding to be delayed, namely, non-admission of the documentation of the bidding on the last day before the opening, sometimes delaying the purchase of medicines or armoured persons. The second block of reform is the simplification of trade for business, when not everyone is supposed to provide guidance on trade, but only the winner of trade, the so-called self-declaration practice. Next. We're canceling a monitoring function in the Ministry of Economics, which is a duplicative, regulated and only carries corruption risks within the Ministry of Economics. Third. We increase the value of applying the laws that have to do with rising average inflation from 100,000 to 200,000 dollars. And last but not least. This is the introduction of legislation to international standards. It is the setting up of procedures in line with EU directives and WTO standards. This will allow Ukrainian exporters to gain access to a market of more than $1.7 trillion in 42 countries worldwide. Ladies and gentlemen, please accept the proposed bill as a basis. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-30-m0.u24	Thank you, take your place. Please be the deputy head of the profile committee, Yuri Soloway.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-30-m0.u25	Dear colleagues! I don't think I'm going to open a secret for anyone if I say that the public procurement sector today is one of the most corrupt. And probably everyone understands how tenders are made both in the public sphere and in state-owned enterprises. And that is why the solution to this issue is probably one of the key reforms in our country today. To say that this bill is revolutionary, no, it's not revolutionary, because it doesn't launch electronic commerce. But by the way, this bill is a serious step forward compared to the situation that we have today in the field of public procurement. In particular, I would like to point out that this bill was drafted by a relevant working group with the participation of representatives of public organizations, experts. The bill was considered by the Committee on Economic Policy. And I would like to point out that the committee recommended that the bill be adopted as a basis for further elaboration between the first and the second readings. There were many comments, amendments to a number of national MPs. And I'm sure that between the first and the second reading, we're going to do all of these adjustments. And this bill will have a very serious and effective effect on the area of government procurement in Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-30-m0.u26	Thank you, Your Honor. Please two for, two for against, please sign in. Mikola Tomenko, Petra Dustenka's Block.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-30-m0.u27	Dear colleagues, we will support this bill in the first reading, although we would really like to get a long-awaited electronic tendering system. Because if you look at what's going on today, I'm opening up our money, so I'm reading, "Army bought a 29 million-dollar tire in a newbie with a statutory capital of 4,000 dollars. The Avatars, instead of the Docons, won the round-todor tender. " And in fact, every single one of these is like a book of Ukrainian corruption. I'd like to read, I don't own this site. You can see that, in fact, in Ukraine, things have changed that nothing has changed. So, of course, the law is very important. But the most important trade practices, public procurement practices. So it seems to me that when I think about the bill, the most important thing to think about is how is the bidding, who is responsible, how is the principle of conflict of interest being implemented. We have prescribed the principle of conflict of interest. What, does it do in Ukraine or does it not work? Do we have the wives of the mayors or the relatives of the governors, or the heads of the administrations, which will not win the deal? They're gonna win. And no one has a precedent. What does it take to open a criminal case? And one more point is that if we vote in the first reading, and I vote in the first reading, it's about a segment of humanitarian policy that's not needed in the Ukrainian state and government and the government in general. I'm talking about an exception to the rules. I mean, for example, today, and it was adopted in the session hall that my law was still at Yanukovich, and Janukovic promised. For example, books are purchased for tender purchases because the Ministry of Culture has created a bookcase, and the bookcase earns money. Well, what about the tender purchases if we have the publishing on our fingertips? It's the same story with sports competitions where they only buy defined accessories, you don't need them, you don't need trades. So we support the first reading and work together.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-30-m0.u28	Thank you. Please, National Deputy Kugel, Fatherland.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-30-m0.u29	Honorary Presidium, my fellow Members, if you see how many bills have been put on the committee to make changes to purchases, I think we should do separate parliamentary hearings in order to expose all corruption schemes in the procurement system. Because we all say every year that this is the most corrupt direction in the use of government funds. As far as the bill is concerned. If you please, Mr. Deputy Minister, listen carefully. We are absolutely against and we demand that you exclude from the first reading the part where you anticipate the discharge of responsibility and shorten the functions of the authorized authority, which is your ministry to control the conduct of the purchaser's monitoring. I want everyone to listen. In all the countries of the world, control goes on every minute. Just bought a ministry, there's a red flag, there's an overpriced and there's a problem. And the Ministry's offering us, and now it's giving us once a quarter, and now it wants to serve once a year. My relatives, the Turks, hunt when they run, not when they are already sighing, or run to other countries. So it's definitely against that. You need as a ministry to control, every day monitoring the use of state purchases and the possibility of corruption in part of price increases. I'm giving you information. Today, a special commission is working in the ministry. I've been working there since the faction, we've been checking with the Ministry of Health. So, honourable national MPs, just so you know, one part of our background check showed that by October of the month.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-30-m0.u30	30 seconds to complete.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-30-m0.u31	The Ministry of Health will not buy public medicines, such a procedure. And that's why we demand you, all the deputies: review the procedure, check with the Ministry of Health. And we demand that a budget for the purchase of government drugs be implemented during the month only in the first reading with our comments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-30-m0.u32	Thank you. People's Deputy Birddog, Self-Help. And then there's Andrew Ivanchuk, the People's Front.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-30-m0.u33	Dear National Deputies! We would like to say that this bill is an example of a bill being worked on by civil society and numerous public organizations, and we were actually trying to send this bill to overcome corruption in public procurement. I think it's no secret to anyone that the area of government procurement is the most corrupt sphere when millions of dollars are washed every day from the state budget. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that this authority applies equally to the work of the Antimonopoly Committee, which is supposed to monitor and ensure competition in public procurement and eliminate conspiracies, and to bring responsibility accordingly. We will certainly support this bill in the first reading. And I wanted to speak to the Ministry of Economics separately so that the Ministry of Economics could put in place an electronic system of public procurement as quickly as possible to make it impossible.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-30-m0.u34	Please, 20 seconds, finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-30-m0.u35	In order to make it impossible for entities involved in public procurement to communicate with the contracting authority in order to avoid distortions of competition. And from the new composition of the Antimonopoly Committee, we expect to be investigated in various spheres of government.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-30-m0.u36	Thank you. Please, Andrew Ivanchuk, People's Front.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-30-m0.u37	Dear Mr. Head! I'd like to address you, distinguished national MPs, in a few words. The bill is very revolutionary. And from the People's Front faction and the Economic Committee, I ask you to support it. There are four sides to this bill. The first is to reduce corruption risks, to check the end-beneficiary, to find documents that contain price information, to publish evaluation protocols, to eliminate and eliminate the deliberate blocking of procurement procedures. The second block is a simplification of participation for business and deregulation. The third and most basic is the introduction to international EU standards and directives of our legislation governing public procurement. And the last one is the rise in prices and thresholds for government purchases. So I'm very much asking all the factions and groups to support this bill in the first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-30-m0.u38	Thank you. Please, Yuri Derevyanko, and let us proceed to the vote. Please take your seats, dear colleagues.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-30-m0.u39	Dear Chairman, dear colleagues! Yuri Derevyanco, 87th constituency, Will Party. Of course, this bill deals in part with those involved in corruption and needs to be supported. But, dear fellows, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that the biggest corruptions are not eliminated and they are today that we have state-owned enterprises that do not conduct any purchases and tenders at all. This was deliberately done under Yanukovich’s regime in order to get rid of it and, unfortunately, this system was preserved. We have registered Bill 1127, which provides for the obligation to conduct tenders by public enterprises, just as other executive authorities do today at the expense of budgetary resources. Therefore, honourable colleagues, in support of this bill, ask and appeal to the presiding officer to put 1127 in order to really overcome corruption in this area that is eating up our economy today. Thank you. The corruption part, it means. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-30-m0.u40	Thank you. Dear colleagues, as a result of the discussion for your consideration, were put to the vote, following a discussion in the first reading on the basis of the Committee's conclusion, the draft Act (registration number 2087a), the draft Act amending certain laws of Ukraine in the field of public procurement to bring them into line with international standards and to take action to overcome corruption. Ladies and gentlemen, please take your seats. Prepare to vote. 2087, based on the Committee's conclusion. Vote please, Your Honor. 2087, on the basis of your respectable colleagues. [[11:04:25]] For 270. The decision is taken, your honor, on the basis of the decision. Let's move on. For your consideration, Your Honorary Colleagues, a draft Act (registration number 2884 and 2884-1 alternative) has been introduced – a draft Act amending certain Ukrainian laws on strengthening the social protection of people with disabilities who do not have the right to receive pensions or social assistance. The First Deputy Minister of Social Policy, Shevchenko, as well as the National Deputy of the Kingdom, will be reported. There is a proposal to consider these two bills by a reduced procedure. I'd like to make a statement. Please vote, Your Honor, for consideration of the reduced procedure. [[11:05:22]] For-191 Thank you. Please report to the First Deputy Minister of Social Policy, Vasil Shevchenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-30-m0.u41	Thank you. Honourable Volodymira Borisovich, distinguished national MPs, Ukrainian legislation provides for the granting of benefits and guarantees to disabled persons: such as travel, purchase of medical supplies, sanatorium treatment, provision of technical means of rehabilitation and priority services in medical institutions. On the basis of their status, they provide a certificate of war invalidity, a disabled child and a disabled child with a pension certificate. However, in Ukraine there are people with disabilities who do not have a certificate and who are deprived of access to appropriate benefits and guarantees. According to regional social protection authorities, about 720 people are denied a pension each year — lack of insurance or state aid if the disabled is not a low-income person. The draft act is intended to introduce an alternative certification document on the basis of which persons with disabilities will be entitled to benefit from benefits and guarantees. It will appear to the regional social protection authorities and will contain the following information: the surname of the parent, the group of causes of disability, and, in appropriate cases, the basic nosological forms of illness of the person by sight, hearing and resistance. Ladies and gentlemen, please support the bill as a whole. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-30-m0.u42	Thank you. Please listen to two laws and then the committee's conclusion. Please, Natalia Royal.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-30-m0.u43	Dear colleagues! Dearly-respected are those who are present. Of course, the Opposition Block will support this social initiative and, of course, we are pleased to see the Ministry of Social Policy for the first time in a year and a half, a project aimed at social protection for people. It offends, frankly, that this project concerns only 719 people in our vast country, 719 people. Of course, we will protect and support this project. But what are we insisting on today? We insist that the Ministry of Social Policy and the Government urgently amend Parliament's budget for the indexation of pensions and salaries. Because with the kind of supplies you're trying to calm people down today, you're not going to make it. People today cannot live on a minimum pension, a minimum wage that is not reviewed in our country for the second year. Today, the disabled I and II groups, the disabled S groups are unable to buy a cure, unable to pay for tariffs, not standing around today at least to feed their families. Because those minimum incapacity payments, they can't give a person a chance to cure himself somehow. Prices in pharmacies are rising, and we insist that drug price theft be stopped. We insist that the social protection package for the necessary groups of medicines be provided to our people with disabilities. To protect people today and enable them to heal themselves, heal themselves, and undergo rehabilitation courses. We therefore insist that the Government carry out an urgent indexation of pensions.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-30-m0.u44	Ten seconds, complete.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-30-m0.u45	We insist that the Government carry out an urgent indexation of pensions and salaries, indexing of payments to persons with disabilities and halting the looting of prices.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-30-m0.u46	Please, the head of the Committee, Alexander Trelyakow. Please, Alexander Yuriovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-30-m0.u47	Ladies and gentlemen of the people! The Committee on Veterans, Fighters, ATOs and Persons with Disabilities considered Bills 2884 and 2884-1 at its meeting on 03.06.2015. As already stated, the purpose of the bill is to enable people with disabilities who do not have the right to a pension or social assistance and therefore do not have the necessary certificates to exercise their legitimate right to travel in transport free of charge. It is proposed to provide such persons with disabilities with a certificate granting them the right to travel free of charge in transport, which will be issued by the Labour and Social Protection Directorate. The members of the committee agree that the issue raised in the bills requires a legislative settlement. Decision of the Committee: To support the conclusion of the Chief Scientific and Expert Office on the feasibility of adopting it on first reading, Government Act 2884. It will need to be taken into account when finalizing the second reading for the certificate to be issued free of charge. Bill 2884-1, an alternative, is proposed to be rejected. For example, there is such a rule that the certificate may be issued indefinitely, although disability may be urgent: for one, two and five years. At the same time, I would like to say that it is possible to support the Cabinet's proposal, to adopt this law as a basis and as a whole. At the same time, I request that the General Legal Administration, together with the Professional Committee, issue a technical legal notice to ensure that this certificate is issued free of charge, only one rule: we issue the certificate free of charge. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-30-m0.u48	Thank you. Please, Your Honor, two for, two for against. You don't mind, do you? Okay. Okay. There is an offer to go to the vote. Dear colleagues, please, we have heard the report accordingly as a result of discussion 2052a. Excuse me, 2884 and 2884-1: draft Act amending certain Ukrainian laws on strengthening the social protection of disabled persons who do not have the right to receive pensions or social assistance. There is a proposal for a 2884 committee to adopt a bill on the basis and generally with technical legal rights that have been announced by the committee's head. I would like to stress that the 2884 Act was concluded by the Chief Scientific and Expert Authority that the bill could be adopted as a basis, and 2884-1, the Administration made its remarks to the bill. I therefore put to the vote and ask to be prepared for the vote. Draft Law on the results of the discussion (registration number 2884) on the basis and overall. The Self-Help faction has warnings about voting in general. Please, from the Self-Help faction, who? On the basis of the total of 2,884. If there is a denial, then. There's no objection. Copy that. Is there a denial? There's no objection, it's a deal. So 2884, taking into account the committee's proposals on the basis and in general, 2884. Let's vote, colleagues, with technical legal remedies that have been handed down to the committee head. Please vote. [[11:14:51]] For 283 On the basis and in general with the technical legal rights of the committee adopted, 283. Peter Poshenko Block – 109 People's Front – 66, Opposition Block – 15, Self-Help – 20, Oleg Ljashka Radical Party – 20, Father's Party – 14, Restoration Party – 7, Will of the People – 11, non-fractional – 21. Thank you. Dear colleagues, the following is the draft Law (Registration No. 2052a) amending certain laws of Ukraine (to ensure proper organization of the preparation and conduct of the elections of the Ukrainian National Deputies). There is a proposal by the rapporteur, Ruslan Knazević, to consider the draft law in a simplified way. I'd like to make up my mind. This is a consideration of the reduced procedure, colleagues. I'd like to make up my mind. [[11:15:47.]] For-183 Decision taken. We've got the required number of votes. Ruslan Petrovich Knazević, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-30-m0.u49	Thank you, Mr. Head. Dear colleagues! The 2052a registration bill is purely technical. In fact, there are three things that are caused by the need to make changes to the current drafting of the Law on the Election of People’s Deputies in connection with the announcement of the organization of the holding of the interim election of the Ukrainian National Deputy. You know we're in the electoral process now. And the Central Election Commission is carrying out a series of legislative measures. Unfortunately, however, there are certain things that need to be addressed in a technical way in the current law, especially in the part concerning the holding of interim elections. First of all, these are three key nuances. The bill allows representatives of the Central Electoral Commission, secretarial staff and voters to be present without a special decision at meetings of the lower level of committees, district and district. This is a technical thing that is needed to properly ensure the work of these committees, as well as the transfer from the commissions to the Central Electoral Commission of the results of the district elections. In addition, the bill also provides for a reduction in a certain number of periods relating to promotion and registration. Unfortunately, however, given that this bill had not been considered before those terms had passed, in this part it should not be allowed to take effect in this part of me now, given what is going on in the electoral process. And there's a proposal that's supported by the committee that, in terms of terms, the law will take effect if it's adopted today, only on September 1, 2015. After the election process was completed in one of the one-maned constituencies. And finally, the third nuance, which is very important to settle. Remember, the Tender Procedures Act has always contained a rule that, given the rapidity of the electoral process, the Central Election Commission can conduct tendering for election ballots, election protocols, other electoral documentation without clear compliance with the time limits provided for in the law. It's a talk, remember, it's 45 days.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-30-m0.u50	Please, two more minutes of the subcommittee. Please, Ruslan Petrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-30-m0.u51	Since I've been speaking since the committee, it's an agreed position for the committee. But given that now, as of January 1, this part of the Tender Procedures Act does not provide for such a standard, it is requested that they be reinstated. In order for the Central Election Commission to announce and conduct a tender for the purchase and production of appropriate ballot papers, election protocols, information posters, special protection packages and a whole range of others, such as electoral documentation, which is essential for the organization of the electoral process. In view of the fact that there was only one observation regarding the transfer of the validity of the law in part of the nomination and registration of candidates, the unanimous committee supported this proposal so that this part of the law would become effective only on September 1, 2015. Finally, the committee agreed with the drafters of the legislative initiative that this bill was very important at the stage of the organization and the holding of interim elections in one of the one-managed districts and asked the Supreme Council to support it on the basis and in general. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-30-m0.u52	Thank you, Ruslan Petrovich. Dear colleagues, there's an offer, there's an offer. Dear colleagues, please sign in: two for, two against. Please, Andrew Teteruk, People's Front.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-30-m0.u53	Please pass on the word of Victoria Sumar.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-30-m0.u54	Dear colleagues, since these are technical amendments that need to be made to the legislation for elections, particularly in Chernigov, obviously so that voters can exercise their right to vote in this context. These "national front" revisions will support, although of course this is not exactly the complex approach that is needed today for the real reform of the electoral system, which will obviously have to be done together in the context of local elections and other electoral legislation. So far, we've been supporting technical things. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-30-m0.u55	Please, National Deputy Alexi Musak. Please, Alexei, the Peter Dust Block.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-30-m0.u56	Please pass the word to my BP colleague, Mikola Tomenku.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-30-m0.u57	Mikola Tomenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-30-m0.u58	Dear colleagues, the bill will be supported. It is vital that we go quietly to the elections that take place in the near future. But what I'd like to say is that in general, here my colleagues said we should finally say good-bye to the past. And I think the new composition of the Central Electoral Commission is going to be a farewell to the past. So not only are we increasing the rights of the Central Electoral Commission, but all those people who have dedicated their decisions to the proper decisions of the Yanukovic regime, we have to change. In this regard, I would like to express my concern about the situation that has arisen in connection with the prizes for the Day of the Constitution. I consider it a contempt for the Ukrainian Parliament to reward the head of the Central Electoral Commission with a national award for Constitution Day. I'm asking the President to reverse this decision. And this decision is not just about the head of the Central Electoral Commission. There are prominent lawyers on that list, with whom I have repeatedly debated, who have convincingly proved that the second term of Kuchma is the first term. Among them are people who have defied the Ukrainian Constitution. And it's cynicism on Constitution Day to reward them for destroying the Ukrainian Constitution. So I don't think such things can be allowed. And I think it's better for politicians, civil servants, not to reward ten years to be as rewarding as on Constitution Day. There's someone to reward. There are soldiers, officers who protect Ukraine. There are simple men fighting for Ukraine. And let officials and politicians work without reward. That's why we're voting for this bill. And I'm waiting for both our room and the President to think about a new composition of the Central Electoral Commission that will not work for the old and new power, but that will work for the Ukrainian people.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-30-m0.u59	Anna Romanova, Self-Help, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-30-m0.u60	Dear colleagues, I would like to draw attention to the interim elections that are now taking place in 205 counties, namely in the city of Chernigov. It's this election that this bill is now being adapted to one of the candidates. So, you know, now the record situation is in Chernigov -- over 100 candidates have registered in this district. Of them, more than 80 technical candidates are one of the candidates. So you realize that this bill cancels the necessary training of the members of the DVC and the KLA. This means, in practice, that 80 technical candidates will register their VAT and KLA members who will be taught how to do what is right. In addition, the bill proposes to cancel state procurement, as well as to service the e-election system. What does that mean? It's those who need to run the election electronic system in these mid-term elections to the Supreme Council. Therefore, the self-help union will not support this lobbying bill, which is designed to win one of the candidates. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-30-m0.u61	Oleg Lazko.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-30-m0.u62	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. There are now thousands of small businesses near the walls of the Ukrainian Parliament, where the government is taking away the opportunity to feed its families, to earn a penny by introducing cashiers. I'm asking the Head of the Supreme Council to put a broadcast on the street. At the same time, what laws do we consider? Instead of looking at laws that allow jobs to be created, allowing people to earn their money, feed their families, we find time and mortify the Ukrainian Parliament's head to consider lobbying bills to bring to the Supreme Council Hall the famous thief Berezenka, who stole the Kyiv land along with the Chernewsky, and now leads the DUSU, and now he's given a command around the county, on my native Montenegrin land, to go to the district to the Supreme Council. The 205 district election is the dirtiest election since Maidan! It's a disgrace! It's a mistreatment of Maidan! When a young kid, a lollipop to whom only the gay parades in Chernigow, which they're announcing there, they drag him here to Parliament. They want to rob Ukrainian Montenegrin land, as they robbed together with Chernevski, along with Long Lesik, who hid behind the MP's inviolability. And now this liner wants to go back to the walls of the Ukrainian Parliament on bribes. And unfortunately, all of this is being sanctified by the President's Administration, and there's an attempt to falsify the election. And that's why the famous Drahuya, Ahendowski's prohindy for future falsifications in the 2005 district, was awarded the Order of Jaroslav the Wise. Jaroslav Wise is turned into a grave when the Counts, the Ohendows carry his orders! It's a shame, it's harassment.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-30-m0.u63	Yuri Lucenko, Peter Dustenka's Block.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-30-m0.u64	Dear Mr. Head, distinguished national MPs! I'm asking you to go back to the document that we're looking at. If this bill is not adopted, the elections will simply not take place, and the factions that want to break the election now find different reasons not to vote. I understand, of course, that someone, well, knows better about "sauces" than we do about "sauces" is not about our faction. We're putting a candidate on the floor: go to the polls and win or lose. And "sauce" is to do free time! There must be a vote in favour of this law, which will allow elections to be held in Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-30-m0.u65	Thank you. Thank you, Your Honor. [[B in m in s a l in]] Let's do that. Look, fellows, if you want a replica, if we have a national MP here in this room named Sosunka, I'm willing to give him my word. You don't? Dear colleagues, you have a draft Law (registration number) for your consideration. [[B in m in s a l in]] It's okay. Calm down. Sit down. 2052a. Dear colleagues, I am voting on the basis of the draft Law (Registration No. 2052). I'd like to make a determination about the 2052a vote. We talked. They even got into a fight. Vote. 2052a is based. [[11:30:25]] For 199 Let's see. We didn't make it? Dear colleagues, we must return then, let us return. Please 2052a for coming back to review this bill. Please vote for return 2052a. To return to consideration. Let's vote, let's vote. [[11:31:00]] For 211 The decision is not taken. Let's go back to the committee to prepare for the re-reading. Please return to the committee for re-reading. Please, let's vote. [[11:31:30.]] For 219 The bill is not passed, thank you, Your Honor. 2555, there's a committee proposal. Guys, don't quarrel, don't quarrel, calm down. 2555, there's a letter to the committee asking for a transfer. 2686 is a draft Act amending article 11 of the Ukrainian Act on the Social and Legal Protection of Military Servants and Members of Their Families on the psychological rehabilitation of military personnel after carrying out tasks under martial law. Dear colleagues, the draft law was introduced by the national MP, Mr. Sporish Ivan Dmitrovich, and his suggestion is to consider the reduced procedure, please be determined. As for consideration of the bill, a reduced procedure. [[11:32:38]] For 202 Decision taken. Please, Ivan Dmitrovitch, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-30-m0.u66	Your Honor, Your Honor! Your opinion is proposed for consideration by Bill 2686 on Amendments to Article 11 of the Ukrainian Act on Social and Legal Protection of Military Servants and Members of Their Families. This bill is prepared in cooperation with the psychological services of the power structures of the state, such as the National Guard, the Armed Forces of Ukraine, because no legal instrument currently deals with the psychological and psychological rehabilitation of military personnel. The problem is that fighters can return home physically unharmed, but symptoms of a post - traumatic stress disorder that occurs from 3 to 6 months or even a few years later. The National Guard examines the experience of foreign colleagues, including NATO standards, and prepares a draft noticeable order for medical and psychological rehabilitation of participants in hostilities. But it cannot be implemented because of the lack of legal standards provided for in the bill. This gives the fighters the right to undergo compulsory and free psychological and psychological rehabilitation. Military psychologists at the National Guard have studied the initial programme for the rehabilitation of NATO military personnel. After six months of involvement in combat, psychological services conducted a study of scientific research into the wars of the past century and a threat to veterans who had not been physically injured. And that's why this bill is supported by the General Science and Technology Administration. The bill is supported by the Supreme Council of Ukraine's profile committee. So I'm asking you very much, dear colleagues, not to delay adopting this bill. It is a delay in maintaining mental health not only for ATOs but for all Ukrainians.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-30-m0.u67	Please finish 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-30-m0.u68	I ask this bill to be accepted as a basis. If there are any comments in the second reading, we will correct them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-30-m0.u69	Thank you. Please, Sergey Pashinsky, head of the National Security and Defence Committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-30-m0.u70	Good afternoon, dear friends! With the beginning of Russian aggression, we faced many challenges. And one of these challenges is that our returning fighters have suffered significant not only physical injuries but also psychological injuries. In all the countries of the world, beginning with World War II, there is experience of how to deal with these problems, and there is great experience of the United States of America, of other European nations. Unfortunately, this part of the activity is neither in our legislation nor in our practice. Just now it's starting to develop. The committee unanimously supports this bill. It's a very simple law, it's a change and an addition to the law. And I ask my colleague to support it on the basis and ask the chairman to put the accelerated procedure to the vote for the second reading. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-30-m0.u71	Thank you, Your Honor. Is there a need to discuss this bill? None. Is it? Please sign two for, two against. The MPs insist on discussing it. Please. Please, People's Deputy Birddog, Self-Help.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-30-m0.u72	Please tell Irina Sisoyenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-30-m0.u73	Please, Irina Sisoyenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-30-m0.u74	Dear colleagues, this bill is very important because you all know that all those military officers who are returning from the war zone today, all of them, each of them, have a post-traumatic stress disorder. So the question of psychological rehabilitation, the question of medical rehabilitation in general today, is very important. So the Self-Help faction will support this bill. At the same time, however, I would like to point out that between the first and second readings, we should definitely finalize the bill and create the possibility of psychological and medical rehabilitation on a mandatory basis for all. I would also like to point out to the distinguished members of the profile committee that the Committee on Health, including the Committee on War Veterans, has a permanent working group on rehabilitation issues. I would very much ask that we prepare this bill together for a second reading, taking into account all the proposals already made by the working group. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-30-m0.u75	Thank you. Please, Melniczuk Ivan, Peter Dusty Block.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-30-m0.u76	Dear Vladimir Borisovich, please pass the word to Sporis Ivan Dmitrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-30-m0.u77	Ivan Sporish, please, Peter Dust Block.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-30-m0.u78	Dear colleagues, I also want to add, indeed, in the presentation it was rightly said that in the second reading everything would be done, changed, completed. But together with the analysis of scientific research into the wars of the past century by the psychological services, we must not forget this. This puts veterans in danger of physical harm, and 90 percent of them were separated from families of war veterans because their wives saw danger to themselves and their children. 60 percent of veterans were convicted of criminal offences, 30 percent of war veterans of survivors and return home killed themselves. Because we have to learn from other people's negative experiences and we really have to prove in our experience that we really will do everything we can to get our veterans back from the war who returned from other dangerous zones to be protected. So I'm asking everyone to support this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-30-m0.u79	Thank you. Please, Igor Mosiyczuk, Radical Party.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-30-m0.u80	Dear colleagues! Dear Ukrainian people! This bill had to be adopted much earlier. It's really necessary to rehabilitate our heroes, the people who protect our homeland. But there is more to the question of why and how the Ministry of Health moved itself. Why is the rehabilitation and treatment of our soldiers primarily based on volunteers, on the metenates that finance them? And the ministry is self-sustaining, the minister is doing the pianist as Pauline walks, and the parliamentary rostrum has repeatedly spoken of the need to consider his position. Here in his speech, the leader of the largest faction in Parliament said that there was a question about people who had been convicted in volunteer battalions. That's how I want to answer it. Yuri Vitaliovich, there was no one to protect the Fatherland! Then go put your head on the better sons of the Motherland! And it doesn't matter whether they had a trial or not! They saved the country, they stopped the enemy, and they're heroes. Moreover, they deserve to be removed from the courts. And that's our job with you. Because they have washed with blood what they have been condemned for! We vote in favour of this bill and we support it, and under a reduced procedure for second reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-30-m0.u81	Thank you. Please, Medunica National Deputy, People's Front.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-30-m0.u82	Please pass the word to Mikolji Veliczovich on the rostrum.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-30-m0.u83	Mikola Bigwich, please, People's Front.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-30-m0.u84	Ladies and gentlemen, respectable fighters! You know, there's been an armed conflict for over a year, actually a war in eastern Ukraine. And I'm very sorry that only this Supreme Council has been able to bring a bill into this room that protects not only the material, the situation of the families of those who are fighting on the front. But in the first place, we've finally returned to bring our returning fighters from the front socially back to normal life. As one of the authors, I call on everyone on behalf of all the fighters who are in this room and who are our colleagues, from all those who are fighting on the front to support this bill on the ground. I know that there are some remarks, I know that some are moments that MPs have expressed from different factions. We'll take them into account when we're working on the second reading. And I urge everyone to vote in favour of this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-30-m0.u85	Thank you. Dear colleagues, the discussion is over. We can go to the vote for this bill (registration number 2686). Draft Act amending article 11 of the Ukrainian Act on the Social and Legal Protection of Military Servants and Members of Their Families, prepared by National Deputy John Sporish. Dear colleagues, there is a committee's decision to take it as a basis. Please prepare for vote 2686 as a basis. Vote please, colleagues. 2686 based. Please vote. [[11:43:47]] For 290 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, there is an offer, echoed in order to prepare him for his second reading. This is a proposal I'm putting to the vote. Please be supportive. Please vote. [[11:44:11]] For 238. The offer is supported, dear colleagues. Let's move on. Draft Act (registration No. 1329) amending and supplementing the Ukrainian Law on the Judicial Assembly on the exemption from payment by the judicial assembly of members of anti-terrorist operations and members of their families. Prepared by Yuri Suhevich, Yuri Suhevich. There is an offer by the author to consider it as a reduced procedure. Please identify yourself with regard to consideration of the reduced procedure. [[11:44:55]] For 206 Decision taken. Please report.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-30-m0.u86	Dear Mr. Head, honourable national deputies, Bill 1329 aims to release two categories from the court. The first category is the families of both soldiers and civilians killed in the ATO zone, members of the families of those who died, some of whom are identified as being found dead because there was an incident in Lviv that broke up the person, and the family appealed to the court, and he was found dead. And that's not just soldiers, I repeat, it's civilians. Because the State had a responsibility to ensure the peace and security of its citizens. Since it did not provide, it is simply immoral to take from the families of the dead the establishment of a judicial congregation. The second category is the Assembly to establish the status of a participant in combat. It means that it is very possible for people to submit to courts in order to be given appropriate status. Because some of our government authorities that are obliged to do so are slowing down. It means that we want to change one of the points in article 6 of this law. But in view of the adoption of Law 1688 on Counterterrorists, there is now a category of additional volunteers there, and in fact we want to change that article 6 to be added.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-30-m0.u87	Please, 30 seconds, please finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-30-m0.u88	But since the committee is proposing on the ground as a whole, I believe that the first reading should be followed, and the second should be amended accordingly. Although in general, we have to include the entire article 6 in this list, because today and today the 19th, now the 20th. And we don't know how many more points there are going to be. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-30-m0.u89	Thank you. Please, the head of Nina Petrovan's profile committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-30-m0.u90	Honourable National Deputies, Honourable Head, 13 May 2015 The Committee of the Supreme Council on Tax and Customs Policy reviewed the draft law. And I want to say that during this time, to this day, the Law on the Status of War Veterans and the Guarantees of Their Social Protection have changed. 22 / 06 The Law came into force. Paragraph 20 is added to this law, which defines volunteers who have such status. A number of changes are also being prepared. Therefore, since this information was not available to members of the committee, the committee decided to recommend that the Supreme Council accept the bill as a whole. In view of what I've told you, I suggest you just accept as a basis, that is, in the first reading, to take into account all the changes that have taken effect during this period of time.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-30-m0.u91	Thank you. Dear colleagues, is there a need to discuss? The author of the law made a proposal to accept it on the basis of a reduced procedure for reprocessing it to second reading and continuing to approve. Yuri Lucenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-30-m0.u92	Dear Mr. Head, Mr. Jury, I would like to take this opportunity to congratulate you on your father's birthday, Hero of Ukraine Sukhevich. [[Applause]] And I think the support of the hall of your bill will show the legacy of generations of fighters for Ukraine and the respect of their memory. Thank you so much!
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-30-m0.u93	Thank you. Dear colleagues, there is an offer by the author to vote on it as a basis and continue to work on the second reading, as the proposal was made from the rostrum. I'm betting on a 1329 vote, acceptance as a basis. Vote please, Your Honor. Based on 1329. [[11:50:39]] For 262 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, there's an offer to prepare him for a reduced procedure for second reading, please prepare yourself, please. [[11:51:05]] For 222 Colleagues, 222, were unable to vote on a reduced procedure for preparing for second reading. Please, I see that not all deputies have been able to vote, please support this proposal. Preparing for a shortened procedure for second reading. Vote please, Your Honor. [[11:51:33]] For 264 Thank you, Your Honor. Before we announce a recess in accordance with the Rules in 12 hours 30 minutes, I want to read you an announcement. Report of a change in the name of the inter-fractional "For Siecheslavslavslav" union to "For Dnipropetrovština". The head of Boris Filatov’s interfractional constituency. Dear colleagues, according to the Rules, we will continue our work by 12 hours 30 minutes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-30-m0.u94	Dear colleagues, the break is over, I ask you to enter the hall to continue our work. Please. The Secretary of the Supreme Council, please inform the deputies that it is time to enter the hall to continue our work. Please come into the hall and heads of factions please invite MPs into the hall. Dear colleagues, I'd like to invite you to the hall again. We continue to consider matters according to the order of the day. The next draft of the law that we have to consider is the bill amending subsection 2 of chapter XX of the Final Position of the Ukrainian Tax Code on Special Means of Individual Protection, chapter number 2002. And there's an offer to consider it by a reduced procedure. Dear colleagues, I ask you to concentrate and support this proposal. Dear colleagues, please support the proposal for a reduced procedure. Please vote. Please support, we vote. [[12:39:01]] For 113 There are not enough votes. Of course, we could go in full procedure, but it would be better if we waited for the deputies who entered the hall. And I'm asking my colleagues to take jobs so that we can work full time. Please come into the hall, your honors, MPs! Dear colleagues! I'm re-voting the proposal, reviewing the bill (2202) under reduced procedure. I ask everyone to prepare carefully for the vote and ask for the support of this proposal. Please mobilize and support, we vote in favour of a reduced procedure, please. [[12:40:49]] For 132 There is potential, but there are not enough votes yet. And I'm asking my colleagues to take up jobs. Please enter the hall, honorary colleagues, who can hear me in the towers, so that we can continue our work. Please come into the hall. Dear colleagues, ready to vote? They didn't vote on you. I ask you to prepare for the vote. Ladies and gentlemen, I once again put to the vote the proposal to consider a short-term bill of 2002. Please take up your jobs and support your offer. Please vote in favour of the reduced procedure and please support. Please vote. Vote. [[12:42:48]] For 155 Decision taken. Thank you for your support. And I invite you to the report of the Ukrainian National Deputy Iushenko Alexi Petrovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-30-m0.u95	Dear colleagues, your consideration is on the proposal of the draft Act (2202) amending Chapter XX, Section XX, of the Tax Code of Ukraine on Special Means of Individual Protection. The bill is designed to address the issue of taxation of materials for the production of personal protection products, namely helmets and military helmets for the period of ATO. It is known that in July last year a bill had already been passed, and that changes to the Tax Code, as well as to the Customs Code and certain laws of Ukraine concerning the import of personal protection and medical devices, which temporarily, during the period of the ATO or the introduction of military status, had been released from import duties for import into the customs territory of Ukraine and supplies in the customs territory of Ukraine for the manufacture of armoured persons. But this bill did not include helmets, which are also a very important ingredient, which are also produced in the same national enterprises in Ukraine. So I would like to vote now on the basis and in general for a bill that regulates this situation, which will allow us to make materials for the production of helmets to national producers, do not wash the costs, while we need to produce as much as possible these helmets for the ATO, and save the lives of our soldiers in eastern Ukraine. Thank you very much. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-30-m0.u96	Thank you. From the Committee on Tax and Customs Policy, Chicken Maksim Pavlovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-30-m0.u97	Honourable National Deputies of Ukraine, on 20 April 2015, the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Tax and Customs Policy at its meeting reviewed the draft Act amending Chapter 2 of Chapter XX of the Tax Code on Special Means of Individual Protection, submitted by the Ukrainian National Deputies, Mrs. Friz and Mr. Poroshenko. I would like to remind you that as early as September last year, the Supreme Council of Ukraine, for the period of the anti-terrorist operation, exempt from the tax on the added value of the imported textiles and materials needed for the manufacture of armor, but did not extend this premium to the production of helmets. This is unfair. The bill therefore proposes to pay tax on the added value of imports of tissues and materials under the U.K.T.S. Code, which are already in the Tax Code. for making helmets. The bill also proposes that the list of tissues and materials to which the aid is applied be supplemented by a letter of polycarbonate, an OCT code of 3920610000, which is necessary for the manufacture of bronze vests. National deputies support such assistance and decided to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine that the draft law be adopted as a basis and generally as a law. Thank you for your attention. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-30-m0.u98	Thank you. Colleagues, is there a need to discuss? I won't. Then we can put it to a vote. Then I ask the deputies to enter the voting room. I ask my respectable colleagues to take up jobs. Dear colleagues, an important law that applies to our fighters and will not be acceptable unless there are enough votes to allow us to adopt it here in the hall. So I ask you to come into the hall of all the deputies who are outside the plenary room and prepare for the vote. I asked if there was a need to speak, and there was no one who wanted to share in the discussion. That's why I'm voting.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-30-m0.u99	We'll go back to the vote. The signal won't solve anything, because we still have to finish the law. If we don't get through, we'll wait for colleagues, we'll call a colleague and then we'll vote back. So I ask you again to enter the Hall of All People's Deputies. And I'm voting on the draft Act amending Chapter 20, Subsection 2, "The Final Position of the Ukrainian Tax Code" on special means of individual protection (heading 2202) as a basis and as a whole. Please support and please vote, Your Honor. Please support. [[12:48:53]] For 236 Decision taken. Let's move on to the next question of order of the day. Draft Act amending Chapter XXI of the Customs Code on Special Means of Individual Protection No. 2203. There is a proposal to consider the bill in a simplified manner. Can I have your back, please? We're voting for a reduced procedure. [[12:49:40]] For 184 Decision taken. And the report is invited by the Ukrainian national deputy Prashenko Alexi Petrovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-30-m0.u100	Dear colleagues!, you have before you Bill 2203, which is actually a logical extension of the previous bill that we have just voted on. It's just that the previous bill helped import materials, fabric for making helmets, actually, to get rid of the added value tax. And this bill also provides benefits in the Customs Code and takes away duties. So I also ask this bill as a logical continuation of the previous vote and support as a whole. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-30-m0.u101	Thank you. Please, head. from the Committee of Chickens Maxim Pavlovich. Tell the committee's position.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-30-m0.u102	Honorable National Deputies of Ukraine! On April 20, this bill was also considered by the profile committee. And we have to determine that the purpose of the bill is to lose production in the customs territory of Ukraine, namely during the period of the anti-terrorist operation or the introduction of the military state of special means of individual protection, armored vests and helmets. By the way, the Chief Scientific and Experimental Authority of the Supreme Council of Ukraine supports the adoption of the bill in the first reading and in general. The committee decided to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine the adoption of a draft Act amending Chapter XXI of the Customs Code on Special Measures for Individual Protection, submitted by Ukrainian National Deputies Prashenkom and Friz, on the basis and as a whole of the law, by replacing the figure and symbol 4-1 with the figure 4 with the word "tissues and materials" with the words "tissues, materials". Thank you for your attention. Please vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-30-m0.u103	Dear colleagues, I think we can vote, right? Therefore, the draft Law amending Chapter XXI 5 of the Customs Code on Special Means of Individual Protection (heading 2203) is put to the vote as a basis and as a whole. Dear colleagues, please support us, we vote on the basis as a whole. [[12:52:27]] For 248 Decision taken. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-30-m0.u104	Fellow Members of the People's Parliament, you have before you a draft Act amending the Ukrainian Tax Code on the payment of the marginal amount of rent for the marginal size of rent (registration No. 2640). Reported by national deputy Victor Halasyuk. There is a proposal by the rapporteur to consider this draft law in a simplified procedure. Please identify yourself with regard to consideration of the reduced procedure. [[12:53:07]] For 177 Decision taken. Please report to Victor Valeriovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-30-m0.u105	Dear Volodymira Borisovich, distinguished colleagues of the people's deputies, I present to you the bill 2640, the authors of the MPs: Laško, Galasjuk, Lenski, Vuk, Sold, Kirsz, Ephraim, Kiral, Krivenko, Krivoscha. Fellow dignitaries, this bill is called upon to introduce the possibility of conducting land trades on land rentals for state and municipal property, and to remove artificial barriers that exist today regarding pricing. Today, even if the tenant wants to take over the land and offers more than 12 percent of the legal bill, this is prohibited by the Tax Code. That is to say, it leads to such a coalition that even in terms of free competition, when there is demand for land, when it is possible to fill local budgets on the basis of an open lease procedure for these land areas, the law limits this possibility to date. So we have to take this top plank off in case the land is offered on competitive grounds. What's more, this way we're going to be able to eliminate the Colosseum. When, for example, several tenants offer the same rate of 12 percent, or someone offers, for example, 14 percent of the standard rate of money. And accordingly, he cannot be recognized as a winner, since the law today has an artificial plane of 12 percent. So we propose to adopt this law as a basis and as a whole. He will allow the local budgets to be filled. He will allow additional funds for local communities. Provide a transparent, competitive mechanism for renting state and municipal land. In no way do we have the right to limit the private initiative, the initiative of those who agree to pay higher prices on competitive principles today, to fill budgets. So it's a very simple technical but very important law.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-30-m0.u106	30 seconds, complete.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-30-m0.u107	Dear colleagues, please support him as a whole. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-30-m0.u108	Thank you. From the committee's deputy chairman, Maxim Chicken, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-30-m0.u109	Honourable Volodymira Borisovich, distinguished national deputies of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Tax and Customs Policy on 13 May this year, reviewed the draft Act of Ukraine amending Tax Ukraine (for the marginal size of rent) under registration number 2640, submitted by national deputies Lášk and Halasyuk and other national deputies, our colleagues. The bill proposes to make appropriate changes to the Ukrainian Tax Code and to cancel the marginal amount of rent paid for land of state and municipal property that are leased on land and on competitive grounds. Today, this size is stipulated by the law in force, and it cannot be more than 12 percent. I want to remind you that this was already in force before the beginning of 2015. During the discussion of the bill at the Ukrainian National Deputies meeting, members of the Committee generally supported the proposed changes and noted that their adoption would allow local government authorities to establish, when land leases were made on competitive terms, a larger amount of rent than 12 per cent, and thus receive additional costs. That's fair. However, the Chief Scientific and Expert Authority of the Supreme Council of Ukraine made a number of comments and suggested that, in order to make a balanced decision on the bill, the Government should be given the appropriate expert opinion. Regrettably, the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine did not come to the conclusion of the draft Law. Following a discussion of the bill, the committee decided to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine the adoption of the draft Law under registration number 2640. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-30-m0.u110	Thank you. Is there a need to discuss? Yes, please write it down: 2 for, 2 for, 2 for, please. The Radical Party, the Chizmar passes it to Oleg Lazka.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-30-m0.u111	I'm handing it over to Oleg Valeriyovich, the leader of the Radical Party.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-30-m0.u112	Oleg Lazko, Radical Party. Dear colleagues, national deputies, the Radical Party faction will support this bill because it will allow local budgets to be filled. Because if the local community is able to sell or rent land much more than 12 percent, the maximum plank that is set up today, we need to give local communities the opportunity to auction at normal prices in order to fill local budgets. But I would like to draw the attention of Parliament and Ukrainian society to the issue of Ukrainian land. On 1 January 2016, the term of the moratorium on the sale of agricultural land ends. We have already six months, and we, the Ukrainian Parliament, are pretending that nothing is happening, or maybe there will be two weeks before the end of the moratorium. But the agricultural producer should know how to prepare him for a new sower, how to plan his work. Therefore, I propose that Parliament take a decision on this matter without delay. There are appropriate draft regulations that continue the moratorium on the sale of agricultural land and adopt these laws. The Radical Party faction applies to Ukrainian society, to the Ukrainian Parliament with this requirement. Selling land, Ukrainian land is a crime! We firmly oppose the sale of agricultural land! If we start this sale, it means that millions of Ukrainian peasants will be turned into beggars, into thugs. Today, three copies of that pie will be given away, and tomorrow the oligarchs will not allow either to reach the water or to drive the cow or to pass through the road, for the earth will be revealed everywhere that the land of which is Kalitchina. Whose land is Kalitchina. We therefore firmly oppose the sale of Ukrainian land and demand that this decision be taken in Parliament.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-30-m0.u113	Alexander Opanasenko, Self-Help, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-30-m0.u114	King Sergey, please give me your word.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-30-m0.u115	Sergei Kieral.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-30-m0.u116	Thank you. Dear colleagues, we offer to adopt this bill with certainty, it is completely technical. I would like to point out that it does not apply to the bottom of the board, to the bottom of the line, to the minimum percentage of the monetary regulation, so that there is no speculation, I think this bill is needed today, including by the local communities. It goes in the spirit of our work with you in order to decentralize the transfer of more opportunities to make money, actually at the level of cities and we need to increase this work with you. Because local communities today should have not only such tools, but also the ability to determine for themselves who will use land, who will invest in the territory of the city on which conditions they are willing to invest these funds, or are they willing to invest in land, or are they willing to invest them in job creation, construction of factories, other things? And here I would like, by running a little bit ahead of time, to encourage, also to support the amendments to the Industrial Parks Bill, which will be discussed with us at the Industrial Policy Committee this week, and to move out, hopefully, to the Hall in the near future. These are really necessary things to strengthen the role of local self-government, local communities, in investing in their territory. So we vote, it's really a very simple bill, we support and move on. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-30-m0.u117	Thank you. Please, Ivan Krulko. Kirilenko Ivan Grigorovich, please, Fatherland.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-30-m0.u118	Please pass the word to Ivan Grigorovitch Kirilenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-30-m0.u119	Dear colleagues, I would also like to draw attention, like the previous speaker, to the problem not only of this law, but of Ukraine, which will soon be. A new marketing agricultural year begins tomorrow. This means that in July we will harvest crops, in July the solstice begins, and on January 1st the moratorium begins. Tell us what a wise tenant will sow 8 million hectares of bread when he knows that as of January 1, leases become worthless because the owner enters his full rights. Someone came to him with a bag of money, some screwdriver or an oligarch, and he'll sell his allowance. Dear friends, we're asking a big question about the food security of the state, that's the first. The other one. Whoever trades the earth in the world today and even during the war, it's just madness. Question three. To trade the land today is not to charge 10 tons and take an oligarch to the cottage. It's to trade territory, territory of a sovereign state. We don't understand that the world's speculative capital is stocked with trillions, they're just waiting to come to this capital that's left in Ukraine alone. The third best land in the world is the Ukrainian Blacklands. Next question. Today, they are trying to cancel the last premium in agriculture, the value added tax, the special regime. This is to make the earth’s capitalization go down to zero, for profit will go down to zero, and the land can be bought at no cost. Friends, indeed these facts and factors, are not enough to put the day in order and vote on the moratorium. Dear colleagues! The last argument I'm going to say is, how many reforms in the years of independence have at least driven one of them to their minds? Let's not let God do this reform yet, so that Ukraine will be without land at all, our proposal, we will support this law, but we will put the moratoriums to the vote. The land market is on one condition if the buyer is the State that will then transfer the land to a long - term lease, not for five years as it is now, but for 50 years, a good, effective owner, through the auction that offers the best.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-30-m0.u120	Ilyuk Artem Aleksandrovich, MP's rebirth party.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-30-m0.u121	I'd like to give the floor to the national deputy, Oleg Kulinic.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-30-m0.u122	Please, National Deputy Kulinich.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-30-m0.u123	Thank you. Oleg Kulinic, Rebirth Party, 147 constituency, Poltavščina. Dear colleagues! I want to point out that this project corrects the error that resulted from the vote of the Law on Prevention of Financial Disaster, in haste, without proper processing. With this adoption of laws we have to end, every mistake we make is a huge problem on the spot. I personally communicate with the local auction boards, now they're forced to break the law, because the rent on auction sometimes increases more than the Tax Code provides for, so the bill needs to be adopted immediately. But we also have to fix other problems that have been the result of changes to the Tax Code, which are about increasing the rental minimum wage for state and municipal property to 3 percent of the land's legal and monetary valuation. What is it? In the villages today, people cannot afford to rent haystacks, pastures, because their minimum rent has grown 30 times. The rental fee for areas under the city’s residence is now sometimes five minimum pensions. Same thing with farmyards, animal housing, farms. All of this needs to be rectified and immediately. We've registered the relevant bills. That is why I ask the leadership of the Supreme Council to consider them without delay. The MP's "Party of Rebirth" will support Bill 2640 and urge colleagues to support it in the first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-30-m0.u124	Thank you. One minute, Natala Royal.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-30-m0.u125	Dear colleagues! Dearly-respected are those who are present. A moratorium on the sale of agricultural land was now being discussed in this room. I want to inform you that the Opposition Block registered this bill as early as December last year. And when the coalition factions are pulling their shirts around the rostrum today and telling us that they're for a moratorium on sales, so let's move from words to business, let's stop doing gymnastics here for our language, let's start working. Is there a decision to extend the moratorium? Come on, we're ready to vote for him right now, but we don't have to do this completely empty populism. And today, we really need to signal our peasants how they can move on. Therefore, the Opposition Unit against technical decisions. We are in favour of extending the moratorium on land sales and giving our agriculture today the right to plan its work for the following years. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-30-m0.u126	Dear colleagues, national MPs! Take your seats. I would like to remind you, however, that we are currently considering the draft Law (registration number 2640), which determines that when there is an auction on land leases, we should not limit the price by 12 percent of the legal and monetary valuation, in fact do everything that depends on Parliament to ensure that local budgets receive a market rent rather than artificially limited by law. That's what we're talking about right now. There is no moratorium in this bill at all. Therefore, the draft Law (Registration No. 2640) amending the Ukrainian Tax Code on the Limitation of Rentable Salaries is being submitted to your vote. Please vote on the basis of 2640. Vote. 2640, we vote. [[13:09:05]] For 246 Decision taken. There's a whole offer. Is there any objection to voting him in general? There is one article, and it is completely objective. There is a proposal to vote on this bill as a whole. Is there no objection? Please, 2640 as a whole. Vote. With technical legal rights in total, 2640. As soon as we voted on it as a basis, there is a proposal for national deputies to vote on it as a whole. Please vote. [[13:10:00]] For 247 Decision taken, my dear fellows. Let's move on. Draft Act (Registration No. 2781) amending article 164 of the Ukrainian Tax Code on the Taxation of Pensions of Persons with Disabilities and Some Other Categories of Persons. The rapporteur is the national deputy of Trelyaków Alexander Yuriovich. There is a suggestion that the rapporteur should consider the draft law in a simplified way. I'd like to make a statement. [[13:10:45]] For 185 Decision taken. Please, Your Honor. Alexander Trelyakov, report.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-30-m0.u127	Ladies and gentlemen of the people! Bill 2781 on the amendment to article 164 of the Ukrainian Tax Code on the taxation of pensions of persons with disabilities of war and other categories of persons is proposed to your attention. The bill provides for exemption from taxation of the pension of members of the hostilities of the Second World War, persons with war disabilities and members of the families of the soldiers who have died. These are the categories of citizens requested by representatives of public organizations, veteran organizations, committee hearings held on 9 May on the theme "On Social Protection and Health Care for War Veterans and the Marking of the 70th Years of Nazi Victory in Europe". As a result, the abolition of pension taxes for these categories of pensioners is one of the points of the outcome of the hearing. Take my word for it, there were a lot of tough hearings because there were a lot of UPA soldiers and the Red Army who fought in the Soviet Army. The hearings were therefore difficult, and this was such a compromise of hearings. That's going to cost about 250 million dollars a year. We release order. It's a maximum of about 400,000 people. This may be a lot of money for the budget, but I believe it is our duty to vote in favour of this law. The argument is quite logical. These are the people of the 1990s who participated in the fighting in the Second World War. They no longer have to pay taxes to the State and their pensions, that is not right. It is not right to tax the pensions of those with disabilities of war and the families of those who have died because they have already paid their tax, a conditional tax already paid. I therefore propose that this bill be adopted as a whole. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-30-m0.u128	Please, National Deputy Chicken of the Committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-30-m0.u129	Dear Volodymyr Borisovich! Dear National Deputies! The Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Tax and Customs Policy at its meeting on 3 June this year reviewed the draft Law on Amendments to Article 164 of the Ukrainian Tax Code on the Taxation of Persons with Disabilities of War and Certain Other Categories of Persons (Registration No. 2781), submitted by the Ukrainian National Deputies of Tretlyakow, Zagorje and Burbak. During the committee's discussion, members of the committee expressed their support for the purpose of the bill. The purpose of the bill is to reduce the tax burden on pensions, while our colleagues noted that the bill proposes to exempt people from pension taxes. Those involved in the fighting of World War II, the disabled of war, and the members of their families. And it doesn't take into account other categories of pensioners who have worked hard and socially usefully to earn pensions that are now more than 3,000,654 bracelets. And such excesses are subject to taxation. This is about miners, metallurgy, military, Chernobyl, atomizers, and many other categories of our fellow citizens. Thus, this bill does not fully adhere to the principle of equal treatment of taxpayers. This is the first time. Second, it was pointed out that the draft tax exemption bill used the concept of "participating World War II." This concept is not found in the Ukrainian legislative field, particularly in the Ukrainian Law on the Status of War Veterans, the Guarantee of Their Social Protection, and accordingly there are no established documents that confirm this status. In this regard, the adoption of the proposed legislative proposal will make it impossible to apply it in practical terms.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-30-m0.u130	Please, give me a minute. Finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-30-m0.u131	The introduction of a new term for "Participants of World War II" requires a prior and simultaneous amendment to the above-mentioned special law on war veterans, which is profiled in the definition of war participants. So Bill 2781 needs further work. At the same time, the Chief Scientific and Expert Authority of the Supreme Council of Ukraine also made a note of the bill. There was no conclusion on the bill from the Cabinet of Ministers. However, as a result of the bill’s consideration, the committee decided to recommend the adoption of the draft Law 2781 in the first reading only on a basis. Please be supportive. Thank you for your attention. Then we'll work on it.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-30-m0.u132	Thank you, Your Honor. Is there a need to discuss? Please sign up: two for, two against. Please, Your Honor. Light Oleg, Radical Party.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-30-m0.u133	Oleg Lazko, faction of the Radical Party. Our faction supports a bill that returns a well-deserved pension to war veterans and invalids and wargoers. But we believe that this is not enough to protect the rights of our respected citizens who have reached retirement age. We see that the revenue of the state budget from the introduction of the standard when pensioners who continue to work have taken 15 percent of the pension and that's exactly a penny of the income, and that's why it's immoral to take a pension from working pensioners. That is why we insist that Parliament adopt a bill to amend the relevant legislation and give retired workers the right to a pension. People are retired, with the exception of government officials, who receive up to 10,000 dollars of pension, and the vast majority of pensioners work because they receive a cash pension, and in order to feed their families, to enable them to survive they are forced to work at their retirement age to earn that penny. That is why we insist that Parliament immediately adopt a law that returns to working pensioners, with the exception of government officials, the right to receive a full pension. I'd also like to draw your attention to the Supreme Council. Again on Friday there is a bill that gives our women, who have reached the age of 55, the right to retire. Let me remind you, it was at the initiative of the members of the Radical Party that this law was passed in the Supreme Council in January. President Poshenko vetoed the bill. And almost six months ago, Parliament cannot consider and overcome the President's veto to allow women 55 years of age to retire. That is why we insist that Parliament review this bill without delay and allow women 55 years of age to retire.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-30-m0.u134	Please, Sergey Sobolev, Fatherland.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-30-m0.u135	Dear colleagues, how many holes are we going to hit? At first, the factions that are now so active were voting for the introduction of a 15 - percent tax. Look at the transcript, the Fatherland faction didn't vote for it. Because we've told you all from the beginning what you're doing. How you can introduce 15 percent of your pension tax. And now everyone starts telling stories. Our offer is different. And enough for the social committee to cover up the government's inadequacy. Do you know how much is collected during these three months of 15 percent tax, and with whom? Only government officials. Everyone who worked in the private sector, a metallurgy who retired at 48 years of age, went to work as a guard. He's got 15 percent of it today. The cleaning woman who is now working before her pre - nursing service takes 15 percent. Our proposal is clear: we have introduced a bill. I remind the chairman once again, it's a bill that's included in the agenda, number 2698, to cancel 15 percent for all workers. By the end of the year, this is a ridiculous sum of 191 million dollars. Think about it. Billions are being stolen, and 191 million want to raise working pensioners by the end of the year. So our faction insists that we play in separate categories. From what we're about to do, tomorrow, tomorrow, the third, the budget won't get anywhere, there'll be no social justice at all. Because if you're a pensioner, you've earned a pension, what could be a 15 percent tax? So put it to the vote now. And the social committee that broke our law, I want to remind you, the law clearly defines the only approach for everyone -- 15 percent can't be a pension tax. Now put it to the vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-30-m0.u136	Igor Šurma, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-30-m0.u137	Please pass the word to Natalia Royal.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-30-m0.u138	Respectable colleagues, distinguished present! Of course, we are pleased that the members of the coalition have a periodic vision. But we would like to recall that 250 people voted in favour of Bill 1578 in this room. And only 28 people voted against it, and that's basically members of the Opposition Block. Dear colleagues, you have spent five months putting experiences and experiments on veterans, on disabled people, on miners, on metallurgy, on atomizers, on chemists, on those who have paid their health to receive a higher pension from the country. How long can it take?Oh, my God! Stop making anti-constitutional and anti-social decisions! We will certainly support this bill, but we wish to draw your attention to the fact that this bill will not be enough to restore social justice in the country today. We therefore insist that, until the second reading of this bill, the amendment be made and that we make it and that today's pensioners be released from the disgraceful tax, and that the pensioners of the civil servants be released, those who have already paid for the right to receive a decent pension in Ukraine. We insist on falling behind today from miners, metalsmiths, chemists, atomizers, and those who deserve and deserve a decent pension today. And we insist that you carry out the indexation of pensions and salaries. Today, every day, you're giving away some tax benefits. So at least give people the poor guy enough money for food and medicine and the right to pay for the fares. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-30-m0.u139	Thank you. Please, Maxim Burbak.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-30-m0.u140	Dear colleagues, I think we have a fashion for actively awarding public awards, and I think we need to make fashion for the personal initiatives of some ministers or others. I wonder who the author of the 15 percent pension tax initiative is? So that we wouldn't just have a general discussion like this, but we said there was a minister like this, like this, this criminal anti-national initiative that showed its absolute absurdity and inhumanity. And after we've discussed here, now that we're voting, we've actually subtracted, to a large extent, unfortunately, there are still some categories where there are 15 percent left. This man, he doesn't need anything, he's writing a statement, and we're firing him. Because without the responsibilities of the officials, well, we still can't move. We in Parliament are working on cleaning up those initiatives that were not just supported by society, but which were totally anti-national. I'll tell you what, I didn't vote in favour of this bill either, but it doesn't take away the responsibility of us that we just passed this bill today. We have to give the proper committee that just after May 8-9 there were hearings, and at hearings and participants, veterans of World War II, and my brothers Afghans, and all those who went through the war, focused on that. That's why I think it's a principle today for people who have been through any kind of war: fair, unfair, Ukrainian, whatever -- they have to have the protection of the Ukrainian state. I'm not talking about the family members of those who died. But nevertheless, I support Sergio Soboljeva in the part that we have to complete the history with this tax, we need not certain segments, or even in principle important as military and veterans, but we need to subtract this position by 15 percent and continue to move towards normal pensions. Because we're just going back, and we have to move on. That's why we support this bill and we're preparing it.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-30-m0.u141	Thank you. Dear colleagues, please, Maxim Burbak, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-30-m0.u142	Dear colleagues, I'm asking you to let us figure out what bill we're looking at right now? The bill applies only to those involved in the fighting; it is designed as a result of committee hearings on the eve of the celebration, the celebration of the memory of victory in World War II, where veterans of World War II noticed that they had already paid their debt to the state, and they asked us to cancel. And by the way, the coalition always admits its mistakes and corrects them, regardless of the political forces that led it to poverty. And Mr. Tomenko, I would say that we all know the family of the Minister of Social Affairs, Mr. Rosenko. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-30-m0.u143	Thank you. Please, Alexander Trelyakov.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-30-m0.u144	Of course, we have a rough discussion and that's probably the right thing to do, but we have to remember when we passed the 15 percent tax law when we thought there was going to be a big war in the country. That's the first one. Second. It is clear that there is already money in the budget. Let's all stay out of trouble together, let's start with the most vulnerable, namely, people with disabilities and old people who are over 90 years old, and let's start with this law as a basis and as a whole. Taking taxes from the families of the victims is immoral at all. Therefore, my proposal is very simple, to protect the weakest category now and then to proceed to the discussion in the future on pensions. If we want to break this law, of course, we can make a lot of rights, a lot of proposals, and it won't work. Therefore, a great request to the people's colleagues, let us protect the weak, and let us move on with our conversation.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-30-m0.u145	Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-30-m0.u146	Dear colleagues, a minute, John Papiev.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-30-m0.u147	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I would very much ask that we hear such correct arguments under this law, which clearly and clearly argue why it cannot be voted for in general. It is because this law has a status like that of a participant in World War II that is not in the basic law. You're voting in general right now, it won't work. We need it, and the opposition block faction will vote for the basis. In addition, we will need to bring in miners, metallurgists, blacksmiths, scientists, and restore social justice to these people on second reading. The opposition bloc faction will vote on the basis, we have our own proposals for this law and we ask that it not be put to the vote in general.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-30-m0.u148	This is not the case, this law does not stand for voting in general. You did. Based on the base. Let's stop the discussion, so we all support that this package is going to be settled. That this package will be settled, let's vote it as a base, and let's keep working on that. Is there no objection? You don't? Is it based? All right, let's vote. Please vote on the basis. Based on the base. [[13:29:59]] For 285 Decision taken. According to factions, that's the best expression of thought. Julia Timoshenko, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-30-m0.u149	Dear colleagues, now all factions without exception have raised the issue of abolishing the total pension tax of working pensioners. If the whole Parliament is in such a single "yes" inspiration, we must now vote on this law as a whole. But to say that of all pensioners, 15 percent of the taxes on working pensioners are taxed. And what I'm saying is, right now, it's going to be a big test to see who's fluttering from the rooster, and who's actually voting for it. And don't delay it, please, because it's a question that all factions have supported. Now I'm asking you to put my bill to the vote: cancel 15 percent of the pension tax for retired retirees from all pensioners without exception. Please put to the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-30-m0.u150	Dear colleagues, we are now considering the draft law, the author is Martinenko. Treyak's Alexander. Please, just a minute, and we'll take our chances. This isn't the draft law that we're talking about. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-30-m0.u151	We can't really change the text of the law. This is the Rules of the Supreme Council. If we introduce this amendment, the text of the law and the substance of the law are fundamentally changed. Therefore, my proposal to vote on this law as a whole. If all the factions are willing to vote in favour of withdrawing the 15% tax, I don't see any problems, let all the faction leaders sign the new law. Let me make a deal, and they'll put her in the hall. We are now discussing a specific bill on a specific category of people. Period.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-30-m0.u152	Thank you. Dear colleagues, there is a proposal for this bill, which we have just adopted as a basis, namely registration number 2781, to vote on the preparation of it for the second reading under a reduced procedure. Please vote short to second reading. [[13:32:38]] For 272 Decision taken. Please prepare. And that big bill, it was included with us, dear colleagues, in the agenda of the day session, and it's now being worked on by the committees. The procedure will be implemented and considered accordingly. Thank you, Your Honor. 2055a, Ukrainian National Deputy Martinenko Mikola Volodymyrovich, draft Act amending certain Ukrainian laws to bring them into line with the Ukrainian Law on Natural Gas Market. 2055a. There is a proposal by the National MP, the author of the bill, to consider this bill in a simplified manner. Colleagues, you don't have to change the concept. This law applied to a particular subject, and the big law that spreads to everyone is a separate law. We can't trade laws. Please vote on the summary procedure, colleagues. [[13:33:38]] For-170. Please 170, the decision is made. Please, Mikola Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-30-m0.u153	Ladies and gentlemen, your attention is drawn to the draft Ukrainian Law amending some of the Ukrainian legislative acts to bring them into line with the Ukrainian Law on Natural Gas Markets. The need for its development and adoption is due to the date of validity of the Ukrainian Act on the licensing of activities of agriculture (28.06.2015), according to which all valid licences for the supply of natural gas at an unregulated rate are not valid. On the other hand, the Ukrainian Natural Gas Market Act stipulates that the temporary operation of the licence to supply the companies concerned will be in operation until 01.10.2015, i.e. the bill purely technical. Therefore, companies currently licensed only to supply natural gas at an unregulated rate will have no licence, and there will be uncertainty about their ability to carry out natural gas activities. Some 300 companies are in operation today. The main scientific and expert office recommends a positive bill. On June 17, the Committee discussed the bill at its meeting, recommending that it be adopted as a basis and as a whole. He stood in the past in the order of the day, but we did not have time to consider him until June 28. Therefore, I propose article 21 of the Ukrainian Law on the licensing of economic activities to supplement paragraph 8 of the following content: "The conduct of natural gas supply activities is based on licences for the supply of natural gas at a regulated or unregulated rate that were in effect on June 27, 2015, until the end of the three-month period from the date of approval of the licensing conditions for the conduct of the relevant activity in accordance with."
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-30-m0.u154	Please, just give me a minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-30-m0.u155	According to the Ukrainian Natural Gas Market Act, the following paragraphs have been renumbered. I would like the people's deputies to support the committee's decision, taking into account my proposal as a basis and as a whole, because once again, I say, this is a purely technical question. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-30-m0.u156	Thank you. Please, Your Honor. Olga Bilkova, deputy head of the Committee on Fuel and Energy. The committee's position has been resounded. Please, colleagues, is there a need for two "for", two "against"? I won't. There is a proposal to vote. Yes. Please sign two for, two against. 2055a. Please. National Deputy Kotwikki, People's Front.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-30-m0.u157	Please pass the vote to Martinenko Nikolai Vladimirovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-30-m0.u158	Martinenko Mikola Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-30-m0.u159	Dear colleagues, once again, I would like to emphasize that the bill has a purely technical character in view of the fact that two laws, on the one hand, on the licensing of certain types of economic activity enters into force on the other, and the natural gas market bill enters into force on 1.10.2015. In view of the fact that one bill denies licensing for the supply of gas at an unregulated rate, and another bill does not deny it, we make it appropriate that there be no chaos in the market where more than 300 companies work on this basis. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-30-m0.u160	Thank you. Please, Victor Krivenko, Self-help.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-30-m0.u161	May I have a word with Victoria Vojcitsky?
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-30-m0.u162	Victoria Vojticka, please "self-help."
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-30-m0.u163	Victoria Vojticka, Self-help. We will support this bill. He's really very technical. And please support the room accordingly with an appropriate vote. But I want to take this opportunity and point out the following. Dear colleagues, you and I have just considered a bill that relates to the cancellation of 15 percent of the pensioner's tax. We're looking for opportunities with you to support people who are not socially protected. But at the same time, Skrnaft still doesn't pay 5 and a half billion dollars in taxes on the budget! And we don't see any steps that would fit either at least with the minister of finance or at least with our tax authorities to get those taxes. We very much expect to see the solution to this issue in the near future, as well as the solution to the issue of the State's receiving almost 2 billion dollars of dividends from this company. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-30-m0.u164	Thank you. Please, Sergey Vlasenko, Fatherland.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-30-m0.u165	Thank you. Vlasenko, the "Fatherland" faction. Well, respectable colleagues, first of all, it's not a technical law. I think it's a great deception that is being introduced into the hall now that it's a technical law. You know, we've announced that we're going to deregulation of entrepreneurship. And this law proposes the introduction of additional licensing for certain activities. The reporter explained this simply by saying that there would be some kind of uncertainty, since 200 there or 300 companies are engaged in this kind of activity. I think if licensing is introduced, it will only increase corruption in this area. Because we know how the license conditions are approved, which, by the way, on the lottery for 12 years are not approved. Then, as these licenses are issued, to whom they appear, why they appear, and how unfavorable companies are pushed out of the market. We are in favour of not voting in general, as a minimum, on the introduction of a new license, which is introduced by this law, by the way, in complete disagreement with the law on the licensing of certain types of entrepreneurial activities in order to lead this law to a path. It seems to me that this law is a powerful example of when totally lobbying, very corrupt laws stretch through the Supreme Council instead of looking at laws that need to be considered realistically, the Pensions Act that all colleagues are talking about, the laws that will actually help fill the state budget, and not create additional corruption schemes that are absolutely understandable for what and who they are doing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-30-m0.u166	People's deputy Lensky.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-30-m0.u167	Please pass the word to Chizmar Yuri.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-30-m0.u168	Yuri Chizmar, Radical Party.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-30-m0.u169	Yuri Chizmar, faction of the Radical Party. Our faction will not uphold this law, because it is, in fact, a corrupt law and it is not, in any case, technical. Unfortunately, just a few months ago, we passed the Law on the Gas Market, along with foreign experts, and today, when they're gone, we're starting to change it and clearly not technical. In addition, it has been said that there are very many new licenses, we have passed the licensing order, and this bill has not been considered by the pro-politics and entrepreneurship committee, which is a violation of the Supreme Council Rules. On the other hand, the law introduces the notion of gas distribution certification, which is once again new. And what's important is that if we have a single authority today that defines the license conditions of the Cabinet of Ministers, we're introducing other organs that are going to define the licensing conditions. So I understand that this is about a new monster that we're producing under the oligars of the gas sphere in Ukraine, it's NCRE KP, the law that we're going to be considering in the near future, which we're granting, including the question of determining licensing conditions, issuing licences, controlling licenses, imposing fines and so on, and setting tariffs. I think what's happening today in the gas, in the electricity, in the oil industry, is huge corruption, and today Parliament is getting involved. Here comes the redistribution of markets from one oligarch to another. And in this regard, they want to use the Ukrainian Parliament. I think that every parliamentarian should be included in this law. There are no technical conditions. We're guilty of looking at it in quite detail. And I don't think I can support it at all. I think I can send it for work. Our faction will not uphold this law as purely corrupt. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-30-m0.u170	Many were expressed in different positions. Please, the author of Mikola Martinenko, and let's go to the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-30-m0.u171	You can sit down. Dear colleagues, I ask you to turn around, this is what this law looks like. Supplement on two letters. At least have the patience to read it before speaking. In particular, with regard to the license, I repeat the point itself. The extension of the natural gas business is based on a natural gas licence that was valid on June 27. No one's publishing anything new. There is simply a three-month deadline between two laws for companies to act legally. What kind of corruption? What Anti-Corruption? What are you talking about? Please support me on the basis and in general, taking into account the correctness.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-30-m0.u172	Dear colleagues, they have said enough. Since there is a warning, we cannot vote on it as a whole, we can vote on it as a basis. So please, at least in two factions. Dear colleagues, please take your seats. I think that in preparing for the second reading, it may be possible to find out and adopt a normal law. Please, are you ready? Dear colleagues, a draft law (registration number 2055a) has been introduced to vote on the results of the first reading. Please take your seats and prepare for the vote and put forward a motion to vote on this draft law as a basis. Colleagues, based on. So let's say that we take it as a base, 2055a. [[13:45:49]] For-187 "Prashenka Block" – 75, "The People's Front" – 67, "The Opposition Block" – 0, "The Self-Help" – 26, "The Lachka Party" – 0, "The Fatherland" – 0, "The will of the people" – 7 and non-fractional – 12. Dear colleagues, there was a sound proposal to return his subject to preparation for the rereading. To prepare for the rereading of the initiative. Please, first-reading preparations, colleagues. During preparation, we can reconcile all the questions that are needed. Please be sure. 2055a, the return of the subject of the legislative initiative to prepare for the rereading of the first reading. Please vote. [[13:47:05]] For-195 The offer is not accepted. The draft Law is considered to be rejected. Let's move on, dear fellows. Draft Economic Regulatory Act (Registration No. 1069) The reporter is Ukrainian national deputy Oksana Prodan. There is an offer by the rapporteur to review the draft Law in a simplified manner. Please identify yourself as to the short-term procedure of the draft Law. [[13:47:41]] For a hundred and Decision taken. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-30-m0.u173	Dear Volodymyr Borisovich, distinguished colleagues! Bill 1069 is of interest to all MPs, whether they are members of the coalition or not, and is interesting to all deputies who want to change the economy, change the corruption system into a competitive one. What does Law 1069 propose? This is a project that stimulates officials to actually deregulation the economy. This is a bill that is not just a guillotine, it envisions changing the current post-radian system of economic regulation into the system that is needed in Ukraine in order not to just keep the business going. And in order for business to start developing, not just business, but all business, and all those citizens who work, they invest in Ukraine, in Ukrainian land. Only 5 points in this project: 5 points against which officials are speaking. And I want to thank all the factions of the coalition right now, and I thank all the MPs who, both in our faction and in factions, support Project 1069. We predict what? We're talking about that since we've adopted this law with you, we've been giving officials a year, a year, a year, or a year, to get the Cabinet to enact new laws for six months instead of the 91st law that exists today. These six months that Kabmin will be preparing projects, new projects, he will work with experts, with international experts, together with those representatives of Europe and the United States who are now ready to help Ukraine, but only in systemic change, and this project is exclusively about systemic change. And I would now like to call upon all those who question the possibilities of ours with you: this bill gives us a start within one year to change all of today's system of economic regulation. Unfortunately, in the past, there were no votes for Parliament.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-30-m0.u174	Please give me 30 seconds to finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-30-m0.u175	In the past, there were no votes for his acceptance. I very much hope that an active parliament, active parliamentaryism, will be able to start changing the regulation system from a corrupt to a system of European economic regulation. Without the adoption of this bill, there will be no changes, no real changes, no major changes, there will be no changes in Ukraine. Moreover, it is not just about changing regulations; it is about introducing the Kabmin in six months of the draft Law on the Change of Executive Authorities.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-30-m0.u176	The co - report invites the head of the Committee on Industrial Policy and Entrepreneurship, Halasyuk Viktor Valeriyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-30-m0.u177	Thank you. Congratulations! Ladies and gentlemen, the committee is proposing to support Bill 1069 on the basis and as a whole. Why is it so important to do so? Since this bill does not only correspond to the coalition agreement and our coalition arrangements, it is not only included in the legislative plan for reform, which is designed under the authority of the Supreme Council, but refers to 15 of the highest priority economic laws. Dear colleagues, please listen carefully, this law gives us a year to introduce new regulatory models in Ukraine. A year to work with relevant industry associations, business communities, entrepreneurs, public society, new non-corruption regulatory models, which will significantly reduce the pressure on small and medium-sized businesses, eliminate unnecessary regulatory acts. Dear colleagues, under this law, after six months of the Cabinet of Ministers, and this is what the Ministry of Economics does, it's what the Regulatory Service does, it's going to provide us with new regulatory models that we're going to examine and support with you. We have a six-year security buffer. If we don't now accept this bill as a whole, we're not going to have any deregulation that we're talking about. Deregulation, it's not one or two controls to cancel, it has to be done systematically once in a while. Once again, I urge you, because this law provides a legislative basis for the Ministry of Economics to work on a substantial reduction in regulatory standards in Ukraine. This will take place in a planned way with public discussion. But this law, it sets a very clear deadline if there are no regulatory models in six months, if they're not operational in a year, then no deregulation is involved. I want to stress that this bill is.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-30-m0.u178	30 seconds, please complete 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-30-m0.u179	Dear colleagues, on the issue of priority of deregulation, Peter Poroshenko, President of Ukraine, repeatedly stressed the need for acceleration and systematic approach during the National Reform Board. We can't just shorten whether it's the number or the license or the license of 1, 2, 3 and so on, we have to do a full reboot of the regulatory system. By this law we create the basis for this, we give business a year to live in another country where there will be no regulatory pressure.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-30-m0.u180	30 seconds, complete.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-30-m0.u181	Dear colleagues! So I urge you, regardless of your party affiliation and political views, to take this important step towards meeting small and medium-sized entrepreneurs. To be able to clear these Auggie stables, the minister of economy has brought in the world's best specialists in the field of deregulation, they have the opportunity to work and they have a very clear period when they have to do it. If we stretch for three years, we don't have a result, so the committee calls for this bill to be adopted as a whole.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-30-m0.u182	Thank you. Dear colleagues! As far as I understand, there is a need to speak and so please sign in: two for, two against, please. Alexander Abdullin is handing Soboleva over from the scene, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-30-m0.u183	"Paternity." Dear colleagues! The bill is undoubtedly revolutionary, but we are surprised by the deadline for its implementation. If we put in place such bills for a year, we might not have a small business in Ukraine. That is why the proposal of our faction must be changed on the second reading. There is every reason to be clear when a new norm may be in place within 2-3 months to limit the ability of the State and the official directly to the work of a small businessman. This will apply, indeed, to millions of our citizens, and our faction will support this bill. But we think we need to change the time frame for putting it into effect. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-30-m0.u184	Thank you. Ribak Ivan Petrovich, Block of Petra Dustenka.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-30-m0.u185	Please pass the word to Oleg Barney.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-30-m0.u186	Please, Barna.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-30-m0.u187	Dear friends! The bill has undergone anti-corruption expertise and has confirmed that it is the only act that will enable the government to move to real reforms, particularly in the area of regulatory reform, to simplify the small and medium-sized business system, which is directly linked to the activities of the ordinary people who are building Ukraine. And here one of the two, what the government has promised us from the very beginning, and said a lot about simplifying business, this bill will force the government to either make real reforms, or this government will, in fact, kamikaze and make a bullet in the forehead if it doesn't, and let it come in, and let it not interfere with people's lives. Thank you. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-30-m0.u188	From the People's Front, Burbak Maksim Yuriovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-30-m0.u189	Please give my word to my colleague Michael Humil.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-30-m0.u190	Mikhail Humil, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-30-m0.u191	Dear Chairman, dear fellow national MPs! I want to say that at the Committee on Industrial Policy and Entrepreneurship we discussed this law for a long time, debated it, argued it, in principle, the votes were split. Five members of the committee spoke for the adoption of the law, and four members of the committee spoke against it. I want to emphasize what the law is about. Of course, the idea of introducing a so-called guillotine for regulatory legislation and bringing it all together is a very good initiative. But in fact, the bill proposes to amend some of the legislative acts that have already become obsolete. I would also like to point out that the Ministry of Finance, including the Ministry of Infrastructure, does not support the bill and makes a number of warnings and observations to it. So the People's Front faction won't support the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-30-m0.u192	Thank you. From the Radical Party Musiyczuk Igor Volodymyrovich. He's handing it over to Lozov.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-30-m0.u193	Andrew Lozova, Radical Party of Lazka. I'd like to ask a coalition colleague, wouldn't you be ashamed to vote in favour of the bill that we have foreseen in the Coalition Agreement? Is the Coalition Agreement an empty paper for you? We all know that small and medium-sized business is the backbone of the state, it's the backbone of the economy, without it, the state will turn. Today's small and medium-sized business, and it's so hard: Mentu -- come on, fireman, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go. They're just a dowry, nobody's letting them make money, nobody's letting them create jobs, the state's not helping them, at least they're not. At least do not interfere with those who feed their families, who create even a few jobs, while unemployment oppresses the country no less than war. And that is why we are obliged to do the word, to carry out the Coalition covenant. And we need to reduce the pressure on small and medium-sized businesses. By this law, if we, God forbid, vote, we will force the Mineconomy to act in the interests of small entrepreneurs, not in the interests of oligarchs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-30-m0.u194	Thank you. From the Opposition Block, Natalia Kraljevska. One minute, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-30-m0.u195	Respectable colleagues, distinguished present! Well, really, when you're listening to everybody in this room, we're all here just for small business, for medium business, for supporting entrepreneurs. But today, entrepreneurs are under the walls of parliament, and they are now asking the question: From tomorrow, from 1 July, the genocide of small and medium-sized businesses in Ukraine begins; tomorrow, they will start making fun of those who will not be able to buy a cash register and who will not spend all their money that they have today, the workers for whom they create jobs, will begin to choose each entrepreneur. Therefore, the Opposition Unit, first of all, insists that we now solve the problem of abolishing these cash registers, removing today's bullying from every small and medium-sized enterprise and of course listening to the Government's strategy of how they see the economy in our country. And that's why we think that enough is enough to tell, let's make the laws that.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-30-m0.u196	Please, 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-30-m0.u197	The ones that are relevant to today. As far as this bill is concerned. Personally, I think the first reading can support it, but it's not here, as some have talked about revolutionaryness and strategy and everything else. We believe that it is necessary to gather all together today, to unite our efforts to propose a single programme of action, and that the Opposition Unit has such a programme, and we are prepared to give you an algorithm of action, which is now a priority.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-30-m0.u198	Thank you. I will continue the session until the issue is completed. I now give the floor to Jurek Lewchenk one minute, then to Berezuk one minute. Okay, first the Birddog one minute, then the Levchenko one minute. Okay? Let's skip the woman forward. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-30-m0.u199	Dear colleagues, I have great respect for the initiators of this legislative initiative. But I would like to say, dear friends, that you have been misled by the drafters of this bill, calling it deregulation guillotine. Because it's not deregulation guillotine, and it's the legal chaos that you're trying to do by writing down one single rule to cancel all the arbitrary procedures provided for in the list of legislation that's being added out of 91 laws. What does that mean? That we would then like to go to court and not indicate what rules of law are being repealed, but simply what procedures are involved. Walking with the same application of laws and proving whether or not to build shopping malls without a license can be done, whether to throw them into the air or not, whether to do activities related to pesticides, agrochemicals, banking, insurance, financial activity, legal activity without permission, or not. Is it possible to buy huge holdings, because there is also the Antimonopoly Committee Act, and so on and so forth. Dear colleagues.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-30-m0.u200	Please, 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-30-m0.u201	If we want to have a real deregulation with you, let's each of the laws listed with you take and talk about what specific permission we want to cancel and why. It takes time and work. You don’t have to make a good frame of reference by not doing any previous work without examining legislation. Don't make a legal mess, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-30-m0.u202	Thank you. Yuri Lewchenko, one minute. And I'd like to ask the deputies to come into the hall.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-30-m0.u203	Lewchenko, 223 district, city of Kiev You know, when you look at these bills that are being submitted to the Supreme Council Hall and the various acts of the Cabinet of Ministers and so on, which are aimed at so-called deregulation, the government doesn't want to rule today. It seems that the government wants to abolish the state as such. What's with all the tests? Why check restaurants or poison children or not? Why do construction checks, do they build on children’s playgrounds, or do they build where they need to be? Why check chemical factories, do they adhere to environmental standards, or do they not? There's no need for that! Let's cancel everything, cancel the state. And the invisible hand of the market will fix everything. The invisible hand of the market has been correcting in Ukraine’s paws for 20 years all that has led to the total poverty of the population! And now you're proposing that this law repeal the rules, and it's uncertain that 90 bills will be repealed! I quote what is proposed here. "The provisions of these acts, according to the list, on the acquisition by subjects of entrepreneurial activity of arbitrary documents or other regulations governing economic activity are not valid." A.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-30-m0.u204	Please, 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-30-m0.u205	Who will decide exactly what positions are cancelled or not cancelled? This bill does not prescribe that. Which judge will decide which organ the permissive will decide? Every official, every judge would think, would cancel, not cancel. Instead, you increase corruption rather than reduce corruption! Surrender! Work for the country, not work for your own pocket!
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-30-m0.u206	Dear colleagues, once again I ask you to enter the hall of all fellow deputies. There will be a vote. While the MPs enter the hall, 30 seconds from the bill's author and 30 seconds from the committee. Please, Oksana Sold 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-30-m0.u207	Dear colleagues, this bill provides for the abolition and elimination of regulatory laws a year after we vote with you, a year later. During this year, throughout the year, we have been giving ourselves the opportunity and the obligation to change the regulatory situation of Kabina. When it's said that we're bringing someone into a kind of legal chaos, I want to say that all the common people today are in legal chaos. And this law foresees finally cleaning up the environment that it is today. People are just in chaos! And we now propose to take the rights away in a year from those who will not be able to stand up for those rights. And we're going to propose a regulation. This is by no means guillotine. This is a change in the corruption system to a competitive system. So I'm asking everyone who doesn't make money in power today to vote in favour of this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-30-m0.u208	Thank you. Lousyuk, 30 seconds. And we vote. Please, there will be a vote now, come into the hall, national deputies.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-30-m0.u209	Dear colleagues, now by voting or not voting for this bill you will show your attitude towards small and medium-sized business. You're going to show where you're at, whether we're actually fighting corruption, simplifying regulatory and bureaucratic procedures, getting rid of this corrupt hydra, or if someone is going to make deregulation happen abstractly, only in conversations, interviews, in performances and years. So now is the moment of truth about whether tax and regulatory pressure will be reduced on entrepreneurs, or whether it will remain what it is. The solution.
ParlaMint-UA_2015-06-30-m0.u210	Thank you. So, honourable colleagues, I'm voting, I'm voting on the draft Law on the Change of the System of Economic Control (number 1069) as a basis. First, I put it on the ground. Anyone who supports this bill as a basis, please vote. Please. [[14:07:43]] For-146 The decision is not made. I'm going to make the next proposal under the Rules - to return the subject to the legislative initiative for further work. Thus, it is suggested that the subject of the legislative initiative should be returned to the draft Law on the Change of the System of Economic Regulation (No. 1069). Whoever supports this proposal, please vote. Please vote. [[2:08:21]] For-173 The decision is not made. The bill is considered to be rejected. Dear colleagues, the morning meeting of the Supreme Council is closed. Our meeting will be resumed at 16 hours, and it will begin with the removal of the judges ’ inviolability. And so a great request, without delay, to enter the hall so that we can continue our work at 4:00. Thank you. I'll see you after lunch.
